September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three electrocuted while erecting banner for Pawan Kalyan's birthday||VIJAYAWADA: In a tragic incident, three persons died of electric shock while three others suffered injuries after they came in contact with a live wire while erecting a flexi banner for Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan at Shantipuram area in Chittoor district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Somasekhar (30), his brother Rajendra (32) and his friend Arunachalam (28). According to the police, the incident happened at around 8.30pm when a group of six people was trying to erect banners for Pawan Kalyan’s birthday on September 2. Police said while setting the banners, they accidentally came into contact with a live wire. Pawan Kalyan had made repeated pleas to his fans not to celebrate his birthday, however, they decided to do so by following Covid guidelines. Three other injured persons were rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment while the deceased were taken for post-mortem. Cops registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (death due to electrocution) and further investigation is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-three-electrocuted-while-erecting-banner-for-pawan-kalyans-birthday/articleshow/77879112.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at apartment building in south Delhi, no casualties||NEW DELHI: A fire broke out at an apartment building in south Delhi's Khanpur Extension on Tuesday night, a fire service official said. The police, however, said the fire has been extinguished and no casualties reported. According to the fire department, a call was received around 9.51pm after which three fire tenders were pressed into action. "The fire has been extinguished but the fire tenders were initially unable to reach the location due to massive vehicles parked in the lane. But with great difficulty, all the parked vehicles were removed and fire tenders were pressed into service," said Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Service. The cause of fire is being ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fire-breaks-out-at-apartment-building-in-south-delhi-no-casualties/articleshow/77879315.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||Facebook ‘vested lobby’ working to ‘discredit India’s democratic process’: Prasad to Zuckerberg||NEW DELHI: Amid a raging controversy over political bias and interference on Facebook at the behest of its senior Indian officials, the government on Tuesday wrote a hard-hitting letter to the social media giant’s founder Mark Zuckerberg, accusing employees of the company of "on record abusing" Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior Cabinet ministers and engaging in "collusion… to cast aspersions on the democratic process of our great democracy". The letter, written by telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, accused the company’s senior management of bias and said the platform was "hijacked by a vested lobby that abhors free speech and tries to enforce one worldview and rejects diversity". "It seems from credible media reports that the Facebook India team, right from the India managing director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief. People from this political pre-disposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision-making apparatus of important social media platforms. Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stoke internal divisions and social disturbances," Prasad wrote. The letter marks the deepening differences between the government and the American social media giant, which is also facing a CBI inquiry over the Cambridge Analytica data breach episode. Facebook-owned instant messenger WhatsApp has also been under regulatory heat after a series of lynching incidents across the country which were partly blamed on viral and fake messages spread on its platform. WhatsApp has steadfastly refused to share the original source of the fake messages, saying user content on its platform is strictly encrypted. Raising "serious concerns" over Facebook’s functioning, Prasad said its actions were going contrary to the company’s stated mission of giving people "the power to build communities and bring the world closer". "I have been informed that in the run-up to the 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by the Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to the affected people who are supportive of right-of-centre ideology. I am also aware that dozens of emails written to the Facebook management received no response. The above-documented cases of bias and inaction are seemingly a direct outcome of the dominant political beliefs of individuals in your Facebook India team," he wrote. Prasad said while people working in organisations are free to carry their individual likes or dislikes, "that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation". "It is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions. It is doubly problematic when the bias of individuals becomes an inherent bias of the platform. And it is unacceptable when political biases of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people," he said. The angry letter comes in the wake of reports in the US media about Facebook's alleged bias for BJP. Opposition parties jumped on the reports based on emails purportedly exchanged among Facebook staffers, triggering a slugfest which is expected to dominate a meeting of the parliamentary panel on IT on Wednesday. Prasad said stories and leaks in recent media reports showed that the "deeply entrenched vested interests aren’t satisfied with the shrinking space for one side of the spectrum in India and want to throttle it completely". The minister also accused the platform of being silent even in the face of "multiple instances recently where Facebook has been used by anarchic and radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence". He said local sensitivities should be taken into account in Facebook community guidelines which must acknowledge the aspect of diversity. "To respect the social, religious, cultural and linguistic diversity of India, Facebook should put in place country-specific community guidelines." Watch Facebook employees are on record 'abusing' PM: Ravi Shankar Prasad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/facebook-vested-lobby-working-to-discredit-indias-democratic-process-prasad-to-zuckerberg/articleshow/77880193.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||#Unlock4.0: Diners return to Park Street eateries for food & drinks||Pubs, bars and restaurants in Kolkata are raising a toast to better times, what with the state excise department giving them a green signal to serve liquor in designated areas from Tuesday. After a wait of almost five months, this Unlock 4.0 announcement has brought cheer to the F&B industry and the tipplers alike. CT took a tour of some popular pubs and restaurants to hear the glasses clink again. ‘Missed going out for a drink’ Private bank employees Anapi Mitra and Chiranjib Roy visited Park Street on Tuesday afternoon for work when they decided to make the most of Day 1 of the return of liquor at restaurants. The duo settled for lunch at Peter Cat, where they washed down plates of chelo kebab with some scotch. “In the lockdown I was organising house parties with limited people. On weekends, I’d go out for drives with my friends. Sometimes we’d organise ‘carobar’ too. But drinking in a car and drinking at a restaurant are not the same. At restaurants, you can take your time and enjoy the drink. I was waiting to enjoy this ambience for months,” said Anapi, a self-proclaimed party animal. Small gatherings with friends on his terrace helped Chiranjib survive the lockdown, but he’s delighted that restaurants are now serving both food and liquor. “Ordering in food and alcohol is alright, but this experience of having your favourite food with a drink of your choice at a restaurant you love is something I really missed,” he said after a hearty lunch with drinks.  ‘It’s a whole new world’ Colleagues-turned-friends Priyanka Tiwari* and Sona Mishra*, who love to bond over vodka, found the perfect excuse to bunk office yesterday and meet up at their favourite haunt, Oasis, where they even have a fixed table. “Today’s weather is just ideal for a drink and we couldn’t wait any longer. Drinking at home is not an option for us, so we were really looking forward to this day when we could finally relish our favourite drink with some delicious Chinese starters,” said Sona, adding that she was done with sweet lime soda and needed something stronger to quench her thirst. However, Priyanka feels that despite the phased resumption of services, the world will not be the same again. “Every small thing looks different in the new normal. For example, the waiters are not allowed to serve the ice bucket anymore. So, we need to specify how many ice cubes we want in our drink. It just feels like a whole new world,” she said.  Iconic watering holes catch up Out of OlyPub’s 60 workers, just seven are available right now, which is why the pub remained shut on Tuesday. “A few more staff will reach Kolkata by tomorrow. We will decide on the food menu depending on the availability of staff. But rest assured, we will be open from Wednesday,” said NC Das from the popular Park Street joint. Like several other regulars, college-goers Anushka Halder and Sourav Ghosh were disappointed to find the pub shut on Tuesday and returned home with a heavy heart. According to the book sellers – who have set up temporary stalls in front of the iconic bar – hopeful patrons started coming over from noon itself. “There’s nothing like adda at OlyPub. It’s too bad that we will have to wait for another day. Before coming, I did my homework, but the search engine showed it was open,” said Sourav. On the other hand, Chung Wah started hosting guests from noon onwards. “More than 60% of our guests are regulars who were eagerly waiting for us to reopen. Today the footfall is not that high, but we are sure that things will pick up soon,” said Milan Banerjee, manager of the retro joint at Chandni Chowk. (*Names changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlock4-0-diners-return-to-park-street-eateries-for-food-drinks/articleshow/77880345.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 2, 2020||India||Dr Kafeel Khan released from Mathura jail||LUCKNOW/MATHURA: Following an order of the Allahabad High Court, Dr Kafeel Khan was released from Mathura jail late on Tuesday night, his lawyer said. "Mathura jail administration informed at around 11.00 pm that Dr Kafeel will be released, and at around midnight, he was released," Khan's lawyer Irfan Ghazi told PTI. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed Khan's detention under the National Security Act and ordered his immediate release. The bench, comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh, passed the order on a petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen. The petition alleged that Khan was granted bail in February by a competent court and he was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and the NSA was subsequently invoked against him. Hence, his detention was illegal, the petition argued. Khan was in jail since January after he delivered an allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dr-kafeel-khan-released-from-mathura-jail/articleshow/77880464.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||GST mop-up declines by just 1% in August over previous month||NEW DELHI: GST collections stayed flat on a month-on month basis, dropping by under Rs 1,000 crore to Rs 86,449 crore in August. Although the mop-up in August was 12% lower than a year ago, the pace of decline was a little slower from the 14% registered in July, indicating that economic activity is stabilising. “The revenues for the month are 88% of GST revenues in the same month last year. During the month, the revenues from import of goods were 77% and revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) were 92% of revenues from these sources during the same month last year. It may also be noted that taxpayers with turnover less than Rs 5 crore continue to enjoy relaxation in filing of returns till September,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The improvement seemed to be visible also in the fact that, excluding imports, there were at least six states – Nagaland, J&K, Uttarakhand, Chattisgarh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh – which reported an increase in collections till August, compared to three at the end of the previous month. Among them, Nagaland reported a 17% increase. At the same time, large producing states such as Maharashtra (-13%), Tamil Nadu (-12%), Karnataka (-11%) and Gujarat (-3%) registered a decline in collections. Some of the states haven’t fully opened up resulting in lower economic activity, although those such as Delhi (-18%) and Kerala (-22%) saw sharp fall too. “Coming in the backdrop of the disappointing GDP data for Q1 yesterday, these figures indicate that the collections are on the recovery path...the collection trajectory in the coming months would enable it to reach the earlier year’s levels in a month or two," said MS Mani, partner at consulting firm Deloitte. Watch GST mop-up declines marginally in August, hints at recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-mop-up-declines-by-just-1-in-august-over-previous-month/articleshow/77880604.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||48 accidental deaths every hour in 2019: NCRB||NEW DELHI: India registered 48 accidental deaths every hour last year, which was marginally higher than 2018, according to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Deaths caused due to traffic crashes, which include road and railway accidents, accounted for nearly 44% of the total 4.1 lakh accidental deaths, which exclude fatalities due to flood, avalanche, heat stroke and lightning. Cause-wise analysis of road accidents show that nearly 60% of the total accidents which caused 86,241 deaths were due to speeding. Dangerous, careless driving or overtaking claimed 42,557 lives. Interestingly, the report shows that the number of people killed by heart attacks increased to 28,000 last year compared to 23,900 in 2018 — the maximum jump in deaths among all causes. Road accidents had a major share of traffic crashes-related deaths at 1.6 lakh out of the total 1.8 lakh fatalities. According to NCRB, the total road fatalities was around 1.5 lakh in 2018. The data also show that nearly 28,000 "railway accidents" claimed 24,619 lives and another 17,62 people died in "railway crossing accidents". The report said a majority of the states furnished railways accidents under unclassified category "other causes" such as people falling from trains and coming under trains. The report says out of 4.2 lakh accidental deaths, 8,145 were due to forces of nature and the rest were due to other causes. In 2019, there was an increase of 18.2% in deaths due to forces of nature and 2% due to other causes as compared to 2018. Maharashtra reported the highest number of accidental deaths (70,329), followed by Madhya Pradesh (42,431) and UP (40,596). Nearly 31% of the victims of accidental deaths were in the age group of 30-45 years. The 53 mega cities reported 61,404 accidental deaths during 2019 and the maximum numbers of such fatalities were reported from Mumbai (9,246), followed by Delhi (4,516) and Bengaluru (4,016). According to the report, in the traffic accidents category, which had the maximum share in total fatalities, UP reported the maximum deaths at 27,661 followed by Maharashtra (18,524) and Madhya Pradesh (13,497). These three states accounted for 33% of total fatalities during 2019. The report has highlighted that two-wheelers accounted for the maximum fatalities at 58,747, which was 38% of the total road deaths, followed by trucks/lorries, cars and buses. Majority of deaths due to two-wheeler accidents was reported in Maharashtra (7,137) and UP (6,431).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/48-accidental-deaths-every-hour-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/77880777.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 2, 2020||India||Naravane and Shringla put off Myanmar trip amid LAC crisis||NEW DELHI: India said on Tuesday that it has taken up the recent provocative and aggressive actions by Chinese soldiers and urged Beijing to “discipline and control” frontline troops even as the latest escalation over the weekend saw foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Army chief Gen M M Naravane put off a visit to Myanmar that was to begin on Wednesday. The MEA said the Chinese side violated the understanding arrived at the level of special representatives to de-escalate tension not only on Saturday night but also on Sunday even as the ground commanders of both armies were in discussion to de-escalate the situation. LAC row: Complete coverage Recalling that the SRs (national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi) had agreed that the situation should be handled in a responsible manner and neither side should take any provocative action or escalate matters, the MEA said Chinese troops violated the understanding and engaged in provocative military manoeuvres. The government appears to be veering around to the view that China doesn’t really want to resolve the issue and may be pushing in a concerted way to move the LAC westwards, making dialogue and negotiation doubly difficult. What makes the latest confrontation more significant is the involvement of the Tibetan exiles’ Special Frontier Force (SFF), who are credited with securing a crucial ridge in the Spanggur Gap-Chushul area and repulsing a Chinese threat, even reportedly inflicting damage on the Chinese side. Read AlsoBorder not demarcated, dispute will recur: ChinaAs the military standoff on the LAC intensifies, Chinese foreign minister and state councillor Wang Yi told an international audience in Paris that there will always be problems with India of the kind witnessed in eastern Ladakh because the boundary wasn't demarcated yet even as he claimed ChinaClaude Arpi, a well-known China analyst, said, “This would probably be the biggest action by SFF against the Chinese. This will have an effect in Tibet as well as in Beijing.” This comes a couple of days after the Chinese leadership held a massive meeting on Tibet. Lt Gen Subroto Saha (retired) told TOI, “The provocative movement by PLA troops on the night of August 29 appears to be a premeditated plan to execute Xi Jinping’s orders to his party, government and military leaders to solidify border defences in Tibet and ensure frontier security in the Tibet region.” Read AlsoEastern Ladakh on knife-edge, Army foils fresh action by PLAThe operational situation in the larger Chushul-Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh is on a knife’s edge, with Chinese troops once again indulging in provocative actions on Monday after Indian soldiers had earlier occupied the heights there to thwart a PLA land-grabbing bid over the weekend. However,He added that Xi’s focus appears to be to increase China’s grip in the region and that “India must be prepared to proactively deal with China in all the theatres bordering Tibet, as PLA has mobilised troops for exercises all along, including opposite Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naravane-and-shringla-put-off-myanmar-trip-amid-lac-crisis/articleshow/77880847.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 2, 2020||India||After PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat, desi apps in top 10 on Play Store||NEW DELHI: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mentioned innovative apps on Mann Ki Baat last Sunday, several indigenous apps have raced to the top 10 in the app store in their respective categories. In “social” category, the indigenous apps trending among the top 10 are— Josh, Snapchat, Sharechat, Moj, Roposo and Chingari. In education segment, apps like Ap Sarkar Seva, Drishti, Saraldata, Voot kids, PunjabEducare, Doubtnut, Kutuki Kids, are new favourites, whereas in health and fitness category Aarogya Setu app leads followed by other indigenous apps like Stepsetgo, Home Workout, Loss Weight app for men, Increase Height Workout, Six Packs in 30 days. In the latest “Mann Ki Baat” episode last week, Modi had exhorted citizens to support indigenously developed apps, which was seen not only an attempt to boost the “self-reliant India” campaign but also push trials of these apps to the extent that they replace other popular apps, which are controlled by foreign companies and are not considered safe. Modi had appreciated some of the indigenously developed apps like Koo, StepSetGo, Zoho, Chingari, Kutuki, FTC talent, etc. The “Aatmanirbhar App Innovation Challenge” had selected the best apps from around 7,000 entries across India. These were from different categories like gaming, entertainment, business, utilities, social media and fitness. “At the beginning of this month, the country's youth were given an app innovation challenge. Our youth wholeheartedly participated in the Atmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge. Around 7,000 entries were received which included almost two-third apps made by youth from tier 2 and 3 cities,” Modi had said, praising innovations made by the Indian youth. “The next Google, Facebook & Twitter are coming from India. Our ultimate aim is to replace these sites by Indian versions,” an official said, elaborating the PM's statement that the innovations done by the Indian youth will be acknowledged by the world in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-pm-modis-mann-ki-baat-desi-apps-in-top-10-on-play-store/articleshow/77880860.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 2, 2020||India||Border not demarcated, dispute will recur: China||NEW DELHI: As the military standoff on the LAC intensifies, Chinese foreign minister and state councillor Wang Yi told an international audience in Paris that there will always be problems with India of the kind witnessed in eastern Ladakh because the boundary wasn't demarcated yet even as he claimed China wouldn’t be the first to escalate the situation and was committed to managing all issues through dialogue. In a separate statement here, the Chinese embassy said it had lodged "solemn representations" with India for what it described as flagrant provocations by Indian troops who, it alleged, had violated the LAC. The same was stated by the Chinese foreign ministry in Beijing. "The boundary between China and India has not yet been demarcated, so there will always be problems of this kind. We are ready to manage all kinds of issues through dialogue with the Indian side," Wang said in a statement apparently made on Sunday but the transcript for which was released on Tuesday. Wang said issues should be placed in their proper place in bilateral relations, adding that President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi met many times and reached many an important consensus. "Differences should be managed and controlled, and in particular, differences should not escalate into conflict. I think that various departments of the two countries should implement these important consensus," Wang said. China was ready to strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation with India to help it speed up its own development, he went on to say. "We should jointly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries on the international stage and create a broader space for the development of emerging economies," he added. Wang, who is on a tour of Europe, made the remarks during an interaction at the French Institute of International Relations in Paris on Monday. China's diplomatic offensive continued here with its embassy claiming India’s action at Pangong Tso, which the Indian government has described as defensive, had "grossly violated China's territorial sovereignty, seriously violated relevant agreements, protocols and important consensus reached between the two countries, and severely damaged peace and tranquillity along the China-India border areas". It also urged the Indian side to "strictly control and restrain its frontline troops, earnestly honour its commitments, immediately stop all provocative actions, immediately withdraw its troops illegally trespassing the Line of Actual Control and immediately stop any actions leading to escalation and complication of the situation".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/border-not-demarcated-dispute-will-recur-china/articleshow/77880960.cms||---
September 2, 2020||World||Border not demarcated, dispute will recur: China||NEW DELHI: As the military standoff on the LAC intensifies, Chinese foreign minister and state councillor Wang Yi told an international audience in Paris that there will always be problems with India of the kind witnessed in eastern Ladakh because the boundary wasn't demarcated yet even as he claimed China wouldn’t be the first to escalate the situation and was committed to managing all issues through dialogue. In a separate statement here, the Chinese embassy said it had lodged "solemn representations" with India for what it described as flagrant provocations by Indian troops who, it alleged, had violated the LAC. The same was stated by the Chinese foreign ministry in Beijing. "The boundary between China and India has not yet been demarcated, so there will always be problems of this kind. We are ready to manage all kinds of issues through dialogue with the Indian side," Wang said in a statement apparently made on Sunday but the transcript for which was released on Tuesday. Wang said issues should be placed in their proper place in bilateral relations, adding that President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi met many times and reached many an important consensus. "Differences should be managed and controlled, and in particular, differences should not escalate into conflict. I think that various departments of the two countries should implement these important consensus," Wang said. China was ready to strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation with India to help it speed up its own development, he went on to say. "We should jointly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries on the international stage and create a broader space for the development of emerging economies," he added. Wang, who is on a tour of Europe, made the remarks during an interaction at the French Institute of International Relations in Paris on Monday. China's diplomatic offensive continued here with its embassy claiming India’s action at Pangong Tso, which the Indian government has described as defensive, had "grossly violated China's territorial sovereignty, seriously violated relevant agreements, protocols and important consensus reached between the two countries, and severely damaged peace and tranquillity along the China-India border areas". It also urged the Indian side to "strictly control and restrain its frontline troops, earnestly honour its commitments, immediately stop all provocative actions, immediately withdraw its troops illegally trespassing the Line of Actual Control and immediately stop any actions leading to escalation and complication of the situation".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/border-not-demarcated-dispute-will-recur-china/articleshow/77880961.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||LAC crisis: It’s the furthest India has held ground in this sector, says Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army 's successful operation on Saturday night in eastern Ladakh when it foiled yet another bid by China to alter the LAC by pre-emptively occupying strategic heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso may be the background for a possible encounter between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe in Moscow. The Army's bold manoeuvre, although prompted by China's attempt to grab land on the Indian side of the LAC, is the furthest that Indian troops have held ground in this sector, multiple defence sources claimed. This has led to an angry response from the Chinese and the anger of the Communist government may be articulated by Wei if there is a meeting with Singh on the sidelines of the defence ministers meeting of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Singh, who will leave for Moscow on Wednesday morning, is set to have talks with his Russina counterpart Sergey Shoigu and several other top military officials to push for speeding up implementation of several defence procurement programmes. No meeting with the Chinese defence minister has been scheduled yet , with well-placed government sources saying whether one happens or not will depend on the situation along the LAC. The tussle on the night of the August 29 marks the widening of the military standoff and a confirmation of the suspicion that the Chinese could be using the de-escalation talks as smokescreen to grab land up to their perception line; the 'green line’ in military parlance. However, what it also established is India's determination to foil the bid and take the the battle to the other side if one is forced upon it. Sources said the "pre-emptive" move flowed from the Army's plan to pay back the Chinese, should they continue with aggression, in the same currency by catching them unawares. The infantry units played to the script by gaining strategic heights, giving Singh a leverage in case of a meeting between him and Wei.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-crisis-its-the-furthest-india-has-held-ground-in-this-sector-says-rajnath-singh/articleshow/77880979.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 2, 2020||India||LAC standoff: It will be worse than 1962, says Chinese govt mouthpiece||NEW DELHI: If India would like a military showdown, People’s Liberation Army is bound to make the Indian Army suffer much more severe losses than it did in 1962, hollered the hawkish Global Times in an editorial on the latest military flare-up in Pangong Tso. This followed a rare ‘survey’ by the Chinese government mouthpiece last week claiming that 90% of Chinese were in favour of retaliatory action against India. Taking off from there, it said in the editorial that Chinese people had shown support for their government which “won’t seek to provoke India, but does not (sic) allow it to encroach on China’s territory”. Global Times seemed to be itching for action as it urged the government to take military action “when necessary”. “China is several times stronger than India, and India is no match for China. We must smash any Indian illusion that it can deal with China by colluding with other powers, such as the US. The history of Asia and the world has told us that any force keen on opportunism tends to bully the weak while fear the strong. India is a typical opportunist when it comes to the border issue,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-standoff-it-will-be-worse-than-1962-says-chinese-govt-mouthpiece/articleshow/77881016.cms||---
September 2, 2020||World||LAC standoff: It will be worse than 1962, says Chinese govt mouthpiece||NEW DELHI: If India would like a military showdown, People’s Liberation Army is bound to make the Indian Army suffer much more severe losses than it did in 1962, hollered the hawkish Global Times in an editorial on the latest military flare-up in Pangong Tso. This followed a rare ‘survey’ by the Chinese government mouthpiece last week claiming that 90% of Chinese were in favour of retaliatory action against India. Taking off from there, it said in the editorial that Chinese people had shown support for their government which “won’t seek to provoke India, but does not (sic) allow it to encroach on China’s territory”. Global Times seemed to be itching for action as it urged the government to take military action “when necessary”. “China is several times stronger than India, and India is no match for China. We must smash any Indian illusion that it can deal with China by colluding with other powers, such as the US. The history of Asia and the world has told us that any force keen on opportunism tends to bully the weak while fear the strong. India is a typical opportunist when it comes to the border issue,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/lac-standoff-it-will-be-worse-than-1962-says-chinese-govt-mouthpiece/articleshow/77881018.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||Salary cut, 900 Kerala Covid doctors resign||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Nearly 870 doctors appointed to Covid first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) across Kerala have tendered their resignation over deductions in their salary. They were among the 1,080 MBBS graduates who passed out of government medical colleges this year and appointed on Covid duty on a temporary basis. While they were promised Rs 42,000 a month, what each finally gets is Rs 27,000. “From the amount, Rs 8,400 was deducted in the name of the government’s salary challenge, apart from TDS and professional tax. Now, we are getting only Rs 27,000,” said Dr Ousam Hussain KP, state president of Kerala junior doctors association 2020-21. The association has fired letters to the chief minister and health minister seeking their urgent intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/salary-cut-900-kerala-covid-doctors-resign/articleshow/77881060.cms||Rajiv G
September 2, 2020||India||Covid-19: Five states account for 56% of India’s new case burden||NEW DELHI: Five states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu — are leading the Covid-19 burden in the country accounting for 56% of the fresh 69,921 confirmed cases and 65.4% of 819 new deaths recorded on Monday. Together these states have 62.2% of total 7,85,996 active cases, even as they also account for 58% of the total recoveries recorded in last 24 hours, health ministry data shows. The top three states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — have 48.6% of active cases. Maharashtra alone has 24.7% of active cases and over 22% of new deaths on Monday. West Bengal and Punjab are also seeing a significant surge with 52 and 49 deaths respectively on Monday. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Delhi has a death toll of 4,444 — more than UP which has registered 3,486 deaths so far. However, Delhi recorded 18 deaths on Monday, as compared to 63 in UP. The five high burden states contributed 60% of the total 36,91,166 confirmed cases reported from across the country till Monday. Of this, Maharashtra alone witnessed more than 21% cases. Five states have posted the highest addition to the new cases — Maharashtra (11,852), Andhra Pradesh (10,004), Karnataka (6,495), Tamil Nadu (5,956) and UP (4,782). Together, they account for 56% of the new confirmed cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-five-states-account-for-56-of-indias-new-case-burden/articleshow/77881113.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Mandatory masks, no standing inside coaches: Check SOPs for metro trains here||NEW DELHI: Aarogya Setu app won’t be mandatory for all Metro Rail commuters while all corporations would encourage people to use the app, according to sources privy to the finalisation of the standard operating procedure for resuming Metro Rail services from September 7. The housing and urban affairs ministry held a detailed discussion with the managing directors of all the Metro Rail corporations. While some norms will be common like marking space for passengers at a gap of six feet, longer halts at stations, no standing inside coach and mandatory wearing of masks, different Metro entities will come out with the guidelines specific to meet their local requirement. “The MDs agreed that since some of the Metro Rail commuters may not have smart phones, it won’t be right to make Aarogya Setu mandatory. There would be adequate availability of sanitisers and deployment of security personnel at stations and inside coaches to ensure that social distancing is maintained,” said a source. Watch Aarogya Setu won’t be a must for Metro riders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aarogya-setu-wont-be-a-must-for-metro-riders/articleshow/77881126.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 2, 2020||India||Daily Covid-19 tests go past 10 lakh for the third time||NEW DELHI: Daily tests to detect Covid-19 crossed the 10 lakh mark for the third time on Monday after it first achieved the milestone on August 21, leading to a significant drop in daily positivity rate to 6.8% even as nearly 70,000 fresh cases were reported on the day, reports Sushmi Dey. A total of 10,16,920 samples were tested on Monday. While a total 4.33 crore tests have been conducted so far, Tamil Nadu, UP and Maharashtra accounted for nearly 34% of the total testing. However, of the three high-burden states UP is now far ahead in terms of daily testing. On Monday, UP conducted around 1,36,585 tests, while Tamil Nadu — the high burden state that comes second to it in daily testing — recorded almost half as many samples as compared to UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-19-tests-go-past-10-lakh-for-the-third-time/articleshow/77881130.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 2, 2020||India||Farm suicides drop a tad in 2019; Maharashtra leads chart||NEW DELHI: The number of suicides by those engaged in the farm sector witnessed a marginal decline in 2019 as compared to 2018, with their share in the country’s 1.39 lakh suicides too falling to 7.4% from 7.7% during the corresponding period. As per the report on ‘Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India’ (ADSI) for the year 2019 released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), a profession-wise break up of suicides shows that 23.4% were daily wagers while 15.4% were housewives. In 2018, the share of daily-wagers was slightly lower at 22.4%, while the share of housewives at 17.1% was higher. Of the 10,281 suicides by farmers, cultivators and agricultural labourers reported last year, down from 10,349 in 2018, 5,957 were farmers or cultivators and 4,324 agricultural labourers. Maharashtra accounted for the highest share (38.2%) in suicides related to the farm sector in 2019, followed by Karnataka (19.4%), Andhra Pradesh (10%), Madhya Pradesh (5.3%) and Telangana/Chhattisgarh (4.9% each). Interestingly, West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry reported ‘zero’ suicides by farmers, cultivators and agricultural labourers in 2019. This was also the case in 2018, with West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Goa, Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, Delhi, Ladakh and Puducherry returning ‘nil’ suicides. From 2018 onwards, NCRB report on suicides has not been giving the break-up of farmers’ suicides based on causes such as farm distress, crop failure, family problems etc. In reply to a Parliament question, the home ministry had stated that it was untenable to record reasons for farm suicides with many states reporting ‘nil’ suicides. Interestingly, ADSI 2019 report claims it contains details of farmer’s suicides by causes, social status, educational status, etc. But this data has not been put out. Overall, the total suicides in the country rose 3.4% from 1.34 lakh in 2018 to 1.39 lakh last year. Rate of suicides too (suicides per lakh of population) too went up from 10.2 to 10.4 in the corresponding period. Family problems, marriage-related issues and illness together accounted for around 55% of the total suicides in the country. While 70.2% of the suicide victims were male, 29.8% were women. Maharashtra continued to lead with the highest share (13.6%) in countrywide suicides, followed by Tamil Nadu (9.7%) and West Bengal (9.1%). UP, which has 16.9% of the country’s population, reported just 3.9% share in total suicides . Among metropolitan cities, Chennai was ahead with 2,461 suicides recorded in 2019, while Delhi reported 2,423 suicides, Bengaluru 2,081 and Mumbai 1,229. Hanging was the chosen mode of over 53% suicide victims to end their lives, while consuming poison was the method for 25.8% suicides. In terms of rate of suicide (suicide per lakh of population), Sikkim led the states (33.1), followed by Chhattisgarh (26.4) and Kerala (24.3), while Bihar had the lowest rate of 0.5. A total 36 suicides by Central armed forces personnel were reported in 2019, with 38.9% attributed to family problems. Bihar reported a sharp rise in suicides (44.7% change between 2018 and 2019 from 14.2% rise between 2017 and 2018), while Himachal Pradesh, which had shown a 28.5% annual rise in suicides in 2018 recorded a 21% fall in 2019 as compared to 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-suicides-drop-a-tad-in-2019-maharashtra-leads-chart/articleshow/77881136.cms||Bharti Jain
September 2, 2020||Business||Supreme Court to make airlines party in tickets-refund case||NEW DELHI: Thousands of passengers seeking refund of air tickets of flights cancelled during the lockdown can take heart as the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that a solution had been arrived at even as the SC agreed to add all airlines operating in India as parties in PILs seeking refunds. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah that a joint meeting was held and a solution had been arrived at by the civil aviation ministry, which may not be acceptable to all stakeholders. At his request, the bench granted the ministry a week to file an affidavit detailing the solution. Times ViewA consumer has a transactional relationship with an airline. He or she pays for a ticket and is put on a flight in return. In this case, it is true that flights had to be cancelled for reasons beyond the airlines’ control. But that is not the consumers’ responsibility and nor is it up to them to ensure the airlines’ financial health.The PILs have challenged the decision of airlines to create credit shells against cancelled tickets instead of making refunds. Appearing for a petitioner, advocate CA Sundaram said, “Non-refund of the ticket money for cancelled flights is a violation of ‘civil aviation requirement’ of May 2008 order issued by DGCA.” The bench said airlines had to be heard before any decision was taken. The matter has been listed for September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/supreme-court-to-make-airlines-party-in-tickets-refund-case/articleshow/77881143.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 2, 2020||India||PM Modi leads nation in bidding Pranab Mukherjee adieu||NEW DELHI: Former President Pranab Mukherjee was cremated with full state honours at the Lodhi Road electric crematorium on Tuesday afternoon. While his son performed the last rites, his family and relatives paid their respects clad in PPE suits, conforming to Covid-19 safeguards. An Army contingent gave a guard of honour and a gun salute to India’s 13th president who died on Monday evening after a three-week battle with multiple ailments. Mukherjee’s mortal remains were kept at his 10 Rajaji Marg residence for people to pay homage. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi, chiefs of the three defence services and politicians cutting across party lines paid their final respects to the former president. A host of politicians and others, too, reached his residence to pay homage to the Bharat Ratna. Former PM Manmohan Singh, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, BJP chief J P Nadda, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and several Union ministers including Nirmala Sitharaman and Harsh Vardhan were among them. Workers of various parties and people from all walks of life stood in long queues maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and carrying bouquets as they waited patiently to catch a glimpse of Mukherjee for one last time. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army chief Gen M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh visited Pranab’s home to condole his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-leads-nation-in-bidding-pranab-mukherjeee-adieu/articleshow/77881196.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Patna||Face masks distributed at JEE centre in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: Students appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) at TCS iON centre in the town on the first day on Tuesday. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has allotted only 33% examinees against the seating capacity in each examination hall. There are four centres for conducting JEE (Main) in Bhagalpur district. They are TCS iON in Barari Industrial Area, India Exam Centre at Kutchery Chowk, Shruti Educational and Charitable Trust Exam Centre at Manali Chowk and Bhagalpur Online Exam Centre at SM College Road. The JEE will be held at all the four centres from Wednesday till September 6. The examination is to be conducted in two shifts till September 6. The examinees were made to wear face masks and use sanitiser besides maintaining other norms amid Covid-19 pandemic. The examinees reported at the centre at 7.00am, 2 hours before the commencement of the examination, in order to go through thermal scanning and other security check-ups, besides admit cards verification at the TCS iON centre. “We provided free face mask to all the examinees at the centre,” said a centre official, preferring anonymity. Those who already had face masks were asked to discard them at the entrance gate and to wear the standard (N95) face masks provided at the centre. “We checked the bar code on the admit card to verify the authenticity of appearing candidates. The candidates were sanitised and passed through thermal screening before entering the main gate of the centre,” he said. “Facilities like pure drinking water have been made. We are taking all Covid-19 protocol and other preventive measures,” he added. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, when contacted, said arrangements have been made at all the centres for maintaining social distancing in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/face-masks-distributed-at-jee-centre-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/77878192.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 2, 2020||Patna||Women’s panel asks Muzaffarpur SSP to submit report||PATNA: The Bihar State Women’s Commission has sought a report from Muzaffarpur SSP regarding alleged misbehaviour and scuffle with a woman probationer sub-inspector and her husband by policemen at Fakuli police outpost in the district and action taken against those involved in the incident. Commission’s chairman Dilmani Mishra said on Tuesday the SSP has been asked to submit his reply within a week. “I will write to the DGP if he fails to reply. The incident is unfortunate and condemnable,” she said. The letter was sent on Monday. Mishra said the victim and her husband narrated the incident to her on Monday. The state police headquarters has also directed IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar to conduct an inquiry into the matter. The woman SI has accused Rituraj Jaiswal, also a probationer officer posted at Fakuli outpost under Kurhani police station area, and outpost in charge Uday Kumar Singh of harassing her. “I don’t know what problem they have with me. I was on duty. Salary was credited into my bank account. I got infected with Covid-19 in between and was in home quarantine after treatment,” she told the media. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said the SI was now attached to Saraiya DSP’s office while Jaiswal was attached to police lines for an impartial inquiry. “A preliminary inquiry was conducted by the women’s police station SHO and the circle inspector concerned,” he said. The SSP said the two probationer SIs had some dispute over allotment of duty on Muharram day. “The woman SI wanted to go to Patna while she was being given duty. Her husband was also sitting there that day. A scuffle took place between her husband and Jaiswal. Another woman SI had seen all these things unfolding,” he said. The SSP said there was an evidence that the SI’s husband had threatened Jaiswal of dire consequences. “The woman SI had not been on duty for a month. She was disturbed for some reasons. She travelled between Patna and Muzaffarpur daily with her husband,” SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/womens-panel-asks-muzaffarpur-ssp-to-submit-report/articleshow/77878227.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 2, 2020||Patna||Will seek EC intervention in Lalu Prasad’s case, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday said he would seek the intervention of the Election Commission (EC) if the Jharkhand government continued to allow incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad to meet dozens of his party ticket aspirants and indulge in political activities in violation of the jail manual. “Over 200 ticket seekers have submitted their biodata to Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail sentence in fodder scam cases. Dozens of party workers meet him every day at the bungalow in which Lalu Prasad is staying in judicial custody,” SuMo tweeted while slamming the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand. He expressed surprise over a convicted prisoner playing active role in the his party affairs from behind the bars. “This is in gross violation of the jail manual. The CBI, which probed the fodder scam cases, should inquire how a convicted prisoner was staying in a 5-star like bungalow and carrying out his political activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-seek-ec-intervention-in-lalus-case-says-sumo/articleshow/77878757.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Highest no. of Pak inmates in Guj jails||Vadodara: Gujarat has the highest number of Pakistani prisoners lodged in its prisons including convicts and undertrials. This is mainly because of the land and sea borders that Gujarat shares with Pakistan. The recently released report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on the prison statistics of 2019 also revealed that no other state or union territories in the country have as many Pakistani jail inmates as in Gujarat, including Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Rajasthan that share a land border with the neighbouring country. The jails in Gujarat had 36 convicts and 25 undertrials from Pakistan as of December 31 last year. On the other hand, Punjab had 13 convicts and 20 undertrials, Rajasthan had five convicts and six undertrials while Jammu and Kashmir had one convict and 24 undertrials. Interestingly, other states and union territories that do not share border also had prisoners from Pakistan. Uttar Pradesh had 28 prisoners, Delhi had 17, jails in Maharashtra had 11, West Bengal had seven, five prisoners in Telangana, two in Karnataka and one prisoner each in Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. In all, Gujarat had 95 foreign inmates including, both, convicts and undertrials. Of these, 12 from Nigeria, seven from Bangladesh, two from Nepal and 13 from other foreign countries. Two inmates were female, while 93 others were men. In the entire country, there were 5,608 foreign prisoners. Of these 2,171 were convicts, 2,979 were undertrials, 40 were detainee and 418 were in others category. The highest number of prisoners (36) convicted under the Indian Passport Act are also in Gujarat. Assam’s jails have 34 such inmates followed by Maharashtra (30), Tripura (29) and Kerala (10) among others. Top police officials said that the large number of Pakistani prisoners as many fishermen from Pakistan venture into Indian waters and get apprehended. “Due to the land and sea borders with Pakistan anybody trying to intrude illegally in our country are nabbed either by BSF or police or any government agency. Another major reason is the strict vigil by several central and state agencies like Navy, Coast Guard, BSF, marine police and others along the borders,” said J R Mothaliya, inspector general of police, Border Range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/highest-no-of-pak-inmates-in-guj-jails/articleshow/77878246.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Exports offer cushion to ceramic industry||Ahmedabad: Even as domestic demand continues to remain stagnant, the export market has provided a much needed cushion to the ceramic tile makers in Morbi, the biggest hub of ceramic tile manufacturing in India. Despite challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown to control its spread, ceramic tile makers managed to export tiles worth Rs 2,700 crore in the April-July period, say industry players. The exports were more or less the same in the first four months of the previous fiscal. Ceramic tile exports from Morbi stood at approximately Rs 12,000 crore in fiscal 2019-20, which put the quarterly exports at roughly Rs 3,000 crore. “The export performance assumes even greater importance as there was not much traction in April and May on account of the lockdown,” said K G Kundariya, past president, Morbi Ceramic Association (MCA). “Most of the exports have been achieved in the months of June and July,” Kundariya said. His company, Wintel Ceramics Private Limited, exported ceramic tiles worth Rs 100 crore during April and July. According to industry players, ceramic tile makers received export orders from the US, the UK, Indonesia, Mexico and European as well as Middle Eastern countries. “Although we are quite competitive in the export market, the anti-China sentiment in several countries has also helped us secure more orders,” said Nilesh Jetpariya, president, wall tiles division, Morbi Ceramics Association (MCA). “The exports have improved significantly over the past two months,” Jetpariya said. Israel company to acquire Morbi business: Nasdaq-listed Caesarstone Limited has entered into an agreement to acquire a majority stake in Morbi-based Lioli Ceramica Private Limited, which manufactures countertop slabs. As part of the deal, Caesarstone will make a cash investment of approximately Rs 160 crore in Lioli Ceramica based on the achievement of certain milestones. While Caesarstone is based in Israel, the company has huge presence in the US market, said people in the know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exports-offer-cushion-to-ceramic-industry/articleshow/77880074.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 2, 2020||Surat||Bootlegger nabbed for abusing cops||Surat: A bootlegger was arrested for abusing and obstructing cops from doing their duty during patrolling in Amroli areas on Tuesday. A video of the incident which went viral, shows accused Mangilal Patel alias Marwadi arguing with a team of prevention of crime branch (PCB). Following this Patel was arrested.Patel and his associates were booked under various sections of IPC including unlawful act that can spread infectious disease dangerous to life, damage to property, obstructing public servants from discharging duty and provocation. A complaint was lodged by Santosh Patil, head constable. According to the complaint filed by Patil, a team of cops was on patrolling when they noticed a parked car with black glasses and questioned its owner Patel. “No liquor was found in the car but the glasses were black hence Patel was asked to produce the car’s papers. This is when Patel started shouting. He removed his shirt and called his relatives and friends,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bootlegger-nabbed-for-abusing-cops/articleshow/77878031.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Patna||Tough for elderly to fight loneliness in Patna||PATNA: The raging Covid-19 pandemic has brought challenges to the lives of the elderly in the city. The restrictions imposed to curb the pandemic have come at an emotional cost for thousands of senior citizens. Cooped up all alone at his A G Colony residence, 75-year-old Girijanandan Sharma feels that older people are often perceived as a liability, considering that they can no longer contribute to economic progress of the society. Moreover, in challenging times like this, the feeling of uselessness among the elderly is amplified more than ever. “I am extremely social. However, I haven’t met my colony friends since March because of the pandemic. My children keep a strict vigil on me and they don’t let me step out of the house. It’s hard for me to stay at home all the time, not knowing when things will get back to normal,” he said. Other than disrupting their daily routine, the pandemic has also rendered the elderly feeling lonely. Many, whose children stay outside the state, are feeling all the more lonely. “We have barred our household help from coming. My wife and I share the household chores. It’s physically draining for both of us. Although my son is planning to shift to Patna, I have asked him not to travel during this time,” said 63-year-old Ramadhir Singh from Sheikhpura. Given their decreased immunity and multiple associated comorbidities, such as diabetes and hypertension, senior citizens have also been identified to be at a higher risk of Covid-19 infection. This has caused a great deal of psychological stress on the elderly and made them feel anxious. Anil Sinha (62) from Boring Road said he is fed up of talking about his health. “Every time my children call me, they only ask about my health. While I understand that they are worried about my well-being, it gets annoying after a while.” “At a time when I am already on medication for high blood pressure and diabetes, even a small bout of coughing sends jitters down my spine. The constant thought of catching the virus is very daunting,” said 65-year-old Rajeev Sinha from Patel Nagar. While some elderly people are privileged enough to be able to stay indoors without compromising on their quality of life, others who live alone have been taking the risk and going out to fulfil their daily requirements. Anchal Prasad (75), who stays alone with his spouse at his Saket Vihar residence, said, “Both me and my wife have been socially inactive since lockdown. Before lockdown, we would go for daily walks and socialise with our neighbours. One of my neighbours has been generous enough to buy groceries for us,” he said. P D Prasad, who stays alone with his wife Nirmala Prasad at Kankarbagh, said, “I have asthma. I start gasping for breath if I wear mask for too long. Hence, my wife has to go out to buy essentials. I get so worried when she is out, but we have no other option.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tough-for-elderly-to-fight-loneliness/articleshow/77877894.cms||Arunima Lal
September 2, 2020||Patna||Gaya shops to remain open on 6 days||GAYA: District magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh on Tuesday withdrew his order regarding staggered opening of shops in Gaya. Earlier, stores selling non-essential items opened only thrice a week. Shops on the left side of the road were permitted to open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays while those on the right-hand side were allowed to open on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. According to the revised order, all shops, irrespective of their location, will remain open on all days except for Sundays. Only shops selling essential items like medicines and groceries are permitted to operate on Sundays. However, shopkeepers will have to pull down their shutters before 6pm. Those, who keep their shops open beyond the permitted period, will be penalized. Besides, shops selling vegetables, meat and fish will be allowed to open between 6am to 11am and 4pm to 6.30pm. Vendors with push carts will sell vegetables the whole day. An official press note released on Tuesday afternoon stated that malls, educational institutions and places of worship would remain closed for the general public. Former president of the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce and textile dealer D K Jain welcomed the move and reiterated his demand for early resumption of domestic flights from Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-shops-to-remain-open-on-6-days/articleshow/77878129.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jitan Ram Manjhi to join hands with Nitish Kumar on Thursday, may get nine seats||PATNA: The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar is likely to get a 4th partner soon with former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi joining hands with chief minister Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) on Thursday. The state assembly election is due in October-November and may be announced next week. “I will announce our coming together with Nitish Ji on September 3,” Manjhi confirmed to TOI over the phone from his native place at Mahkar in Gaya district on Tuesday evening. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said any party willing to join NDA would be welcome. “Anyone reposing faith in the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is welcome to the NDA fold,” Jaiswal told TOI. However, he refused to comment on Manjhi at this stage, saying, “Let Manjhi Ji talk about it.” Manjhi denied that his party would merge with JD(U) and his talks with Nitish on August 27 remained inconclusive on the issue of the number of seats HAM(S) wanted to contest. “We (Nitish and himself) have trust in each other. HAM(S) will be with Nitish even if we don’t get a single seat to contest in the upcoming election. It’s a matter of self-respect,” Manjhi said. It will be a kind of homecoming for Manjhi, who was made the CM by Nitish after the JD(U)’s crushing defeat at the hands of BJP-led NDA in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. However, Manjhi later joined the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan but parted ways recently after his long demand for a coordination committee to decide seat-sharing issue fell on deaf ears of the party led by Lalu Prasad. However, reliable sources said HAM(S) would get at least nine seats to contest in the coming election. As NDA already has BJP, JD(U) and LJP as partners in Bihar, HAM(S) may get the seats from Nitish’s quota, whose party is likely to be in the big brother’s role with over 115 seats to contest for the 243-member assembly election. BJP will accommodate LJP from its quota of seats, sources said. The seats which HAM(S) may get are the reserved constituencies of Barachatti, Imamganj, Kutumba, Makhdumpur and Rajauli besides Atari, Tekari, Sursand in Sitamarhi and Purnea, which are general seats. RJD has its MLAs on most of these seats. The JD(U) MLA from Tekari, Abhay Kumar ‘Kushwaha’, is already campaigning in the neighbouring Belaganj, which has been an RJD stronghold with Surendra Yadav as its MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-to-join-hands-with-nitish-tomorrow-may-get-nine-seats/articleshow/77877850.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 2, 2020||Patna||Railways to run 20 pairs of trains in Bihar for JEE, NEET examinees||PATNA: Railways will run at least 20 pairs of special trains from September 3 to 15 to cater to the needs of JEE/NEET examinees. The Railway Board has approved the request made by Bihar transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Tuesday to run special passenger trains from different places falling under the jurisdiction of East Central Railway to help JEE/NEET examinees reach their respective examination centres. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the special trains would be run on the Patna-Gaya (03211/03212), Fatuha-Buxar (03261/03262), Mokama-Danapur (03217/03218), Muzaffarpur- Raxaul (03311/03312), Samastipur-Saharsa (03349/03350,03251/03252), Samastipur- Muzaffarpur (03269/03270), Barauni-Katihar (03313/03314), Samastipur-Katihar (03315/03316), Barauni-Patna (03283/03284), Sonepur-Chhapra (03253/03254), Muzaffarpur- Patliputra Junction (03267/03268), Gaya-Dehri-on-Sone (03291/03292), Gaya-Kiul (03355/03356), Gaya-Patna (03545/03546), Rajgir-Danapur (03339/03340) and Gaya-Kiul (03317/03318) rootes, the CPRO said. Similar special trains will also run on the Raxaul-Patliputra Junction (05215/05216) and Raxaul–Samastipur (05217/05218) routes, he said. Railways, will make functional unreserved ticket system (UTS) counters for the examinees at these stations. Examinees can also book their tickets through ‘UTS mobile’ system, he said, adding railways will also run both DEMU and MEMU passenger trains on these routes. Acting swiftly on the request of the state government, ECR took up the issue with the Railway Board. The board also acted fast in the larger interest of thousands of JEE/NEET examinees appearing at 43 centres in Bihar, including 20 in Patna alone, the CPRO said, adding railways would maintain Covid-19 health protocol while running these special trains from different locations. According to sources, 61,583 candidates are appearing for the JEE examinations in Bihar from September 1 to 6 while 61, 932 examinees will write NEET at different centres in Bihar on September 13, sources said, adding rail services are likely to give much relief to the examinees to reach Patna safely from flood-affected areas. According to sources, the examinees will be allowed to board special trains only after taking Covid-19 safety measures like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing norms on the railway platforms. Bonafide passengers will be allowed to board trains for which passengers cum examinees are required to reach their respective stations well in time for security check-up at the entry points, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-run-20-pairs-of-trains-in-bihar-for-jee-neet-examinees/articleshow/77878151.cms||Kumod Verma
September 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Corona death toll crosses 700-mark, tally now 1.38 lakh||PATNA: The Covid-19 death toll in Bihar crossed the 700-mark on Tuesday, after the state health department reported 15 more fatalities, taking the corresponding tally to 709 in the state. Altogether 1,928 new cases registered in Bihar in the past 24 hours, pushed the state’s infection count to 1,38,265 on Tuesday. However, 2,029 patients got cured in the past 24 hours, and 1,21,601 people have recovered from the infection so far. The active cases in the state now stand at 15,955. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh on Tuesday said a total of 1,15,559 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the state in a single day. “Out of them as many as 1,928 samples tested positive. So far, over 33 lakh samples have been tested since March." He added, “Altogether 2,029 patients have recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally of recovered patients to 1,21,601 so far in Bihar. The positivity rate has declined while the recovery rate stood at 87.59% on Tuesday.” State health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday tweeted, “The use of face masks in Bihar has been very successful, which has increased the recovery rate in the state, each day. The infection rate is decreasing, leaving the active cases at 15,955 (sic).” As per the health department, 15 deaths were reported on Tuesday with four are each from Patna and Nalanda. One death each was reported from Buxar, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, Rohtas, Saran, Sheikhpura and Sitamarhi. On Sunday, Patna recorded 298 positive cases in a day, taking the total of those infected to 21,345. The active cases stood at 2,193 as 18,986 people have recovered, including 253 in the past 24 hours. The district recovery rate has now reached 88.9%. Other districts, which reported a large number of Covid-19 cases are Madhubani (113), Araria (103), Bhagalpur (86) and Muzaffarpur (83). Sheohar reported the lowest cases at 12, while Nawada, Khagaria and Kaimur reported 15 each. Six deaths were registered at AIIMS-Patna on Monday, including three males (55, 59 and 82) from Phulwarisharif area in Patna. Among the deceased, a 55-year old from Bikram and two women aged 52 and 65 from Kautilya Nagar and Shastri Nagar also died due to Covid, according to an AIIMS bulletin. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, Covid nodal officer at NMCH-Patna on Tuesday confirmed a Covid death of a 65-year-old from Alamganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-death-toll-crosses-700-mark-tally-now-1-38-lakh/articleshow/77877847.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 2, 2020||Business||Apr-Aug sees 32% dip in PE-VC deals||Chennai: As the pandemic slows down private investment in venture-stage companies, private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) deal activity in the period April to August was down by 32% compared to the same period last year. There were 269 PE-VC deals in April-August 2020 compared to over 400 deals in the same period last year, shows data from Venture Intelligence. Industry trackers said deals during the period were largely those sealed from discussions prior to the pandemic, and the ecosystem is still working on the capability to pitch for funds and close deals over video conferences. Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence, noted that investments during the period were concentrated within sectors that emerged as essential services in the new normal such as edtech, health tech and other digital technologies. Investors are reaching almost the bottom of the barrel in terms of all-new founders and enterprises to invest in, he added.For instance, the month of August saw just 13 seed stage investments by VCs compared to from 24 such deals in July and the dip in VC action pulled down total PE-VC investment in August ($1.2 billion) by 33% compared to July ($1.8 billion). Despite dip in deals, the total value of investments in April-August 2020 at $16.4 billion was same as last year thanks to a spree of PE-VC investments in Jio Platforms in April-June totaling $9.9 billion.“The PE space continued to be vibrant [in the lockdown period] as business houses let go of non-core assets in the current economic climate. But going ahead, PE firms too face competition from large players like Jio or Amazon,” Natarajan said. Besides a line-up of investments by PEs in Jio, Pacific Alliance Group picked up 51% stake in Edelweiss Management for around $300 million and Carlyle picked up stake in Piramal Pharma for $490 million.Among new-age consumer tech enterprises, Byju’s raised $122 million in August from DST Global, just a month after Silicon Valley investor Mary Meeker’s Bond Capital invested $23 million in the edtech unicorn.“If we keep the Jio Platform deals aside, the second quarter of 2020 would have been the lowest since the past 15 quarters for PE/VC investment activity,” Vivek Soni, partner and national leader private equity services, EY India said.“Fundraising by India-focused funds too has reduced to a trickle as LPs are keeping commitments restricted to tried and tested hands in the PE/VC industry,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apr-aug-sees-32-dip-in-pe-vc-deals/articleshow/77879220.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 2, 2020||Patna||Rs 8.6 lakh looted in Patna, Rs 2.7 lakh in Siwan district||PATNA: An unidentified criminal looted Rs8.6 lakh from Mukut Shree petrol pump manager Achyutanand Rai (40) after hitting him on the head near Kankarbagh Colony Mor in Patna on Tuesday. Rai was admitted to a private hospital. Rai was about to enter the SBI’s branch to deposit the cash when someone hit him hard on his head from behind. “I was unable to see who was there and what weapon he had as I fell unconscious after that,” he said. City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar said Rai was about to climb the stairs to reach the bank when the incident took place. “Rai’s colleague had probably entered inside when someone hit him with a rod and fled with the cash,” he said. Kumar quoted Rai as saying that he was carrying Rs8.6 lakh. “CCTV camera footage is being scanned to identify the criminal,” he added. In a separate incident, unidentified armed criminals looted Rs2.77 lakh after shooting at the cashier of a customer service point (CSP) near Dhanauti Bazaar under Guthani police station area in Siwan district on Tuesday. Guthani SHO Manoranjan Kumar said the victim was identified as Mankeshwar Chaubey (36) of Karnai under Darauli PS area in Siwan. He said the incident took place at around 2.30pm when Chaubey was returning after withdrawing money from the Mairwan Bazaar branch. Mankeshwar is a cashier of one Dilip Singh, who runs two CSPs of SBI at Jataur. Quoting the victim, the SHO said at least five criminals on two bikes intercepted him at a secluded place. “Chaubey resisted the loot bid and a scuffle broke out when criminals opened fire resulting in gunshot injury in his left thigh,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-8-6l-looted-in-patna-rs-2-7-lakh-in-siwan-dist/articleshow/77877825.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 2, 2020||Patna||Patna: Ex-PMC boss rues lack of power to civic bodies||PATNA: Former Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner, Anupam Kumar Suman, on Tuesday said no new sewage network has been built in Patna since 1934, which is why whenever it rains the city experiences waterlogging problems in low-lying areas. “The city's saucer-shaped topography, mismanagement by officials, who failed to start the pumping stations on time, caused the unprecedented waterlogging in the city in September last year,” Suman said, addressing media persons here on Tuesday after he received a letter from the state government. Reacting to the charges of slackness in drainage cleaning ahead of monsoon, the former Indian Revenue Services (IRS) officer said when there was no drainage system in Patna, how can the government expect it to be cleaned? He challenged that 90% of the bureaucrats and ministers would fail to differentiate between sewage, drainage and stormwater drainage. “We have no drainage system in Patna, the nine big drains were built during the Mauryan period. The PMC cleaned the existing sewage system, which was built during the British rule. If these nullahs were not cleared then how was the water drained when the pumping stations resumed work in October last year. One can’t clean the nullahs in just six days. It took almost six months to clean the drains,” Suman said. It depends on how quickly water is pumped out from the low-lying areas, he said. “At that time, there were only two people in the government, who understood this, one was me and the second was former principal secretary of urban development and housing department, who was aware of the sewage system in Patna,” Suman said. He blamed the state government for not giving any power to the municipal bodies in Bihar, unlike other states. “However, all accountability are on the ward councillors, mayors and employees of municipal bodies, but they can’t do anything without the state government’s permission,” Suman said. Suman, who prepared the DPR for drainage and road networks in 2018, said a proposal of Rs 8,000 crore was drafted in six months, however, it was not approved citing financial crunch. He stressed that in a waterlogging situation pumping stations must remain functional. “This is no rocket science. Pahadi, Yogipur and Saidpur, they are the three main pumping stations in Patna, if they work in tandem then there would be no waterlogging in the city. If any of these pumping stations cease to work then there would be waterlogging. A similar situation happened in September last year when officials delayed starting the pumping stations,” he said. Suman, who was made PMC commissioner in May 2018, said, “Officials could have saved the city from waterlogging if the six high-powered dewatering machines purchased during my tenure in 2019 were utilized properly last year. Meanwhile, reacting to Suman’s allegations, state UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma said since PMC is an autonomous body, the state government does not interfere in its functioning. “We only provide funds to the PMC for development work. It is the civic body’s prerogative to decide where to spend the funds and how much to spend. As far as cleaning of drains and functioning of pumping stations in the city is concerned, the high-level committee, which was formed after last year’s massive waterlogging in the city, has already made everything clear in its report,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-pmc-boss-rues-lack-of-power-to-civic-bodies/articleshow/77877862.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 2, 2020||Patna||Corona hits placement drives||PATNA: At a time when the companies are resorting to financial restructuring by laying off employees and their salary cuts in order to survive the economic crisis induced by Covid-19, premier colleges in the city are finding it increasingly difficult to get their students placed amid the pandemic. Rishikesh Kumar, assistant professor at NIFT Patna, said the textile and fashion industry has suffered losses due to the pandemic and that has directly reflected in their placement drive in 2020. “The economic slowdown has affected the businesses of our regular recruiters as they had to abruptly shut down their operations in March. Many of our final year students were not able to finish their internships as well. Hence, the chances of pre-placement offer are lost. The placement drive for the 2020 batch is still going on as many of the students are yet to be recruited,” Kumar said. Kriti K, assistant professor of management at Chanakya National Law university Patna (CNLU), said even though the placement committee at CNLU reached out to 60 firms this year, their response has been grim. The only positive development is that the companies that have offered jobs before the pandemic have not rescinded any so far. “Even though the date of joining given by many companies has been deferred owing to the travel restrictions, no job offers have been revoked so far,” said Kirti. While placement for the 2020 batch was a cakewalk for NIT Patna, things seem a little difficult for the 2021 batch. Samrat Mukherjee, professor in charge of training & placement at NIT Patna, said, “For the batch of 2020, more than 60 companies came to campus and 93% of students were placed. But for the batch of 2021, I cannot say anything at the moment. A few corporate giants have recruited from campus while four to five are lined up in the coming weeks. But if I compare the situation to last year, we had three times more companies coming to our campus by this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-hits-placement-drives/articleshow/77878082.cms||Arunima Lal
September 2, 2020||Patna||Begusarai jewellery shop loot case solved, 11 arrested||BEGUSARAI: The Begusarai police on Tuesday cracked a jewellery shop loot case that took place at Teghra Bazaar under the Teghra police station area of the district last Friday and recovered 3.4kg looted gold jewellery. SP Awkash Kumar said that a special team was formed to crack the case which conducted intensive raids and apart from recovering the looted gold also arrested 11 members of the gang including a woman. Several motorcycle-borne armed men entered the jewellery shop in the main market area on Friday afternoon and fired indiscriminately forcing all staff to flee from the scene The armed criminals, after stashing the looted jewellery in a bag, fled from the scene. While the loot was being committed, two armed miscreants guarded the shop. Though the owner of the shop failed to assess the exact quantity of gold looted immediately after the incident, later he lodged an FIR stating that over 2.6 kg of gold was taken away by the criminals. According to the SP, “Based on the modus operandi of the criminals, police soon zeroed on the gang.” “A special police team comprising Begusarai sadar SDPO Rajan Sinha, Teghra SDPO Om Prakash besides other police officers conducted intensive raids and recovered the looted jewellery and arrested the gang members. The kingpin of the gang, Ramgati alias Larha, is also a murder accused. The woman arrested is Nisha, who was entrusted with the job to hide the looted booty. Larha was an inmate of Munger remand home and had managed to esacoe from there,” Awkash added. Apart from Larha and Nisha, others arrested are Raja Kumar, Dular Kumar, Mintu Kumar,Gulashan Kumar, Chandan Kumar, Sonu Kumar, Hippy Kumar, Manjesh Kumar and Visheshwar Kumar. Barring Visheshwar, who belongs to Lakhisarai district, all of them belong to various police stations near Teghra Bazar area in Begusarai district. The raiding team also recovered over 1.1 kg of silver, one pistol besides five country-made pistols, 15 live cartridges, 11 cell phones, one jeep and a motorcycle.  Begusarai MP and union minister Giriraj Singh congratulated the Begusarai police for cracking the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/begusarai-jewellery-shop-loot-case-solved-11-arrested/articleshow/77877935.cms||Rajiv Kumar
September 2, 2020||Business||Cognizant acquires cloud specialist firm 10th Magnitude||Chennai: Cognizant has acquired Chicago-based cloud tech specialist 10th Magnitude for an undisclosed sum. 10th Magnitude is Cognizant’s sixth cloud-related acquisition this year and its seventh acquisition of the year in the digital technology space. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2020, subject to regulatory approvals. 10th Magnitude’s Microsoft Azure experts will join Cognizant on the close of the deal. It offers advisory and managed services, including data center transformation, application modernization, and data intelligence. The company helps in cloud transformations for Fortune 500 and other leading brands across industries “The acquisition of 10th Magnitude underscores our commitment to Microsoft, one of our leading strategic partners, and will further strengthen our ability to provide Azure expertise to our clients as they embrace the cloud,” Greg Hyttenrauch, president, Cognizant Digital Systems and Technology, said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-acquires-cloud-specialist-firm-10th-magnitude/articleshow/77879266.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Pushpam Priya Choudhary’s Plurals to contest all 243 seats||PATNA: Plurals, a political party recently formed by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, a London School of Economics alumnus and daughter of JD(U) functionary Binod Chaudhary, on Tuesday announced it would contest all 243 seats in the state in the upcoming assembly elections. Plurals general secretary Anupam Kumar Suman, who made an announcement in this regard, however, said he would not contest the election. “I will only look after the party’s cadre formation drive,” Suman, the former Patna Municipal Corporation commissioner, said. He added Plurals would contest the election on the agenda of development. “The party will field educated and intellectual candidates on all seats. The names of the candidates will be announced soon,” Suman said. He added, “The party believes Bihar has not developed like other big states in the country. People in Plurals know how to usher in development in the state. Plurals is no more a social media-centric party. The party has made the necessary groundwork for fighting the elections.” Suman said Pushpam would be the chief ministerial candidate of the party. It may be recalled that Pushpam had announced formation of her party through full-page advertisements published in newspapers on International Women’s Day on March 8 this year. Suman said, “Pushpam is our CM face. It was already announced on March 8. Initially, I did not support her idea of forming a political party in a state like Bihar. However, her hard work and determination made be believe that change is in the air. We are friends as we studied in the same university.” He made it clear that Plurals will not go for an alliance with any political party in the state. “The party will fight the elections alone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pushpams-plurals-to-contest-all-243-seats/articleshow/77877877.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 2, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Havan held at Chaubeypur police station to ‘ward off evil’||KANPUR: Policemen posted at the Chaubeypur police station organised a ‘havan’ to put a check on spiralling crime graph and also to “ward off evil powers on the premises of the police station” on Tuesday in view of the Bikru ambush that claimed the lives of eight policemen and left seven others injured. The entire staff posted at the police station was removed following the encounter. “After the arrest of the last absconding accused Ramu Bajpai on Monday, police decided to perform a havan to ward off evil at the Chaubeypur police station,” said a source in the police department. A policeman, preferring anonymity, told TOI that a local priest had advised police staff to regularly perform puja at the police station to free it of evil spirits. “Almost all the duty staff, besides some local villagers, participated in the ‘havan’ on Tuesday,” he said and added, “A priest performed puja and chanted mantras to convince staff that the police station has now become pure.” Such was the devotion that policemen on duty didn’t even attend complainants of locals during ‘havan’ that lasted for complete two hours. “They chanted mantras and performed special prayers. It was after the culmination of auspicious ceremony that policemen attended to the complainants,” said a complainant, who had come to lodge an FIR with regard to the molestation of her daughter by hoodlums. Officiating in charge of Chaubeypur police station, D Chaudhary, told reporters, “The havan was performed for purity of the police station premises on the occasion of Budhwa Mangal.” To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur police area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest gangster Vikas Dubey and fell to the bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/havan-held-at-chaubeypur-police-stn-to-ward-off-evil/articleshow/77880078.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 2, 2020||Patna||When former President called upon universities to churn out ‘inquisitive graduates’||PATNA: Just before addressing the annual convocation of Patna University (PU) at the S K Memorial Hall on January 20 last year, former President Pranab Mukherjee had tweeted, “At the Patna University convocation after 34 years. It is heartening to see that Dr R B P Singh on whom I conferred the Doctoral degree is now the VC of the university.” Academics still cherish the memory of Mukherjee’s visit when he was the chief guest of the PU convocation for the second time. Earlier, when he was the Union finance minister, he was the chief guest of the PU convocation held at Patna Science College grounds in July, 1984. Incidentally, R B P Singh, who had done his doctorate in geography from PU that very year received the degree from Mukherjee. Professor G P Sinha was the VC of PU that time. After more than 34 years, the former President was again the chief guest of the PU convocation. Incidentally, Singh, who had become the VC of PU, shared the dais with Mukherjee at the convocation. Governor-cum-chancellor Lalji Tandon had presided. In his address, Mukherjee had called upon the universities to churn out research scholars, inquisitive graduates and innovative postgraduates who could apply their knowledge and skill in the real world to not only help foster the growth of eastern India but also to the whole country. “Our future progress will depend increasingly on our ability to innovate, devise efficient processes for the industrial sector and better solutions for governance. For that, it is necessary to permeate the spirit of innovation to all sectors — business, government, education and society,” he had said. This convocation was unique in the sense that, for the first time since its inception in 1917 and 72 years after India’s independence, PU scholars received their degrees wearing kurta, pyjama, dhoti with maroon jackets and Malaviya turban. The very next day Mukherjee had attended a function organized by L N Mishra College in which he presented the ‘New India Changemaker Award 2018’ to Prahlathan K K of Chennai and released a book ‘Bihar Badhkar Rahega’ written by former chief minister Jagannath Mishra. Earlier, Mukherjee had attended the second convocation of IIT-Patna as the chief guest on October 26 in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-former-prez-called-upon-universities-to-churn-out-inquisitive-graduates/articleshow/77878281.cms||B K Mishra
September 2, 2020||Patna||Asaduddin Owaisi's party eyes at least 50 seats in Bihar||PATNA: With an eye on Muslim votes, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Tuesday said it would contest at least 50 seats in the forthcoming assembly polls in Bihar. “The number of seats may increase as our organization is still surveying to find out more seats from where the AIMIM can field its candidates,” the party’s Bihar unit chief and former MLA Akhtarul Iman said here on Tuesday. The AIMIM had contested six seats in the 2015 assembly polls, but could not win any of the six seats. Later in a by-election, the party registered its maiden victory from Kishanganj assembly seat in Bihar. Apart from the 32 candidates already announced in June this year, Iman on Tuesday announced candidates for 18 more assembly seats in Bihar. “The AIMIM has so far identified altogether 50 seats to field its candidates in the coming assembly polls in Bihar,” the party’s youth wing chief Aadil Hasan told TOI on Tuesday. Hasan said the 18 seats which were announced on Tuesday are Kochadhaman, Kishanganj, Bahadurganj, Thakurganj, Kasba, Araria, Narpatganj, Chhatapur, Pranpur, Jale, Darbhanga Town, Sugauli, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Purnia, Dhamdaha, Piro (Bhojpur) and Manihari assembly seats. He said the party would announce another set of seats soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-to-contest-50-seats-in-bihar/articleshow/77877904.cms||Madan Kumar
September 2, 2020||Patna||Set up war memorial gallery at Patna Museum: Ex-servicemen||PATNA: Bihar Ex-Servicemen Association (BESA) has demanded creation of a war memorial gallery at Patna Museum to showcase the glorious history of Bihar Regiment. The Bihar Regiment has so far produced five Lt Generals, 15 Major Generals and two lakh other senior officers and jawans, who have served the regiment with full devotion and sacrifices. “Prime Minster Narendra Modi’s recent praise for the Bihar Regiment officers and jawans in the wake of Galwan valley face off with the Chinese troops is a testimony to the bravery of the officers and jawans of the Regiment,” BESA president Col (retd) V K Singh said. Singh added Danapur cantonment, the second oldest in the country after Barrackpur in West Bengal, has 21 battalions and four Rashtriya Rifles. “The Bihar Regiment has given two vice-chiefs of the Army – Lt Gen late S K Sinha and Lt Gen S K Singh. It is a matter of pride for every officer and jawan either serving or retired from the Bihar Regiment for having such words of praise from the PM,” he said. Dwelling at length upon the past glory of the Bihar Regiment, Singh said during World War II, the regiment had fought bravely in Burma against Japanese soldiers and it was honoured with the title of ‘Haka’ for its gallant action in the battlefield. In Somalia and Sri Lanka, the courageous soldiers of Bihar Regiment won the hearts of people by virtue of their good behaviour to restore peace there, he added. A recipient of many gallant awards, including Param Veer Chakra and Ashok Chakra, the Bihar Regiment has made its presence felt across the country. During the Kargil conflict and the recent surgical strike at Balakot in PoK, officers and soldiers of the Bihar Regiment showed their courage and valour. “On an average, 10 Army personnel attain martyrdom every year in Bihar which is higher in comparison to the number of casualties taking place in other states. Refurbishing the Patna Museum with the war memorial gallery on the pattern of other states will highlight bravery and sacrifices of the Bihar Regiment officers and jawans. Besides, installation of bust size statues of the first freedom fighter Babu Veer Kuer Singh, Param Veer Chakra recipient Albert Ekka and winners of other gallantry awards will be a befitting tribute to their memories,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/set-up-war-memorial-gallery-at-patna-museum-ex-servicemen/articleshow/77878674.cms||Kumod Verma
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Banas Dairy’s first bio-CNG outlet opened||Ahmedabad: Palanpur-based Banas Dairy opened its first bio-CNG refuelling outlet last week, after it began generating bio-CNG from dung. The dairy has begun selling this CNG at Rs 50 a kg, lower than the prevailing market rate for the fuel. Banas Dairy senior general manager Viren Doshi said the dairy collects over 40 tonnes of dung everyday from around 250 farms in 12 villages. Farmers are paid one rupee for every kilo of dung and the system of payment is the same as that for milk – money is credited into their accounts every fortnight. “We generate 200 cubic metres of raw biogas on a daily basis. After purification, we are able to generate 800kg of bio-CNG every day. The first bio-CNG outlet became operational last week,” Doshi said. He added that apart from the land cost for the station, the dairy has invested Rs 8 crore in setting up the purification plant and retail dispensing station. “We expect that the cost will be recovered in about four years through the sale of CNG, organic compost and pesticide,” he said. The slurry generated while producing bio-gas is being used to make fertiliser, both liquid and solid, along with pesticide, which will be sold to farmers as an alternative to the costlier DAP and urea fertilisers. Baldev Jat of Rampura village in Banaskantha district said the dairy collects dung from 90 persons of his village. “Villagers here have a lot of cattle and between Rs 7,000 and Rs 8,000 gets deposited into our accounts every fortnight. This bio-gas plant is a huge blessing for us,” he said. Udaji Chaudhary, another beneficiary, said he gets about Rs 15,000 by selling dung. “This additional income has helped me sow one more crop,” he said. Meanwhile, Gau Raksha Dal aims to propagate the project across the country. “We have sent details of the project to our counterparts across the country. This will help conserving the cow,” said Mayur Thakkar, president of Gau Raksha Dal, Gujarat. Will replicate model across India: Kathiria Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chairman Vallabh Kathiria said that the Banas Dairy model of using cow dung for multiple eco-friendly products will be replicated across the country. “We will write the Union ministries of chemicals and fertilisers, petroleum and other departments, with the aim of replicating this project across the country,” Kathiria said. He added that the central and state government have subsidy schemes for such projects and these can be implemented profitably by co-operatives, entrepreneurs and even corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/banas-dairys-first-bio-cng-outlet-opened/articleshow/77880158.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||City bus completes 2 years, but Covid affects ridership||GURUGRAM: The pandemic has impacted the ridership of the city bus service — Gurugaman—significantly with the numbers for the month of August coming down from 14.8 lakh passengers in 2019 to 4.66 lakh passengers in 2020. The data was released by Gurugaman Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) on Tuesday. The bus service was launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on September 2, 2018. On Wednesday, GMCBL will resume operations on two more bus routes to mark the day. “Acting on the feedback and the demand coming from people, we have sanctioned opening of two more routes, Route 215 and Route 222 from Wednesday,” said Anju Choudhary, CEO, GMCBL. The two routes connecting bus stand with Palam Vihar and Dundahera. As GMCBL reaches the second year of its service on Wednesday, the cumulative passenger count till August 31, 2020 is over 2 crore passengers. Talking about the impact of the pandemic on the ridership, Chaudhary said that before the coronavirus hit the city, GMCBL was able to achieve many milestones. “Earlier this year, the monthly passenger count was 22.4 lakh passengers in January, in February it was 24 lakh passengers, but the ridership fell to 16 lakh in March due to the lockdown, ” Chaudhary said. From the end of March till June, the services remained suspended. It was during this period, that the city buses were used for relief work, such as transportation of health workers and delivering essentials in the containment zones. The bus service resumed operations in July on a selected route with only 50% capacity and riders for the safety of the passengers. Only masked passengers were allowed to board the buses and sanitisers were installed in all the city buses to ensure basic hygiene. Later in August the capacity was increased to 100%. “July saw a monthly ridership of around 3 lakh passengers. By August 2020, the confidence of passengers grew, as several safety measures were incorporated to give safe rides to travellers, resulting in count going up to 4 lakh. By mid-August, the restriction of 18 passengers was lifted and the service ran in full capacity allowing 36 passengers to board the bus,” said GMCBL in a statement. Amid Covid-19 outbreak, more than 20,000 passengers ride the bus every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-bus-completes-2-years-but-covid-affects-ridership/articleshow/77880144.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Five blackbuck carcasses surface||Rajkot: Carcasses of at least five blackbucks have surfaced as the floods waters started receding in and around Velavadar National Park in Bhavnagar. Forest officials said that of the five carcasses found, three have died in dog attack, while two of drowning, over the last three days.Forest officials feared that more carcasses of the animal, protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, were likely to surface as the flood waters receded further. Last year, at least 18 blackbucks were found dead after the floods in Velavadar and nearby areas. Majority of them were killed in dog attacks.According to the forest department, the blackbuck carcasses were found in the villages of Devaliya, Paliyad, Chamadiya, Savainagar around Bhavnagar. Though the forest department has created elevated platforms for blackbucks to stay safe from floodwaters, they platforms make them an easy target for stray dogs.M H Trivedi assistant conservator of forest Velavadar said, “There are nearly 6,000 blackbucks out which 2,000 are in the national park, 2,000 are moving in forest areas outside the national park, while the rest are found in revenue areas and government wasteland.” He added, “We have raised the issue of salt pans with district administration and they have issued notices to owners to remove protection walls. But the order is not being complied to.” According to locals, the state government has allotted its wasteland for salt pans over the past few years. Nearly 20,000 acres of land is used as salt pans. The bunds created by the salt pan owners to store sea water blocks the natural flow flood waters from the rivers into the sea, they added. The salt pan owners have been told to remove the protection walls (bunds) during the monsoon when their activity is suspended. However, nobody seems to be abiding by the order issued by the local administration. This results in flooding as waters from two major rivers — Kalubhar and Ghelo — merge with the sea near coastal villages of Velavadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-blackbuck-carcasses-surface/articleshow/77878061.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||With less crew, purse seiners sail slow into new fishing season||PANAJI: On the opening day of the fishing season, only 5% of purse seine boats from the Cutbona jetty were able to undertake a deep sea journey. The boat owners had previously decided to postpone the fishing season by a month to September 1 as most of its migrant crew members were yet to come to Goa from their native places. “Only about 20-30% of migrant workers have returned to join the fishing boats. Due to this, we have not been able to start operations on a full swing,” Sebastiao Cardozo, general secretary of the All Goa Purse Seine Boat Owners’ Association, said. At the Vasco and Malim jetties as well, only a few purse seine boats were able to venture into the seas with the available crew. As of now, only trawlers and canoes are able to carry out fishing activities. TOI had reported on Tuesday that many boat owners have arranged for buses to pick up their workers from other states. For some boat owners, the cost comes to almost Rs 6,000 per person as they pay for fuel, food and the Covid-19 test on arrival. The boat owners however are hopeful of trains and interstate transport resuming in the Unlockdown 4.0. “Even then, it may take until September-end for the operations to normalise,” Cardozo said. Sources from the directorate of fisheries said that they have started issuing licenses to boat owners that are able to venture into the sea. “The full fledged operations however are yet to take off,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-less-crew-purse-seiners-sail-slow-into-new-fishing-season/articleshow/77880164.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Olive oil crushing starts, farmers expect record harvest||JAIPUR: Olive farmers in Rajasthan are going to have the best harvest this year since the experiment to grow the Mediterranean fruit in the desert state was undertaken more than a decade ago with help of Israeli technology. On Tuesday, the season’s first harvest of 3.5 tonnes came to the Lunkaransar oil processing unit in Bikaner from Satbiri Devi’s olive plantation in Phalodi. It was an emotional moment for Satbiri Devi, 64, who bet on olive farming despite uncertainties about the experiment. “After waiting for nearly six years, I am having a harvest which I should be happy about. But I am worried about the torrential rains damaging fruits. All I hope is that the good crop should translate into a good harvest,” Satbiri Devi told TOI over phone from Lunkaransar olive oil processing unit. The 3.5 tonne produce is from a small part of her 40-acre plantation. She had diverted the land from aloe vera cultivation when the state government allowed commercial olive cultivation after its own experiments of 4-5 years. “The fruiting has been very good this year. We expect 150 tonnes of fruits from all the plantations, both government and farmers. This will encourage more farmers to try olive cultivation,” said Surendra Singh Shekhawat, chief operating officer of Rajasthan Olive Corporation Ltd.Industrialist Dileep Baid, one of the earliest to try olive cultivation in Momasar village near Bikaner, is also ecstatic. “Majority of our 5,000 trees have fruiting this year. As per our estimates, we expect 35-40 tonnes. Harvest will begin in 10 days,” said Baid. But pricing still remains a sticky issue. People pay close to Rs 3,000 per litre of extra virgin olive oil. But the farmers have to sell the government at Rs 735 per litre. Deepak Saharan, president of Rajasthan Olive Grower Welfare Association, said, “We don’t have big volumes to attract importers. If we crush 100 kg fruits, we would get 10 litre oil. But the harvest is going to be better in coming years with the growth of the trees. We will have the best harvest so far. That’s why we are talking to a few importers and also looking to tie up with some edible oil companies. That will give us a better price.” Saharan said that there are 70 farmers doing olive cultivation now. “Plantations of only 22 farmers have reached fruiting stage. When other farms start contributing, the volume will increase. Also a good harvest will encourage more olive acreage,” added Saharan. Currently, olive cultivation is done over 100 hectares in Rajasthan, including 182 hectares of the experiment plantation done by the agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/olive-oil-crushing-starts-farmers-expect-record-harvest/articleshow/77880071.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University exams in digital mode; those without net get pen-and-paper option||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has decided to hold the undergraduate as well as postgraduate final-semester/year exams in digital mode and candidates will be able to write the tests from the comfort of their homes, complete the papers within 24 hours and either mail the answer scripts or upload the scanned copies on the site or send them across on WhatsApp. However, for those small percentage of students who do not have any access to the internet, the college has kept the option open of writing the tests at home and submitting the answer scripts to the heads of departments at their colleges or university. Following the Supreme Court verdict that all terminal-year/semester exams would have to be held, as prescribed the UGC, the state, after discussion with 19 state-run universities, decided to go with the directive, CU has scrapped their earlier plan of assessing final-semester/year students on the state-prescribed 80-20 formula—giving a part of the weightage to best scores from earlier semesters—but hold a test, giving cent percent weightage to the current semester/year curriculum. Higher education secretary Manish Jain will seek permission from UGC to extend September 30 deadline. The CU exams will be conducted between October 1 and October 18. “We will publish the results by October 31,” said CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. She added that while CU would send the schedule for UG exams, the departmental committee would set the itinerary for PG exams. “Like in UG, I have requested PG departments to hold the exams from the beginning of October so that they have adequate time to evaluate the answer scripts and publish the results within the October 31 deadline,” she said. She pointed out that colleges already had email IDs and phone numbers of candidates. “The UG and PG question papers will be set by the university and sent to the respective college heads who will then distribute them to the HoDs, who will forward those to the candidates,” Chakravarti Banerjee said. This will be the first time that the UG answer scripts for Honours students will be evaluated by the college faculty members themselves. “Students will be evaluated on the topics that were taught in the limited period of time,” added the VC. She pointed out that though the duration of the usual Honours exams was four hours, candidates would be given one day to submit their papers this year. “The candidates may face power shortage or some untoward incident. Keeping these possibilities in view, we have allotted 24 hours for the exams,” Chakravarti Banerjee said. Colleges will submit the marks to the controller of examinations department. A CU college teacher said the question papers would be based on concepts. “The question paper is likely to be a mix of open-book and class-based learning,” she said. Calcutta University Teachers Association in their statement said, “CUTA wanted autonomy of the departments to decide on the evaluation process. We are happy departments have been given the freedom to hold the exams in a way that suits them best.” Other than CU, several colleges run PG programmes. Those students’ evaluation will be done by the college teachers. Both Vidysagar University and Raiganj Universities, which had published their final semester results, will withdraw them. A few arts and science departments at Jadavpur University will hold exams afresh. MAKAUTand Presidency University, along with JU engineering, who have published their results, abided by the SC verdict and do not need to hold exams again. JU science will hold a faculty council meeting on Saturday. Sources said though a decision was pending, it would be online evaluation on assignments. Students without internet can submit it in person. RBU VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri said practical exams for skill-based subjects and performing arts are likely to be held on video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-exams-in-digital-mode-those-without-net-get-pen-paper-option/articleshow/77898253.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Netas test Covid positive as SOPs go for a toss||JAIPUR: Covid-19 is spreading among ministers and MLAs in the state who have been meeting large number of people by ignoring social distancing norms in recent times. The ministers and MLAs, who were in the forefront of JEE/NEET agitation, have now fallen victim to the virus. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas had to be shifted to Jaipur’s RUHS Hospital on Monday night after he had complained of fever and difficulty in breathing. The minister, who was admitted in the ICU, is now better, according to doctors. Former ministers Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh too are infected with the virus. Former Jaipur mayor Jyoti Khandelwal has tested positive for Covid-19, showing how the number of elected representatives are getting infected with the disease growing by the day. Khandelwal said that first her husband was tested positive and now she is under the grip of the virus. “I am having fever and in home quarantine. We must have contracted the virus while attending the agitation against the JEE/NEET examination as a large number of people gathered at the protest on August 29 rally,” she said. Three more BJP MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days. Siwana MLA Hameer Singh Bhayal and Chittorgarh MLA Chandrabhan Singh Aakhya had tested positive on Monday followed by Ashok Lahoty, former Mayor and MLA from Sanganer informing that he had also contracted the virus. Pabba Ram Bishnoi, the BJP MLA from Phalodi, was the first to test positive, while the recent assembly session was on. Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Lal Meghwal, MPs Dr Kirorilal Meena and Hanuman Beniwal also tested positive for Covid in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/netas-test-ve-as-sops-go-for-a-toss/articleshow/77880067.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||Supreme Court pulls up Maharashtra and Delhi over migrants welfare||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday doubted the seriousness of the governments of Maharashtra and Delhi in implementing three key legislations meant to safeguard employment and welfare of migrant workers reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said the court had specifically directed state and UTs on July 30 to file affidavits within three weeks detailing the steps taken on implementation of the legislations. This lackadaisical approach from the states irked the bench, which said, “We grant further two weeks’ time to Maharashtra and Delhi as well as to the other states who have not filed their affidavit .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-pulls-up-maharashtra-and-delhi-over-migrants-welfare/articleshow/77881235.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 2, 2020||Kanpur||Static magistrates to monitor Covid hospitals||Kanpur: District magistrate Alok Tiwari on Tuesday directed to depute district- level officers as static magistrates to monitor all Covid hospitals and facilities being provided to the Covid-19 patients so that they could get standard treatment. The district magistrate, who was inspecting the Lifetron hospital in Keshav Puram, said the patients should be treated according to the rates fixed by the state government. It should also be ensured that is no over-billing, e added. Talking to the hospital management, the DM directed to comply with the directives of the state under Covid protocol. “There should not be a shortage of specialist doctors. Doctors, nursing staff must be available round the clock and efforts should be made that attending staff should not be infected and for that Covid protection protocol should be followed,” he directed. During the inspection, chief development officer Dr Mahendra Kumar, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi and chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra were also present. The district magistrate earlier on Monday late evening issued the new guidelines for citizens. The now norms will be effective only in the containment zone till September 30. In the containment zones, only most essential activities would be allowed and rest would be strictly prohibited. Contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and essential medical services would be permitted. Moreover, all containment zones would be notified on the website. The Union ministries of health and family welfare and home besides the health and medical department should also be intimated. Further, there would be no restriction in interstate and intrastate movement of passengers and goods. Citizens of 65 + years who are suffering from co- morbidity, pregnant women and kids under 10 years would remain in their homes and they would be allowed for movement under special circumstances. The district magistrate asked the officials to execute the provisions of the guidelines strictly. For the compliance of social distancing, they could use section 144 CrP C as per requirement. Any violation would attract prosecution and punishment under sections of the Calamity Management Act and CrPC, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/static-magistrates-to-monitor-covid-hospitals/articleshow/77880154.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC orders Kafeel Khan release, calls NSA detention illegal||PRAYAGRAJ: Calling the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan -- for alleged hate speech on AMU campus -- under the NSA 'bad' and 'unsustainable in the eye of law', the Allahabad high court on Tuesday ordered his release from Mathura jail. The bench of Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh refuted the basic contention of his detention, saying that Dr Khan's speech didn’t promote hatred or violence, or threatened peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. Allowing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Dr Khan’s mother Nuzhat Perween seeking his son’s release, the division bench directed to release Dr Khan from the state custody forthwith. Dr Khan was arrested on January 29, 2020, for his alleged hate speech on the AMU campus during the anti-Citizehship Amendment Aat (CAA) protest on December 12, 2019. An Aligarh court granted him bail on February 10, 2020, but before he could be released, the district administration booked him under the NSA and he remained incarcerated for seven months. "The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020 passed by District Magistrate, Aligarh and confirmed by the State of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of detenue Dr Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal. A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr Kafeel Khan, the detenue, from state custody forthwith," the court said. Quoting Dr Kafeel speech which he delivered at the gate of AMU campus on December 12, 2020, the court observed: “The speaker was certainly opposing the policies of the government and while doing so certain illustrations are given by him, but that nowhere reflects the eventualities demanding detention. A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh.” The court added, “The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the district magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent. The entire speech being a subject matter of a criminal case pending against Dr. Kafeel Khan, therefore, it would not be appropriate for us to make much comments on that.” Questioning the Aligarh administration's move to make Dr Khan's speech a ground for his detention, the court asked why it took two months for the district administration to add charges under the NSA against him? "Pertinent to notice here that no proceedings for detention of Dr Kafeel Khan were initiated for about two months from the day he addressed the students. At that time the sole action taken was lodging a criminal case against him pertaining to offences under Section 153A of Indian Penal Code," the court said, adding "some offences were subsequently added to it. In the case aforesaid, accused Dr Kafeel Khan was arrested on 29th January 2020 i.e. after a lapse of more than 45 days." There was no move to include the NSA charges even when the an application for getting the accused released on bail came to be accepted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Aligarh on February 10, 2020, the court said, adding "it was only after the his release order was passed on February 12, 2020, three police officials made a request to the district police chief to approach the DM for invocation of the NSA and the order of his further detention was served on Dr Khan." On the additional advocate general's contention that the 'subjective satisfaction' of the detaining authority before invoking the NSA must be considered, the bench said: "It's not open for the courts to substitute their opinion by interfering with “subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority”. However, it does not mean that the court cannot look into the material on which detention is based. The expression “subjective satisfaction” means the satisfaction of a reasonable man that can be arrived at on the basis of some material which satisfies a rational man. It does not refer to whim or caprice of the authority concerned." Disposing the petition, the court said: “We have arrived at a conclusion that the order of detention is bad.” Earlier on August 25, the court had directed the state counsel to furnish the record of the proceedings under the NSA that resulted in the detention of Dr. Kafeel and further extension of the same. However, after hearing the counsel for the petitioner and the state at length, the court had reserved its judgment on August 28. Dr Khan was booked under NSA on February 13, his detention was subsequently extended on May 13 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months, i.e., till August 12 as according to the district administration, there was apprehension his release may lead to law and order problems. On August 4, the NSA was again extended for further three months, i.e., up to November 13. The court also declared the extension of the period of his detention as illegal. Under the NSA, people can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that they are a threat to national security or law and order. According to the habeas corpus petition, Dr Khan was granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by a competent court. The plea had also challenged the detention of Dr Khan for four days before imposing NSA, even after he had secured bail in all the cases registered against him. Dr Kafeel Khan had earlier hit the headlines in 2017 when he, along with eight others, was arrested for the disruption in supply of oxygen to the paediatric ward of Gorakhpur’s BRD Hospital, which allegedly claimed the lives of over 60 kids in a week. He was posted in the paediatric ward and was earlier held as a saviour who arranged oxygen cylinders when the supply was cut off. However, he was later charged with negligence and suspended. He and eight others, including the then principal, remained in jail for nine months before they were granted bail in April 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-orders-kafeel-release-calls-nsa-detention-illegal/articleshow/77877130.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 2, 2020||Surat||Trustee booked for harassing teacher||Surat: Adajan police booked Chunilal Gajera, a top realtor and trustee of schools on Tuesday for allegedly harassing a 50-year-old school teacher sexually. The woman had approached Gujarat High Court with a request to register her complaint. After the court order, the offence was registered by the police. Gajera is the younger brother of former BJP MLA and now Congress leader Dhirubhai Gajera and Vasant Gajera, owner of Lakshmi Diamond and a leading real estate developer. In the past too, Vasant and Chunilal were arrested in property-related criminal case by the city police. The accused is booked under various sections of IPC for sexual harassment and stalking. In her complaint, the teacher claimed that she was employed in one of the schools run by Gajera in July 2018 as a language teacher. Gajera would call her in his office and used to make objectionable signs, she alleged. In December, 2018 he started talking with her over phone and indirectly lured her which she had recorded. In her complaint, the teacher alleged she was asked to come to his office in Lakshmi Diamond in Katargam on December 25, 2018, where too Gajera tried to molest her. She was removed from work in March 2019 after which she approached the police commissioner office in April 2019. She was sent to Adajan police station where she submitted an application against Gajera. She alleged that despite giving multiple written applications since April 2019, her complaint was not registered by the police. She then approached the HC. “The complainant first submitted an application in April 2019. A few days later she gave another signed application stating that she didn’t want any legal actions. The police, therefore, did not register her complaint then. She again came to the police after a few months,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, zone IV. Since she was changing her stand cops did not register her complaint then, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trustee-booked-for-harassing-teacher/articleshow/77878119.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Restaurateurs, shopkeepers cheer easing of curbs||AHMEDABAD: A few big decisions were taken on Tuesday, as the state government announced its guidelines for ‘Unlock 4’, which included allowing restaurants to operate till 11pm and shops to stay open 24x7. Restaurateurs and retailers breathed a sigh of relief as the restrictions were lifted, hoping that customer footfalls will soon return to pre-Covid levels. Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants Association (HRA), Gujarat, said, “It is a good decision to allow restaurants to remain open till 11pm. This will significantly help improve business and footfalls at restaurants will certainly increase. We met the CM last month to raise the issue and are happy that our request has been taken into consideration. We already have permission to serve takeaways through the night, which will help boost business.” Retailers are also happy with the extension in timings, but concerns about demand remain. Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation, said, “The lifting of restrictions on operating hours will benefit retailers as customers can drop into stores at will. However, shopkeepers are still concerned about the lack of demand and reluctance of people to go to shops. If the government is announcing another stimulus package, we hope the woes of retailers are taken into account.” Mall owners are sceptical about extending timings. “Even though the restrictions on operating hours of retailers have been lifted, we may extend timings by another hour or two. As of now, footfalls are not adequate, especially in the evenings. With restaurants allowed to remain open till 11pm, we may see more footfalls,” said Jayen Naik, senior vice president, Ahmedabad One Mall. Mall owners are also concerned about increasing operating costs while footfalls are low. “Crowds are not as expected with multiplexes remaining closed. Therefore, there is no point in extending operating hours beyond the current limit of 8pm as it will only add to our operating costs. If there is greater traction, we may extend it by an hour,” said Aditya Shah, CFO, Gulmohar Park Mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurateurs-shopkeepers-cheer-easing-of-curbs/articleshow/77879173.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for firing at ex-councillors over financial disputes||Rajkot: A man was arrested after he opened fire on two former councillors of Bhuj Municipality allegedly over financial disputes at Naliya Road in Kutch on Monday.Yakub Khatri, who was a Congress councillor, and Prakash Singhal, a former BJP councillor, had reached their construction site when the accused identified as Vikram Bhatia fired on their car. Khatri and Singhal are jointly developing a villa project on Naliya Road. Police said that the ex-councillors owed Rs 11 lakh to Bhatia, who lives right beside their project site.On Monday, when the duo arrived at the site, Bhatia opened fire on their car. Khatri and Singhal survived, but the rear glass of their car got shattered. Khatri later lodged a complaint of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act based on which Bhatia was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-firing-at-ex-councillors-over-financial-disputes/articleshow/77878098.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court quashes ‘erroneous’ clauses in women quota GR||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday quashed two “erroneous” clauses on implementing reservation for women from a government resolution, which caused confusion in government recruitments and almost rejuvenated the quota debate in Gujarat. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala not only junked two clauses of the Government Resolution, it also prescribed seven steps for the state government to follow proper the implementation of the quota for women, which is horizontal and cuts across all vertical reservations, henceforth. After prescribing the seven-step procedure to compute seats for women candidates in the 33% horizontal reservation, the judges said that any other interpretation “would result in surreptitious introduction of reservation in favour of those who do not belong to the socially and educationally backward classes, and a disguised attempt at communal reservation has been frowned upon by the Supreme Court”. The hint was to the quashed clauses citing which the government and its recruiting agency, the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC), was snatching away certain seats from women under social categories.  Interestingly, the state government admitted that clauses 12 and 13 of its controversial August 1, 2018, GR run diametrically opposite to the settled principle of law for horizontal reservation and deserved to be quashed. However, it did not do it on its own, defended it for a year and requested the HC to junk them so that the correct method can be adopted to implement the quota for women. By following the 2018 GR, the government fixed quota for women candidates in reserved categories like SC, ST and OBC even after meritorious female candidates from the reserved categories opt for the general category. The dispute arose during the recruitment for the post of police inspector, where the inclusion of seven Socially and Economically Backward Class female candidates was made in the general category. This was challenged and a single-judge bench ordered the revision of the merit list on the basis of 2018 GR. The HC has also ordered to include the seven SEBC female candidates into the general category again. The state told the court that it will add 7 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-erroneous-clauses-in-women-quota-gr/articleshow/77880170.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Parents, 2 others kill drunk man; held||RAJKOT: Eight months after a 30-year-old man’s mutilated body was found in Sayla taluka of Surendranagar, the police on Monday evening arrested four of his family members including his parents, brother and a distant relative, for murder. The accused had disposed the body after chopping off the body parts. The body of Patha Kotasana was found without head and limbs at Thoriyali village in Sayla taluka on January 27. Initially the body was not identified, but when the cops checked from among the missing persons, it was confirmed that it was Kotasana’s body. Kotasana’s family members had lodged a missing person complaint with police a day before the body was found. Recently, the local crime branch of Surendranagar police picked up the parents of the deceased, father Sagar Kotasana (58) and mother Madhu Kotasana (55); brother Thakarsinh Kotasana (28) and a distant relative of his Mavji Maruviya. “When all four of them were interrogated separately, they broke down and confessed they had killed Kotasana,” said inspector Deepak Dhol of LCB. The accused told police that on the night of January 25, Kotasana had come home drunk and thrashed his parents. In the heat of the moment, his parents and Thakarsinh retaliated and beat him to death. Later they chopped off his limbs and head using a knife and a hand grinder. Police said that all body parts were packed in separate bags while his clothes were burnt in the house. The body and limbs were disposed of near Thoriyali dam while the head was thrown away in an orchard 50 kilometres away at Choriyavi village in Thangadh taluka. Dhol said that Maruviya helped the prime accused in disposing of the body parts. Maruviya and Thakarsinh went on a bike with the body parts and disposed them of at different locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/parents-2-others-kill-drunk-man-held/articleshow/77878127.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||After 2 years, flights between Indore and Jaipur resume||JAIPUR: Partial changes have been made by the Airports Authority of India, Jaipur, in its flight schedule for the month of September from Tuesday onwards. After a gap of two years, the airport welcomed the maiden flight from Indore to Jaipur. Also, out of 29 flights in the schedule of Jaipur airport, 22 operated with good passenger load. As per the changes, the GoAir Jaipur to Mumbai flight which used to take off at 8.45am will now take off at 17.55 hours while there is a change in timing of GoAir Jaipur to Kolkata flight too.  “Jaipur to Kolkata flight used to take off at 12.20pm. It will now take off at 11.45pm. Also, with addition of new flights including Jaipur to Chandigarh, we now have 29 flights in our schedule. This is good as during Covid-19 times we are gradually seeing increase in passenger load and the number of flights and their connectivity to various destinations,” said a senior officer of Jaipur airport. Meanwhile, Jaipur airport welcomed maiden flight from Indore to Jaipur which was started after a gap of two years. The ATR aircraft from Indore to Jaipur landed at terminal 2 of Jaipur airport at 8.50am and was welcomed with water canon salute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-2-yrs-flights-between-indore-and-jaipur-resume/articleshow/77880141.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government begins hiring of 6,310 health officers||JAIPUR: The process of recruitment of community health officers (CHOs) in the state has started again. The process was cancelled in June last year as it was mired in controversies. Suspecting corruption, health minister Raghu Sharma had stalled the recruitment. “The process to recruit 6,310 officers has been started. The recruitment will be done with complete transparency and according to the rules. Earlier, the process of recruitment of 2,500 officers was started, but it was stopped due to some flaws,” said Sharma. The selected officers will be deployed at wellness centres which are being developed under Ayushman Bharat. Wellness centres will be headed by community health officers. Some of the identified sub-health centres will be converted into wellness centres to introduce yoga and ayurveda. These CHOs will be nurses and ayurveda doctors who will be deployed at centres. The minimum fixed monthly honorarium is Rs 25,000 per month. They will be contractual employees under National Health Mission. They will not only be posted in Jaipur but also in other districts of the state. These contractual employees will be posted for implementation of programmes such as child health, maternal health, immunization and family planning. Also, they will help the patients in treatment of lifestyle diseases. Sharma said that along with strengthening the health infrastructure in the state, the government is focusing on to overcome the shortage of manpower being faced in this sector. He said that earlier appointments have been given to 765 doctors. “The process to recruit 2,000 doctors was continuing before the health department received complaints due to which the recruitment was cancelled to start the process afresh. The health department has recently appointed 12,500 auxillary nurse midwife and general nurse midwife. Recruitment on all posts whether radiographers or technicians are being done on priority,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-begins-hiring-of-6310-health-officers/articleshow/77880152.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Gynaecologist loses Covid fight after serving patients during pandemic in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A senior gynaecologist succumbed to Covid-19 in the city on Tuesday. Sixty-five-year-old Sanjoy Sen, who was attached with several well-known private hospitals across the city, was on ECMO support for the past 16 days at Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Initially admitted to another private hospital, he was shifted to Medica on August 14 after his condition deteriorated. “He was suffering from Covid-19 infection with severe ARDS. The doctor passed away at 6:25pm on Tuesday in spite of all best efforts by the critical care team and ECMO specialists. We at Medica deeply mourn the sad demise of Sen and extend our deepest condolences to his family, friends and well-wishers,” said a release from Medica hospital. Doctors said Sen had co-morbid conditions like hypothyroidism, borderline diabetes and was slightly obese. Well regarded among colleagues, the gynaecologist had been seeing patients during the pandemic. His daughter, a doctor, and son, an engineer, are working in the US. “A thorough gentleman and a committed professional, Sanjoy is one of the doctors about whom none in the medical fraternity will have a negative impression about,” said fellow gynaecologist Jayanta Basu, who underwent MBBS training with Sen at Armed Forces Medical College in Pune. There have been several instances of pregnant women testing positive both at government and private hospitals. Despite the risks, his colleagues vow that they will not stay away from patients as Covid is not going away any soon. “The risk is there. But we cannot turn away patients. We are committed to tend to patients despite the risk,” said gynaecologist and obstetrician Basab Mukherjee. At least five doctors in the city had succumbed to Covid-19 in the city in August. According to sources at the health department, Covid has claimed at least 20 doctors across the state, more than half of them in Kolkata. While most of the doctors who had died were above 60 or nearing 60, Nitish Kumar, a 36-year-old doctor, too, figures in the list. “Close to 6,000 healthcare workers, mostly doctors and nurses, have been infected in the state . It is unfortunate to lose even one of them. But most of the infected have recovered and are back to work,” said a senior doctor in a government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gynaecologist-loses-cov-fight-after-serving-patients-during-pandemic/articleshow/77879108.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Join TOI’s town hall to resolve Dwarka’s issues||New Delhi: It’s been a year of uncertainty for residents. RWAs have not just been finding it difficult to get the authorities to resolve their regular civic or safety issues, but also the problems being faced because of the pandemic.Queries of residents have remained unanswered for months due to restrictions on visiting government officials or holding meetings with them. The problems range from poor roads to pruning of trees, streetlights, structural audit of societies, sweeping of roads, garbage, waterlogging and insufficient security arrangements.There are many infrastructural gaps in neighbourhoods that have not been addressed or heard for a long time. We feel our readers might have been waiting for the right platform or opportunity to raise their questions directly with the capital’s administrators.As part of the #MySocietyPride initiative, TOI now brings a series of virtual town halls where readers can get their questions answered by administrators and police officers.In the first phase of the initiative, RWAs and residents were invited to share the endeavours taken during the pandemic for the benefit of the society at large. Many of these efforts were also highlighted through editorials.In the second phase, we are giving the opportunity to people to question the authorities for work not done at the administrative level. To begin with, the first such town hall will be organised with residents of Dwarka. We will be taking up questions on cleanliness, lockdown, electricity, water and crime.Don’t miss the virtual town hall on September 4 where between 5pm and 6pm you can get your questions answered by Delhi Development Authority principal commissioner (horticulture) Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, chief engineer (Dwarka) Ajay Kumar Agarwal and commissioner (housing) Rajiv Gandhi. This would also be an opportunity to get clarity on matters you have been stuck with for a long time. To register, give a missed call on 8860066868 or visit www.TOI.in/Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/join-tois-town-hall-to-resolve-dwarkas-issues/articleshow/77899828.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Life on a cautious way back to pre-Covid times||TRICHY/ MADURAI: The relaxations in lockdown restrictions have resulted in near-normalcy returning to the roads in most places. Except for cinema halls, schools and colleges, as most of the establishments have resumed operations after five months, there was a spurt in traffic on Tuesday, even traffic snarls. However, district and city corporation authorities are keeping their fingers crossed too as they anticipate a surge in Covid-19 spread. Undoubtedly caution is the buzzword. There was an increase in the number of vehicles on the highways connecting Trichy, Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts with Madurai thanks to the exit of the e-pass system. “We witnessed good vehicular movement on Tuesday morning as people were allowed to freely travel between districts. The number of bikes and cars increased significantly on Tuesday,” said an employee from Kappalur toll gate. People from faraway places like Aruppukkottai, Sattur, Srivilliputhur, Vedasandur, Natham, Thuvarankuruchi, Ilaynakudi and Manmadurai, Paramakudi and Pathibanur used bikes to reach Madurai and to return in the absence of public transportation. In Trichy, the city corporation has chalked out a schedule to conduct random testing on people gathering at places and hotspots. With more inter-district travel expected, officials are apprehensive about a possible increase in the number of people infected going up. Officials said markets, meat stalls and congested residential settlements will be under focus to curtail fresh outbreak. Similarly, as hotels, eateries and commercial complexes are back in business, supervision will be stepped up to ensure periodical disinfection. Many of the shops in recent past were found deviating from the SOPs. “If any locality records multiple Covid-19 cases, containment zones shall be established without any hesitation,” S Sivasubramanian, Trichy corporation commissioner told TOI. G corner market, Gandhi market, Palakkarai, Puthur fish market and Woraiyur localities are in the queue to undergo random screening and testing. Since enforcement of adherence to facemasks is lagging, Trichy corporation employees said support from city police will help them penalise the offenders. Meanwhile, the continuing ban on inter-district public transportation has put people in villages adjoining district borders in a state of bother. Buses are stopped well ahead of borders leaving the villagers to rely on bikes and share autos. R Rajavel, a resident of Melur, said bus movement is available only to places like Kottampatti and Alagarkovil. Many want to travel to interior villages adjoining Sivaganga and Dindigul district borders. “There were only a few buses on Tuesday. We would have spent far lesser money and travelled with comfort if there is bus movement,” said S Karthick from Aviyur in Virudhunagar district. Teams consisting of revenue and police officials continue to monitor vehicular movement in district borders. Checking for e-pass was conducted for vehicles registered outside Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/caution-is-buzzword-as-life-crawls-back-to-pre-covid-times/articleshow/77880171.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||DTC not in favour of RSRTC services in national capital||JAIPUR: Even as Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has specifically asked the states that there would be no restrictions in the inter-state movement of goods and passengers, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) is unwilling to let the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) to ply its buses. On the RSRTC’s letter seeking mutual start of the bus operations between Delhi and Rajasthan, the DTC has declined the request saying that they will have to take Delhi government’s nod. The letter clearly stated that there shall be no restriction in the inter-state movement of goods and persons. Thus, after this letter during the last week of August, the RSRTC management wrote to the DTC seeking a nod to start inter-state buses mutually. To this request, the DTC management declined saying “ISBT (Central bus stand, Delhi) would be made available to the states only after the approval of the government”. Watch DTC not in favour of RSRTC services in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dtc-not-in-favour-of-rsrtc-services-in-national-capital/articleshow/77880145.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 2, 2020||Madurai||Poor patronage for TNSTC buses on day one||Madurai: TNSTC bus service that resumed after two months received poor response in Madurai and the central region as most passengers preferred to stay off from travelling. Only a few routes connecting rural areas and city outskirts received decent amount of passengers. The bus services, however, were of great help for the working women to reach their workplaces within the city and district. An official from TNSTC, Madurai, said that it started the operation with 200-odd buses to check the response. While the officials were ready to increase the number of services according to demand, there was not much patronage. “Most of the buses operated between important bus terminals such as Arapalayam, Periyar and Mattuthavani did not receive much response. There was decent passenger count only in a few routs such as Melur, Thirumangalam, Vadipatti and Usilampatti,” the official said. From the 14 depots in Trichy district, TNSTC operated around 465 buses on Tuesday. The absence of private buses also didn’t work in favour of TNSTC, as there was a sharp dip in the number of passengers even during the peak hours. “We expect the patronage to pick up gradually. People stayed away from using public transport. Less than 40% of seats were filled by passengers in a majority of the services operated from Trichy Central bus stand,” a TNSTC official said. TNSTC officials ensured that all the passengers are screened and they wore masks before allowing them to board the vehicle. Vehicles were sanitized before and after every journey. Passengers were also given hand sanitizer before boarding. “Most of the buses did not even get passengers to fill even 50% seats,” another official said. A few shops reopened after a gap of two months at bus terminals such as Mattuthavani and Arapalayam. A few tea shops, snacks shops and mobile accessories centres were opened for business. Although most of the city buses were operated with empty seats, auto rickshaw drivers continued to make good money. “I preferred auto rickshaw since the frequency of buses was lesser. Moreover, auto rickshaw can drop me at my door step for just Rs 5 extra,” said V Sabariammal from Vandiyur. A few private mini buses operated on Tuesday also got poor response. The resumption of bus service was a great relief for working women, who have been depending on family members for travelling. “Since we terminate our service at the district borders, the patronage was low,” another TNSTC official in Trichy added. Meanwhile, Trichy Corporation on Tuesday established mobile centres in the central bus stand to check the body temperatures of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poor-patronage-for-tnstc-buses-on-day-one/articleshow/77880176.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Woman slaps VMC engineer over parking||Vadodara: An additional assistant engineer of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was allegedly slapped by a woman on Vasna Road on Tuesday morning. The civic body staffer Megha Vankar and Asha Vaghela were attacked by Rakhi Thakor when they had gone to inspect a road cave-in on Vasna Road. According to Vankar, they had parked their scooter outside Shobhanagar Society and were inspecting the crater. Meanwhile, Thakor honked from her car as the scooter was blocking her road. After the scooter was moved, Thakor allegedly got into a verbal duel with Vankar. When Vankar explained that she and Vaghela are employees of VMC and have come to inspect the cave-in, Thakor got enraged and slapped Vankar. When Vaghela intervened, a scuffle ensued. The matter cooled down only when other VMC staffers who were passing from there, intervened and police too reached there. Vaghela had called police control room to inform about the scuffle. Vankar later lodged an offence of causing hurt to a public servant, insulting and criminal intimidation against Thakor at JP Road police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-slaps-vmc-engineer-over-parking/articleshow/77878308.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kanpur||Woman SI in Jhansi suspended for demanding bribe||JHANSI: A woman sub-inspector posted at Mahila Thana in Jhansi was suspended on Tuesday after a video went viral in which she is seen demanding Rs 25,000 for settling a case between a couple. Sub-inspector Sanjana Singh of Mahila Thana is seen in an undated video of around four minutes demanding money from a person for soliciting his case. Unaware that the man is filming the entire conversation, the cop is seen saying, “Ye batao isme kuch mera kharcha warcha hoga ki nahi hoga. Idhar se udhar kuch sabko denge ki nahi. Ye jahan bhi jaye koi kaam aise hi kar dega kya. Allahabad jayenge to kya free mein kaam ho jayega.” (Tell me, if I have to spend money for his work. I also have to also pay other people on the way. Moreover, wherever he goes for his work, he has to pay. Even if he goes to Allahabad (high court), he will have to spend money). In the beginning of the viral video, a man is seen saying that the cop is demanding Rs one lakh to settle the matter, but he is unable to pay. Towards the end of the negotiation, Sanjana is seen asking the man to decide and pay, and after lot of persuasion, she agrees to do the work in Rs 25,000. Lookinh into matter, Jhansi SSP Dinesh Kumar P immediately suspended her after the video went viral and initiated an enquiry. As per SP (city) Rahul Srivastav, “Further action will be taken on the basis of the findings of the enquiry.” Watch On cam: UP Woman sub-inspector demands bribe of Rs 25,000 to 'settle' case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-si-in-jhansi-suspended-for-demanding-bribe/articleshow/77880175.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 2, 2020||World||China using coercive tactics with India: US||WASHINGTON: China has been using coercive tactics in pursuit of territorial and maritime claims in the South and East China Seas, as well as along its border with India and Bhutan, the Pentagon said on Tuesday. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in natural resources and are vital to global trade. “China’s leaders use tactics short of armed conflict to pursue China’s objectives. China calibrates its coercive activities to fall below the threshold of provoking armed conflict with the United States, its allies and partners, or others in the Indo-Pacific region,” the Pentagon said in its annual report on China to the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/china-using-coercive-tactics-with-india-us/articleshow/77881236.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Mysuru||Online class tests after 6pm in Mysuru||MYSURU: With rural students finding themselves on the opposite of the digital divide, it has been a frustrating experience with most of them unable to log on to online classes either because they do not have smartphones or because the net connectivity is patchy. To ensure that no student is going to run into hurdles when they have to take class tests, several private schools in the city are holding the examination between 6pm and 8pm. The idea being students can use their parents’ smartphones for the question papers. According to a school principal this way all students will have access to smartphones. “Many of our students are from the economically weaker sections. They need their parents mobiles for online classes and other activities. If we conduct the examination in the morning or afternoon, these students stand to lose out. By 6 pm most parents would have returned home,” she said. Santosh Kumar, district representative of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS, says the education department has asked all schools to conduct class tests and many schools have decided to conduct them in the evenings. “A few schools conduct realtime online examinations using various apps. It is not possible for all,” he explained. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga welcomed the move by private schools to ensure that all students get to take the tests. “We directed the schools to connect with the parents either before 9am or after 6pm,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/testing-times-online-class-tests-are-now-after-6pm/articleshow/77878146.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 2, 2020||Goa||Disqualification plea: Congress asks SC for urgent hearing||PANAJI: Congress has appealed to the Supreme Court for an urgent hearing of its state president Girish Chodankar’s petition against Goa speaker Rajesh Patnekar seeking disqualification of the MLAs who left Congress and MGP to join BJP. The petition was likely to come up for hearing on August 26, but the case has not been listed till September 2. Congress has asked for a hearing on September 4. Chodankar’s advocate Sahil Tagotra, in an application to the Supreme Court registrar, stated that the apex court had asked for the case to be “put up after two weeks”, but no tentative date of listing is reflected in the case status. Seeking an urgent hearing, Tagotra stated that disqualification proceedings filed by Congress before Patnekar have been pending for more than a year. “The said delay is in direction violation of the judgment of this court in Keisham Meghchandra Singh vs speaker of Manipur legislative assembly. Since the main issue in the writ petition itself concerns inordinate delay by respondent No. 1 (Patnekar), any additional delay in listing of the matter, despite specific direction of the court to list the same will irreversibly prejudice the petitioner’s case,” Tagotra stated. In July 2019, ten of the 15 Congress MLAs quit the party and claimed to have merged with BJP, thereby increasing the strength of the party heading the government to 27 in the 40-member House. The disqualification petition against the 10 MLAs is pending before Patnekar since August 2019. Congress has challenged the merger claim saying that there was no split. The Supreme Court through an order on August 11 had granted two weeks’ time to the speaker to submit additional affidavit in the matter, after the Patnekar claimed that because of the pandemic he was unable to go to his office and provide official records. Patnekar is currently undergoing treatment at GMC for a cardiac ailment. “More than two weeks have elapsed since the earlier order was passed. Pleadings are already completed in the matter. Therefore, in compliance with the directions passed by the court in its order dated August 11, the writ petition ought to have been listed for hearing around August 26,” Congress application read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-plea-congress-asks-sc-for-urgent-hearing/articleshow/77880206.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kochi||JEE Mains begins under Covid protocol||Kochi: Students in the city and suburbs appeared for the Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) Mains 2020 which began on Tuesday amid strict Covid-19 restrictions. The exam is scheduled from September 1 to 6. Students and parents were relieved over the government decision to conduct the exam, which was postponed twice, without further delay. Officials recorded the body temperature of each student, provided them sanitizers and new masks. Parents, who had joined the students, said that contrary to usual practice, there were hardly any crowd in front of the exam centres and even students brought masks, sanitizers and gloves. Pranav PJ of East Kadungalloor who wrote the exam at Ion-Digital Zone, Kuttamassery in Aluva, said the examination was easy. “I don't want to take a chance and want to ensure that my child had all necessary protective gear. It is only when children came out that we got an exact picture,” said Jincy Saju, a parent from Odakkali near Perumbavoor. “We were praying that there shouldn’t be a decision to further postpone the exam. Whether children qualify the entrance or not, most parents wanted JEE to end at the earliest. Such was the tension,” she added. James George, a parent, said that there were vast parking areas and it provided ample space for parents to wait while the children wrote the examination. “There was no noise or crowd. It was peaceful. Once the exam was over everybody rushed home,” he said. Some skipped exams in Kozhikode: Meanwhile in Kozhikode, the JEE Mains started off at nine centres by adhering to Covid-19 protocols though many candidates, who had registered for the exams, stayed away on the first day As many as 1,192 candidates had registered for B Arch and B Planning exams held in two shifts and 714 students appeared for the computer based tests. JEE (Main) city coordinator, N Ramachandran Nair said that they had maintained social distancing norms at the entry and exit points of examination centres and also while making seating arrangements. New masks were provided to candidates and the computers used in the morning section of the exam were not used for the afternoon session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jee-mains-begins-under-covid-protocol/articleshow/77878145.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gyms open doors but barely 35% of clients return||A gym on Sindhu Bhavan Road operating with physical distancing on TuesdayAhmedabad: Even though it is nearly a month since the gyms and fitness centres have resumed operations, a limited section of clients has returned to its workout routines at the gym. With social distancing norms in place and a cap imposed on the number of people being accommodated at a given point of time, coupled with public reluctance towards venturing out, the business at gyms has certainly taken a hit with roughly one-third of clients resuming their gym memberships. “We have discouraged senior citizens to come to the gym. Some people stopped either due to elderly people or kids at home. With group activities being disallowed currently as per government norms, many have discontinued. Against pre-Covid times, around 35% of our clients have returned to the gyms. We are trying to convince our clients, whose memberships are due for renewal by offering them some extension or discount,” said Alpesh Shah, owner of an Ahmedabad-based gym. While the awareness about fitness and staying immune to illnesses has increased post lockdown, it has failed to revive footfalls at gyms in the city. With the new normal, even though gyms have resumed, managing costs is a concern for many. “Compared to March, the number of clients which have returned are not even enough for us to break-even. We need to therefore manage costs carefully. At present, we are keeping the gym shut for three hours during the afternoon so that staff and electricity costs can be saved,” said Hardik Patel, owner of another gym in Ahmedabad. Even clubs which have resumed operations with limited amenities have been hardly seeing footfalls. “Against a regular footfall of 1,500 people before the pandemic, the overall footfall at the club has come down to roughly 120-150. Majority of the people opt for going to the gym, however, overall reluctance remains,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club. Fitness centres that provide personal training are still faring relatively better against conventional gyms. Mrunal Ved, co-founder of a city-based gym, said, “At least 45% clients have returned whereas others are a little reluctant at present. It is a big advantage for us as we specialize in personal training, so people come with prior appointment in fixed time slots and therefore, transition into the new normal was easier. For comfort of other clients, who are unable to come, we also provide paid online training sessions, which they avail from home.” The business of gyms in Ahmedabad has overall taken a major hit post pandemic. Several gyms in Ahmedabad have also shut down as most are situated on rented properties, while few can survive the overhead costs, including rentals, staff payments as well as other operational costs. App-based workout guides in addition to walking and cycling have also become preferred modes for maintaining a daily exercise routine for many players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gyms-open-doors-but-barely-35-of-clients-return/articleshow/77879120.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Doctors take a lead in plasma donation||KOLKATA: Apart from taking care of patients, doctors continue to actively participate in plasma donation after they recover from the Covid-19 infection. On Tuesday, a doctor donated his plasma at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals while four doctors turned up at the plasma bank at Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) to get screened for donating plasma. “A few days back, I got myself registered for plasma donation in a website created by a doctor couple from Bangaluru. They contacted me saying that there was requirement for plasma at Apollo. Doctors at the hospital also contacted me following which I went for screening on Monday and donated plasma on Tuesday,” said Vivek Agarwala, medical and haemato-oncologist attached with Narayana hospital, Howrah. Agarwala had tested positive to Covid-19 in July second week. He, however, did not need hospital care and recovered after being in home isolation. He rejoined work after testing negative twice. The convalescent plasma that he donated on Tuesday, is being transfused on a 69-year-old patient. “There is the need to make convalescent plasma available to patients as and when required so that it can be administered without wasting time in search for it,” said Agarwala. “We got 15 potential donors being screened on Tuesday, which included four doctors and a nurse. By Wednesday, we should hit the half-century mark,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head, immuno-haematology and blood transfusion department MCHK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/showing-the-way-doctors-take-a-lead-in-plasma-donation/articleshow/77879117.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 2, 2020||Surat||Surat: Trustee booked for harassing teacher||SURAT: Adajan police booked Chunilal Gajera, a top realtor and trustee of schools on Tuesday for allegedly harassing a 50-year-old school teacher sexually. The woman had approached Gujarat high court with a request to register her complaint. After the court order, the offence was registered by the police. Gajera is the younger brother of former BJP MLA and now Congress leader Dhirubhai Gajera and Vasant Gajera, owner of Lakshmi Diamond and a leading real estate developer. In the past too, Vasant and Chunilal were arrested in property-related criminal case by the city police. The accused is booked under various sections of IPC for sexual harassment and stalking. In her complaint, the teacher claimed that she was employed in one of the schools run by Gajera in July 2018 as a language teacher. Gajera would call her in his office and used to make objectionable signs, she alleged. In December, 2018 he started talking with her over phone and indirectly lured her which she had recorded. In her complaint, the teacher alleged she was asked to come to his office in Lakshmi Diamond in Katargam on December 25, 2018, where too Gajera tried to molest her. She was removed from work in March 2019 after which she approached the police commissioner office in April 2019. She was sent to Adajan police station where she submitted an application against Gajera. She alleged that despite giving multiple written applications since April 2019, her complaint was not registered by the police. She then approached the HC. “The complainant first submitted an application in April 2019. A few days later she gave another signed application stating that she didn’t want any legal actions. The police, therefore, did not register her complaint then. She again came to the police after a few months,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, zone IV. Since she was changing her stand cops did not register her complaint then, said police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trustee-booked-for-harassing-teacher/articleshow/77878164.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks fee reduction in colleges||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought directions to the authorities to compel private, aided and unaided universities and institute of higher studies in Gujarat to reduce their tuition fees until they remain shut due to Covid-19 pandemic. After preliminary hearing, the high court has sought reply from the Fee Regulatory Committee and the University Grants Commission and posted further hearing on Friday An NGO Bridge Forum For All has requested the HC to direct the government to form a policy for all colleges and institutes of higher education to partially waive off tuition or college fees until they remain shut and charge only reasonable fees to students. The colleges should not collect charges for miscellaneous activities, which are not taking place while the campuses are closed. The PIL also urge the court to ensure online education for all students irrespective of payment of tuition fees till the universities resume physical functioning. The PIL, filed through advocate Ronith Joy, insisted that the fee structure should be decided for colleges. The high court said that this petition can be tagged with PILs on school fee issue. To this, senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan raised an objection and submitted that following the HC intervention, the state government’s efforts have not yielded any result in reducing fees in private schools. The petitioner asserted that the directions may be issued the way the Madras high court ordered for collection of only 70% fees from college students, and part of the amount will be payable after the colleges resume physical functioning. It was submitted that any concession in fees would reduce burden on students and their parents in this Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-fee-reduction-in-colleges/articleshow/77880186.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Quarantined woman flees home||Ahmedabad: A woman who was diagnosed with Covid-19 on August 28, fled from her house in the Khodiyarnagar area of the city, states an FIR filed with Nikol police on Tuesday. Arvind Dorasia, 34, a malaria sub-inspector with Viratnagar ward of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, states in his FIR that Geeta Dabhi was found Covid-19 positive and was instructed to stay quarantined till September 10. A health worker of the AMC checked Dabhi’s house on August 29 and found that she was not present at her house. Dorasia said that Dabhi knew that she might spread the infection to others but still ventured out. Dorasia said that she had intentionally committed the offence of spreading the infection of a deadly virus. Nikol police have registered a complaint. Earlier, four Covid-19 patients had fled either from hospital or Covid care facility centre in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quarantined-woman-flees-home/articleshow/77879119.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Dozen cops asked to vacate quarters for electricity theft in Amreli||Rajkot: A dozen police officials in Amreli from the lower rung of the department have been asked to vacate their official residential quarters by Wednesday evening for electricity theft.The superintendent of Amreli police Nirlipt Rai had slapped notices to these 12 cops on Monday evening after the Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL) submitted its report after a raid at the Police Line on August 28. PGVCL along with police had jointly conducted a raid in the headquarters and had found illegal electricity connections bypassing meter in their respective quarters.The cops include assistant sub-inspectors, head and police constables working in anti-corruption bureau, CID (crime), special operations group, Amreli police headquarters and Amreli Taluka and City police stations. The 12 cops have been asked to vacate the quarters by Wednesday evening and hand over the keys to the sub-inspector of the headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dozen-cops-asked-to-vacate-quarters-for-electricity-theft-in-amreli/articleshow/77878154.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kanpur||Six more Covid-19 deaths, 354 test positive in Kanpur||KANPUR: On the first day of September six Covid-19 positive patients succumbed taking the death toll to 443. As per the district health department, 354 more persons were tested positive. The six deceased were resident of Chakeri, Maniram Bagiya, Colonelganj, Kalyanpur, Nankari and Baba Nagar. All of them were suffering from some or the other ailment other than Covid-19, stated health department. The district’s Covid-19 tally has now reached 15,292 to be precise. But after discharge of 11,536 persons after they recovered fully from the coronavirus infection, 3,313 people are presently undergoing treatment. Health department has ramped up testing for Covid-19 following which a record 4,720 samples were collected for test on Tuesday. Earlier, on Monday 4,314 samples were collected for Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/six-more-covid-19-deaths-354-test-positive-in-city/articleshow/77880190.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three accused of abetting man’s suicide||Ahmedabad: Nearly two weeks after a senior citizen hanged himself at his home in the Vastral area of city, Ramol police registered a complaint of abetment of suicide against three persons who had taken Rs 1.25 crore from him and not paid him back. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police said that Narayan Sharma hanged himself at Soham Sanidhya bungalows near SP Ring Road in Vastral and left a suicide note naming the three persons and blaming them for his committing suicide. Dave said that the accused — Rajkumar Aggrawal, his brother Vishnu Aggrawal and Rajkumar’s son Mohnish — had taken around Rs 1.25 crore from Sharma, who was a betelnut trader, but did not return it. Whenever he asked them for the money, they threatened him. Harassed by this, he ended his life, said Dave. He said that police charged the three with abetment of suicide and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-accused-of-abetting-mans-suicide/articleshow/77879125.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court to open courtrooms in phases from September 14||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court may open up a few of its courtrooms from September 14, more than five months after their physical functioning was stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to other HC judges on Monday, Chief Justice Vikram Nath said that the standing committee has decided to start physical functioning of 3-4 courts at the new building on the high court campus at Sola in the first phase, with effect from September 14. “All protocol and social distancing and the standard operating procedures (SOP) as prepared by Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar and approved by the standing committee will be followed,” the letter reads. The chief justice requested other judges to share if they were willing to function in physical court or would they like to continue with the virtual hearings from their residences. The judges have been requested to reply by September 7. Meanwhile, a large section of advocates through their respective Bar associations has been repeatedly requesting the chief justice to allow courts to reopen, especially the lower courts. They have been citing loss of livelihood and delays in justice for their clients as the high court decided in March to shut all courts across the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. The high court soon began hearing urgent cases like bail applications through video conference. Later, the lower courts were also asked to start virtual hearing. The lower courts were barred from conducting trials except in cases like the 2002 serial blasts, which the Supreme Court has ordered to complete it in a time-bound manner. Earlier, the high court as well as the president of its Bar conducted their own surveys among lawyers on whether the HC should continue with virtual proceedings or start physical functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-to-open-courtrooms-in-phases-from-september-14/articleshow/77879167.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kochi||Residents: Govt move will benefit land mafia||Kochi: Many residents living near Chilavanoor lake region in the city have raised objections against the state government’s decision to do away with the need for obtaining quarrying permit for constructing buildings up to 20,000 sqm. Though the decision is expected to give a boost to the real estate sector, residents are of the view that “extensive construction activities could damage existing structures.” Thomas Paul, a resident of Friends Nagar residents’ association, said, “Many land deals as well as several large-scale constructions that have taken place in areas around Chilavanoor lake have run into controversies. There are people who hold large parcels of land in this region and some of these are shoddy deals which require investigation. By doing away with the need for obtaining a quarrying permit, the state government is adversely helping those who deal in back money.” Quarrying permit is given to accord sanction for removing earth from the construction site for the purpose of constructing basements. For obtaining such a permit, rules insist that the builder should produce ‘no objection’ statements from owners of structures within 50m radius. Rules also insist on producing revenue documents, survey maps of the adjacent areas and environment clearance for the quarrying permit. People belonging to Vinobha Nagar, Ponnoth Nagar and Pandaramchira residents’ associations said they are cautious about construction activities, which require removal of large quantities of earth. “Kochi is a low-lying area and many parts of the city are wetlands. The impact of removing large quantities of earth from such regions could affect the stability of other buildings in the locality. When buildings get damaged, people will be forced to sell their property at cheaper rates. Land mafia stands to benefit from the decision of the government,” said a resident on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/residents-govt-move-will-benefit-land-mafia/articleshow/77878167.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medicos, interns join fight against corona||Ahmedabad: Interns and students of medical and dental colleges in Ahmedabad joined the fight against the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary forest and environment, who is in-charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, said, “Respecting the decision of the high court, the students and the interns have shown the right spirit by giving their services in the fight against coronavirus.” On August 25, the AMC had taken the decision to seek services of medial students and interns. They will be given Rs 500 per day as a stipend. “The students have been given the necessary training,” said Gupta. He said with the students joining the duty, the AMC’s fight against the virus has received a big boost. He appreciated the steps taken by medical, dental and nursing colleges. These students are being roped in for control, testing, social care besides examinations of quarantined patients without symptoms; identification of symptomatic corona positive patients and care for patients in home isolation. “The experience gained during the corona pandemic will be of great help for these students,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medicos-interns-join-fight-against-corona/articleshow/77879121.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Six swept away in heavy current, three rescued||RAJKOT: At least six people got swept away due to heavy current in rivers in Morbi and Amreli districts, out of which three have been rescued while three are missing. According to district officials, four girls aged between 8 to 14 years got swept away in Aasoi river near Tithva village of Wankaner taluka in Morbi. Two of them were rescused by locals, while two are still missing. Their parents are migrant labourers. The incident took place when the girls were playing near the river on Tuesday noon. Village sarpanch Ibrahim Patel said, “Two girls were rescued by village swimmers. However two others younger girls are still missing and search was on.” Meanwhile, two men drowned in a checkdam on Dhatarvadi river of Dhareshwar village in Rajula taluka of Amreli district. A group of friends had come to river for picnic when the incident took place. Bijal Vagh (45) was rescued by locals while 23-year-old Kumar Vagh is still missing and search is underway. They both were native of Khambhaliya village of Rajula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-swept-away-in-heavy-current-three-rescued/articleshow/77878174.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi, Nitish Kumar to join hands tomorrow||PATNA: NDA in Bihar is likely to get a fourth partner soon with former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi set to join hands with chief minister Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) on Thursday. The state assembly election is due in October-November and is likely to be announced next week. “I will announce our coming together with Nitish on September 3,” Manjhi told TOI on Tuesday . “Anyone reposing faith in the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is welcome to the NDA fold,” said state BJP president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal. It will be a homecoming of sorts for Manjhi, who was made CM by Nitish after JD(U)’s crushing defeat at the hands of BJP-led NDA in the 2014 Lok Sabha election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jitan-ram-manjhi-nitish-kumar-to-join-hands-tomorrow/articleshow/77881238.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Congress MLA detained for dharna||Rajkot: Congress MLA Lalit Vasoya was detained on Tuesday before he could sit on a dharna outside the office of the deputy collector in Dhoraji. Vasoya had sought permission to sit on dharna demanding compensation for farmers who faced losses due to heavy rains recently. However, as permission was denied, Vasoya was detained by the cops clad in personal protection equipment (PPE) kits as he reached the deputy collector’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/congress-mla-detained-for-dharna/articleshow/77878201.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Twin murder of DYFI cadres a setback for Cong brass||Thiruvananthapuram: The twin murder of DYFI leaders at Venjaramoodu has served a severe setback for Congress leadership in the state which has been actively involved in the campaign against the political murders sponsored by the CPM. Congress leaders have been in the forefront campaigning against the twin murder of the Youth Congress leaders Kripesh and Sarathlal in Kasaragod in which CPM workers were involved. The decision of the high court to hand over the case to CBI was seen as a severe jolt to the state police and Pinarayi Vijayan government. However, many of the party leaders now believe that they have lost ground in their campaign against CPM, and particularly against Pinarayi Vijayan, who has been at the receiving end following the gold smuggling case and the controversy over Life Mission project. The party leadership is trying to put up a brave face by claiming that it was not a political murder. “The attack was between two rival gangs. There is no party angle to it. The Congress has never supported such heinous acts and the Congress has no role in this murder. The Congress has never encouraged such criminal acts,” said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. The KPCC president had sought a report from the Thiruvananthapuram district Congress committee on the incident. In the report, the DCC had even ruled out the involvement of local-level leadership in the murder. “The report has clearly mentioned that the party has no involvement in the murder,” said Mullappally Ramachandran. The youth brigade of the party is really upset that such an incident has occurred when the campaign against the LDF government was gaining momentum. Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambil had to leave from his satyagraha pandal before the PSC when DYFI and Youth Congress workers had a minor scuffle. “The CPM is trying to put the blame on Congress when our party has no role in it. We strongly condemn the killing. But the investigating officers have already made it clear that it cannot be claimed as a political murder. It is not the culture of Congress to support criminals in the party,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/twin-murder-of-dyfi-cadres-a-setback-for-cong-brass/articleshow/77879171.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt resolutions unveil SOP for industries||Gandhinagar: The state government issued a set of nine resolutions on Tuesday, providing details of financial and other assistance to industries and entrepreneurs. These schemes of assistance will be in force for five years under the new industrial policy. Nine separate government resolutions (GRs) were issued by the state industries and mines department. These concern sops for large and thrust-sector industries, environment protection measures, research and development activities, logistics parks, industrial parks, startups and innovation, industrial infrastructure and common environmental infrastructure. Industrial machinery, auto and auto components, ceramics, technical textiles, agro and food processing, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, gems and jewellery, electric vehicles, green energy and 100% export-oriented units are thrust sectors. A committee headed by industries commissioner will sanction projects with investments of up to Rs 100 crore. A committee headed by additional chief secretary/principal secretary, industries, will sanction projects with investments between Rs 100 crore and Rs 2,000 crore. A panel headed by the CM will sanction projects above Rs 2,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-resolutions-unveil-sop-for-industries/articleshow/77879178.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 53% of Covid-19 deaths reported in August||KANPUR: The month of August proved deadly for the city as it witnessed 53 per cent of the total deaths due to virus took place in this month alone. By the end of August, 437 patients had succumbed to the infection of which 232 died in August alone while remaining deaths took place between March and July, reveals data shared by the local administration. Not a day in August went by without reporting a Covid related death. According to the district health department, the Covid positive patients were suffering from other ailments also, most common of them being diabetes, Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), pneumonia and infection in lungs or respiratory system. Most of the deceased were of above 40 years but there were a few youths also. Senior citizens who contracted novel coronavirus infection were the worst hit. Maximum number among the deceased was of senior citizens who were also suffering from other ailments. Highest number of fatalities in 24-hour time were reported on August 24 when 16 patients had succumbed to Covid-19. On August 9, 15 positive patients had died. Lowest number of deaths reported in a single day in August was three. On an average seven Covid related deaths were reported on each day of August. For three consecutive days between August 4 and August 6, nine patients died each day. According to the district administration, the cure rate in August stood above 75 per cent while the fatality rate in August stood below three per cent, 2.92 per cent. Till August 31, active cases in the districts were 3,203, which is the actual case load. Till end of August a total of 14,938 persons had tested positive since the first case was reported in March this year. Of 14,938 a total of 11,298 persons had been discharged after complete recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/53-of-covid-19-deaths-in-district-reported-in-august/articleshow/77880196.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||AIIMS Bibinagar launches real-time video consultation app||Hyderabad: All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bibinagar on Tuesday became the first hospital in the state to start video consultation through eSanjeevani OPD app. This will likely come as a major relief for non-Covid patients in the state. The service will be available across departments of general medicine, general surgery, gynaecology, orthopaedics, ophthalmology and family medicine. The consultation, which can be availed on phone and will be free of cost for patients, will be provided from 10 am to 1 pm from Monday to Saturday. An e-prescription will also be sent to the patients. While the initiative has been launched in view of the pandemic, which has made healthcare services out of bounds for many, the institute plans to continue the service even after the pandemic is over. Speaking about the initiative, Dr Vikas Bhatia, executive director of the institute, said, “We have been providing patient care services in the form of teleconsultation over phone calls and have now decided to upgrade the facility by collaborating with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Department of Electronics and IT, GOI to launch real-time telemedicine with video consultation through a web portal/ app named eSanjeevani OPD.” Through this initiative, a patient from any district of the state can consult the doctors using computer, laptop or mobile phone. Discussions with the doctors can be done through live video conferencing or text messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aiims-bibinagar-launches-real-time-video-consultation-app/articleshow/77879155.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Two ‘abducted’ Pilibhit grain traders nabbed in Delhi with fake currency notes||Pilibhit: A day after two grain traders were reported as "abducted" in Pilibhit's Jahanabad police station, a special team of the Delhi police brought them here. The duo was arrested in Delhi for allegedly possessing fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 1.20 lakh.The two men hail from Pareva Vaishya village in Pilibhit. On Monday night, Pilibhit police had lodged an FIR against anonymous persons for abducting the two traders. Harishan Singh, SHO of Jahanabad police station, said on Monday, a written complaint was filed by one Aqil Khan saying his brother, Mohammad Azim Khan, and his business partner, Aqil Ahmad, had gone to Pilibhit district headquarters on Sunday for trading grain but had not returned home. After a search, their bike had been found abandoned on the outskirts of the village, the SHO said.Thereupon, an FIR of their abduction was registered. However, police had received a tip-off that the men had been spotted in Delhi.Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, told TOI that the Delhi police had brought both accused to Pilibit to raid certain places following the duo's leads. “So far, the Delhi police team has not shared any information regarding the crime with us," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-abducted-pilibhit-grain-traders-nabbed-in-delhi-with-fake-currency-notes/articleshow/77875416.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat cabinet to approve Gunda Act ordinance||GANDHINAGAR: The state cabinet will approve the draft of a new ordinance, ‘The Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act’, on Wednesday. The government claims the new law will curb the illegal trade of alcohol, gambling, cow slaughter, human and child trafficking, sale of counterfeit medicines, the drug menace, kidnapping, transport and sale of illegal weapons and the like. Even as stringent punishments in the form of imprisonment and fines have been proposed in the new law, the government will provide protection to witnesses where provisions of the act have been applied. Names and other details of witnesses will be confidential. A government statement said that those found guilty under the law will face a prison term ranging from seven to ten years, along with a fine of Rs 50,000. Government employees found guilty of abetting culprits will face a jail term of between three and ten years. The new law proposes imprisonment of six months for any act committed by thugs in violation of rules of the act. Prior permission of a range IG of police will be required before registering such offences. Thugs are defined as those who threaten and bully people individually or in groups, or those engaged in destruction of public properties. Violation of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and engaging in consumption, transportation, import and export of alcohol, drugs, and other such substances will be included under the law. Similarly, engaging in activities like counterfeiting property documents or claiming land through ill means, or abetting illegal acquisition of land etc. will also be included under the law. The property of such thugs will be confiscated by the District Magistrate in case the property accumulated by thugs is liable to be investigated. If required, they can also appoint a property administrator. Prostitution, offences under the Child Protection Act, Gambling Prevention Act, attempts to resort to violence and disrupt harmony, spreading panic and terror among people, kidnapping for ransom, engaging in physical violence for recovering money, illegal transportation of animals and violations of the Arms Act will also be included under ‘The Gujarat Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act’. Special courts will be formed in order to deal with cases related to these offences to provide justice to the people in a speedy manner. Pending cases related to all the said offences will fall under the jurisdiction of the special courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cabinet-to-approve-gunda-act-ordinance/articleshow/77879161.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hospitals see rise in non-Covid treatment, outpatient visits||HYDERABAD: Non-Covid treatment and consultations have seen a rise in hospitals across the state after a gap of nearly six months. According to the private hospitals’ verification and government hospitals’ e-hospital management data, there is about 50% restoration of non-Covid services. Though the government hospitals have started conducting surgeries, only emergency surgeries are being performed. Several private hospitals saw a weekly increase in outpatient visits in August. The data available with a few hospitals shows that Mahbubnagar government hospital saw an increase in outpatient visits by 20% in August, while at Nizamabad Government General Hospital, percentage of outpatient visits rose by 40%. The percentage of these visits had significantly dropped after the lockdown was imposed towards the end of March. “We are now focusing on non-Covid patients too, as in certain health ailments, delay in treatment can lead to loss of life. The non-Covid treatments are increasing and fortunately we have not seen too many cases of seasonal fever,” Dr K Ramesh Reddy, director of medical education (DME), said. The improvement is greater in private hospitals, though many health workers, including doctors, are not reporting to work regularly. “Every week, we are observing at least 10% improvement in outpatient visits. We are also conducting some important surgical procedures. But, we are very careful and taking extra precautions for the staff and patients,” Dr B Bhaskar Rao of Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals’ Association (TSSHA) said. According to robotic surgical oncologist Dr Chinababu Sunkavalli, the percentage of surgeries he has performed had increased. “In cases such as cancer, we cannot afford to delay treatment. Many non-Covid patients are also visiting the hospitals even though they still fear stepping into hospitals. I can say that we are seeing 50% more patients when compared to the lockdown period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosps-see-rise-in-non-covid-treatment-outpatient-visits/articleshow/77879182.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 2, 2020||Surat||‘Love child’ saved from illegal adoption||Surat: It was borne out of their love, but sadly the foetus did not get its share of love from its unwilling parents. Born into the world of deceit, the newborn was almost on the verge of being lost forever in the web of treachery had it not been saved by Navsari’s District Child Protection Unit.The baby was delivered by an unwed 18-year-old woman, who was cheated by her lover who deserted her after she became pregnant. However, the parents of the woman wanted to give the child up for adoption illegally to any willing people. But, before they could act, the incident came to the child protection unit’s knowledge that rescued it in the nick of time.“We received a tip-off about the 18-year-old girl giving birth to a child in a hospital in Navsari town. We also came to know that her parents were planning to give it for adoption illegally. We immediately visited the family at the hospital and probed the case,” said an official.“She was minor when she fell in love with a youth and had physical relations. However, when she realized about her pregnancy and approached her boyfriend, he did not respond to her. She also kept it as a secret from her parents, but her mother suspected it and took her to a doctor where they came to know she was six months pregnant. Worrying about the societal backlash after knowing about their unmarried daughter’s pregnancy, they decided to give the child in adoption,” the official added.So, the parents got her admitted to a hospital for delivery where they registered her age as 21-years-old. When the hospital demanded her Aadhaar card, they did not provide it then but gave only after she delivered the child. Doctors then realized that she was a minor and lodged a complaint against the girl’s boyfriend. The accused was detained under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.“A team from the child protection unit also counselled them about legal aspects of adoption and the woman and her newborn were shifted to a shelter home. Going by law, one can’t give or adopt a child without proper procedure and it’s a crime under the Juvenile Justice Act,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/love-child-saved-from-illegal-adoption/articleshow/77878236.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Mysuru||153 babies delivered of Covid +ve women in Mysuru||Mysuru: Doctors in Mysuru delivered over 150 babies of mothers infected with the novel coronavirus. Wearing PPE kits, a team of 30, including 17 doctors, eight staff nurses and group D employees have done commendable work in delivering the babies, despite being under the threat of contracting the virus. Luckily, none of the doctors, who performed the deliveries, got infected. A team of obstetricians from the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) completed 153 deliveries as on Monday. They were supported by doctors of peripheral health care centres by working in daily shifts. The first delivery was done on June 26. In a span of just over two months, 153 deliveries were conducted. Of them, 63 were normal and the rest were done through C-section. What is appreciable is safe delivery done at a dedicated maternity hospital at VV Puram. They took all the necessary precautions, right from testing to delivering the baby and discharging the new mothers from the hospital. The babies too were tested for the virus, but none contracted the infectious disease. Usually, the mothers were discharged within a week if it was a C-section delivery, and their second test for the novel coronavirus came out negative Dr Pramila, medical superintendent of Cheluvamba Hospital, said it’s an accomplishment on the part of team of doctors, staff nurse and group D employees. “Conducting deliveries wearing PPE kits is not simple. We worked as team, including staff nurses and group D employees, at the dedicated hospital meant for delivery of women infected with the novel coronavirus,” she said. What worked well was strict adherence to covid protocols in conducting deliveries. Mothers were told to take precautions before feeding and handling the newborn. A baby died of other health complications, but the rest were healthy, the medical superintendent said. MMCRI dean and director Dr C P Nanjaraj said, “We’re proud of our achievements, as our team extended great care to mothers suffering from Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/153-babies-delivered-of-covid-ve-women-in-mysuru/articleshow/77878215.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chargesheet filed against PSI in graft case||Ahmedabad: The special operations group (SOG) of crime branch has filed a chargesheet against PSI Shweta Jadeja and her brother-in-law Devendra Odedara for accepting Rs 35 lakh as a bribe from two brothers to spare them from action under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). In its chargesheet filed before the special anti-corruption court last week, the investigating agency cited 47 witnesses including the complainant, Kenal Shah, and his brother Bhavesh Shah. It has charged Jadeja with corrupt practices for extracting more than Rs 35 lakh from the Shah brothers and for demanding much as Rs 50 lakh for not invoking the PASA against Kenal Shah, who is accused of rape. Jadeja was the in-charge police inspector of the Mahila Police Station (West) at that time, the investigation report states. The chargesheet lists an employee of the accused persons, Jainali Shah, as one of the witnesses. She allegedly sent the major chunk of the bribe to Odedara through angadia firms. Besides the instalments allegedly sent through angadia, Jadeja is accused of accepting Rs 4 lakh in cash at her residence from Bhavesh Shah. The accused also made payment for a mobile phone used by the suspended police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chargesheet-filed-against-psi-in-graft-case/articleshow/77879184.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man gets life imprisonment for murder over petty issue||RAJKOT: The Veraval sessions court in Gir Somnath district sentenced a 37-year-old man to life imprisonment on Monday for murder he had committed in 2017. Principal district judge M M Babi convicted Mukesh allies Muko Aahir for murder of Dinesh Talavia on January 6, 2017. According to case detail, on January 6, 2017, Talavia was intercepted by Aahir near Raidi village of Talala taluka when he was on his bike. Aahir stabbed Talavia seven times and escaped with bike of the deceased. Talavia, who died on the spot, had in 2016 lodged a complaint against Aahir for grazing cattle on his land and trespassing. The prosecution during the trial produced 21 witnesses and 27 documentary evidences in support of its case. Assistant government pleader K P Pandya told TOI, “The court convicted Aahir for murder during hearing held through video conferencing. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on Aahir.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-murder-over-petty-issue/articleshow/77878240.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Gym owner booked for cheating doctor||Vadodara: Owner of a popular gymnasium in the city was booked by the crime branch for cheating a doctor and siphoning lakhs of rupees. The accused, Kailash Jadhav duped Dr Devang Shah and took loans worth Rs 60 lakh by forging the victim’s signatures. The police said that Jadhav has gone missing along with co-accused Ketan Bhatt, a chartered accountant. Shah told the police that Jadhav approached him five years ago and offered to start a gymnasium in partnership. “Shah invested Rs 97 lakh in Alivez Gym and Fitness Centre that was started in 2015. The gymnasium business took off and within a couple of years, Jadhav began side-lining Shah,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). According to the police, Jadhav then began forging signatures of Shah to get loans from different banks. “Jadhav wanted more money but he himself is bankrupt. So he began forging Shah’s signature and took loans worth Rs 60 lakh on the basis of bogus documents from three banks. Shah learnt about this some time ago and filed a complaint against Jadhav,” Jadeja told TOI. Jadhav’s wife Vinita Patil and gym’s employee Nilam Mir have also been named as accused in the cheating complaint. “Jadhav colluded with the bank employees who didn’t verify the documents before approving the loans. The scam surfaced after we verified the account books and found several anomalies. We will investigate the case and arrest all the accused. Jadhav owns imported motorbikes and lives a luxurious lifestyle,” Jadeja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-owner-booked-for-cheating-doctor/articleshow/77878395.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat daily tally reaches new high with 1,310 new Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat added 1,310 positive cases — the highest so far — taking the tally to 97,745. It was the first instance of 1,300-plus cases in a day, as Gujarat had recorded four consecutive days of 1,200-plus cases from August 28 to 31. The new cases include 289 from Surat, 159 from Ahmedabad, 125 from Rajkot, 121 from Vadodara and 113 from Jamnagar. Of total daily cases, 62% of the cases were recorded from these five districts. While Ahmedabad and Surat’s case tallies reached 31,763 and 20,872, Rajkot’s tally inches closer to 5,000-mark with 4,928 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,036. The deaths include six from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Jamnagar and Gir-Somnath. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 78,913. The discharges include 251 from Surat, 144 from Vadodara, 121 from Rajkot, 95 from Jamnagar, and 84 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat rose to 15,796, which is 16.2% of the total cases so far. Share of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat is now at 80.7% and 3.1% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-daily-tally-reaches-new-high-with-1310-new-cases/articleshow/77879242.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Mob attacks Khammam corporator, torches his car||Hyderabad: An angry mob assaulted Khammam corporator Ramoorthy Naik and torched his car at Kaikondayagudem village on the outskirts of Khammam on Tuesday . The incident took place when Naik, I division TRS corporator, went to Kaikondayagudem to inspect pipe laying works. When Naik reached Kaikondayagudem, family members of 23-year-old Anand Tej, an engineering graduate who recently died under suspicious circumstances while attending some work at Naik’s function hall on August 18, gheraoed him. “Family members of Anand Tej alleged that the corporator was responsible for his death and started heckling him. Soon, other villagers joined. To escape the mob, Naik along with a friend, Venkata Ramaiah, ran into a nearby government school. They locked themselves up in a room,” Khanapur Haveli inspector U Venkanna Babu said. The mob then torched Naik’s car. Meanwhile, a police team rushed to the spot and dispersed the mob. “Our team rescued the corporator and took him to safety,” Khammam commissioner Tafseer Iqbal said.On August 18, Anand, and five others from his village, went to work at Vamsi Krishna function hall. “At the hall, Anand suddenly collapsed due to fits and was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mob-attacks-khammam-corporator-torches-his-car/articleshow/77879193.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Aid to kin of medical staff who died of Covid||Hyderabad: The state government will provide Rs 25 lakh ex gratia to the kin of doctors and other medical staff who died of Covid-19. At a meeting with doctors’ associations on Tuesday, health minister Eatala Rajender said that the government would provide medical help to the staff of Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) who were infected with Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aid-to-kin-of-medical-staff-who-died-of-covid/articleshow/77879186.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Surat||Gujarat daily tally reaches new high with 1,310 new Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat added 1,310 positive cases — the highest so far — taking the tally to 97,745. It was the first instance of 1,300-plus cases in a day, as Gujarat had recorded four consecutive days of 1,200-plus cases from August 28 to 31. The new cases include 289 from Surat, 159 from Ahmedabad, 125 from Rajkot, 121 from Vadodara and 113 from Jamnagar. Of total daily cases, 62% of the cases were recorded from these five districts. While Ahmedabad and Surat’s case tallies reached 31,763 and 20,872, Rajkot’s tally inches closer to 5,000-mark with 4,928 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,036. The deaths include six from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Jamnagar and Gir-Somnath. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 78,913. The discharges include 251 from Surat, 144 from Vadodara, 121 from Rajkot, 95 from Jamnagar, and 84 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat rose to 15,796, which is 16.2% of the total cases so far. Share of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat is now at 80.7% and 3.1% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-daily-tally-reaches-new-high-with-1310-new-cases/articleshow/77881791.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat daily tally reaches new high with 1,310 new Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat added 1,310 positive cases — the highest so far — taking the tally to 97,745. It was the first instance of 1,300-plus cases in a day, as Gujarat had recorded four consecutive days of 1,200-plus cases from August 28 to 31. The new cases include 289 from Surat, 159 from Ahmedabad, 125 from Rajkot, 121 from Vadodara and 113 from Jamnagar. Of total daily cases, 62% of the cases were recorded from these five districts. While Ahmedabad and Surat’s case tallies reached 31,763 and 20,872, Rajkot’s tally inches closer to 5,000-mark with 4,928 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,036. The deaths include six from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Jamnagar and Gir-Somnath. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 78,913. The discharges include 251 from Surat, 144 from Vadodara, 121 from Rajkot, 95 from Jamnagar, and 84 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat rose to 15,796, which is 16.2% of the total cases so far. Share of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat is now at 80.7% and 3.1% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/state-daily-tally-reaches-new-high-with-1310-new-cases/articleshow/77881790.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Cong offices attacked in north Kerala||Kozhikode: Offices of the Congress in North Kerala were attacked allegedly in retaliation to the murder of DYFI workers in Thiruvananthapuram. A powerful country bomb was thrown at the Congress mandalam office in Kallachi on Sunday night. Furnitures and windowpanes were damaged in the incident. Police patrolling has been strengthened in the area. Congress office at Kakkodi was also ransacked and the computers were destroyed. Stones were thrown at the party office at Kuruvattoor and flag post was destroyed. Muhammad Abdul Rehman Memorial library run by the Congress at Kundayithode was also attacked. DCC president T Siddique staged a sit-in in front of the city police chief’s office. KPCC general secretary N Subramanian said Congress offices in Poyilkavu, Areekkulam, Nochad and Chathamangalam also came under attack. Congress offices at Anjarakkandi, Cheruthazham, Manjodi and South Bazar in Kannur district also came under attack. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cong-offices-attacked-in-north-kerala/articleshow/77879195.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Most Hyderabad schools announce fee concession, but parents unhappy||HYDERABAD: Protesting parents and notices from the education department seem to have made little difference as schools started announcing concession on monthly fee. Jubilee Hills Public School (JHPS)—one such school to announce concession, released a circular saying that it will give a discount of up to 60% fee starting from September. “As the state government has officially announced the guidelines about online classes, reduced number of sessions for lower classes, we have decided to cut down on staff and salaries and simultaneously extend fee concessions to students with effect from September 1,” read the circular released by the JHPS. As per the circular, the monthly fee for September to March will be reduced by 50% for pre-primary, 30% for classes 1 to 5, 25% for classes 6 to 8, and 20% for classes 9 and 10. A 60% concession is offered to those students who are going to opt for homeschooling without online classes. In July, a showcause notice was issued to the school after receiving complaints from parents. Nasr and Glendale Academy also announced fee concessions. Parents, however, said that they are not happy with getting nominal concession. They said that schools should collect only tuition fees until schools reopen. “Schools must support parents on case-to-case basis, but not at the expense of teachers,” said KV Praveen Raju, president, Independent Schools Managements Association. Education department officials said they found three other schools violating fee norms. “A report has been submitted to regional joint director,” said B Venkata Narasamma. School managements, meanwhile, said that a move like reducing the fee by letting staff go should not be welcomed as it will have an adverse impact on the quality of education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-city-schools-announce-fee-concession-but-parents-unhappy/articleshow/77879224.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 2, 2020||Surat||Recoveries, cases in Surat go neck and neck||Surat: Surat city reported 174 new Covid-19 cases and almost an equal number of patients were discharged on Tuesday. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, 168 patients were discharged from different hospitals in Surat city on Tuesday. Surat city’s Athwa zone reported the highest 48 cases on Tuesday. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Athwa zone has now 2,393 total cases, third highest in the city after Katargam (3,144) and Rander which has 2,409 cases. Two more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 619 in the city. In Surat district, 58 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday taking the total number of positive cases to 4,576 in the district. Four patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 202 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/recoveries-cases-in-surat-go-neck-and-neck/articleshow/77878288.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||2,700 new cases, nine deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 2,734 Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths, taking the total caseload in the state to 1, 27,697. While the death toll so far in the state stands at 836 now, a total of 95,162 patients have recovered from the infection.The number of active cases stood at 31,699 on Tuesday, up from nearly 20,000 at the beginning of August. As many as 347 new cases were reported in GHMC limits. Rangareddy with 212 recorded the second-highest number of cases and continued a surge in cases. Also, all remaining districts in the state recorded new cases and continued to see an increase in the number of cases. The state has so far tested 14.24 lakh samples. The recovery rate has remained constant over the last one week at 75%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2700-new-cases-nine-deaths-in-t/articleshow/77879217.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power company employee beaten||Ahmedabad: An employee of the city’s electricity supplier was beaten by two men in the Moti Tangarwad locality of Jamalpur on Tuesday morning. Nilesh Shah, 33, a resident of the Naranpura who works for Torrent power, said he and two technicians went to Moti Tangarwad where they found tampering with an electricity meter at a house. When they called the owner of the house, two men — a father and his son — rushed there and began abusing Shah and the two others. As Shah told them that they were stealing electricity, they got more aggressive and began beating him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-company-employee-beaten/articleshow/77879219.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 cases rise on Jaipur fringes as count crosses 11,000||JAIPUR: Mansarovar, Sanganer, Malviya Nagar and Jhotwara are among the worst-hit areas of the city as the city reported its single-day highest Covid-19 spike with 308 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative count to 11,099. The active cases in the city also touched new high of 3,920 cases, which is leading to more people being hospitalised forcing the health department to create more space in hospitals. The also state reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,470 new infections take the overall tally to 83,163. Earlier, the Walled City areas were the most-affected areas, but now the virus has hit the posh areas of the city under its grip. Mansarovar, Sanganer and Malviya Nagar contributed most to the active cases in the city. According to the latest report of the health department issued on August 25, the number of active cases, which were 133 on August 9, have risen to 369. In Sanganer, during the same period, it has increased by more than double from 155 to 350. In Malviya Nagar, the situation is getting worse with 229 cazses, up from 91 active cases on August 9. Jhotwara too is facing a crisis with active cases rising to 241 as on August 25 from 138 on August 9. Areas adjacent to each other such as Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer and Sodala contributed immensely to active cases. Besides, another belt of the area, including Shastri Nagar, Vidyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Murlipura and Jhotwara have also reported cases in increased numbers. On Tuesday too, 50 different areas in the city reported 301 new infections including 24 from Sodala, 23 from Civil Lines area, Vaishali Nagar (22) and Vidyadhar Nagar (22). Samples taken from staff of SMS Hospital have also tested positive. A health department official said that 12 employees have been found infected. Across the state, 13 people died, taking the state’s toll to 1,069. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (308), Alwar (144), Kota (140), Jodhpur (116), Jhalawar (85), Pali (54), Dholpur (53), Ajmer (51), Baran (46), Bundi (41), Churu (40), Jhunjhunu (38), Bhilwara (35), Bikaner (34), Banswara (32), Rajsamand (32), Udaipur (29), Chittorgarh (23), Dungarpur (22), Sirohi (21), Tonk (20), Barmer (19), Nagaur (18), Bharatpur (17), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cases-rise-on-city-fringes-as-count-crosses-11000/articleshow/77882101.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||MJP Rohilkhand University bars final-year students from giving exams if Covid-19 positive||Bareilly: The Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University (MJPRU) said the final-year students who have Covid-19 and undergoing treatment would be barred from giving exams.The administration said a final call as to when such students would be allowed to give their exams would yet to be taken soon and they would be informed accordingly. As per the Supreme Court directives, states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30.The university has stated that a student previously tested positive for Covid and recovered successfully will be permitted to give exams.The students suffering from Covid-19 are requested to inform their respective college authorities of their medical condition at the earliest and submit a medical certificate along with the test reports in the college. MJPRU associate professor, head of department, law, Dr Amit Singh said,“All students of the first and second year of all courses will be promoted without them having to give exams, as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and UGC. They will be promoted based on several aspects including assignments, practicals, attendance, etc. However, the final decision as to when the final-year students who are infected with the disease will be able to give exams shall be decided after September 30.”MJPRU sources said the final-year exams are being observed from September 1 across all colleges affiliates while ensuring that the Covid-19 protocols are being strictly followed.The associate professor said, “Screening of students is mandatory before entering the exam halls while cleaning of hands, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, etc, shall also be followed. Students having high body temperatures shall be made to sit in a separate hall during the exams as a precautionary measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mjp-rohilkhand-university-bars-final-year-students-from-giving-exams-if-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77876472.cms||Maria Khan
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sabarmati station to have Dandi theme||Sabarmati Railway Station in Ahmedabad on Thursday. September 22, 2011. Photo : Bhadresh GajjarAhmedabad: The railway board had decided to hand over Sabarmati station and land adjacent to it to the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDCL) for development of the station on commercial basis to serve both the bullet train and the railways. The theme of the redeveloped station will be the Dandi March. The Railways, in its design has proposed a single entry and exit for passengers of both the high-speed rail and Indian Railways. The proposed design envisages the bullet train station and Sabarmati railway station connected with a skywalk. The first floor of the station will house restaurants and food courts. The officials said that the station end toward Ramnagar will be the entry point for the bullet and railways and will also be connected with the part of the station that is near the central jail. The Sabarmati station presently has 20 trains originating from the Ramnagar end station and 22 trains stopping at the platform near the central jail. According to the proposed design, the station will have a separate entry and exit point to avoid crowding of vehicles. An official said, “The idea is to segregate arriving and departing passengers on the platform to avoid obstructions and crowding. The new design of Sabarmati completely eliminates conflicting movement between the arriving and departing passengers.” Officials said at present as soon one enters they are on the platform but according to the new design passengers will first enter the entrance hall and then go their respective platforms. The entrance hall will have ticketing facilities, public utilities, cafes and also will provide a link to the concourse level as it has an atrium which that provides a visual connection from all levels. At the concourse level, passengers can over look into the atrium and the waiting rooms. The design submitted stated that the entry will also be connected to a skywalk through the foot overbridges which allow access to the platforms. Passengers will be allowed to go to the platform once the train arrives. “Till then, they will have to wait in the concourse.” The concourse will also provide a connection for interchange passengers from the high-speed rail station to the Indian Railways. Officials said skywalks will also be provide a link for passengers from the bullet train and Indian Railways to the Sabarmati metro station, AEC metro station and BRT stations. The skywalk will have travellators according to the design proposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sabarmati-station-to-have-dandi-theme/articleshow/77879251.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||State raises another Rs 1,500 cr through bonds||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday raised another Rs 1,500 crore through bonds at the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) auction. Though the auction notice was given for Rs 1,000 crore, the state got response to raise Rs 1,500 crore as loan in this instalment. This long-term repayment schedule will be 30 years with an interest rate of 6.71. Along with Telangana, Gujarat too raised a loan amount to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore, while Tamil Nadu raised it to the tune of Rs 1,250 crore and Assam raised it to the tune of Rs 600 crore. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand raised it to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore each.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-raises-another-rs-1500-cr-through-bonds/articleshow/77879248.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 cases rise on Jaipur fringes as count crosses 11,000||JAIPUR: Mansarovar, Sanganer, Malviya Nagar and Jhotwara are among the worst-hit areas of the city as the city reported its single-day highest Covid-19 spike with 308 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative count to 11,099. The active cases in the city also touched new high of 3,920 cases, which is leading to more people being hospitalised forcing the health department to create more space in hospitals. The also state reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,470 new infections take the overall tally to 83,163. Earlier, the Walled City areas were the most-affected areas, but now the virus has hit the posh areas of the city under its grip. Mansarovar, Sanganer and Malviya Nagar contributed most to the active cases in the city. According to the latest report of the health department issued on August 25, the number of active cases, which were 133 on August 9, have risen to 369. In Sanganer, during the same period, it has increased by more than double from 155 to 350. In Malviya Nagar, the situation is getting worse with 229 cazses, up from 91 active cases on August 9. Jhotwara too is facing a crisis with active cases rising to 241 as on August 25 from 138 on August 9. Areas adjacent to each other such as Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer and Sodala contributed immensely to active cases. Besides, another belt of the area, including Shastri Nagar, Vidyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Murlipura and Jhotwara have also reported cases in increased numbers. On Tuesday too, 50 different areas in the city reported 301 new infections including 24 from Sodala, 23 from Civil Lines area, Vaishali Nagar (22) and Vidyadhar Nagar (22). Samples taken from staff of SMS Hospital have also tested positive. A health department official said that 12 employees have been found infected. Across the state, 13 people died, taking the state’s toll to 1,069. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (308), Alwar (144), Kota (140), Jodhpur (116), Jhalawar (85), Pali (54), Dholpur (53), Ajmer (51), Baran (46), Bundi (41), Churu (40), Jhunjhunu (38), Bhilwara (35), Bikaner (34), Banswara (32), Rajsamand (32), Udaipur (29), Chittorgarh (23), Dungarpur (22), Sirohi (21), Tonk (20), Barmer (19), Nagaur (18), Bharatpur (17), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cases-rise-on-city-fringes-as-count-crosses-11000/articleshow/77882100.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 40% students skip online classes on Day 1||HYDERABAD: With the state telecasting lessons only in Telugu medium on Tuesday, more than 40% of students from the city, especially from English and Urdu medium schools, have skipped digital classes on the very first day. About 82,600 students are studying in classes 3 to 10 in government schools in Hyderabad district but only 46,474 students watched digital classes telecast through TSAT or Doordarshan (DD) Yadagiri.“Even Physics and Maths subjects are taught in Telugu. It would be better if the lessons are taught in English as well. Further, I felt that the teacher was teaching the subject very fast. If the teacher slowdowns a little, I can understand better,” said P Sirisha, a class 10 student. Government teachers, meanwhile, said that many of their students called and complained that classes are being conducted in Telugu. “Students were expecting to hear lessons in their medium of instruction. When they noticed that they were being taught in Telugu, they called and complained. I assured them that classes will soon start in English as well, but also asked them to give these classes a try in the meantime,” said M Ravindar, a mathematics teacher working in a Government High School in Nallakunta. Teachers also said that many students complained that they could not access TSAT channel through DTH or cable network. The officials said that classes in English medium will most likely start after September 15 but added that Urdu medium students might have to wait a little longer. “Only in Hyderabad, there are many Urdu medium students. So, we will have to figure out a plan for them. When it comes to English medium students, classes should begin for them in the third week of September,” said B Venkata Narasamma, district education officer, Hyderabad, adding that it will be sufficient if students follow lessons through either DD Yadagiri or TSAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-40-students-skip-online-classes-on-day-1/articleshow/77879257.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases rise on Jaipur fringes as count crosses 11,000||JAIPUR: Mansarovar, Sanganer, Malviya Nagar and Jhotwara are among the worst-hit areas of the city as the city reported its single-day highest Covid-19 spike with 308 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative count to 11,099. The active cases in the city also touched new high of 3,920 cases, which is leading to more people being hospitalised forcing the health department to create more space in hospitals. The also state reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,470 new infections take the overall tally to 83,163. Earlier, the Walled City areas were the most-affected areas, but now the virus has hit the posh areas of the city under its grip. Mansarovar, Sanganer and Malviya Nagar contributed most to the active cases in the city. According to the latest report of the health department issued on August 25, the number of active cases, which were 133 on August 9, have risen to 369. In Sanganer, during the same period, it has increased by more than double from 155 to 350. In Malviya Nagar, the situation is getting worse with 229 cazses, up from 91 active cases on August 9. Jhotwara too is facing a crisis with active cases rising to 241 as on August 25 from 138 on August 9. Areas adjacent to each other such as Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer and Sodala contributed immensely to active cases. Besides, another belt of the area, including Shastri Nagar, Vidyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Murlipura and Jhotwara have also reported cases in increased numbers. On Tuesday too, 50 different areas in the city reported 301 new infections including 24 from Sodala, 23 from Civil Lines area, Vaishali Nagar (22) and Vidyadhar Nagar (22). Samples taken from staff of SMS Hospital have also tested positive. A health department official said that 12 employees have been found infected. Across the state, 13 people died, taking the state’s toll to 1,069. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (308), Alwar (144), Kota (140), Jodhpur (116), Jhalawar (85), Pali (54), Dholpur (53), Ajmer (51), Baran (46), Bundi (41), Churu (40), Jhunjhunu (38), Bhilwara (35), Bikaner (34), Banswara (32), Rajsamand (32), Udaipur (29), Chittorgarh (23), Dungarpur (22), Sirohi (21), Tonk (20), Barmer (19), Nagaur (18), Bharatpur (17), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-rise-on-city-fringes-as-count-crosses-11000/articleshow/77880214.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 cases rise on Jaipur fringes as count crosses 11,000||JAIPUR: Mansarovar, Sanganer, Malviya Nagar and Jhotwara are among the worst-hit areas of the city as the city reported its single-day highest Covid-19 spike with 308 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative count to 11,099. The active cases in the city also touched new high of 3,920 cases, which is leading to more people being hospitalised forcing the health department to create more space in hospitals. The also state reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,470 new infections take the overall tally to 83,163. Earlier, the Walled City areas were the most-affected areas, but now the virus has hit the posh areas of the city under its grip. Mansarovar, Sanganer and Malviya Nagar contributed most to the active cases in the city. According to the latest report of the health department issued on August 25, the number of active cases, which were 133 on August 9, have risen to 369. In Sanganer, during the same period, it has increased by more than double from 155 to 350. In Malviya Nagar, the situation is getting worse with 229 cazses, up from 91 active cases on August 9. Jhotwara too is facing a crisis with active cases rising to 241 as on August 25 from 138 on August 9. Areas adjacent to each other such as Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar, Durgapura, Sanganer and Sodala contributed immensely to active cases. Besides, another belt of the area, including Shastri Nagar, Vidyadhar Nagar, Bani Park, Murlipura and Jhotwara have also reported cases in increased numbers. On Tuesday too, 50 different areas in the city reported 301 new infections including 24 from Sodala, 23 from Civil Lines area, Vaishali Nagar (22) and Vidyadhar Nagar (22). Samples taken from staff of SMS Hospital have also tested positive. A health department official said that 12 employees have been found infected. Across the state, 13 people died, taking the state’s toll to 1,069. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (308), Alwar (144), Kota (140), Jodhpur (116), Jhalawar (85), Pali (54), Dholpur (53), Ajmer (51), Baran (46), Bundi (41), Churu (40), Jhunjhunu (38), Bhilwara (35), Bikaner (34), Banswara (32), Rajsamand (32), Udaipur (29), Chittorgarh (23), Dungarpur (22), Sirohi (21), Tonk (20), Barmer (19), Nagaur (18), Bharatpur (17), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cases-rise-on-city-fringes-as-count-crosses-11000/articleshow/77882098.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||World||US says it won't join global effort to find Covid-19 vaccine||WASHINGTON: The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will not work with an international cooperative effort to develop and distribute a Covid-19 vaccine because it does not want to be constrained by multilateral groups like the World Health Organization. The decision to go it alone, first reported by The Washington Post, follows the White House's decision in early July to pull the United States out of the WHO. Trump claims the WHO is in need of reform and is heavily influenced by China. Some nations have worked directly to secure supplies of vaccine, but others are pooling efforts to ensure success against a disease that has no geographical boundaries. More than 150 countries are setting up the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX. That cooperative effort, linked with the WHO, would allow nations to take advantage of a portfolio of potential vaccines to ensure their citizens are quickly covered by whichever ones are deemed effective. The WHO says even governments making deals with individual vaccine makers would benefit from joining COVAX because it would provide backup vaccines in case the ones being made through bilateral deals with manufacturers aren't successful. "The United States will continue to engage our international partners to ensure we defeat this virus, but we will not be constrained by multilateral organizations influenced by the corrupt World Health Organization and China," said White House spokesman Judd Deere. "This president will spare no expense to ensure that any new vaccine maintains our own Food and Drug Administration's gold standard for safety and efficacy, is thoroughly tested and saves lives.'' Rep. Ami Bera, D-Calif., said the administration's decision was shortsighted and will hamper the battle to end the pandemic. "Joining COVAX is a simple measure to guarantee US access to a vaccine _ no matter who develops it first,'' tweeted Bera, a medical doctor. "This go-it-alone approach leaves America at risk of not getting a vaccine.'' The administration's decision, paired with the US withdrawal from the WHO, means the US is abdicating America's global leadership in fighting pandemics, according to Tom Hart, North America director at The ONE Campaign, an advocacy organization co-founded by Bono of the rock band U2. "Not only does this move put the lives of millions around the world at risk, it could completely isolate Americans from an effective vaccine against Covid-19,'' Hart said. A handful of the dozens of experimental Covid-19 vaccines in human testing have reached the last and biggest hurdle looking for the needed proof that they really work. AstraZeneca announced Monday its vaccine candidate has entered the final testing stage in the US The Cambridge, England-based company said the study will involve up to 30,000 adults from various racial, ethnic and geographic groups. Two other vaccine candidates began final testing this summer in tens of thousands of people in the US One was created by the National Institutes of Health and manufactured by Moderna Inc., and the other developed by Pfizer Inc. and Germany's BioNTech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-says-it-wont-join-global-effort-to-find-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/77881300.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 100-bed Covid care hub in RUHS to tackle caseload||JAIPUR: Spurt in Covid-19 cases has prompted the government to consider converting more government hospitals into dedicated Covid hospitals. In addition, facilities at the existing dedicated Covid care centre, RUHS Hospital, will be upgraded. The government will add a 100-bed Covid care centre on RUHS premises for patients with mild or moderate symptoms. The RUHS, a 500-bed hospital, was converted into full-fledged dedicated Covid care hospital on June 1. Since then, RUHS is the only government hospital, apart from Mahila Chikitsalaya, which has been treating Covid patients. The state government has decided to increase the beds with high flow oxygen supply for serious patients. “We have directed the hospital to increase the beds with high flow oxygen facility. Also, a 100-bed Covid care centre will be developed in the hospital for patients with mild to moderate symptoms who do not require oxygen support. The decision has been taken to accommodate more patients with serious symptoms in main RUHS Hospital while those with mild to moderate symptoms will get the treatment at the Covid care centre,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. “In NIMS Hospital, 25 beds with oxygen facility and 75 beds for Covid care will be added,” he said. He added that the government might convert one or two government hosptials into dedicated Covid centres in the city if the situation arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/100-bed-covid-care-hub-in-ruhs-to-tackle-caseload/articleshow/77880215.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad: Site has separate entry for labourers||AHMEDABAD: In an email response to TOI’s query about several of the construction workers at IIM-A’s site testing positive for Covid-19, the IIM-A officials confirmed the news. “However, the sites were cordoned off with separate entries for labourers, and their exposure to campus was almost nil or very limited,” mentioned the response. IIM-A officials agreed that some of the students of executive course – PGPX – have returned to the campus ‘as they were facing connectivity and other issues in their respective home towns. However, they are all safely quarantined with minimal movement, and the classes are still online,’ mentioned the response. The national guidelines have not allowed the educational campuses to open yet. “The IIM-A community members have been advised to exercise caution, avoid going out unless necessary, maintain social distancing, and follow guidelines of wearing masks and frequent hand sanitization. We are continuously monitoring the health of community members, and whenever in doubt, we are getting them tested,” mentioned the email response. Some of the community members however raised concern over opening of the campus – even for the limited number of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-site-has-separate-entry-for-labourers/articleshow/77879302.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport ranked 13th on basis of July passenger load||JAIPUR: The city airport has been ranked 13th on the basis of passenger footfall in July. Delhi’s Indira Gandhi Airport topped the list for handling 10.59 lakh passengers while Jaipur handled nearly 86,700 passengers. Despite the fact that Jaipur is a smaller airport compared to Goa and Guwahati, it got more travelers compared to these airports. Airports Authority of India officials attributed the number of passengers to Vande Bharat flights and improved domestic operations. Jaipur airport had resumed its services on May 25 and initially it was handling merely 100 to 500 passengers. “People were scared and hesitant to travel. However, once they made travellers satisfied with protocol and safety measures, passenger count started to increase. By July, we started witnessing elevation in number of passengers travelling in inbound and outbound flights,” the officer added. Those associated with tour and travel business attributed the increase in passengers to various factors. “I think initially the quarantine rules in various states were different and states like Karnataka and West Bengal had categorically asked passengers travelling to their states to be sent for 14 days quarantine. However, relaxations in these rules from mid-July also helped air travelers to commute without fear,” said Sanjay Kaushik, a Jaipur-based tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-airport-ranked-13th-on-basis-of-july-passenger-load/articleshow/77880230.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Culprits shared close ties with Adoor Prakash: Min||Thiruvananthapuram: CPM state secretariat has alleged that Congress leadership is behind the planning of murder of two DYFI activists in Venjarammoodu on the outskirts of the capital. The party has demanded that the culprits and conspirators should be nabbed and strong action should be initiated against them. In a statement, the CPM leadership has said KPCC president’s stand justifying the murder reveals the role of Congress leadership in the matter. The victims have been termed by the KPCC president as ‘goons’, which is condemnable. The Congress, while being singled out in every issue, is deliberately trying to create new issues in desperation, the CPM secretariat said. The party urged its sympathisers to mobilise people’s protest against politics of murder. The party has announced that it would observe a black day across the state on Wednesday protesting the murder. The party secretariat asked the party followers to observe the black day by adhering to Covid-19 protocols. In each centre, followers should be limited to five protestors, who should wear black badges and offer floral tributes before the photos of Haq Muhammed and Mithilaj, who were murdered. The party secretariat requested party sympathisers to ensure that the observance of black day becomes a major public protest against the UDF. Meanwhile, industries minister E P Jayarajan said culprits of double murder shared close relationship with Attingal MP and Congress leader Adoor Prakash. He said the culprits spoke to Adoor Prakash after the murder and his role in the conspiracy should be probed. The minister said the culprits had informed Adoor Prakash after the incident that the mission has been accomplished. All those who have been arrested are Congress supporters. All of them share close relationships with senior Congress leaders and there is a strong conspiracy behind the incident, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/culprits-shared-close-ties-with-adoor-prakash-min/articleshow/77879304.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||125 workers near GMDC ground found Covid +ve||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation officials said that the workers had returned from Uttar Pradesh recently.Ahmedabad: About 125 construction workers out of 750 associated with a private construction firm, living near GMDC ground, were tested positive in a drive carried out by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The officials said that the workers had returned from Uttar Pradesh recently. “The testing drive was part of the AMC initiative to check on the persons returning from other states. The testing was on for past three days as about 125 workers with PSP Projects, were tested positive,” said Dr Bhavin Solanki, AMC health officer. “Several of the workers were going to the site situated on the new campus of IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A).” In a release on Tuesday, AMC said that a checking was also carried out at Ambuja House on Sindhu Bhavan Road. All 132 staff members were tested out of which 22 tested positive. Moreover, 175 staff members at Palladium were checked, out of which 30 were found to be positive. At ITC Narmada, 12 out of 150 staff members were tested positive. “Compared to 3% positivity rate recorded in residential areas, the positivity rate in commercial establishments is five times higher at 15.6%. The drive will continue in other areas to find positive cases at an early stage so that the persons could be isolated and further spread could be arrested,” said an AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/125-workers-near-gmdc-ground-found-covid-ve/articleshow/77879298.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SC stays HC definition of family||Hyderabad: In a huge relief to the state government, the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a judgement of the Telangana high court that ordered it to treat every young person over 18 years of age as a separate family member and pay them compensation and rehabilitation under land acquisition Act, 2013. A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar granted the interim relief while hearing an appeal filed by the state government against the order of the high court pronounced in a batch of pleas filed by farmers of Ananthagiri reservoir. The bench also stayed the direction of the HC that directed the state to pay double rehabilitation facilities to those who lost both land and houses. Arguing the case of the state, Advocate General BS Prasad told the apex court that the state had already acquired the land and houses under consent through GO 123. The Supreme Court issued notices to the farmers and posted the case to five weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-stays-hc-definition-of-family/articleshow/77879268.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||No action month after FIR was filed for dummy job cards||AHMEDABAD: Independent MLA from Vadgam and Dalit activist Jignesh Mevani, members of whose organization outfit members exposed the dummy job card scam in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, hinted that he would soon expose one of the officers probing the alleged irregularities. Mevani said no officers either from the Banaskantha district administration or police made any sincere efforts to expose the scam, which is apparent as no arrests have been made. “There is no sense of urgency on the part of the police or the revenue department. They must be waiting for the orders from Kamalam. Most of the higher ups must be getting benefit from this scam,” said Mevani. He said that the scammers had stolen the share of the most vulnerable persons. “When economists from across the globe are hailing MGNREGA as a tool for survival during this slowdown, administrators from Banaskantha district are hand-in-glove with the accused of the MGNREGA scam,” he alleged. He said a delay in the investigation would discourage witnesses and cause evidence to be lost. Mevani’s aide from Balundra village, Kiran Parmar, said the accused are said to have made farm ponds, pucca roads and drainage lines for the village, which do not exist. “On one hand people, do not even know what the MGNREGA is and on how much they get paid working under it and on the other hand authorities claim to create basic infrastructure for them which they never got. Ultimately, they do not have any resources to live,” said Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-action-month-after-fir-was-filed-for-dummy-job-cards/articleshow/77879274.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Priest accused under POCSO||Ahmedabad: Amraiwadi police on Monday filed a complaint of sexual harassment against a priest who allegedly got nude pictures of a 16-year-old girl and send it to her uncle when she refused to meet him. In her statement, the girl, a Class XI student, said she met the accused on December 25 last year when her neighbour went to meet him. She said that the accused, identified as Gulabchand Pastor, asked her to meet him often and used to give her sermons. He had also come to her house and met her parents, asking them to attend daily prayers. She said the accused began talking to her over her father’s cellphone and around five months ago told her that he loved her. She alleged that he would make her to remove her clothes whenever he made video calls to her. “As he threatened me, I succumbed to his demand to disrobe in front of the camera during video calls. He took screenshots when I removed my clothes and used this to make me give in to his demands for nude video calls,” the girl told police. She said he had also begun stalking her and had threatened to kill her and her family members. Recently, the accused sent pictures of her to her uncle, who called her and asked how the accused got her nude pictures. She then told her family members about her ordeal and they approached police and filed complaint of sexual harassment along with charges under The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/priest-accused-under-pocso/articleshow/77879279.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Attack victims move NHRC||Hyderabad: The kin of a family which tested positive for Covid in Khammam district have approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) alleging they were attacked by villagers. The plaint has been assigned a diary number by NHRC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attack-victims-move-nhrc/articleshow/77879277.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan set to welcome birds in waterbodies||JAIPUR: To avert another Sambhar Lake-like tragedy, the government has started taking water samples and are carrying out autopsy of birds as domestic and migratory avian guests will start arriving soon after monsoon. The animal husbandry and the forest departments are trying their best to provide a safe and secure ecosystem to the winged guests. Last year, thousands of birds died due to an infectious disease that spread across the length and breadth of the salt lake. “So far, hundreds of pelicans have arrived and they are being digitally documented in Sambhar. Google mapping is being used to determine the area with their numbers almost on a daily basis. A vast area has been covered by the team,” said Naresh Sharma, DCF Territorial, Jaipur. The DCF office has reported deaths of two birds in lake area in May. The dead birds were migratory which appear to have stayed back due to their tender age. Their bodies were treated with revised protocol set after the Sambhar Lake tragedy. Similar efforts are being made by departments in other waterbodies across the state. Every bird found dead is being reported to either regional animal treatment hospital or central hospital in Jaipur. So far nothing has been found. The Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board is assisting in analysing water samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-set-to-welcome-birds-in-waterbodies/articleshow/77880249.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||121 Covid positive, one dies in Vadodara||Vadodara: With 121 testing positive for Covid-19 in the city and district since Tuesday evening, the total number of cases went up to 8,185. As many as 2,379 samples were tested in the city and district during the period. Within the limits of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the highest number of positive cases were found in the south zone where 30 persons tested positive. This was followed by the east zone where 20 new cases were detected. In the west zone, 18 new cases came to light and the north zone reported 17. The new cases in the city were reported from the Bapod,, Panigate, Ramdevnagar, Ajwa Road, Waghodiya Road, Warasiya, Fatehpura, Sama, Karelibaug, Chhani, Danteshwar, Wadi, Soma Talav, Maneja, Makarpura, Tarsali, Manjalpur, Vadsar, Akota, Atladara, Vasna Road, Gorwa, Gotri, Tandalja and Subhanpura. The areas of the district outside VMC limits threw up 36 new cases. These included cases from Dabhoi, Desar, Savli, Sevasi, Padra, Waghodiya, Karjan, Bil and Bhayli. After death audits, VMC on Tuesday confirmed one death due to Covid-19. With this the total number of deaths due to the viral infection went up to 143. The number of discharged Covid-19 cases surpassed the number of positive cases detected on the day. As many as 144 patients were discharged on Tuesday from home quarantine or from hospitals. This left 1,587 persons from the city and district hospitalised. Fifty-six patients were breathing with the help of BiPAP machines or ventilators. As many as 153 others were on oxygen support even as he condition of 1,378 was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/121-covid-positive-one-dies-in-vadodara/articleshow/77878410.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ajmer||‘Fall army’ insect infests crops in Ajmer, Bhilwara||AJMER: After the locust attacks on crops in Rajasthan, a new insect Spodiptera furguperda, also known as ‘fall army’, has been reported for the first time in corn crops of Jawaja block in Ajmer district. The state agriculture department confirmed the presence of the new crop insect and said the pest was noticed in some places of Bhilwara district too. Agriculture department has appealed to the farmers to kill the new insect with the help and advice of specialists. The department is concerned because the insect can fly in a group for hundreds of kilometres in a day and can be dangerous for crops. Their reproduction rate is huge, though their life cycle is short. With regular rains in the district and surrounding regions, farmers are expecting a good crop produce. Corn is one of the important crops of kharif. “I have five and a half hectare of land and I have sown corn this time which has now grown, but some insects have been reported that can destroy my crop. They are in a large number,” said a farmer from Jawaja, Sagma Meghwanshi. Deputy director of agriculture department VK Sharma said that because of humidity, outbreak of insects in crops is increasing, “There are reports that in Todgarh region of Jawaja block, a new insect ‘fall army’, also known as Spodiptera furguperda, has been found,” said Sharma. He added that the insect moves in an ‘army’ and it is a matter of worry because their group moves hundreds of kilometres in a day. The attack by the pest was also seen in nearby Bhilwara district. The insect destroys a wide variety of crops. It can be identified in the third stage of membrane and there is an upside down Y symbol on it. It eats leaves and leaves a white mark behind. Later, they enter into the flowers of corn and make holes inside them. They eat up the corn and leave crack marks on leaves. The agriculture department has released pesticides to kill the pests and save crops from them, and has asked farmers to consult specialists of the department for the purpose. It may be noted that the state had recently faced the menace of locusts in different parts of the state, particularly in border districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/fall-army-insect-infests-crops-in-ajmer-bhilwara/articleshow/77880247.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 349 cr sanctioned for medical corpn||Hyderabad: The state health department sanctioned over Rs 349 crore to Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) for procurement and supply of drugs, consumables and other logistics to fight Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-349-cr-sanctioned-for-medical-corpn/articleshow/77879289.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Ajay Maken’s feedback meetings with Congress leaders called off||JAIPUR: The meetings of AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken with the Congress leaders of Jaipur and Ajmer divisions were postponed due to the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee. Maken, who arrived in Jaipur on Sunday, had held a meeting with ministers and former PCC presidents on Monday. He was scheduled to meet the leaders of Jaipur on Tuesday and Ajmer division on Wednesday to take feedback on various issues but the meetings were postponed following which he returned to Delhi. Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted that the programmes have been postponed. “Divisional wise feedback programme has been postponed due to the seven-day state mourning announced on the death of former President Mukherjee. Now, Jaipur and Ajmer division meeting will be held on September 8 and 9 respectively,” Dotasra tweeted. Party sources informed that Maken would come back next week and hold the meetings. Before leaving for Delhi, the senior Congress leader met Dotasra, women and child development minister Mamta Bhupesh, MLA Rafiq Khan and others. Since political appointments in the Congress ruled state are pending, some of the leaders also gave Maken their bio-data. Similarly, those aspiring for posts in the party organisation also gave their bio-data to Maken. The state government had also declared a holiday for its offices on Tuesday as a mark of respect to Mukherjee. The Rajasthan BJP also postponed the proposed protest against the Congress government till September 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/makens-feedback-meetings-with-cong-leaders-called-off/articleshow/77880257.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB refuses consent, firm stops garbage processing||tnnLudhiana: As the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has refused to give consent to operate to A2Z waste management company for running the refused derived fuel (RDF) plant at Jamalpur garbage dump, the firm has stopped operating the plant fearing action against them.In the wake of the poor working of the firm, a National Green Tribunal committee had asked the civic body to take action against it. But now with the firm not running the plant, garbage will keep piling up at the dump site. The municipal corporation officials are now trying to sort out the matter by taking it up with the PPCB. Vishant Chaudhary from A2Z waste management company said, “We had applied for the consent to operate after upgrading the plant. Earlier, we were running the plant as our application was in process, but now they have refused to give us the NOC. We have, therefore, stopped the functioning of the plant at the dump. If we run the plant, the PPCB can register an FIR against us. We have apprised the civic officials of the matter.” An MC official on anonymity said, “MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal is taking up the matter with officials concerned and soon the problem will be solved. PPCB is trying to create unnecessary pressure on the civic body, as on one hand, it says the company is not working and on the other, it has refused the firm NOC. It is not possible for the civic body to take over garbage lifting or processing at the dump site. There should be a solution to this issue.”PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said, “The company was not following the directions and there were violations. There are certain shortcomings in the plant. Due to it, we have denied the consent. The company should fix the problems and apply again for consent. If we find everything intact, permission will be granted. It is high time now, more violations cannot be tolerated.”Piling of garbage at Jamalpur dump After the closure of this plant, garbage lifting will be done from the secondary garbage collection dumps and waste will keep on piling at the main dump. Already the civic body has a tough task ahead of treating 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste lying at dump. If current garbage will not be managed, there will be more legacy waste there. PPCB and MC again at loggerheads Once again, the PPCB and MC are at loggerheads over the issue. Earlier the PPCB had filed a court case against MC over non-functional sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Jamalpur and other issues. Though the case was taken back after the intervention of CM Captain Amarinder Singh, it tarnished the image of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-refuses-consent-firm-stops-garbage-processing/articleshow/77877305.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 takes away 15 lives in dist, 214 test +ve||Times News Network Ludhiana: Fifteen Ludhiana residents died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, when 224 positive cases were reported, of which 214 were from the district. Chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said besides 15 from Ludhiana, one person each from Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga and Faridkot also died here.With this, the total number of deaths in Ludhiana district has reached 426 and 101 outsiders have succumbed here so far. Those of the district who died at various hospitals here included an 81-year-old man from Prabhat Nagar of Dholewal with hypertension and heart disease, a 57-year-old woman of Phase-2 Urban Estate, Dugri, with hypertension, a 58-year-old man from Ram Nagar of Jagraon who had diabetes, a 68-year-old man from Guru Gian Vihar, Dugri, with hypertension, a 72-year-old man from Basant Nagar with diabetes, a 68-year-old woman from Preet Nagar of New Shivpuri with diabetes and hypertension, a 37-year-old man from Punjab Mata Nagar of Pakhowal Road with myocarditis, a 68-year-old man from Gandhi Nagar, a 67-year-old woman from Udham Singh Nagar, a 48-year-old man from Green Estate, Khanna, with liver disease and a 42-year-old man from Ramgarh Sardara of Payal. Those who died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, included a 70-year-old woman of Jaini Colony, Rahon Road, with anaemia and hypertension, a 51-year-old man from Seeta Nagar of Jwala Singh Chowk and a 68-year-old man from Pratap Singh Wala in Hambran with diabetes. A 63-year-old man from Malaud died in civil hospital, Ludhiana. Dr Bagga said on the day, 224 positive reports were received, of which 214 were of Ludhiana residents. The district cases included 83 from the flu corner, 28 were contacts of positive patients, 44 cases were reported from ODP, five were health workers and two government officials. The health official said on Tuesday, 707 samples were sent for testing. In Ludhiana, 8,261 people have recovered so far, which is 79.15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-takes-away-15-lives-in-dist-214-test-ve/articleshow/77877296.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Activists stir against cutting of trees for Kota housing project||KOTA: Environmentalists here on Tuesday protested against the cutting of large number of trees by the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) for developing housing project. The merciless act of cutting trees, some of them dates back to 200 years, came to the light on Monday when a local resident Dr K G Dayama from his rooftop near closed Instrumental Limited factory spotted the trees being cut down. He informed the matter to environmentalist Brijesh Vijay. On Monday, Vijay conveyed the matter to Kota district collector. Vijay said, a large number of trees were cut for housing the project. When I brought the matter to the notice of district collector, who is the chairman of UIT, he instead of taking prompt action, asked me to speak to UIT secretary, Vijay said. The 84-year-old Dr. Dayama claimed that even the Russian engineers, who erected the IL factory several decades ago, spared the trees on the ground and carried out their planned developmental works. Besides a verity of species of birds, a large number of peacocks dwell in the trees. A large number of environmentalists including J D Patel of Gyatri Parivar, Jaitraj Yadav of Go Seva Sangh, ex-councillor S N Shrivastav, Brijesh Vijay on Tuesday morning assembled in closed IL factory ground and raised protest against the cutting down of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/activists-stir-against-cutting-of-trees-for-kota-housing-project/articleshow/77880260.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Houses of RSS workers marked with red ‘cross’||Kozhikode: ‘Cross’ marks have appeared on the walls of houses belonging to RSS leaders and workers at Kathirur areas in Kannur district on the sixth anniversary of the murder of RSS leader Kathirur Manoj. RSS vibhag sahkaryavahak V Sasidharan said the markings were found on eight houses on Monday morning. “All of them looked similar and were red in colour. One such mark appeared on the walls of my ancestral house too,” he said. The RSS leadership alleged that it was the handiwork of CPM. “The houses are situated within the limits of two CPM local committees and are spread over five kilometres. It is not an isolated incident. Such a thing would not have happened without the knowledge of CPM leaders,” Sasidharan said. He said the development was part of a conspiracy to create tension in Thalassery area with the intention of diverting attention from present controversies. “Another aim would be intimidating the witnesses in Manoj murder case,” said Sasidharan, who is the prime witness in the case. Police, however, said they have not yet received any complaint in this regard. "We have come across two such incidents under Kathirur police station limits," said a police officer. CBI, which investigated the case, had named CPM leader P Jayarajan as one of the accused in the supplementary chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/houses-of-rss-workers-marked-with-red-cross/articleshow/77879325.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||PAU Kisan Mela goes virtual||tnnLudhiana: In view of the pandemic restrictions, the Punjab Agricultural University has decided to go ahead with its September Kisan Mela by projecting it on its YouTube channel and other social media handles.PAU additional director of communication, Ludhiana, SK Thind said the details can be accessed on the social media links – Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pauldhpunjab/; Twitter: https://twitter.com/PAU_LDH; YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa3bxtjJAu3jUnUvV1BxhXQ||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-kisan-mela-goes-virtual/articleshow/77877308.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Mysuru||Man saves life by donating defibrillator||Mysuru: A patient has helped save another patient’s life by donating a life-saving device. The incident took place in Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Mysuru. According to the hospital authorities, patient Thippanna donated his automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD), a life-saving device that helps in correcting abnormal heart rhythm, and saved the life of 65-year-old Hanume Gowda. Gowda, who hails from Arasikere taluk, was referred to Dr Rajendra with a life threatening heart rhythm with an underlying poorly contracting heart. The situation called for an emergency treatment (defibrillation) which was done successfully, and after detailed evaluation, he was suggested to undergo an AICD implantation. As the patient was poor and not in a position to afford the device and the treatment is not considered for coverage under any of the schemes, the hospital authorities decided to find an alternative solution. The doctor approached 65-year-old G L Thippanna, who had recently upgraded his AICD to an advanced version of the device at the hospital. As his earlier AICD was in good condition, doctors requested to donate his earlier AICD to Gowda, which Thippanna agreed to without any hesitation. Senior cardiologist Dr N S Rajend said, “Access to high-end devices remains a critical problem in developing countries like India. Reuse of medical devices which would otherwise go waste, with adequate precautions is one of the best options to address the issue,” he said. Hanume Gowda said, “My family and I are eternally grateful to Thippanna for giving me a new lease of life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-saves-life-by-donating-defibrillator/articleshow/77878393.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No public dealing at Jodhewal police station till September 6||Ludhiana: Jodhewal police station has been closed for public dealing till September 6, after its additional SHO contracted Covid-19 and about 15 police personnel are running fever. Except the additional SHO, Covid-19 report of all other cops is negative. The police station was closed on Sunday following the orders of commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal. Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “Additional SHO Amritpal Singh has tested positive. Besides, about 14 cops, including my driver and gunman, have fever, though their Covid-19 report is negative. Therefore, as a precautionary measures, the CP has asked to keep the police station shut for at least a week. Moreover, ACP (north) Gurwinder Singh is also unwell and on leave.” About complaints and public dealing, Grewal said, “Residents can approach nearby Daresi police station to file complaints. Besides, a duty officer and a munshi are still at the police station and on call duty. They are available if there is a call from the control room and they have to reach a spot. The rest of the cops are working from home, investigating previous cases.” Earlier, the office of commissioner of police was closed twice for three days. Focal Point, Moti Nagar, Daba, divisions 8 and 3 police stations were also closed for public dealing in the past after their cops contracted the virus. Agarwal has started an online public dealing for complainants. On Monday, too, he met people virtually and listened to their complaints. The meeting is held for one-and-a-half hour twice or thrice a week and its link is shared on the official Facebook account of Ludhiana Police. Residents can also send their complaints on cp.ludhiana.police@punjab.gov.in . After receiving online complaints of snatching and vehicle thefts, police lodge FIR directly without an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-public-dealing-at-jodhewal-police-station-till-september-6/articleshow/77877318.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Athletes can cheer as 15 training centres to open||Ludhiana: There is some good news for city sportspersons. After getting directions from sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, the district sports department officials have decided to resume operations at all the 15 local training centres. However, sports activities involving physical contact will not be resumed and the focus will primarily be on physical training of athletes.The minister also asked the local coaches to send demand for sports equipment so that young players could improve their physical fitness and make up for the time lost during the Covid-19 restrictions.The minister was in the city to give cash reward to the mother of star boxer, Simranjeet Kaur, who qualified for Olympics after performing her best in selection trials. The mother of the boxer from Chakkar village, Rajpal Kaur, collected Rs 5 lakh from the state sports ministry here on Tuesday. During his visit, the minister took stock of arrangements at the district sports department and gave directions to the local coaches to work for promoting sports activities.The decision to open all sports centres for training has enthused the athletes and coaches. Earlier, the district sports department was planning to resume operations at only three to four centres here.District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “We are making all necessary arrangements for the 15 centres. But coaches will not resume sports activities involving physical contact.”A local judo coach, Parveen Thakur, said, “We have made available sanitisers and masks as players will require them after finishing their morning workouts. We are happy over the restart of physical training to improve their fitness for upcoming national as well as international tournaments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/athletes-can-cheer-as-15-training-centres-to-open/articleshow/77877314.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: 3 women held for murdering mother-in-law||JODHPUR: Police arrested three women for strangulating their mother-in-law and staging the incident as suicide in Harlaya village under Matoda police station of Osian sub-division in Jodhpur. The incident came to light a day after the murder when one of the sons of the victim, living in a neighbourhood, saw her hanging. Expressing their suspicion on the incident, the victim’s parents filed a complaint with the police, after which, they sent the body for post-mortem by a medical board, which confirmed death by strangulation. The accused have been identified as Premi, Oma and Pintu who are sisters. While Premi and Pintu are real sisters, Omi is a cousin of the two. According to SHO (Matoda) Nemara, information was received on August 29 that a woman identified as Kamla Devi (62) had committed suicide by hanging in her house. “When we reached the spot, we found her hanging and took down her body from the ceiling. During investigation, her parents’ expressed suspicion over the incident. So, we got the post-mortem done by a medical board and the report stated that she had been strangulated,” said the officer. The needle of suspicion pointed to her three daughters-in-law, who used to live with her alone, while their husbands were out for masonry work. “When we grilled them, they admitted to have killed her on August 28 and hanged her to give the incident look like a suicide,” Nemaram said adding that the spot inspection had also indicated the incident to be suspicious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/3-women-held-for-murdering-mother-in-law/articleshow/77880259.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB refuses consent, firm stops garbage processing||tnnLudhiana: As the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has refused to give consent to operate to A2Z waste management company for running the refused derived fuel (RDF) plant at Jamalpur garbage dump, the firm has stopped operating the plant fearing action against them.In the wake of the poor working of the firm, a National Green Tribunal committee had asked the civic body to take action against it. But now with the firm not running the plant, garbage will keep piling up at the dump site. The municipal corporation officials are now trying to sort out the matter by taking it up with the PPCB. Vishant Chaudhary from A2Z waste management company said, “We had applied for the consent to operate after upgrading the plant. Earlier, we were running the plant as our application was in process, but now they have refused to give us the NOC. We have, therefore, stopped the functioning of the plant at the dump. If we run the plant, the PPCB can register an FIR against us. We have apprised the civic officials of the matter.” An MC official on anonymity said, “MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal is taking up the matter with officials concerned and soon the problem will be solved. PPCB is trying to create unnecessary pressure on the civic body, as on one hand, it says the company is not working and on the other, it has refused the firm NOC. It is not possible for the civic body to take over garbage lifting or processing at the dump site. There should be a solution to this issue.”PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said, “The company was not following the directions and there were violations. There are certain shortcomings in the plant. Due to it, we have denied the consent. The company should fix the problems and apply again for consent. If we find everything intact, permission will be granted. It is high time now, more violations cannot be tolerated.”Piling of garbage at Jamalpur dump After the closure of this plant, garbage lifting will be done from the secondary garbage collection dumps and waste will keep on piling at the main dump. Already the civic body has a tough task ahead of treating 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste lying at dump. If current garbage will not be managed, there will be more legacy waste there. PPCB and MC again at loggerheads Once again, the PPCB and MC are at loggerheads over the issue. Earlier the PPCB had filed a court case against MC over non-functional sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Jamalpur and other issues. Though the case was taken back after the intervention of CM Captain Amarinder Singh, it tarnished the image of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-refuses-consent-firm-stops-garbage-processing/articleshow/77877323.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Return or face action: Jose to MLAs||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani said on Tuesday that those who won the elections under the party symbol should return or face action. Jose said there is only one KC (M) in state and it has been upheld by Election Commission of India (ECI). On Monday, ECI had given the party symbol, two leaves, to Jose K Mani faction and recognized it as the official KC (M) party. He also warned that the official whip of the party is Roshy Augustine and those who violated his whip in the assembly will face action. It is learnt that Jose has decided to approach the speaker seeking disqualification of PJ Joseph and other MLAs who voted for UDF in the no-confidence motion and also the Rajya Sabha election. “A few leaders left the party due to some misunderstandings. They should come back, the doors of the party are always open. Everyone can return. There were severe criticisms and personal attacks against me and even my father. The ultimate victory is here and it is the victory of my father,” he said. On continuing in the UDF, he said UDF had already expelled KC (M) and hence the party doesn’t belong to any front. The party has an independent stand now. It will have a clear political stand before the local body elections, he added. Meanwhile, Kerala Congress (M) Joseph faction leader P J Joseph said that the party will deal with the issue politically and legally. “An appeal will be filed in the Delhi high court soon,” said Joseph. The UDF leaders have now softened their stand towards Jose after ECI decision. “We haven’t expelled KC (M) from the front. We have only decided not to invite them to UDF meetings since they had disobeyed the front’s decisions in Kottayam panchayat president election and the no-confidence motion in assembly,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/return-or-face-action-jose-to-mlas/articleshow/77879333.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Four masked men attack office worker||TNNLudhiana: Four unidentified assailants attacked a worker with sharp and blunt weapons at the office of Western Union, Samrala Chowk, on Tuesday evening. The worker alleged that the accused escaped with his gold chain and some cash. According to initial investigation, it seems to be a case of personal enmity and the loot angle is being probed. ADCP-4 Kuldeep Sharma said around 5pm, four masked assailants barged into the office and attacked Shakti Kumar and escaped. So far, the loot angle has not been ascertained. The worker has been admitted to a hospital and probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-masked-men-attack-office-worker/articleshow/77877325.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Udaipur||‘Shramdan’ begins to uproot invasive grass from Sajjangarh sanctuary in Udaipur district||UDAIPUR: Volunteers, policemen and personnel from different government departments toiled for hours on Tuesday in a ‘shramdan’ session to uproot Lantana Camara, one of the most invasive plants, that has taken over almost 50 per cent of Sajjangarh sanctuary. Udaipur range IG Binita Thakur initiated the ‘shramdan’ to clear the grass and impressed with her efforts, Bollywood actor Rahul Singh associated himself in the campaign and appealed to people to come ahead and participate in the movement to remove the vicious grass from the forests. A recent study from the WildLife Institute of India, Dehradun, claimed Lantana is probably the most widely distributed invasive plant in India. Across the globe, the grass is said to have invaded over 11 million square kilometres of area. The grass, which is said to have arrived in Indian in the early 19th century from Central America, aids forest fires, hinders native species for local fauna causing health hazards which in turn proves harmful for the entire ecosystem, the study pointed out. Speaking about the campaign, Thakur said she has been a regular visitor at Sajjangarh sanctuary and for past few months she observed behavioural change among deer. “The herds appear uncomfortable in their natural habitat due to the obnoxious grass boom. I discussed it with the wildlife experts who informed me that the invasive plant is spreading rapidly in the sanctuary. To control the spread and liberate the forestland from the noxious grass, we began the campaign a month ago,” the officer told TOI. Some 40 to 50 cops, forest officials and volunteers have been daily working for 1.5 hours daily. They have been using a special equipment ‘monkey jack’ to uproot the grass so that it doesn’t grow again. Additional SP Swati Sharma said the volunteers are filled with energy by the resonance of Hanuman Chalisa chanting from a nearby temple every morning and with collaborative efforts, quite a large area has been freed from the grass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/shramdan-begins-to-uproot-invasive-grass-from-sajjangarh-sanctuary-in-udaipur-dist/articleshow/77880262.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Veggie prices soar as local produce dries up||JAIPUR: With the locally harvested produce exhausted, the prices of vegetables have increased from the last week of August. Wholesale traders of Muhana Mandi said that spike in veggie prices will continue in the month of September as Rajasthan is now dependent on states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Gujarat. In June and July, people were getting fairly cheaper vegetables since Muhana Mandi was getting ample supply from the local farms of Chomu, Tonk, Kota and Sawai Madhopur. However, with the crunch in supply and vanishing of the locally harvested vegetables, the prices have surged. Coriander which is usually seen as a freebie with other vegetables is now being sold at Rs 250 to Rs 300 per kg to the retail customer. In July, it was sold at Rs 60-Rs 80 per kg. “Coriander can’t be given for free as we are getting it at Rs 225 to Rs 250 per kg in wholesale,” said Zunaid Qureshi, a retail dealer of vegetables at Hasanpura vegetable market on Tuesday. The supplies from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh to Muhana Mandi are also down by 30%. “Hopefully, by the second week of October the prices may dip,” said Kishan Lal Saini, a wholesale dealer. “There has been around 20-40% rise in wholesale prices of most of the vegetables due to supply crunch,” said Saini. Bottle gourd which was sold at Rs 20 to Rs 30 in June and July is now being sold at Rs 55 to Rs 60 per kg. Likewise, ginger which was sold at Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg is now being sold at Rs 120 to Rs 140 per kilogram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-soar-as-local-produce-dries-up/articleshow/77880291.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Mysuru||Entrance to IITs held smoothly||Mysuru/Dharwad: The JEE Main was held in three cities of the Old Mysuru region. To ensure that students need not travel for long distances to attend the examination and to minimise exposure to the novel coronavirus, three examination centers were opened in Mysuru, Mandya and Shivamogga. In Mysuru, the examination is being conducted in an institute in Metagalli. On day 1, the examination was held without any glitches. The students informed that the examination was conducted in a very systematic way, with all the necessary precautions being taken. Most of the candidates preferred to come to the institute in their own vehicles. According to the students, the question paper was a little difficult. A college principal informed that students were not tense about the examination, as they had appeared for the CET earlier. In Mandya, the examination was held smoothly. The exam was held at two centres in Hubballi and it went off smoothly. The exam was held at the Institute of Business Management and Research (IBMR) and the Global Business School (GBS). The first session was held from 9am to 12 noon while the second was held from 3pm to 6pm. The examination will be held till September 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/entrance-to-iits-held-smoothly/articleshow/77877329.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: One more RJD MLA joins JD(U) ahead of polls||PATNA: Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the main opposition party in the state, received another setback on Tuesday as its Teghra MLA Birendra Kumar joined the ruling JD(U) ahead of the assembly elections in the state. Birendra is the 12th legislator of the RJD to join JD(U) in the last two-and-a-half months. The Teghra MLA joined the JD(U) in presence of Munger MP and JD(U) leader in the Lok Sabha Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh. Birendra is the son of former advocate general Ram Balak Mahto. Sources in the RJD said Mahto was so close to the RJD chief Lalu Prasad that he continued to remain the state government’s advocate general for many years during the tenure of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi. Mahto had played a key role in securing the RJD’s symbol for his son during the 2015 assembly polls when the RJD and JD(U) were part of the Grand Alliance along with the Congress, a senior RJD functionary said. An engineering graduate from the Patna-based erstwhile Bihar College of Engineering (now NIT-Patna), Birendra was close to Nitish Kumar since his student days. Nitish had also completed his engineering course from the same college. “Birendra got the RJD’s ticket in 2015 elections because of Lalu Prasad’s blessing,” a senior RJD functionary, who didn’t want to be identified, told TOI on Tuesday. Welcoming the Teghra MLA in the JD(U) camp, Lalan said, “The RJD has now been converted into a party of a particular family where there is no respect for workers.” After joining the JD(U), Birendra said Nitish is just like his elder brother. “The state has witnessed overall progress under the leadership of Nitish. Backward and downtrodden people from all communities have been provided relief and justice by the Nitish government. There is no alternative to the leadership of Nitish in the state these days,” the Teghra MLA said. Earlier on August 20, three RJD MLAs – Chandrika Rai, Jai Vardhan Yadav and Faraz Fatmi – had joined the JD(U). Chandrika, son of former CM Daroga Prasad Rai, is also ‘samdhi’ of the RJD chief. Similarly, on August 17, three other RJD MLAs – Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Choudhary and Ashok Kumar – had joined the JD(U). Earlier, five RJD MLCs had joined the JD(U) on June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-rjd-mla-joins-jdu-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/77879324.cms||Madan Kumar
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||2nd relative of Raina dies of assault injuries||Pathankot: Kaushal Kumar (32), cousin of former Indian cricketer Suresh Raina, breathed his last in a private hospital here on Monday night, hours after which the left-handed batsman appealed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to nab those behind the attack. The condition of Kumar’s mother, Asha Devi (55), continued to be critical. They were admitted to the hospital on August 20. Sujanpur assembly constituency MLA Dinesh Singh said Kaushal succumbed to injuries on Monday night. A ‘kala kachcha’ gang had struck at the house of Raina’s uncle Ashok Kumar (58) in Thariyal village near Madhopur on the intervening night of August 19 and 20. Ashok died in the attack, while his sons Kaushal and Apin Kumar, wife Asha and mother Satya Devi (80) had sustained injuries. Devi and Apin were discharged from hospital after treatment. The ‘kala kachcha’ gang is still out of police reach. Raina tweeted: “What happened to my family in Punjab was beyond horrible. My uncle was slaughtered to death, my bua & both my cousins had severe injuries. Unfortunately, my cousin also passed away last night after battling for life for days. My bua is still very very critical & is on life support.” In yet another tweet, Raina appealed to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and police to look into the matter and nab the culprits. He tweeted: “Till date, we don’t know what exactly had happened that night & who did this. I request @PunjabPoliceInd to look into this matter. We at least deserve to know who did this heinous act to them. Those criminals should not be spared to commit more crimes. @capt_amarinder @CMOPb.” Sujanpur MLA said he had spoken to Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who had promised to send Rs 2 lakh to the aggrieved family for medical treatment. He said he was personally monitoring development in the case and was in touch with police with respect to any progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2nd-relative-of-raina-dies-of-assault-injuries/articleshow/77878430.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||3 armed goons rob 75-yr-old store employee outside bank||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Three armed goons robbed an elderly employee of a store of Rs 2.80 lakh outside a bank on Gill Road around 11.30am on Tuesday.Kuljit Singh, 75, a resident of Jamalpur Colony, works at a bearing and oil store in Dholewal.Kuljit said in his police complaint, “I had gone to IndusInd Bank’s Miller Ganj branch on Gill Road for depositing cash in the account of the company. When I was about to enter the bank, two men pushed me and snatched my bag containing Rs 2.80 lakh.”Kuljit fell on the stairs and raised the alarm. The bank’s security guard, Baghel Singh, ran behind the accused. Baghel said, “When I tried to catch hold of the accused, one of them brandished a pistol. Their accomplice was waiting for them on a motorcycle. The trio fled towards Vishwakarma Chowk. All the accused were masked.” Kuljit then called up his employer and the police were informed.Kuljit’s employer said, “Kuljit has been working at the store for decades. He handles the work of depositing and withdrawing cash from the bank. He would visit the bank after a month or two.” CCTVs installed at the bank have captured the incident.Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “It is suspected that the accused followed the elderly man from the store to the bank and knew that he was carrying cash. As Kuljit would visit the bank after a month or two, involvement of a known person cannot be ruled out. Footage of CCTVs installed in the locality are being scrutinized to trace the miscreants.” A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-armed-goons-rob-75-yr-old-store-employee-outside-bank/articleshow/77877330.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hubballi||Bizman face the heat as QR code scams rise in twin cities||Hubballi: Cyber tricksters are taking undue advantage of the helplessness of people who have lost their jobs and business due to Covid-19 pandemic. Businessmen who have lost business are falling prey to the tricks by cheaters. After offering them business, the tricksters, in the guise of making advancement payment, send QR codes and ask them scan the same. The tricksters usually claim themselves to be army officers — apparently to project themselves as legit callers — to trap the target. Last month, a medical shop owner in Dharwad was cheated in one such incident. The owner received a call from an unknown number, wherein the caller (posing as an army officer), said that he would need masks and sanitisers. He also informed the pharmacist that he will send a QR code on a messenger app so the latter can scan the code and submit the request after entering the UPI password. Within minutes of him doing the same, he lost Rs 45,000 from his bank account. Though the owner dialled the number, the phone remained switched off. In another similar case registered on July 29, Sanjay Bohara (name changed), a resident of Keshwapur, lost Rs 2 lakh from his bank’s savings account and that of his mother. The con man dialled Sanjay and said that he was purchasing a compressor from his father’s shop. To enable him to make the payment, the caller asked Sanjay to scan the QR code that he had sent. He obliged that many times, each time losing money from his and his mother’s accounts. He has registered a case with cyberpolice in this regard. S I Inchal (name changed), a teacher who has lost job in the pandemic, received a call from unknown number, and enquired about the job he was searching on a website. Luring Inchal with a job offer, the caller asked him to send his details along with his resume by logging in to a website. The website opened a page, wherein he was asked to his debit card details, complete with the 16-digit number and CVV number. By the time he finished filling in the details, Inchal had lost Rs 19,998. DCP (crime) R B Basaragi said that the police department is creating awareness on the latest ways of cybercrime. “People should be careful while making online and digital payments to people, especially if the transactions are happening with those unknown to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bizman-face-the-heat-as-qr-code-scams-rise-in-twin-cities/articleshow/77878434.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Siblings denied bail in cyber fraud case||Vadodara: Two brothers living in Waghodiya taluka, accused of cyber fraud, to the tune of Rs 1.1 lakh were denied bail by a sessions court on Tuesday. The two siblings – Jeet Raghuvanshi and Jayraj Raghuvanshi – along with their accomplice Jay Parekh had cheated Ramesh Solanki, who lives near Ajwa lake in Waghodiya taluka by offering him a loan in February. However, instead of giving him a loan, the accused used Solanki’s documents to purchase nine pairs of ear pods through an online shopping website. They fraudulently took one-time-password from Solanki to process the transaction for the purchase. Solanki learnt about the fraud when the bank started debiting Rs 3,000 from his account as instalment and he gave a complaint to the Cyber Crime police station of Vadodara range. Jeet and Jayraj were arrested on August 11 and later they applied for bail pleading innocence in the case. The court of additional sessions judge A J Kanani, however, turned down their arguments to deny bail. The court also observed: “Taking such offence very lightly and neglecting the modus-operandi of such applicant (Jeet and Jayraj) and enlarging such persons on bail is nothing but the injustice to the honest and hard-working people of the society as well as to the economy of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/siblings-denied-bail-in-cyber-fraud-case/articleshow/77878436.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thachankary promoted as DGP||Thiruvananthapuram: Government promoted Tomin J Thachankary as DGP to fill the vacancy created after the retirement of N Shanker Reddy on Monday. Thachankary, an officer from the 1987 IPS batch, is currently the director of crime branch and will be in service till July 31, 2023. His new posting will be issued by the government later though he is likely to continue in the present post. The government has also given the rank of DGP to Arun Kumar Sinha, on a pro-forma basis. Sinha is on central deputation as the director of the special protection group. The state has two cadre posts for DGP and two ex-cadre posts, which would mean that there can be four approved posts of DGP-ranking officers. At present, Loknath Behera, Rishi Raj Singh, R Sreelekha and Tomin J Thachankary are the four officers with the rank of DGP in Kerala. While Behera, who will serve till June 30, 2021, is the state police chief, Singh – whose tenure ends on July 31, 2021, is the director general of prisons and correctional services. R Sreelekha, who will retire in December 2020, is the commandant general of fire and rescue services. Thachankary has served in various capacities including as SP in Kozhikode, Kannur, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam and Palakkad districts, IG (Kannur), ADGP (headquarters), transport commissioner, fire force chief, KSRTC MD and as heads of various PSUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thachankary-promoted-as-dgp/articleshow/77879364.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT to probe attack on cricketer Raina’s kin||Chandigarh: Punjab DGP has set up a special investigation team (SIT), headed by inspector general of police (border range) S P S Parmar, to investigate the attack on cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives on August 19 in village Tharyal of Pathankot district. The SIT has been constituted on the directions of chief minister Amrinder Singh. Raina’s uncle Ashok Kumar had died on the spot while Kumar’s son Kaushal succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Three other family members were injured, including Ashok Kumar’s wife Asha Rani, who is reported to be in critical condition. The police had registered an FIR on August 20 at police station Shahpur Kandi in Pathankot. The DGP said that initial investigations suggested that the attack had the involvement of criminals belonging to a de-notified criminal tribe who are often seen operational along the Punjab-Himachal border. But, the SIT has been mandated to examine all possible angles. He added that specialised teams from the organised crime control unit (OCCU) had also been roped in to carry out a round-the-clock probe into the case. The police chief said the inter-state raids were also being conducted to hunt out suspects involved in past crimes of similar nature and more than 35 suspects were under the scanner. The police have identified a few persons from Himachal and Uttar Pradesh as suspicious and their mobile numbers as well as whereabouts were being located. The police have also conducted raids in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar in coordination with local police. The police have interrogated six labourers who were working with the deceased Ashok Kumar and tower dumps of the crime scene and nearby locations have been taken and sent for technical analysis to track suspicious movements, said the DGP. Even the CCTVs of the area and the Army and BSF area had been checked for any suspicious movement. Gupta said that the probe so far also suggests the accused had planned to rob/trespass three other houses in the neighbourhood. The SIT would have SSP Pathankot Gulneet Singh Khurana, SP investigation Pathankot Prabhjot Singh Virk and DSP Dhar Kalan Ravinder Singh as members. ADGP law and order Ishwar Singh has been tasked with the day-to-day supervision of the investigations, while Parmar has been authorised to co-opt any other police officer(s) for expeditious probe into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-to-probe-attack-on-cricketer-rainas-kin/articleshow/77878437.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Zaidi withdraws bail plea from HC||Chandigarh: Senior IPS officer of Himachal Pradesh cadre, Zahur Haider Zaidi, who is an accused in the infamous Kotkhai custodial death case, withdrew his bail plea from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday. As the matter came up for hearing before the bench of Justice Arun Monga, the counsel appearing for Zaidi requested to withdraw his plea. On this, the HC ordered his petition to be “dismissed as withdrawn.” Earlier, the HC had refused to grant interim release to Zaidi on medical grounds in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic. However, his main plea to release him on bail was still pending, which he withdrew on Tuesday. He is at present lodged in Chandigarh’s Burail jail. The IGP-rank officer, Zaidi was first arrested on August 29, 2017 by the CBI only around a month after taking over the investigation of the case. He remained in custody for over 19 months and was released on April 6, 2019 by the apex court. However, on January 24 this year, his bail was cancelled by the special CBI court after a statement by a woman IPS officer accusing Zaidi for pressurising her to change her statement in relation to the case. He is already under suspension for his alleged involvement in custodial death of a suspect in Kotkhai rape and murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/zaidi-withdraws-bail-plea-from-hc/articleshow/77878444.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||NHAI projects in Himachal poorly maintained, says CM||Shimla: The average time taken from sanction to award of works for Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY)-II (2019-20) was 5.8 months in Himachal Pradesh, which was less than national average of 7.1 months for the last 5 years. HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday that it however needed to be reduced further. The CM also expressed concern over the lack of proper maintenance of various NHAI projects in Himachal Pradesh. He said the roads should be maintained properly and any laxity in this regard would be viewed seriously. Thakur said 219 projects had been sanctioned under NABARD since January 1, 2018, till date, worth totalling Rs 894 crore. Similarly, 28 road projects worth Rs 747 crore have been sanctioned under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund in the state. While chairing the review meeting of the HP public works department in Shimla on Monday evening, Thakur said eight road projects were being implemented by the NHAI, which were at different stage of completion. Four NHAI projects were yet to be awarded and were at DPR stage. He said modified ‘Beam Crash Barriers’ had been installed along 63-km-length of road and polymer modified bitumen had been used on 116-km-long stretches of the national highways. In the meeting, he expressed concern over delay in the process right from sanction to award of works. He said that the PMGSY-III envisaged upgradation of existing roads that connect rural agriculture markets, higher secondary schools and hospitals. Now, 3,125-km roads would be upgraded with 90% central funding. Zone-wise targets should be fixed and circle wise monthly reviews must be done to ensure time-bound completion of various road projects. Thakur said out of the total sanctioned length of 21,860 km under PMGSY, 16,771 km had been completed and 5,059 km were still pending. Out of total 3,226 panchayats in the state, 3,162 panchayats had been connected with motorable road. Work was in progress to connect 29 panchayats, and 15 panchayats had been connected with jeepable road. He said forming a joint committee, comprising sub-divisional magistrate, divisional forest officer, executive engineer and concerned pradhan, to explore possibilities to provide connectivity to the remaining panchayat headquarters. He said the Union government had accorded in-principle approval to 69 national highways having total length of 4,312 km for the state. Out of this, DPRs had been prepared for 63 of these, with a total length of 4,031 km. In addition, 2,262 roads had been sanctioned under the Mukhya Mantri Sadak Yojna during the past 2.5 years. Out of the 205 chief minister’s announcement, 128 have been disposed of and 77 were in progress, the meeting was told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nhai-projects-in-himachal-poorly-maintained-says-cm/articleshow/77878460.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jodhpur||9 doctors die, close to 1,200 Rajasthan healthcare staff Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: A total of nine doctors have died and 1,179 government healthcare workers infected by the corona virus since the first Covid-19 case was reported from the state in March. While the Indian Medical Association (IMA) claimed that six doctors practising in private hopsitals have succumbed to Covid in various parts of the state, government figures show that kin of only three government doctors have applied for the Rs 50-lakh compensation announced by the state government. ‘Don’t discriminate between docs while giving compensation’Similarly, though the government has not confirmed a single Covid death of government healthcare worker, they have received 18 applications for compensation from kin of deceased staff, so far. Among the infected healthcare staff are doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ward boys who have been involved in conducting surveys in affected areas, screening of vulnerable groups, sampling of suspected cases and treating Covid patients. Despite being aware about the risks involved, they have tirelessly performed their duty in the service of people. While the pandemic has affected normal life of people, it's the healthcare staff who have bore the brunt of the disease. The entire Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team, including additional director (rural health) Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, nodal officer Dr Praveen Aswal and now director (health) Dr K K Sharma, have tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment. At health directorate, more than 20 doctors were found infected with Covid recently. A cause of worry is that some healthcare workers have lost their lives too. Three doctors and two nursing staff are among those who tested positive and are said to have died due to the virus. “Eighteen persons have applied for Covid compensation. Among those, 13 are healthcare workers, three from education department and two from other departments. Among 13 healthcare workers, five who died had tested positive while the rest lost their lives while on duty due to accidents or other reasons,” said a health department official. The IMA has claimed that six doctors doing private practice have died due to the virus across the state. Among them are Dr S L Tolani (68) from Jaipur, Dr Suresh Modi (66) from Dungarpur, Dr Akbar Rangwala (65) from Kota, and doctor couple K K Vyas (73) and Kiran Vyas (71) from Phalna. Dr Modi and the doctor couple from Phalna were retired government doctors. “Private hospital doctors and others practising in private clinics are always at the risk of getting infected. Doctors in government or private sector are all showing courage and providing services for patients — Covid or non-Covid. The government should not discriminate between them while giving compensation or recognition,” said Dr M N Thareja, president (state), IMA. Covid has also not spared doctors and staff conducting tests at the microbiology laboratory of SMS Hospital. More than 50% of the staff were found infected with Covid in May and June. A security guard at SMS Hospital, who died while on duty in May, was later found infected with the virus. His family has applied for compensation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/9-docs-die-close-to-1-2kraj-healthcare-staff-ve/articleshow/77882022.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Udaipur||9 doctors die, close to 1,200 Rajasthan healthcare staff Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: A total of nine doctors have died and 1,179 government healthcare workers infected by the corona virus since the first Covid-19 case was reported from the state in March. While the Indian Medical Association (IMA) claimed that six doctors practising in private hopsitals have succumbed to Covid in various parts of the state, government figures show that kin of only three government doctors have applied for the Rs 50-lakh compensation announced by the state government. ‘Don’t discriminate between docs while giving compensation’Similarly, though the government has not confirmed a single Covid death of government healthcare worker, they have received 18 applications for compensation from kin of deceased staff, so far. Among the infected healthcare staff are doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ward boys who have been involved in conducting surveys in affected areas, screening of vulnerable groups, sampling of suspected cases and treating Covid patients. Despite being aware about the risks involved, they have tirelessly performed their duty in the service of people. While the pandemic has affected normal life of people, it's the healthcare staff who have bore the brunt of the disease. The entire Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team, including additional director (rural health) Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, nodal officer Dr Praveen Aswal and now director (health) Dr K K Sharma, have tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment. At health directorate, more than 20 doctors were found infected with Covid recently. A cause of worry is that some healthcare workers have lost their lives too. Three doctors and two nursing staff are among those who tested positive and are said to have died due to the virus. “Eighteen persons have applied for Covid compensation. Among those, 13 are healthcare workers, three from education department and two from other departments. Among 13 healthcare workers, five who died had tested positive while the rest lost their lives while on duty due to accidents or other reasons,” said a health department official. The IMA has claimed that six doctors doing private practice have died due to the virus across the state. Among them are Dr S L Tolani (68) from Jaipur, Dr Suresh Modi (66) from Dungarpur, Dr Akbar Rangwala (65) from Kota, and doctor couple K K Vyas (73) and Kiran Vyas (71) from Phalna. Dr Modi and the doctor couple from Phalna were retired government doctors. “Private hospital doctors and others practising in private clinics are always at the risk of getting infected. Doctors in government or private sector are all showing courage and providing services for patients — Covid or non-Covid. The government should not discriminate between them while giving compensation or recognition,” said Dr M N Thareja, president (state), IMA. Covid has also not spared doctors and staff conducting tests at the microbiology laboratory of SMS Hospital. More than 50% of the staff were found infected with Covid in May and June. A security guard at SMS Hospital, who died while on duty in May, was later found infected with the virus. His family has applied for compensation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/9-docs-die-close-to-1-2kraj-healthcare-staff-ve/articleshow/77882023.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Ajmer||9 doctors die, close to 1,200 Rajasthan healthcare staff Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: A total of nine doctors have died and 1,179 government healthcare workers infected by the corona virus since the first Covid-19 case was reported from the state in March. While the Indian Medical Association (IMA) claimed that six doctors practising in private hopsitals have succumbed to Covid in various parts of the state, government figures show that kin of only three government doctors have applied for the Rs 50-lakh compensation announced by the state government. ‘Don’t discriminate between docs while giving compensation’Similarly, though the government has not confirmed a single Covid death of government healthcare worker, they have received 18 applications for compensation from kin of deceased staff, so far. Among the infected healthcare staff are doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ward boys who have been involved in conducting surveys in affected areas, screening of vulnerable groups, sampling of suspected cases and treating Covid patients. Despite being aware about the risks involved, they have tirelessly performed their duty in the service of people. While the pandemic has affected normal life of people, it's the healthcare staff who have bore the brunt of the disease. The entire Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team, including additional director (rural health) Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, nodal officer Dr Praveen Aswal and now director (health) Dr K K Sharma, have tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment. At health directorate, more than 20 doctors were found infected with Covid recently. A cause of worry is that some healthcare workers have lost their lives too. Three doctors and two nursing staff are among those who tested positive and are said to have died due to the virus. “Eighteen persons have applied for Covid compensation. Among those, 13 are healthcare workers, three from education department and two from other departments. Among 13 healthcare workers, five who died had tested positive while the rest lost their lives while on duty due to accidents or other reasons,” said a health department official. The IMA has claimed that six doctors doing private practice have died due to the virus across the state. Among them are Dr S L Tolani (68) from Jaipur, Dr Suresh Modi (66) from Dungarpur, Dr Akbar Rangwala (65) from Kota, and doctor couple K K Vyas (73) and Kiran Vyas (71) from Phalna. Dr Modi and the doctor couple from Phalna were retired government doctors. “Private hospital doctors and others practising in private clinics are always at the risk of getting infected. Doctors in government or private sector are all showing courage and providing services for patients — Covid or non-Covid. The government should not discriminate between them while giving compensation or recognition,” said Dr M N Thareja, president (state), IMA. Covid has also not spared doctors and staff conducting tests at the microbiology laboratory of SMS Hospital. More than 50% of the staff were found infected with Covid in May and June. A security guard at SMS Hospital, who died while on duty in May, was later found infected with the virus. His family has applied for compensation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/9-docs-die-close-to-1-2kraj-healthcare-staff-ve/articleshow/77882024.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||9 doctors die, close to 1,200 Rajasthan healthcare staff Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: A total of nine doctors have died and 1,179 government healthcare workers infected by the corona virus since the first Covid-19 case was reported from the state in March. While the Indian Medical Association (IMA) claimed that six doctors practising in private hopsitals have succumbed to Covid in various parts of the state, government figures show that kin of only three government doctors have applied for the Rs 50-lakh compensation announced by the state government. ‘Don’t discriminate between docs while giving compensation’Similarly, though the government has not confirmed a single Covid death of government healthcare worker, they have received 18 applications for compensation from kin of deceased staff, so far. Among the infected healthcare staff are doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ward boys who have been involved in conducting surveys in affected areas, screening of vulnerable groups, sampling of suspected cases and treating Covid patients. Despite being aware about the risks involved, they have tirelessly performed their duty in the service of people. While the pandemic has affected normal life of people, it's the healthcare staff who have bore the brunt of the disease. The entire Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team, including additional director (rural health) Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, nodal officer Dr Praveen Aswal and now director (health) Dr K K Sharma, have tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment. At health directorate, more than 20 doctors were found infected with Covid recently. A cause of worry is that some healthcare workers have lost their lives too. Three doctors and two nursing staff are among those who tested positive and are said to have died due to the virus. “Eighteen persons have applied for Covid compensation. Among those, 13 are healthcare workers, three from education department and two from other departments. Among 13 healthcare workers, five who died had tested positive while the rest lost their lives while on duty due to accidents or other reasons,” said a health department official. The IMA has claimed that six doctors doing private practice have died due to the virus across the state. Among them are Dr S L Tolani (68) from Jaipur, Dr Suresh Modi (66) from Dungarpur, Dr Akbar Rangwala (65) from Kota, and doctor couple K K Vyas (73) and Kiran Vyas (71) from Phalna. Dr Modi and the doctor couple from Phalna were retired government doctors. “Private hospital doctors and others practising in private clinics are always at the risk of getting infected. Doctors in government or private sector are all showing courage and providing services for patients — Covid or non-Covid. The government should not discriminate between them while giving compensation or recognition,” said Dr M N Thareja, president (state), IMA. Covid has also not spared doctors and staff conducting tests at the microbiology laboratory of SMS Hospital. More than 50% of the staff were found infected with Covid in May and June. A security guard at SMS Hospital, who died while on duty in May, was later found infected with the virus. His family has applied for compensation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-docs-die-close-to-1-2kraj-healthcare-staff-ve/articleshow/77880370.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm suicides on decline across India, Punjab show NCRB figures||BATHINDA: Latest data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that since 2015, farm suicides have come down from 9.4% of the total suicides across India to 7.4% of total suicides in 2019. In Punjab, number of farm suicides has continued to hover around 300 since 2016, according to NCRB. Across India, 12,602 farm suicides were reported in 2015. In 2019, the number came down to 10,281, shows the data was released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) under the head, “accidental deaths and suicides in India (ADSI)” on Monday. In Punjab, the number of farm suicides in Punjab fell to 302 in 2019, from 323 in 2018. However, farm organisations and agriculture experts claim the actual figures are much higher. They cite a survey conducted by three universities of Punjab from 2000 to December 2016, to corroborate their point. According to the survey, 16,606 farmers and farm labourers committed suicide in Punjab over the 16-year period, taking the average to over 1,000 per year. NCRB data reports 1,39,123 suicides across the country in 2019. Of these, just 10,281 suicides (7.4%) were farm related. Out of total farm suicides, 5,957 were by farmers and cultivators, while 4,324 were farm labourers. Of these, 9,312 were men and 969 were women. Among farm labourers, 3,749 were men and 575 were women. Among farmers who ended their life, 828 were cultivating leased land. In 2018, 10,349 farmers and labourers committed suicide, down from 10,655 in 2017. These accounted for 7.7% and 8.2% of total suicides in the country. (See table) Consultant with the 6th Punjab Finance Commission, Prof Sukhwinder Singh, described this as a gross underestimation. The professor had recorded farm suicides in Punjab in 2016-17 during his stint with the Centre for Research and Economic Change of the Punjabi University at Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-suicides-on-decline-across-india-punjab-show-ncrb-figures/articleshow/77883519.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Patna||75% of candidates write JEE in Patna on first day||PATNA: Around 75% of the examinees appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main second round on Tuesday for admission in engineering courses at the IITs, NITs and some other premier institutions across the country. The JEE (Main) will continue till September 6 as limited number of examinees are allowed on a single day as a precautionary measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Altogether 1,600 students have been registered to appear in the JEE (Main) at seven centres in Patna. According to the officials of TCS, the examination went on smoothly on the first day, without any untoward incident reported from any of the centres. Candidates were seen standing in queues while maintaining the social distancing norm. They were allowed entry into the exam centres only after sanitisation and thermal screening at the gate. The candidates were given new masks at the exam centres. They had to discard their own masks at the gate itself. Aditya Kumar, who wrote the exam at the Patliputra Colony centre area, was overwhelmed with the arrangements. “I was quiet worried ahead of the exam. But when I reached the centre and saw all the safety protocols being followed, I was much relieved. Even inside the hall, the examinees were sanitised,” he said. Priyanka Singh, who had come from Hajipur, said, “We did not find any difficulty in getting the transportation to Patna. I reached here on Monday with my parents and stayed at one of my relatives’ place in Digha area.” Another examinee, Anshu Singh, said, “The paper was good, but the numerical problems were lengthy. It was my first attempt and I was quite nervous. The arrangements at my exam centre in Mahendru area was very good.” Pritam Kumar Gupta, whose son appeared at the examination, said all the safety measures were taken at the exam centre in Gola Road area. The other parents were also satisfied with the exam arrangements. Pratyush Kaushik, an observer at Patliputra Colony exam centre, told this newspaper that all seats were thoroughly sanitised before and after the first and second shifts of examination. “All the computer systems and other touch points were also sanitised. In the first shift, 307 candidates appeared against the registered 448, while in second shift, 279 examinees appeared against 441 registered for that,” he said. “The candidates maintained social distancing and followed the circles on the floor. Masks were provided to students and all of them were sanitised before entering the exam hall,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/75-of-candidates-write-jee-in-patna-on-first-day/articleshow/77879340.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 2, 2020||Amritsar||Farm suicides on decline across India, Punjab show NCRB figures||BATHINDA: Latest data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that since 2015, farm suicides have come down from 9.4% of the total suicides across India to 7.4% of total suicides in 2019. In Punjab, number of farm suicides has continued to hover around 300 since 2016, according to NCRB. Across India, 12,602 farm suicides were reported in 2015. In 2019, the number came down to 10,281, shows the data was released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) under the head, “accidental deaths and suicides in India (ADSI)” on Monday. In Punjab, the number of farm suicides in Punjab fell to 302 in 2019, from 323 in 2018. However, farm organisations and agriculture experts claim the actual figures are much higher. They cite a survey conducted by three universities of Punjab from 2000 to December 2016, to corroborate their point. According to the survey, 16,606 farmers and farm labourers committed suicide in Punjab over the 16-year period, taking the average to over 1,000 per year. NCRB data reports 1,39,123 suicides across the country in 2019. Of these, just 10,281 suicides (7.4%) were farm related. Out of total farm suicides, 5,957 were by farmers and cultivators, while 4,324 were farm labourers. Of these, 9,312 were men and 969 were women. Among farm labourers, 3,749 were men and 575 were women. Among farmers who ended their life, 828 were cultivating leased land. In 2018, 10,349 farmers and labourers committed suicide, down from 10,655 in 2017. These accounted for 7.7% and 8.2% of total suicides in the country. (See table) Consultant with the 6th Punjab Finance Commission, Prof Sukhwinder Singh, described this as a gross underestimation. The professor had recorded farm suicides in Punjab in 2016-17 during his stint with the Centre for Research and Economic Change of the Punjabi University at Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-suicides-on-decline-across-india-punjab-show-ncrb-figures/articleshow/77883520.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA team visits secretariat||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A team of officers from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) visited the government Secretariat here on Tuesday and inspected the server room of the closed circuit television surveillance system. The NIA team was assisted by technical specialists from agencies of the state government. The team is learnt to have examined the CCTV server room and also checked the places where the CCTV cameras have been installed. The team is also learnt to have met the secretary of the general administration department, and informed that the agency will convey to the government the dates of which the camera recordings will be required. The NIA is seeking the CCTV visuals from the Secretariat as part of the investigation in the gold smuggling case, to ascertain who the accused in the case, including Swapna Suresh and Sarith, met in the Secretariat earlier. Though the agency had sought visuals of the past one year from the Secretariat, the government had replied by informing of difficulties in transferring such a large volume of data. This is the third time that the agency is visiting the Secretariat in connection with the probe. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said that the NIA team visiting the government Secretariat in connection with a criminal case is shameful to Keralites, and the chief minister should resign from the post immediately, accepting responsibility for the incident. He said that the chief minister should resign before the NIA team reaches the office of the chief minister in connection with the probe. He added that the state government is refusing to hand over the CCTV visuals due to the fear that the investigation may reach the chief minister. The government that had initially promised all support to the probe, is now trying to sabotage it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-team-in-secretariat/articleshow/77879372.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm suicides on decline across India, Punjab show NCRB figures||BATHINDA: Latest data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that since 2015, farm suicides have come down from 9.4% of the total suicides across India to 7.4% of total suicides in 2019. In Punjab, number of farm suicides has continued to hover around 300 since 2016, according to NCRB. Across India, 12,602 farm suicides were reported in 2015. In 2019, the number came down to 10,281, shows the data was released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) under the head, “accidental deaths and suicides in India (ADSI)” on Monday. In Punjab, the number of farm suicides in Punjab fell to 302 in 2019, from 323 in 2018. However, farm organisations and agriculture experts claim the actual figures are much higher. They cite a survey conducted by three universities of Punjab from 2000 to December 2016, to corroborate their point. According to the survey, 16,606 farmers and farm labourers committed suicide in Punjab over the 16-year period, taking the average to over 1,000 per year. NCRB data reports 1,39,123 suicides across the country in 2019. Of these, just 10,281 suicides (7.4%) were farm related. Out of total farm suicides, 5,957 were by farmers and cultivators, while 4,324 were farm labourers. Of these, 9,312 were men and 969 were women. Among farm labourers, 3,749 were men and 575 were women. Among farmers who ended their life, 828 were cultivating leased land. In 2018, 10,349 farmers and labourers committed suicide, down from 10,655 in 2017. These accounted for 7.7% and 8.2% of total suicides in the country. (See table) Consultant with the 6th Punjab Finance Commission, Prof Sukhwinder Singh, described this as a gross underestimation. The professor had recorded farm suicides in Punjab in 2016-17 during his stint with the Centre for Research and Economic Change of the Punjabi University at Patiala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-suicides-on-decline-across-india-punjab-show-ncrb-figures/articleshow/77878466.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Virus fear: JEE candidates more worried about corona than test||By: Tamaghna Banerjee and Mayukh SenguptaKOLKATA: While some JEE examinees put up at their relatives’ places, closer to exam centre, during lockdown in Bengal on Monday, others left homes early on Tuesday, fearing they might not get transport reach the venues on time. JEE (Mains) exams are being held from September 1 to 6. Examinees and their parents TOI spoke to said they were more concerned about the pandemic and the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus while travelling and at the venues than the paper itself. Although the exam centres in Kolkata allowed examinees to enter two hours in advance and ensured social distancing protocols were maintained, a large number of students gave the BE architecture paper in the first shift a miss. Those who appeared for the entrance test said the sheer fear of infection in the gathering was taking a toll on their mind and that the distraction might reflect on their performance. “Till Monday, I kept looking for a notification from the Supreme Court, praying that it either deferred the examination or allowed us to appear for it from home. This is only the second time I am leaving home in all these five months of pandemic. I am genuinely worried about contracting the novel coronavirus from this gathering. That thought hampered my preparations for the exam,” said Siddhartha Chatterjee, a resident of Patuli, who scored 87% in ISC this year. Chatterjee’s father said although he appeared for the BE (architecture) entrance examination this year and was scheduled to appear for the BTech (physics, chemistry and mathematics) examination on Wednesday, he might skip that exam to avoid the crowd. The first shift (BE architecture) took place between 9am and noon and the second (BE planning) took place between 3pm and 6pm, which meant students appearing for the first exam had to reach the venues real early. Bilt Kumar Roy had left his home in Malda on Saturday night and reached a cousin’s place in Dum Dum on Sunday. He stayed there on the lockdown day so that he could reach his venue on Tuesday on time. “We could not have made it to the exam venue on time had we not come to Kolkata on Sunday. The fear of contracting the virus is there, but I believe the examination is also necessary,” said Roy, who appeared for the BE (planning) paper. Namkhana resident Sugata Halua started from his home—110 km from the centre—at 6am on Tuesday to reach the venue at 11.15am. He would again come on Wednesday for the BTech paper. “I have never been more nervous. But this is not because of the examination but because of the circumstances under which the tests are being held,” said Halua, who scored above 80% in HS this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-fear-jee-candidates-more-worried-about-corona-than-test/articleshow/77879374.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Total lockdown hits supply line, pushes up veggie rates in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Prices of perishables once again shot through the roof as the supply line suffered a setback due to the total lockdown in Bengal. Markets across the city on Tuesday saw a demand-supply gap with wholesale markets ostensibly exhausting their stocks as only a low volume of goods was transported from the haats in rural Bengal on Monday, when a shutdown was imposed on the state. Adding to this, untimely rain has also damaged standing crop, pushing up the prices. Of the 280-300 trucks that ferry consignments to Koley Market, the biggest vegetable wholesale market in the city, only 75 arrived early on Monday before the lockdown set in. Also, a majority of vendors, who had gone home in their villages on Sunday, did not return to the city with vegetables on Monday. “Given the shortage in supply, some middlemen reportedly acquired vegetables from farmers at throw-away prices and sold them at markets at a premium,” said Shankar Guchait, a retailer at Barisha bazar, who said some vegetables were sold at a 25% higher rate than that on Sunday. Prices of most vegetables have crossed the Rs 50/kg mark and some that of some shot past Rs 200/kg. Case in point is chillies, which sold for Rs 250 a kg on Tuesday. So did beans and capsicum, the rates of which were Rs 250-Rs 275 a kg. Bitter gourd went for Rs 70-Rs 80 a kg and tomato Rs 80-Rs 90 a kg. Though traders potato assured of a drop in price from Friday, the tuber was sold for Rs 35 a kg on Tuesday. Kamal Dey, member of West Bengal Market Task Force, pointed out that the problem was prices, once up, refused to drop, even with the improvement of supply line. “Wholesale and retail price gap is fast widening. The prices of most vegetables at the wholesale Koley Market are much less, but they have no reflection on retail market rates,” he said, adding the retail market prices needed intense monitoring. Consumers also felt that the lockdowns seemed to have hit the very source of the market. “We have been spending more for fewer vegetables ever since this total lockdown was enforced. I end up spending much more now than what I used to pay in March and April. This, despite a major cut in consumption because of the uncertainities created by the pandemic,” said Biplab Mitra, who works with a private company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/total-lockdown-hits-supply-line-pushes-up-veggie-rates/articleshow/77879386.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Study raises red flag on abuse of elderly residents||Chandigarh: Sweeping socio-economic changes and unravelling family ties have rendered the elderly vulnerable to abuse, says a joint study conducted by Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda. Punjab is among states with the highest percentage of the population in the age group of 60 years and above in the country. According to the 2011 census, senior citizens comprise over 10% of the population. A total of 311 patients with average age of 65.1 years (minimum 60 and maximum 86) participated in the study titled, ‘Screening for abuse of older adults: A study done at primary health care level in Punjab.’ The study found that about 24% of older adults experienced abuse in the last 12 months. Over 20% of the participants reported that they were afraid of someone in their family while over 15% stated that someone close to them tried to hurt them. Over 21% of them were called names or made to feel bad. Most of them (88%) reported experiencing dependence while over 46% of older adults revealed that they were subjected to coercion and threats. Over 20% of them reported being forced to do things against their wishes. Participants had a high prevalence of anxiety (39%), depression (54%), and features suggestive of loneliness (38.6%). The study observed that over the years, increased urbanisation and eroding of traditional Indian cultural values has increased the incidence of elder abuse. With increasing family sizes, elder abuse has also increased over issues such as property inheritance. As older adults are relatively more vulnerable because of co-existing medical and psychological problems, the study recommended routine assessment of elder abuse. “Our study has found a high prevalence of elder abuse. With increasing proportion of older adults, the burden of these problems is expected to escalate. There is a need to routinely screen the older adults for abuse,” said Dr Grover. Findings of the study conducted by Dr Sandeep Grover and Dr Ritu Nehra of department of psychiatry, PGIMER; Dr Madhur Verma of department of community and family medicine, AIIMS; Dr Tarundeep Singh and Dr Neha of department of community medicine, school of public health, PGIMER — have been published in the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/study-raises-red-flag-on-abuse-of-elderly-residents/articleshow/77878482.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 2, 2020||Hubballi||Cardiac arrest can be the first manifestation of Covid, say docs||Hubballi: Covid-19 infection is not just a pulmonary complication. Doctors have warned that coronavirus infection is manifesting itself in heart-related ailments too. In many cases, patients who suffered strokes were found positive to Covid. Diabetologist and cardiologist Dr GB Sattur said Covid may cause irregular heartbeats, heart blocks, and sudden heart attacks in some patients. Patients come with complaints of chest pain due to heart attack and the CT scans show ground-glass opacities and positive RT-PCR results. Dr Shivappa Anirushettru, a cardiothoracic surgeon, pointed out that more elderly people died in the recent past due to heart attack and Covid could be the reason for these deaths. Since no swab testing was done it is difficult to confirm whether they were infected with coronavirus. He advised people to quit sedentary lifestyle, continue the medication if they are hypertensive or diabetic, do regular exercises and follow a healthy routine. Dr Suresh Patted, head, department of cardiology, KLES Dr Prabhakar Kore Hospital, said heart attack can be the first manifestation of Covid. “However, we can’t confirm it unless we do the test. Covid affects every organ of the body. Hence people should be more careful during the pandemic and without delay they should visit the doctor even if they sense mild symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cardiac-arrest-can-be-the-first-manifestation-of-covid-say-docs/articleshow/77878471.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm chemicals kill nearly 700 in state||Bathinda: According to NCRB figures, accidental intake of insecticides and pesticides killed as many as 6,962 persons in the country in 2019 alone. Punjab is one of the worst affected states, accounting for 9.76% of total such fatalities with 680 dead. Of these, 491 were men and 189 women. Punjab stands at fourth place on the grim tally, with Madhya Pradesh accounting for maximum of 1,261 cases, followed by 872 in Rajasthan, and 818 in Karnataka. Punjab has more deaths caused by intake of insecticides and pesticides than Maharashtra, which, otherwise, uses more insecticides and pesticides. Maharashtra consumed 12,783 MT technical grade pesticides in 2019, compared to 4,930 MT pesticides consumed in Punjab. Consumption of insecticides and pesticides in Uttar Pradesh is close to Maharashtra at 12,345 MT but here, only 283 persons died of the chemical intake. A total of 60,599 MT chemical insecticides/pesticides were consumed in 2019-20 in India, as per data released by the Union ministry of agriculture & farmer welfare, directorate of plant protection, quarantine and storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-chemicals-kill-nearly-700-in-state/articleshow/77878472.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Suspected Congress workers held for DYFI men’s murder||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police on Tuesday arrested seven persons, including a woman, for the murder of two DYFI activists at Thembamoodu on Sunday, the eve of Thiruvonam. The CPM alleged that it was a pre-meditated murder with the knowledge of Congress bigwigs, while top Congress leaders claimed that the twin murder was a fallout of long-simmering gangland rivalry. Three persons -- Sajeev (35) of Maruthammood, Sanal (32) of Madapuram and Preeja (32) of Madapuram -- were arrested in the evening. Sajeev and Sanal, two of the four assailants identified by a witness, were arrested from a hideout near Nedumangad. Preeja, a close relative of two accused, has been accused of harbouring the key accused after the crime. Mithilaj (30) and Haq Muhammed (24) were waylaid and murdered by armed assailants on Sunday night around 11pm. Midhilaj was joint secretary of Thevalakkadu DYFI unit and Haq Mohammed president of Kalinginmukham DYFI unit. They were attacked while going to Midhilaj's residence. Another DYFI activist, Shehin, was also with them but he managed to flee. The case has been registered on the basis of his statement. The remand report of the first four arrested said the murder was the fallout of political rivalry between Congress and CPM activists in Thembammood region. It said the conflict started during the Lok Sabha election last year, when two groups clashed at the 'kottikkalasham' event at Thembummood junction. Ajith (27) of Mukkudil, Shajith (27), Sathimon (46) and Najeeb (41), all hailing from Maruthummood, were arrested on Tuesday morning and police said they were involved in the conspiracy besides helping the suspects escape after the crime. They were produced before a local court and remanded in judicial custody. Venjarammoodu station house officer inspector V K Vijayaraghavan said a hunt was on for Unni and Ansar, who are directly involved in the assault. Several Congress activists reportedly defected to CPM after the LS polls and this escalated the rivarly leading to more violence in May this year. On May 17, a group of Congress activists led by Sajeev attacked Shahin and DYFI activists, led by Haq Muhammed, retaliated on the same day. Another DYFI activist, Faisal, was attacked with sharp weapons in a similar fashion on May 25. He survived the attack with serious injuries. Sajeev, Sanal, Ajith and Shajith were involved in that crime too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/suspected-congress-workers-held-for-dyfi-mens-murder/articleshow/77879384.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Landslide survivors recount trauma & fears||IDUKKI: The survivors of the Pettimudi landslide are frozen in time. Counsellors listened with shock as the young among them spoke of their fears and how life has changed since the fateful night of August 6. When a team from the child protection unit met the children as part of a counselling session arranged by district legal service authority (DLSA), they realized the additional effort required. The pain and trauma are so deep that coordinators are now rethinking the sessions to make them more relevant. Geetha M G, district child protection officer, Idukki, said, “About 36 children attended the counselling session and shared their experiences. After the incident, most of them shifted to homes of relatives. Some kids said that over 17 people, including girls, were staying in a single room.” “Some children are direct victims. Some witnessed the recovery of bodies. Some have lost friends,” she added. Sources said no decision has been taken on their future education. The students and family members have received only assurances from authorities. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said, “The district collector and MLA visited the survivors and assured all support for their education. The collector has constituted a special team to analyze the damage and steps for rehabilitation of the affected. The team will submit a report soon.” Meanwhile, forest department and natives recovered another body — identified as that of Rani, 44 — from Poothakkuzhi on Sunday. With this, the death toll has risen to 66. Those still missing are Dineshkumar, 20; Kasthuri, 26; Priyadarshini, 7; and Karthika, 21. A man whose son is missing wants the search to be continued, and so we will do so, said the sub-collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslide-survivors-recount-trauma-fears/articleshow/77879437.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown relaxations: Chennai steps out of home after five months||CHENNAI: When the city reopened on Tuesday, with the exception of metro rail, suburban trains and cinemas, on-street scenes reflected pre-Covid times. People exercised caution only in places where authorities were present. Neighbourhood markets in places like Triplicane and business nerve centres as George Town, Purasawalkam and T Nagar were choked amid traffic chaos. MTC buses were on the roads from 4.30am, but patronage remained poor. TimesViewCovid count hasn’t started the downward climb and Tamil Nadu has been on a plateau for too long. So, as businesses and roads come alive after 150 days, all must be optimistic, but only cautiously. Unless consumers feel safe to shop and dine, footfalls will not see a spike anytime soon. Immediate need, hence, is for businesses to invest in safety and sanitary measures without adding them to goods cost. From showroom to trial room to wash room, it’s the duty of businesses to keep their premises safe. If safe shopping/dining environs is assured, customers will return the favour. It’s time for businesses to cut on profit and invest more on safety of their customers.While Kapaleeswarar temple at Mylapore and Parthasarathy temple in Triplicane, despite offering guided worship, didn’t have more than 2,000 devotees in four hours since 5am, smaller places of worship were packed. Corporation parks had just 20%-30% of the usual turnout, with senior citizens not being allowed and many staying away in fear. At the entrance, corporation staff checked temperature and sprayed sanitizers. Bookings from the rest of the country are yet to resume, but star hotels have begun getting inquiries from business travellers from within Tamil Nadu, mostly in the MSME sector. South India Hotels and Restaurants Association honorary secretary T Nataarajan said that as far as Chennai was concerned, inquiries regarding room tariff had begun coming in over phone and through online travel portals. “But, conversion [into real check-ins] is expected only in a week.” At least 75% of shops in nine of the city’s 10 malls opened, but with very few visitors they appeared more or less deserted. At Phoenix Market City in Velachery, the footfalls improved marginally in the late afternoon. While a few were busy grabbing their favourite brands, others were seen chatting in the food court or clicking selfies. “It has been a long time since I met my friends. Usually we hang out in malls and theatres. Since both are closed, we were meeting in local tea shops and street corners. We can now grab a bite of our favourite food,” said Nikhil, a foodie from Velachery. At Express Avenue mall in Royapettah, policemen deployed to ensure there was no crowding joined mall staff in frisking visitors, with only 100 being allowed entry at any given time. At Marina Mall on OMR, managing director Aslam Mohamed said steps were being taken to ensure there were no more than 1,000 people within every 75,000 sq feet as per the government-issued SOP. There were thermal scanning at the entrance to check temperatures, UV sanitization of visitors bags, automated mall density checks, foot sanitization mats, mandatory wearing of masks and full-time HVAC air conditioning technicians to regularly monitor the quality of air and to sanitize it once in two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-steps-out-of-home-after-five-months/articleshow/77879380.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Shimla||‘Himachal Pradesh sub-jail occupancy twice the national average’||SHIMLA: Prisons in Himachal Pradesh were overcrowded in 2019, with the occupancy of sub-jails in the hill state being almost twice of the national average, according to the NCRB report Prisons Statistics India-2019 released last week. The Himachal Pradesh high court in March this year had directed the state government to file a fresh status report in the matter related to inhuman conditions in the jails of state. In compliance with the court’s earlier order, the state government had filed a status report, in which it was pointed out that there was overcrowding and shortage of staff in Hamirpur district jail, Nurpur sub-jail and Kullu district jail; just shortage of staff in district and open-air jail, Dharamshala, and district and open-air jail, Bilaspur; and there was no posting of medical officer in district jail of Mandi. Now, the report — comprising data till December 31, 2019 — has revealed that jails of Himachal Pradesh had recorded an occupancy rate of 110.6% in 2019, but it could be considered slightly better compared to many states as the national average was 118.5%. The hill state has 14 prisons having the capacity to house 2,146 inmates, but it has 2,373 inmates. Of all the prisoners 948 are convicts, including 915 men and 33 women, and 1,425 are undertrials, including 1,371 men and 54 women. The percentage share of convicts in the state is 39.9%, while percentage share of undertrials is 60.1%. The occupancy rate of district jails at the national level is 129.71%, while it is 123.9% in the state. The national occupancy rate of sub jails is 84.38%, while that of Himachal Pradesh is 155.17%. In Himachal Pradesh, district jails have 1,208 inmates — 277 convicts and 931 undertrials. The state has 526 jail officials which, makes it 4 inmates per official, but there are only three correctional staffers, which makes the average 791 inmates per correctional staff. There are 14 medical staff, making it 169 inmates per medical staff. Sub-jails in the state can house 29 inmates, 26 men and 3 women, against which 45 inmates, including 38 men and seven women, have been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-prisons-overcrowded-ncrb-data/articleshow/77878486.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||BTech final sem results by Sept 20: KTU VC||Thiruvananthapuram: APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is likely to publish the final semester engineering results by September 20, said university vice-chancellor M S Rajasree. The university had conducted the final semester BTech examinations in August. The university has also announced the schedule for supplementary examinations. “The supplementary exams for all semesters would begin on September 9. The examinations are being held at once so that those who got placements through campus selection or got admission for higher studies don’t lose the opportunity because of backlogs,” the VC said, adding that students should make use of this opportunity to clear backlogs. The examination would be held by strictly adhering to Covid protocols, the university said. In view of interstate travel restrictions, the university has allowed candidates to opt for examination centres close to their residences. The university would soon be issuing a detailed guideline to be followed by college authorities for incident free conduct of exams. The institutions are to organise the examinations in consultation with the health department and district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/btech-final-sem-results-by-sept-20-ktu-vc/articleshow/77879399.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||October 31 result deadline worries teachers, students||KOLKATA: The state’s decision to hold terminal-semester/year exams in October and to publish the results by the end of the month seems to have given rise to worry among students and teachers alike but for opposite reasons. While vice-chancellors and teachers at state universities are making a scramble to come up with en efficient way to publish error-free results within only 12 days of the exams being completed, students, who have already secured seats in the IITs for post-graduation, fear the delayed result deadline might force them to take a break for a year as classes at some of the technology institutes have already begun . Also, given that most foreign students had returned to their countries before or during the lockdown, the exams are likely to be completely online. Partha Pratim Ray, general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, said faculty members were being inundated with calls from students looking at higher studies at IITs. “By the time the final-semester exams are conducted and results are published, classes at the IITs will begin. This may force the students to take a break for a year. At the same time, it will be difficult to publish the final-semester/year results by the October 31 deadline, especially during Durga Puja,” Ray said. Another vice-chancellor pointed out that for foreign students as well as those living in flood-hit regions, the exams would have to be online. “There is no scope for an offline test especially after minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday said students’ health could not be jeopardized. But what happens if a student faces internet problems?” the VC said. A teacher at Jadavpur University questioned, “How can practical tests be taken in physics or chemistry? Can we only award students based on theory paper?” Worried about the challenges of publishing results by October 31, a VC said, “Most universities don’t have their own press and external agencies are involved. If they do not work during the Puja, how can we publish the results within the deadline? There are hardly a few working days from the time the exams end and the result deadline.” He added under the UGC guidelines, results were published within a month of exams and sometimes, it was extended to two months. “How will a university with several affiliated colleges publish UG results within 12 days? The only solution is to complete the exams ahead of the October 18 deadline. Errors might crop up in the results,” he said. Students waiting to submit transcripts to foreign universities but already attending online classes, plan to request those institutes for more time. “It will be a challenge to attend classes in foreign universities and prepare for semester tests. If their request is turned down, they will lose a year and money,” said a teacher at Calcutta University, which has called a meeting on Wednesday. Rabindra Bharati University VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri said practical exams for skill-based subjects and performing arts were likely to be held on video conferencing. “For fine arts, like painting, sculpture, we will have to hold a meeting with the stakeholders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oct-31-result-deadline-worries-teachers-students/articleshow/77879398.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Online payment of admission fees starts off without glitch||KOLKATA: Payment of admission fees at different colleges affiliated to Calcutta University started on Tuesday and the process reportedly went off without any glitch the first day. Several principals TOI spoke to said they did not receive any complaint from candidates facing difficulty in completing the process. To ensure proper assistance to selected candidates, several institutes have started helpline where the students can call up with queries. This year, the entire process is being held online so that candidates do not need to expose themselves to the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus while visiting colleges for admissions. Till last year, selected students had the option of paying the fees at banks or at college offices but this year, they are required to pay online only.“We have not received any news of any candidate facing problems while paying their admission fees online. We were a little worried because in many areas, internet connectivity is not very good. A meritorious student should not miss out on a seat of a subject of his or her choice for internet connection disruption,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college. Colleges will issue multiple merit lists and students will have two to three days to pay the fees. “Students must keep checking the institute websites to find out whether their names figure on the lists or not. After every list, the selected candidates will get two to three days to complete the process of paying admission fees,” said the principal of a girls’ college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-payment-of-admission-fees-starts-off-without-glitch/articleshow/77879403.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Armed against Covid, govt staff return||CHENNAI: Some take the stairs instead of the lifts, others use hand sanitizers every time they touch a new file, a few use oxymeters to check their blood oxygen levels. And they all wear masks. Thermal screening is a must at the entry points. That’s how government employees coped as they returned to work in full strength on Tuesday.  “At least 90% of the staff turned up at the state secretariat at Fort St George. All we want is the government should immediately ensure social distancing norms in seating arrangements,” said Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association’s Peter Anthonysamy. More than 100 secretariat staff members had contracted the virus since May and they are worried. Only four people can use the lifts at the ten-storeyed Namakkal Kavignar Maligai at a time. On Tuesday, there was a rush to take the stairs to reach their desks in time. Nirmala*, who works in the building, has been wearing masks and gloves for five months now. “I have grandchildren at home. Can’t take risks,” said the office assistant, who retires in two years. Kamatchi*, personal secretary to a department head, uses hand sanitiser every 15 minutes after flipping through files. Most offices have sanitisers everywhere, foot-operated and wall mounted in some cases. “Everyone has to use hand sanitizers in the offices so that the chances of virus spread through files can be curtailed,” said Trichy collector Sivarasu. In Madurai, revenue officials were told to wear masks, sanitise hands before entering offices. Coimbatore collectorate has put a box outside to receive petitions from the public. “We had given pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to all sections in the district collectorate and all the 12 taluk offices in the district,” said an official. Flow of visitors to government offices in Chennai and the districts was thin on day one, but is expected to pick up in the coming days. (Names changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/armed-against-covid-govt-staff-return/articleshow/77879435.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||Over 1,000 students appear for JEE (main)||Vadodara: Amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, over 1,000 students appeared in the Joint Entrance Examination Main (JEE Main) in the city on Tuesday. The examination will continue till September 6. The first exam paper of B. Arch was held at three centres in the city in two sittings of three hours each _ from 9 am to 12 noon and 3 pm to 6 pm. Rahi Parmar, a student who appeared at an exam centre at Gotri, said that the paper was neither too easy nor too difficult. “All safety guidelines were followed at the exam centre. We were asked to maintain safe distance in queue when we reached the centre. Everyone was wearing masks which were provided by the centre itself and even sanitizers were in good numbers,” she said. The B Arch paper had 25 questions of mathematics totalling 100 marks, 50 questions of general aptitude totalling 200 marks, two drawing questions totalling 100 marks and 25 questions of planning totalling 100 marks. A majority of students found the aptitude portion relatively easy compared to mathematics and planning which were a bit difficult. “Compared to last attempt in January, this was a completely different experience. All the students and invigilators were wearing masks. Our temperature was checked and there was ample space between two students,” said another student Tejvi Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-1000-students-appear-for-jee-main/articleshow/77878457.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||New Covid-19 sub-strain may be behind spike in Telangana positive cases||HYDERABAD: A stronger sub-strain of the novel coronavirus which spreads faster is now sweeping across Telangana, the city-based Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), one of India’s top research organisation, said on Tuesday. After sequencing the viral genome of Covid-19 positive samples recently, CCMB said the less strong sub-strain clade A3i which had been previously dominant in Telangana has now been replaced by the stronger clade A2a. The A2a is now the dominant clade in the entire country, the CCMB has said. A clade is a sub-strain of a virus strain (in this cases SARS-CoV-2) and usually a small variation that happens due to mutations. This could be a reason for rapid increase in cases across the state, the health department officials said, adding there has been a marked increase in symptomatic cases in the state, going up to 31% from 15% in August. “The A2a clade is stronger compared to the A3i clade which was previously dominant in Hyderabad and rest of the southern part of the country,” said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra. “By stronger, it means that it spreads more and faster than any other clade of its kind,” Dr Mishra added. Mishra however said that it does not mean that it was more dangerous than other strains and there isn’t any evidence to suggest that it can cause more symptomatic cases. “Among the two kinds of sub-strains found in India, A3i was found in large numbers in Telangana and other parts of South India. A3i was a bit weaker strain and has more or less disappeared now. Hyderabad is largely having only one clade, which is A2a now and this is what is spreading in Telangana,” said Dr Mishra. A2a is also the dominant clade in 75% of the world now and experts suggest that one uniform clade is now active in most countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-covid-19-sub-strain-may-be-behind-spike-in-t-ve-cases/articleshow/77880845.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 2, 2020||Hubballi||Waste segregation at source effective in Gadag||Hubballi: The ambitious waste segregation at source programme launched by the Hubballi-Dharwad City Corporation (HDMC) on March 2018 has failed to yield the desired results, while the Gadag-Betageri City Municipal Council (GBCMC) has managed to implement it. When it launched the initiative, HDMC had warned residents to segregate waste at its source or to pay a heavy fine. Even after 2 years, nothing has changed, instead, HDMC civic workers put both wet and dry waste together in tippers. While the plan of comprehensive solid waste management was finalised a decade ago, the HDMC is yet to establish separate chambers for dry and wet garbage in its autorickshaw tippers. Mansoor Ali, municipal commissioner, GBCMC, told TOI that the segregation of garbage at source was launched a month ago. “We have trained civic workers to convince citizens to segregate waste at their residence itself. We are sending dry waste to a sugar factory and storing wet garbage at the solid waste management (SWM) unit. We are expecting some revenue from the sugar factory. Earlier there was a shortage of autorickshaw tippers. Now we have implemented the garbage segregation at source, and have already achieved 80% of our target. Still 20% of residents are not aware of segregation of waste at source, and we are continuing the awareness campaign for them. We hope we will achieve 100% success in the next three months,” he said. Former HDMC mayor Sudhir Saraf, under whose tenure autorickshaw tippers were pressed into service, noted that the environment engineers who were at the HDMC, were trained in this regard. He has now been posted in Gadag-Betgeri and has implemented the same. Moreover, two SWM plants—one in Dharwad and another in Hubballi—set up at a cost of Rs 60 crore, are yet to be started. Their inauguration was deferred after elections, floods, change of commissioners and the pandemic. Though 90% of the work on the plants is completed, officials are not showing interest to start them,” he alleged. Currently, HDMC has 187 autorickshaw tippers and 15 bigger tippers sanctioned under the Smart City project. Vijaykumar R, executive engineer, SWM, HDMC, said that a proposal to modify municipal bylaws has been sent to the government. “Once the government accords provision to impose fine on citizens for not segregating the garbage, we will implement it. As many as 60% of citizens are segregating garbage at its source in the twin cities, but the remaining 40% are yet to be sensitised on the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/waste-segregation-at-source-effective-in-gadag/articleshow/77878493.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD: Spike in robberies, dacoities in state||Chandigarh: Attacking the Congress government, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday said killing of two relatives of cricketer Suresh Raina is a clear reflection of sharp rise in snatchings, robberies and armed dacoities in Punjab. SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia said this clearly indicated that people who were ruling the state had locked themselves up and left the people to their fate. Majithia expressed his deep condolences to Raina as well as the extended Raina family. He said it was unfortunate that the international star had to pull out of IPL 2020 due to the tragedy in his family. He said even women were not safe in the state. He said in other recent incidents, a 65-year-old brick-kiln owner was hacked to death outside her home in Payal and robbers killed a temple priest and decamped with money in Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-spike-in-robberies-dacoities-in-state/articleshow/77878494.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Patna||Woman beaten to death by kin for littering their plot in Bihar||PATNA: A 40-year-old woman was beaten to death by her neighbours at a village in Banka district on Tuesday for throwing garbage in an empty plot owned by them. The deceased was identified as Neelam Kumari. The incident took place around 7 am at Majlishpur village under Town police station in the district. “After sweeping her house on Tuesday morning, Neelam collected the garbage and threw it on a small empty plot owned by the neighbours,” Banka town police station SHO Subhodh Kumar Rao said. This led to a heated argument between Neelam and the neighbour Karni Devi, which soon escalated with Karni’s son and other family members joining in. “They all started thrashing Neelam holding her by the hairs. Before other neighbours could rescue her, Karni and others banged her head on a cemented wall leading to her death on the spot. Prima facie, severe internal head injury or bleeding is suspected to be the reason for death,” the SHO said. The SHO further said that both the neighbours were also relatives. Neelam’s husband Kanthlal Yadav lodged an FIR against four persons, including three women for killing his wife. “Karni Devi, her son Rajesh Yadav, Sunita Devi and Meenu Devi have been made accused by Kanthlal for killing his wife,” the SHO said. “All four accused have fled the village and raids are on to nab them,” he added. The SHO said the body was handed over to the family members for cremation after an autopsy was conducted at the Sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-beaten-to-death-by-kin-for-littering-their-plot/articleshow/77879382.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 2, 2020||India||Central staffers have no shield against early retirement: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Central government has made it clear that it can, in public interest, prematurely retire its employees at any time even after they have attained the age of 50/55 years or completed 30 years of qualifying service, and not limit their 'performance review' to these two set milestones laid down in the pension rules. Moreover, even government employees who were cleared to be retained in service as per FR 56(j) and Rules 48 of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, may face further review at any time during their remaining service if the appointing authority feels it is expedient on account of the changed circumstances. ‘Order clears ambiguity over performance review system’Government sources said the new rules seek to remove any ambiguity in interpretation of orders issued earlier regarding Fundamental Rule 56(j)/l and Rule 48 of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, which provide for review of performance of a government servant after attaining 50/55 years of age or on completion of 30 years of qualifying service, with a view to ascertain if he should be retained in service or retired in public interest. For instance, if a review cannot be undertaken due to non-adherence of set timelines due to administrative exigencies, the updated norms state in ‘black and white’ that such review can be undertaken at any time during his remaining service. An officer told TOI that the August 28 OM eliminates the scope of ambiguity in interpretation of instructions on whether the government servant is immune to a review of his performance and premature retirement after he was found fit to continue based on review at 50/55 years or after finishing 30 years of service. “There is also no bar on the government to review any such case again where it was decided earlier to retain the officer, but the appropriate/appointing authority is of the opinion that it is expedient to undertake the review again on account of changed circumstances, in public interest. In such cases, the appropriate authority is expected to demonstrate visible meticulousness as such government servants have been found effective on earlier occasion for retention in service,” state the August 28 office memorandum. “This makes it clear that being okayed for retention at 50/55 years, does not give a Central government employee immunity from further review of his performance to decide on his continuation or premature retirement, for the remaining five/ten years of his service,” an officer told TOI. The officer added that the latest DoPT office memorandum on premature retirement was not different from the procedures and practices already being followed, but only sought to consolidate the guidelines and instructions issued from time to time on the subject, in one single place, apart from offering better clarity to the existing instructions to enable uniform implementation. Watch Central staffers have no shield against early retirement: Govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-staffers-have-no-shield-against-early-retirement-govt/articleshow/77881334.cms||Bharti Jain
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||NKDA starts work to set up bio gas plant||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has started the work to set up its first bio methane gas plant in New Town as a pilot project that will process five tonnes of organic or wet waste per day out of about 50 tonnes of waste produced in the township. The NKDA selected an agency to develop the project that is coming up on a 1.5 acre of land close to the canal near Balaka Abason and is expected to start functioning by the end of this year, according to officials. They said the bio methane plant will prevent an estimated 1,500 tonne of carbon dioxide emission once it starts functioning with full capacity. “The wet waste processed in the bio gas plant will convert the residual slurry into ready-to-use organic fertilizer of about 450kg per day for various purposes. The plant is likely to generate 600 to 650 cubic metre of bio-gas per day,” said an official. The NKDA, however, is planning to come up with more such plants across the township in a decentralized manner, depending on how the project runs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nkda-starts-work-to-set-up-bio-gas-plant/articleshow/77879434.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar Military Police sepoy kills woman colleague, self inside headquarters||PATNA: A Bihar Military Police (BMP) sepoy committed suicide after shooting his woman colleague dead at their battalion headquarters in Patna on Tuesday morning. Police suspect love angle in the case. The deceased, Amar Subba (36) and Barsha Titung Tamang (26), hailed from Darjeeling in West Bengal. They were sepoys of BMP-1, also known as Gorkha Vahini. The BMP-1 sepoys are deployed mainly in VIP security. Amar was married to one Dipa Subba while Pema Ghising is Barsha’s husband. Police sources said both used to live on the battalion premises in separate barracks. “However, Amar’s family lived outside the premises in a rented accommodation while Barsha’s family was in Darjeeling,” a senior police officer said. Amar pumped four bullets from his self-loading rifle (SLR) into Barsha’s body before shooting himself dead in the women restroom of the battalion near Bihar Veterinary College under Airport police station area around 8.30am. Police said Amar and Barsha were assigned the duty of guarding the armoury inside the battalion headquarters after attendance. When Barsha went inside the women restroom, Amar reached there and opened fire, killing her on the spot before shooting himself in the head. Their hats were found on a table inside the room where the SLR issued to Barsha was also found near the wall. Police sources said Amar was found dead over Barsha’s body with his rifle lying underneath. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, who rushed to the spot, said Amar and Barsha were married. “However preliminary investigation suggests that both had relationship and that was probably the reason behind the incident. “Both died on the spot,” he said. Sharma said an eyewitness told the police that he had seen Barsha going inside the restroom followed by Amar after which he heard the gunshots. “Altogether five rounds were fired by Amar from the SLR issued to him. All five empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” he said. The SSP said forensic experts collected the evidence for further test to help police in corroborating the facts. He said Amar had joined the service in 2002 while Barsha was recruited only two years back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bmp-sepoy-kills-woman-colleague-self-inside-hq/articleshow/77879401.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||No space for green cover in Jaipur colonies||JAIPUR: At a time when the green cover in the state capital is declining, private colonisers and housing cooperative societies are developing plots on areas earmarked to grow trees. Many such cases have surfaced in the state’s biggest scheme, the Privthiraj Nagar (PRN) in Jaipur, where around 900 colonies have been developed on 11,700 bigha of land. Out of greed, many colonizers developed plots even on facility areas and sold those off. Giraj Singh, president of PRN Samiti, said, “Colonies in PRN are developed in 70:30 ratio (70% houses, 30% facility area). The facility areas include roads, parks, community halls, water tank, etc. Since, no land is left in PRN, the JDA is developing only roads in the name of facility area. Around 95% space for green cover has been utilised for purposes. For example, now a police station will be developed on a land identified for park,” he said. Not only PRN, colonies developed by the housing societies are facing the same situation. Rajat Goyal, resident of Veer Vihar, said, “The size of the proposed park is reduced drastically by the developer. The area will be deprived of appropriate green cover in future,” he said. With this, target to achieve mandatory 20% green cover required as per the Master Plan 2025 looks impossible. At present, the city has only 11.39 % of its area under green cover which falls woefully short. Vishnu Lamba, renowned as Treeman of India, says, “The private colonisers are violating the high court norms as they are developing a colony without earmarking space for parks or greenbelts. This is a grim situation and civic agencies should not regularise colony if there is no park facility for residents. No trees in a colony would lead to a grim future,” he added. Many believe that plantation in colonies is an effective way to increase trees as residents can protect and guard them. Moreover, the JDA’s plan to develop woodland parks failed to take off. A source said, “Shortage of green cover occurred as JDA shelved many projects over a period of time. To restore the ecological balance, the JDA had proposed to plant trees on empty lands and project was name as Woodland. However, it was shelved in absence of land availability,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-space-for-green-cover-in-city-colonies/articleshow/77880450.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Housing board plans ‘weekend home’ in lap of nature near Naila||JAIPUR: Facing neck-and-neck competition from private players, the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) is now adopting innovative methods to lure buyers towards its schemes. Unlike the orthodox housing colonies, RHB has now proposed to develop a cost-effective, ‘weekend home’ scheme in the foothills surrounded by greenery near Naila. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “The price of the duplex house in the scheme will be Rs 14.99 lakh. Facilities such as open air theatre, children’s park, gym, food court will be developed in the scheme”.  The scheme was launched along with 18 other housing schemes in a programme where chief minister Ashok Gehlot and urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal were present. RHB will develop around 6,663 houses in these schemes across the state. Arora said, “Out of total 19 schemes, RHB will invite online applications for 10 schemes. The applications for remaining nine schemes will be invited offline”.  After a long span, RHB has launched an independent housing scheme for economically weaker section, lower income group and middle-income group (A) categories. The board has fixed Rs 5 lakh for these flats. Around 1,525 plots will be developed under the scheme in Mehla and Vatika. RHB was established in 1970 with the aim of providing houses on no-profit-no-loss basis. However, in the recent past, due to several cases of corruption relating to officials allegedly increasing prices of houses in connivance with the contractors, buyers have refrained from buying RHB flats. This pushed the board towards a financial black hole. It is believed that the new schemes will not only boost the revenue but also provide good quality homes to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/housing-board-plans-weekend-home-in-lap-of-nature-near-naila/articleshow/77880441.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Aspiring model among 2 held for extorting woman||JAIPUR: A man and a woman were arrested by Chomu police for allegedly blackmailing a woman by morphing the latter’s picture. The arrested man is from Chomu while the woman is a native of Greater Noida and is an aspiring model. Both of them became friends on a social networking platform and then planned to extort and blackmail a woman. Both had asked the victim to pay Rs 1 crore and threatened that if she failed to cough up the money, they will make her morphed pictures public. According to police, the accused identified as Gaurav Gupta got in touch with Mrinalini Gupta through a social networking website. “Gupta allured her to find a target and then connived with her to blackmail a woman. Both of them have been arrested,” said a senior officer. The woman in her FIR lodged said three years ago she had visited Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. “During that time, Gaurav had clicked some of her pictures of the trip. Thereafter, the accused morphed her pictures and made a plan to blackmail her,” said a senior officer of Chomu police station. Gaurav used Mrinalini to call the complainant and both threatened her to post her semi-naked morphed photos on social networking sites if she failed to pay Rs 1 crore. “We laid a trap where Mrinalini was invited to Jaipur to take the delivery of the money. When she came, she was taken into custody. We also made her call up Gaurav to claim that she has already taken Rs 55 lakh and he should come to Jaipur to take his share. When Gaurav arrived, he too was taken into custody. Both were arrested and a case under appropriate sections of IPC was lodged against them,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aspiring-model-among-2-held-for-extorting-woman/articleshow/77880453.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||59 more die in Punjab; toll crosses 1.5k, cases hit 55k||Chandigarh: Punjab passed another unwanted milestone of 1,500 Covid-19 deaths by recording 59 fatalies due to the virus on Tuesday, taking the overall death count to 1,512. Punjab fatality rate surged to 2.72%, against the national rate of 1.77%. Even as the central government has asked states to bring fatality rate below 1%, the Punjab government is far from the target. In last 24 hours, 1,522 more people were found to be infected, pushing the state’s tally to 55,508 cases. In all, 19,004 samples were collected by the health team and the positivity rate was recorded at 8%. Six duplicate entries, made in the tally of August 31, were removed. Of 59 deaths, 13 people lost their lives in Ludhiana, eight in Jalandhar and seven in Amritsar. Five people each were killed in Ferozepur and Patiala, four each in Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib, two each in Barnala and Faridkot, and one each in Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran and Pathankot. Also, 70 people were in critical condition and on ventilator support, of which five were added on Tuesday. Also, 464 on oxygen support. The highest number of cases, 216, were reported in Ludhiana. It was followed by 211 cases in Mohali, 158 in Jalandhar, 120 in Patiala, 111 in Amritsar, 104 in Gurdaspur, and 110 in Faridkot. Test reports of 64 people came positive in Bathinda, 51 in Moga, 45 in Tarn Taran, 38 in Hoshiarpur, 35 in Pathankot, 33 each in Kapurthala and Ropar, 25 in Fazilka, 23 in Barnala, 21 each in Nawanshahr and Mansa, 17 in Sangrur, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, and 11 in Ferozepur. A total of 1,120 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 38,147.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/59-more-die-in-punjab-toll-crosses-1-5k-cases-hit-55k/articleshow/77880844.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government nod for Vidyasagar Setu’s first big repairs||KOLKATA: The wait is over. The state government has finally given its nod to the much-awaited repair and rehabilitation project for Vidyasagar Setu. An official of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC), the custodian of Vidysagar Setu, said the work for the project that costs around Rs 200 crore is set to start soon. According to the HRBC sources, a Kolkata-based engineering firm has been entrusted to wrap up the work that includes replacement of stay cables, holding down cables and bearings in three years, keeping traffic movement on the bridge unhindered. The city firm will be assisted by a Germany-based firm that has an expertise in repairing cable stayed bridges in south-east Asia. “All we need to do is issue a work order for the project to get started,” said a HRBC official. Since it was commissioned in 1992, Vidyasagar Setu has not undergone a thorough repair and rehabilitation process. Funds for the project will partly come from HRBC as the agency is responsible for collection of toll tax, a source in the state finance department said. The rehabilitation and repair project of India’s longest cable stayed bridge was taken up following a detailed survey of its condition by the engineering consultancy firm RITES. The RITES’ final survey report was submitted to HRBC in October, 2018 and the project was to have started early this year. But the work had to be put on hold owing to the pandemic. According to engineers in the RITES that was entrusted with the task to survey the bridge, all damaged stay cables, 16 holding down cables and all existing bearings of Vidyasagar Setu will have to be replaced to enhance its lifespan. “We have made a comprehensive inspection and testing of all stay cables by ultrasonic electro-magnetic methods and come to the conclusion that all corroded or heavily damaged stay cables will have to be replaced without delay. Primarily out of 152 stay cables, 12 need immediate replacement. Later, we may need to replace more such cables based on the current scope of work. Besides 16 holding down cables and all existing bearings will have to be replaced to protect the bridge from potential danger,”said a RITES engineer associated with the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-nod-for-vidyasagar-setus-1st-big-repairs/articleshow/77879439.cms||Saikat Ray
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism policy draft submitted to state cabinet||JAIPUR: Meeting the deadline given by the chief minister for preparing the tourist policy in his review meeting on August 5, the department has submitted the draft to the state cabinet to finalize and announce it. Sources said that for the first time the policy has given priority on rebooting the fairs and festivals like Pushkar camel fair, Jaisalmer Desert Festival and International Music Festival in Udaipur as per the suggestions made by chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the review meeting. The policy was supposed to be taken up in the last cabinet meeting which was rescheduled once and then cancelled. The sources said the policy will have a broad vision for making the fairs and festivals relevant in the current times while detail action plan will be prepared later. “The format of these fairs and festivals have not changed much since they started. Now, the department is also keen to analyze its impact in attracting tourists. We will a detailed study before preparing the action plan,” said the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-policy-draft-submitted-to-state-cabinet/articleshow/77880454.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Government begins recruitment of PROs for key departments||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to strengthen the department of information and public relations (DIPR) which remained neglected in the past. DIPR commissioner Mahendra Soni has written to various departments to inform about the need for public relations personnel as the plan is to strengthen the department with appointment of more PROs in the coming days. The department has started recruiting PROs after a long time since the new government came to power. The previous government was depending mainly on private agencies for publicity and there were charges of corruption in hiring public relations agencies. In his letter to departments, Soni said information and public relations is a specialised wing of the government in disseminating credible information to the public at large. He said it was found that in some departments, some staff were assigned the job of information and public relations instead of trained personnel. Besides, at the divisional and district level, in many important boards, corporations and universities, the posts of public relations are either not created or remain vacant seriously impairing information dissemination. This trend has to be shunned and trained people from the public relations department have to be appointed to such posts, said Soni in his letter. He asked the departments to inform DIPR if they require personnel for public relations so that they could be recruited or services of the staff be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-begins-recruitment-of-pros-for-key-departments/articleshow/77880455.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Record 1,694 cases, 17 casualties in Haryana||Chandigarh: A day before competitive and terminal class exams were to begin in the state, Haryana on Tuesday recorded its worst Covid-19 spike of 1,694 new cases and 17 deaths, taking the total to 66,426 cases with 706 deaths. A total 1,163 patients were discharged after recovery. Though the recovery figure reached 53,835, the recovery rate was 81.05%. With this, there are 11,885 active patients in the state. Of these, 249 are critical, including 207 on oxygen support and 42 on ventilator support. Health officials attribute the latest spike in cases to the number of antigen tests conducted in the state. Gurgaon recorded 196 new cases, taking the district total to 12,127 with 133 deaths. There are 1,047 active patients. Panipat recorded 161 new patients and one death, taking the district total to 3,796 patients and 48 deaths. In Karnal, there are 141 new patients and two deaths. The district total reached 3,010 cases and 32 deaths. Faridabad reported 132 new patients and two deaths. This took the district total to 12,816 with 172 deaths. In Sonipat, there were 130 new cases, taking the district total to 4,530. Panchkula and Hisar recorded 98 new cases each. In Panchkula, there were three deaths too. Hisar got one death. Kurukshetra recorded 84 new cases and two deaths. This took the total to 1,845 cases and 34 deaths. Yamunananagar got 83 new cases and one death, taking the total to 1,714 cases and 20 deaths. In Rewari, 79 new cases and one death were reported. While Ambala district reported 78 new cases and one death. Sirsa reported its highest spike of 60 new cases and two deaths. The total rose to 1,431 cases and 18 deaths. In Rohtak, 59 new cases.It was followed by 57 new cases in Mahindergarh, 53 in Kaithal, 37 each in Bhiwani and Jind, 31 in Jhajjar, 24 in Jhajjar, 21 in Charkhi Dadri, 19 new cases and one death in Palwal, and 16 in Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-1694-cases-17-casualties-in-haryana/articleshow/77880849.cms||Manvir Saini
September 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Plan B ready to make Ring Road operational by November||JAIPUR: The transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, which connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road, is likely to be made operational by November. With land possession for construction of cloverleaf structures on Agra Road still pending, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) have drawn an alternative plan to operate the corridor to ease heavy traffic. An official said, “In a coordination meeting, it was discussed that the slip lanes will be constructed to give access to the transport corridor, till the time cloverleaves are developed. Tenders for constructing two cloverleaves at Ajmer Road and Agra Road are invited. It will be constructed within one year,” he said. Experts say that construction of the slip lanes is proposed for temporary relief in order to utilise the defunct corridor. However, construction of cloverleaf would be required as soon as possible at entry and exit points of Ring Road. “With the help of a structure, the vehicles can cross the junction without any signal. The engineers adopt, grade separation technique or ramping mechanism for constructing the structure and it consists of one or more ramps to allow the traffic flow from one or more highways through the junction even without actually crossing it or without disturbing the movement of other traffic streams,” said an official. While, the JDA has provided the land to construct the cloverleaf structure at Ajmer road and Tonk Road, taking possession of land at Agra Road remains a challenge. In March, the state government had cleared the proposal to provide compensation to the affected landowners whose 3,200 square metre land was acquired to construct cloverleaf structure on Agra Road. “The JDA had decided to allot 1,100 square metre land to the affected owners in Chitrakoot area after receiving a nod from the state government. There is a delay in taking possession as paper work is taking time,” said a JDA official. The crucial Ring Road Project, which is being constructed after spending Rs 1,235 crore, has been delayed by two years. According to sources, NHAI will spend Rs 238 crore to construct cloverleaf and flyovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/plan-b-ready-to-make-ring-road-operational-by-nov/articleshow/77883396.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Plan B ready to make Ring Road operational by November||JAIPUR: The transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, which connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road, is likely to be made operational by November. With land possession for construction of cloverleaf structures on Agra Road still pending, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) have drawn an alternative plan to operate the corridor to ease heavy traffic. An official said, “In a coordination meeting, it was discussed that the slip lanes will be constructed to give access to the transport corridor, till the time cloverleaves are developed. Tenders for constructing two cloverleaves at Ajmer Road and Agra Road are invited. It will be constructed within one year,” he said. Experts say that construction of the slip lanes is proposed for temporary relief in order to utilise the defunct corridor. However, construction of cloverleaf would be required as soon as possible at entry and exit points of Ring Road. “With the help of a structure, the vehicles can cross the junction without any signal. The engineers adopt, grade separation technique or ramping mechanism for constructing the structure and it consists of one or more ramps to allow the traffic flow from one or more highways through the junction even without actually crossing it or without disturbing the movement of other traffic streams,” said an official. While, the JDA has provided the land to construct the cloverleaf structure at Ajmer road and Tonk Road, taking possession of land at Agra Road remains a challenge. In March, the state government had cleared the proposal to provide compensation to the affected landowners whose 3,200 square metre land was acquired to construct cloverleaf structure on Agra Road. “The JDA had decided to allot 1,100 square metre land to the affected owners in Chitrakoot area after receiving a nod from the state government. There is a delay in taking possession as paper work is taking time,” said a JDA official. The crucial Ring Road Project, which is being constructed after spending Rs 1,235 crore, has been delayed by two years. According to sources, NHAI will spend Rs 238 crore to construct cloverleaf and flyovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plan-b-ready-to-make-ring-road-operational-by-nov/articleshow/77880456.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Agra||Agra hospital which forced Dalit parents to ‘sell’ newborn over unpaid medical bills sealed, probe on||AGRA: A day after TOI report, the Agra district health department conducted a raid and sealed the hospital where a Dalit couple was forced to sell their newborn boy for Rs 1 lakh as they were not able to pay the medical bills. During the raid, the health department team found that there was no doctor or paramedical staff on duty, no patient was under treatment and the hospital staff were not able to produce documents related to registration. After sealing the premises, the health department team placed a notice directing the management to record their statement at the CMO’s office within two days. Read AlsoAgra: Unable to pay medical bills, couple ‘sells’ newborn to hospitalBabita, 36, underwent a C-section to deliver a baby boy last week. The procedure cost Rs 30,000, her medicines Rs 5,000. Neither she nor her husband Shiv Charan, a 45-year-old rickshaw puller, had the money. The hospital, the Dalit couple alleged, asked them to sell the baby to settle the bill — forMeanwhile, on the orders of district magistrate Prabhu N Singh, a probe was also launched into the case. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “Following the orders of the district administration, a raid was conducted at JP Hospital located in Trans-Yamuna locality. The hospital was found to be operating in violation of the norms. The staff at the hospital was not able to showcase the registration records. No doctor or paramedical staff was found on duty. We have sealed the hospital. Its management has been asked to report in person within two days. We will be looking into their registration records. They will also be questioned on the allegations of the exchange of the baby over unpaid medical bills.” Following the DM’s orders, additional city magistrate Vimal Kishor Gupta and deputy superintendent of police Vikas Kumar Jaiswal went to meet the Dalit family living in Shambhu Nagar near Mehtab Bagh. The newborn’s mother, 36-year-old Babita, urged the officials to help them get her child back. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The incident is being investigated in detail. An FIR will be registered against those found guilty.” Meanwhile, child rights activist Naresh Paras has sent a complaint to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) seeking action against the hospital under IPC’s section 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave). Watch Agra Dalit couple 'sells' baby boy to clear hospital dues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hospital-which-forced-dalit-parents-to-sell-newborn-over-unpaid-medical-bills-sealed-probe-on/articleshow/77877498.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 2, 2020||Jaipur||‘Pandemic brings down number of candidates’||JAIPUR: The number of students appearing for JEE Main in second attempt in September has decreased by 20,000 as compared to first attempt in January. In January, 65,000 students had appeared for the examination, while 45,000 will sit in the test in September. Till 2019, first JEE Mains examination used to take place in January and second in April. Due to lockdown, the second examination has been shifted to September. According to data, the number of students would usually cross 55,000-mark in each attempt. This year, however, due to lockdown, thousands of students in various coaching institutes of Kota and Jaipur have gone back to their home states and will be giving examination from there. This is considered to be a major reason of the downfall of the number. Puneet Sharma, an education expert, said, “The effect of pandemic is undeniable. Students, who have returned to their home states, will naturally give examination from there. Moreover, it is not necessary that all students who have submitted the form will be giving the examination. There are students who won’t appear at all.” Students are given two chances for getting admissions in IIT’s in India. Two JEE Main examination is conducted in January and April. This year, due to pandemic, the April examinaton has been postponed to September. A student can choose the best score from both the papers to sit for Advanced. There has been a fear of pandemic as well that have prompted students not to appear for examination. Many coaching institutes said that most of their students have preferred to give examination from their home state. Ashish Arora, an expert said, “Most of the students studying in Rajasthan especially in Kota belonged to UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. As the students have returned to their home state, the number of students from Rajasthan have gone down. Meanwhile, the number in second attempt have gone up in other states as compared to last year due to the arrival of these students. In both the attempts students number usually cross 50,000 mark and this year, pandemic clearly has an impact.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-brings-down-number-of-candidates/articleshow/77880457.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Court halts Netflix series episode on Satyam’s Raju||HYDERABAD: A city civil court on Tuesday stopped Netflix from airing an episode on former chairman of Satyam Computers Byrraju Ramalinga Raju in its new webseries ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ which begins on September 2. Additional chief judge Prathima of Hyderabad city civil court granted an injunction restraining Netflix from telecasting the episode. Raju moved the court contending that the airing of the episode would invade his privacy in an unlawful manner. Sixty-six-year-old Raju was CEO of Satyam Computer Services from 1987 until January 2009 when what is popularly known as the Satyam scandal was unearthed. He stepped down after admitting to embezzling large amounts of money from the company. In 2015, he was convicted of corporate fraud along with his brother. The brothers were sent to a seven-year jail term by a trial court in Hyderabad and fined Rs 5.5 crore. Arguing the case of Raju, senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said this case was pending at the appeal stage and a sessions court was hearing it. “At this stage, the makers of this web series cannot conclude that Raju is guilty and they cannot use words like ‘greed’, ‘fraud’ and ‘cooking of books’. But they have used such vocabulary in their documentary in a reckless manner,” he contended. Niranjan further said this would prejudice people and also invade the privacy of Raju. “When the matter is sub-judice, such defamatory remarks cannot be made against Ramalinga Raju,” he argued. After hearing the senior counsel, the judge stopped Netflix from airing the episode. Ramalinga Raju and others who were found guilty were granted bail by a special court on May 11, 2015, within a month of being convicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-halts-netflix-series-episode-on-satyams-raju/articleshow/77880853.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Auto firms on Chennai's outskirts hit top gear||CHENNAI: With Tamil Nadu announcing lockdown relaxation from Tuesday, auto factories around Chennai brought back their staff in full while the smaller units await more buses to ferry their staff. Tech workers preferred WFH, while most bankers returned to their branches. The auto hub of Oragadam got back shop floor workers and increased production to build up inventory for upcoming festive sales. While Hyundai, Daimler have been busy increasing their production in the second shift, Royal Enfield is taking cautious steps to bring people back. Yamaha too has its staff from near the factory making it easier to bring them to the workplace. Tech employers like Cognizant, TCS, Verizon, OrangeScape, GAVS and others are continuing the WFH arrangements and have not finalised their back-to-work plans yet. “There is a lot of anxiety among employees to report to office, and we have staff spread all over India currently, and we don’t want to take a chance and will continue staying remote,” Balaji Uppili, chief customer success officer at AI firm GAVS, said. “[Tech] companies are not in a real hurry to get back to offices. Currently there is only 3-5% workforce within offices and the change will happen very slowly. It is also working out well in terms of costs,” a tech industry executive said. A senior official at The State Bank of India said: “We have achieved 90% of attendance on September 1, compared to 45-50% recorded as on August 31. As complete lockdown without any relaxation on Sundays is cancelled, banks having Sunday working branches are asked to function as usual from Monday.” R Ramamurthy, president, Codissia, said that only 5% increase in attendance was seen from the relaxation of inter-district movement compared to the 50-70% attendance recorded till August. “It is impossible to attain 100% attendance with the migrant workers stuck in their hometowns in Bihar and Odisha. A full attendance is possible only when these workers are brought back from their hometowns,” he said. Factory managers at Ambattur Industrial Estate said attendance remained unchanged at 50-60% due to lack of suburban trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/auto-firms-on-the-outskirts-hit-top-gear/articleshow/77879446.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Faridabad||Of 238 Haryana deaths, 100 in Faridabad, Panipat, Kurukshetra||CHANDIGARH: Faridabad, Panipat and Kurukshetra recorded the highest number of Covid-19 casualties during August in Haryana, accounting for 100 of the total 238 deaths which took place across the state. While Faridabad topped the list with 39 deaths, Panipat got 31 fatalities and Kurukshetra got 30. In Faridabad, the fatality count rose from 131 on July 31 to 170 on August 31. The figure rose from 16 to 47 in the same time period in Panipat. In Kurukshetra, fatalities rose from two deaths on July 31 to 32 on August 31. “We have taken all precautions and our teams are working hard. Though there were deaths, the mortality rate remained 1.9%,” said Kurukshetra civil surgeon Sukhbir Singh. He appealed to people to practise social distancing and take other precautionary measures. There were no deaths in Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri districts. So far, only one death has been reported in Mahendergarh, but the case tally rose from 822 on July 31 to 1,748 on August 31. In Charkhi Dadri too, the death toll remained unchaged at one, while the case tally rose from 155 to 271.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/of-238-hry-deaths-100-in-fbd-panipat-kshetra/articleshow/77886029.cms||Manvir Saini
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 238 Haryana deaths, 100 in Faridabad, Panipat, Kurukshetra||CHANDIGARH: Faridabad, Panipat and Kurukshetra recorded the highest number of Covid-19 casualties during August in Haryana, accounting for 100 of the total 238 deaths which took place across the state. While Faridabad topped the list with 39 deaths, Panipat got 31 fatalities and Kurukshetra got 30. In Faridabad, the fatality count rose from 131 on July 31 to 170 on August 31. The figure rose from 16 to 47 in the same time period in Panipat. In Kurukshetra, fatalities rose from two deaths on July 31 to 32 on August 31. “We have taken all precautions and our teams are working hard. Though there were deaths, the mortality rate remained 1.9%,” said Kurukshetra civil surgeon Sukhbir Singh. He appealed to people to practise social distancing and take other precautionary measures. There were no deaths in Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri districts. So far, only one death has been reported in Mahendergarh, but the case tally rose from 822 on July 31 to 1,748 on August 31. In Charkhi Dadri too, the death toll remained unchaged at one, while the case tally rose from 155 to 271.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-238-hry-deaths-100-in-fbd-panipat-kshetra/articleshow/77880852.cms||Manvir Saini
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Tweeple mock 459-pothole claim, say BBMP gets its maths wrong||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s crater count is drawing ridicule online, with Twitter users even deriding the civic agency’s definition of a pothole. TOI had reported on Tuesday that according to BBMP data, there are only 459 potholes on the 1,320-km arterial and sub-arterial road network in the city. “They have changed the definition of potholes probably. (A pit) less than 1foot x 1foot in size is a pimple on the road, 2x2 is a dimple on the road...Only a crater above 2x2 is a pothole (sic),” tweeted Sudeep Singh. @WeAreBangalore They have changed the definition of potholes probably.Less than1 foot x 1foot is a pimple on the r… https://t.co/cyiu8l9WDn— Sudeep Singh (@ideasingh) 1598937366000Some netizens poked fun at the civic administration, saying it might have forgotten some zeros after 459. A Twitter user, Arvind Saraswat, posted: “Don’t be angry. Most probably they are counting in some exotic number base, certainly not in decimal (sic).” Lakshmikanth, a resident of Hennur, said BBMP has not paid attention to their complaints over the past few years and yet has the audacity to say there are only 459 potholes on roads. “Hennur alone has over 200 potholes. Stating that the city has only 459 potholes is a farce,” he added. A resident of Bannerghatta, Guru Udupa, said that a 4-km stretch in his locality is dotted with nearly 50 potholes. “Firstly, there are hardly any roads as repair is never-ending. Secondly, potholes keep surfacing,” Udupa added. Netizens requested civic officials to pay a visit to areas like Thanisandra, Manyata Tech Park Road, Ejipura and Domlur Main Road to get a grip on the actual condition of roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/netizens-mock-459-pothole-claim-say-bbmp-gets-its-maths-wrong/articleshow/77878926.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Government committed to provide free power to farmers: Minister||AMARAVATI: Energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Wednesday said he will quit the cabinet the the day farmers in the state are made to pay power bills. “ The government is committed to provide free power to the agriculture sector and will not tamper with the scheme at any cost,” he said in response to opposition TDP’s allegations, blaming the YSRC government for rise in farmer suicides. “It is strange that (N Chandrababu) Naidu and his men are now shedding crocodile tears on the issue of free power. Wasn’t it Naidu who gunned down farmers for demanding free power when he was at the helm? He had said at the time that the power line would be used to dry clothes if free power was given to farmers,” added Balineni. On meters being installed on agriculture pump-sets, he said the government has only been trying to implement Centre’s guidelines as per the proposed Electricity (amendment) Bill. “Why are opposition parties making a hue and cry on the issue when government has clearly said it would bear the burden of power consumption for agriculture sector? I appeal to farmers to not fall prey to the campaign launched by Naidu. Installing meters is not aimed at diluting free power scheme,” the minister said and added that the government will open separate bank accounts for farmers getting free power and remit and route the consumption charges directly to the discoms without diversions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-committed-to-provide-free-power-to-farmers-min/articleshow/77897883.cms||Samdani MN
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||JEE Main begins on a smooth note; Bengaluru students happy with safety measures||BENGALURU: City students appearing for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), which began on Tuesday amid countrywide protests, were more than happy with the way it was conducted. After being postponed twice, the examinations are being held at 660 centres across the country till September 6. BArch was the first exam on Tuesday and BTech entrance test is on Wednesday. Officials said 60% of the registered candidates took the exam on day one. After a lot of ups and downs and anxiety over how the crucial exams will be conducted, students in the city seemed to be satisfied with the safety measures. Binnypet resident Ananya Hemanth said it went well without any hurdles. “In my centre (in Peenya), they were extremely strict about social distancing; they distributed masks and sanitised bags. They made us sit a desk away from each other, which was a good distance. There were no exceptions and they didn’t allow crowding inside the centre,” Ananya said. On how the exam was, she said “maths was the hardest, but that’s just JEE level. The rest was a breeze”. Gamana Reddy, who took the exam at a KR Puram centre said: “Social distancing was maintained well and the centre wasn’t crowded either. The exam turned out to be easy, which was a big relief.” Ganganagar resident Prajwal BR said difficulty levels are expected in JEE. “They maintained safety norms really well; there were no problems. They even provided face masks,” Prajwal said. Several students who appeared for Tuesday’s exam had also written The National Aptitude Test in Architecture on Saturday. Though NATA was also organised by NTA, students said the JEE-Main experience was much better. “It was way better than NATA,” Prajwal said. Many students in the city had reported technical glitches during the NATA exam. A student said: “I wish they’d put the same measures in place for NATA exam. I felt safe during JEE, thanks to the way the exam was conducted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jee-main-begins-on-a-smooth-note-students-happy-with-safety-measures/articleshow/77878942.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Shifting bus stops, hawkers could ease traffic chaos at BSK junction, say agencies||BENGALURU: A posse of officials from BBMP, BMRCL and other agencies along with traffic police inspected Banashankari bus stand junction on Tuesday and discussed solutions to ease congestion in the area. Shifting bus stops, creating a parking facility and relocating street vendors were among the suggestions floated. The junction, among the busiest in south Bengaluru, has seven roads leading to different directions and the bus stand on the other side. Pavement hawkers have added to the chaos, which is only compounded on Tuesday and Friday when a large crowd of devotees arrives at Banashankari temple, located within 100 metres of the bus station. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic-west) SK Soumyalatha, who was part of the group that visited the junction, said shifting the five bus stops and restricting pedestrians from walking on roads are the main solutions. “There are five bus stops on these seven roads. Buses heading towards Jayanagar, Subramanyapura, Kanakapura Road, Marenahalli and KR Market stop on the roads for passengers. Naturally, traffic gets disturbed. The Traffic and Transit Management Centre can accommodate more BMTC buses. Currently, only the 501 series buses (starting from Banashankari, moving on ring road routes and returning) enter TTMC. Most traffic problems will be solved if all buses from the five bus stops enter TTMC,” said Soumyalatha. “Street vendors should be shifted to other roads and a parking facility should be provided near the bus stand,” said Soumyalatha, who later tweeted: “Visited Banashankari bus stand along with officers from BBMP, BMRCL, BWSSB, DULT, BMTC, technical team and discussed the improvements which has to be done at the junction to ease the traffic flow and address pedestrian problem and street vendors (sic).” Traffic constables manning the junction say it’s a tiring job. “No one listens to us. Motorists jump traffic signals and pedestrians use roads more than pavements as they are encroached,” they said, adding: “At least 600 BMTC buses, 1,000 autos, 3,000 two-wheelers and 1,000 four-wheelers cross this junction every day. The number of other vehicles, increases on Tuesdays and Fridays.” Residents feel road widening is the only solution. Purushottam Rao, a retired private company employee and resident of Banashankari since 1980, said: “The road should be widened and buildings located on the two sides razed. We were told that Namma Metro would reduce traffic at this junction but nothing changed.” BMTC MD C Shikha said, “Some infrastructure, including TTMC, has be redesigned. Also, we need some additional land and have asked Metro to part with it. Bus stops and pedestrians are issues of prime concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shifting-bus-stops-hawkers-could-ease-traffic-chaos-at-bsk-junction-agencies/articleshow/77878935.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||In rural Punjab, rumours fuel opposition to Covid testing and hospital admissions||BATHINDA/PATIALA: There is growing opposition to Covid-19 testing and admission of infected people in government hospitals and isolation centres in rural areas of Punjab and village panchayats in some parts of the state are passing resolutions against forcible testing and villagers being isolated in Covid care centres. The health teams are battling misinformation spread rapidly on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Mansa police registered a case on charges of spreading rumours about Covid-19 and health teams against Raman Singh (23) of Nangla village in Bathinda. He has been accused of spreading rumours on WhatsApp. Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said in a message forwarded by the accused, it was said that the organs of Covid patients were being sold. The message also claimed that health workers had been given targets of finding at least two infected people in each village. It also appealed to people to not get admitted in hospitals on the recommendations of health workers and to maintain a distance from 108 ambulances. The mistrust has grown so much that the district health authorities are now filing police complaints against the village panchayats which have passed these resolutions. A host of panchayats in Punjab’s Malwa region, especially Moga, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur, Bathinda and Mansa districts, have passed resolutions. In the Majha region too, there have been a few instances of similar panchayat resolutions. Batala police registered a case against a person for stopping health workers from performing Covid-19 tests in Hargobindpur, SSP Rachpal Singh said, adding that some people had been spreading canard on social media about organ trade. However, barring one instance in Nawanshahr no instances of panchayats passing resolutions against Covid testing or hospitalisation of residents have emerged in the Doaba region. No FIR has been registered. “We filed a complaint with the police against Ageta village panchayat for passing a resolution against the police and health teams and then making the resolution go viral. Such acts are demoralising our health teams that have been fighting against the pandemic,” said Patiala epidemiologist Dr Sumit. The resolution was passed by the panchayats of Ageta , Dhanauri, Dhanaura and a few other villages of Patiala district. “Health teams will not be allowed to take samples of our villagers without our consent as rumours of fake positive results have scared people. We have been holding camps for sampling in the past and we would cooperate, but they will have to conduct samplings in our presence only,” Darshan Singh, sarpanch of Dhanauri, said. The scare of the health teams has grown so much that villagers in some cases are even attacking them to prevent them from carrying out their work. Two policemen were seriously injured on Sunday night in Khang village of Patiala district after police and health teams were attacked by villagers when they were trying to take a pregnant woman, who is Covid positive, to hospital. Patran station SHO Darbara Singh said, “We got a call for help on Sunday night as residents of Khang village were not allowing them to take the pregnant woman who tested positive for Covid-19 before her delivery, which was expected by September 4. ” Over 40 persons, including 32 unidentified accused, were on Monday booked on various charges, including attempt to murder and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-rural-punjab-rumours-fuel-opposition-to-covid-testing-and-hospital-admissions/articleshow/77882079.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Amritsar||In rural Punjab, rumours fuel opposition to Covid testing and hospital admissions||BATHINDA/PATIALA: There is growing opposition to Covid-19 testing and admission of infected people in government hospitals and isolation centres in rural areas of Punjab and village panchayats in some parts of the state are passing resolutions against forcible testing and villagers being isolated in Covid care centres. The health teams are battling misinformation spread rapidly on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Mansa police registered a case on charges of spreading rumours about Covid-19 and health teams against Raman Singh (23) of Nangla village in Bathinda. He has been accused of spreading rumours on WhatsApp. Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said in a message forwarded by the accused, it was said that the organs of Covid patients were being sold. The message also claimed that health workers had been given targets of finding at least two infected people in each village. It also appealed to people to not get admitted in hospitals on the recommendations of health workers and to maintain a distance from 108 ambulances. The mistrust has grown so much that the district health authorities are now filing police complaints against the village panchayats which have passed these resolutions. A host of panchayats in Punjab’s Malwa region, especially Moga, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur, Bathinda and Mansa districts, have passed resolutions. In the Majha region too, there have been a few instances of similar panchayat resolutions. Batala police registered a case against a person for stopping health workers from performing Covid-19 tests in Hargobindpur, SSP Rachpal Singh said, adding that some people had been spreading canard on social media about organ trade. However, barring one instance in Nawanshahr no instances of panchayats passing resolutions against Covid testing or hospitalisation of residents have emerged in the Doaba region. No FIR has been registered. “We filed a complaint with the police against Ageta village panchayat for passing a resolution against the police and health teams and then making the resolution go viral. Such acts are demoralising our health teams that have been fighting against the pandemic,” said Patiala epidemiologist Dr Sumit. The resolution was passed by the panchayats of Ageta , Dhanauri, Dhanaura and a few other villages of Patiala district. “Health teams will not be allowed to take samples of our villagers without our consent as rumours of fake positive results have scared people. We have been holding camps for sampling in the past and we would cooperate, but they will have to conduct samplings in our presence only,” Darshan Singh, sarpanch of Dhanauri, said. The scare of the health teams has grown so much that villagers in some cases are even attacking them to prevent them from carrying out their work. Two policemen were seriously injured on Sunday night in Khang village of Patiala district after police and health teams were attacked by villagers when they were trying to take a pregnant woman, who is Covid positive, to hospital. Patran station SHO Darbara Singh said, “We got a call for help on Sunday night as residents of Khang village were not allowing them to take the pregnant woman who tested positive for Covid-19 before her delivery, which was expected by September 4. ” Over 40 persons, including 32 unidentified accused, were on Monday booked on various charges, including attempt to murder and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-rural-punjab-rumours-fuel-opposition-to-covid-testing-and-hospital-admissions/articleshow/77882082.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||In 2019, debt, bankruptcy led to 989 suicides in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The latest data of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has thrown up some worrying numbers – Telangana has the third highest number of suicides due to bankruptcy or debt in the country in 2019. With 989 such suicides, Telangana is behind only Maharashtra (1,526) and Karnataka (1,432). Also, Telangana had fourth-highest farmer suicides (491). According to the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India report of the NCRB, Telangana is ranked seventh among all states with a total of 7,675 suicides in 2019, of which 5,612 were men, 2,062 were women. One victim has been identified as a transgender. Hyderabad city, however, has witnessed a decline of 27% in suicides. In 2018, as many as 536 suicides were recorded which came down to 389 deaths in 2019. Telangana had recorded 684 suicide deaths due to bankruptcy or debt in 2018 and added another 305 deaths in 2019, reveals the data. “I have observed that suicide attempts are high among women, but suicide death are high among men. For both men and women, relationship issues leading to suicidal thoughts are high. In the recent past, I have observed that financial stress is also leading to suicidal thoughts and depression, especially among men who are the single bread earning,” said Dr Virinchi Sharma, a city-based psychiatrist. Most such suicides were reported from rural districts. As many as 3,285 suicides were due to family problems and 141 were attributed to failure in various exams. Also, 426 students killed themselves. Members of a city-based anti-suicide helpline, Roshini, said every month at least 12 students reach out to them seeking help with depression, while calls peak before exams and result days. Most of the students seek help to deal with academic pressure from parents. Of the 491 farmers suicide in the state, 434 were men and 57 were women. As many as 373 victims were farmers who cultivated their own land, while 118 had leased the lands. Eight victims were engaged as agricultural labourers. As many as 10,269 persons involved in the farming sector in the country killed themselves, according to the data. Of these, 5,945 were farmers and cultivators and 4,324 agricultural labourers, together accounting for a little over 7% of the total suicides in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-19-debt-bankruptcy-led-to-989-suicides-in-t/articleshow/77880857.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Final year exams of Haryana universities, colleges by September-end||CHANDIGARH: Examinations of final year students of all universities and colleges in Haryana will be conducted by the end of September. All the results will also be declared before October 3. The students have been given the option to take the examinations either through online or offline medium. For the students coming from distant places, accommodation will be arranged in varsity or college hostels. Social distancing norms will be followed in the examination centres and the question papers will have questions with multiple choice answers, short answers and explanatory answers. A decision in this regard was taken during a video conference meeting organized by the Haryana State Higher Education Council and attended by vice-chancellors (VCs) and controllers of examination of all the government-aided universities and colleges. Around 2 lakh students are enrolled in the final year classes in various colleges and universities of the state and adequate arrangements will be made for all the students who will appear for the examinations, said an official of the State Higher Education Council, who did not wish to be identified. The Haryana government has given its consent to hold the examinations on the recommendation of the human resource development ministry’s higher education department and the University Grants Commission (UGC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-varsity-final-year-exams-by-sept-end/articleshow/77880855.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||In rural Punjab, rumours fuel opposition to Covid testing and hospital admissions||BATHINDA/PATIALA: There is growing opposition to Covid-19 testing and admission of infected people in government hospitals and isolation centres in rural areas of Punjab and village panchayats in some parts of the state are passing resolutions against forcible testing and villagers being isolated in Covid care centres. The health teams are battling misinformation spread rapidly on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Mansa police registered a case on charges of spreading rumours about Covid-19 and health teams against Raman Singh (23) of Nangla village in Bathinda. He has been accused of spreading rumours on WhatsApp. Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said in a message forwarded by the accused, it was said that the organs of Covid patients were being sold. The message also claimed that health workers had been given targets of finding at least two infected people in each village. It also appealed to people to not get admitted in hospitals on the recommendations of health workers and to maintain a distance from 108 ambulances. The mistrust has grown so much that the district health authorities are now filing police complaints against the village panchayats which have passed these resolutions. A host of panchayats in Punjab’s Malwa region, especially Moga, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur, Bathinda and Mansa districts, have passed resolutions. In the Majha region too, there have been a few instances of similar panchayat resolutions. Batala police registered a case against a person for stopping health workers from performing Covid-19 tests in Hargobindpur, SSP Rachpal Singh said, adding that some people had been spreading canard on social media about organ trade. However, barring one instance in Nawanshahr no instances of panchayats passing resolutions against Covid testing or hospitalisation of residents have emerged in the Doaba region. No FIR has been registered. “We filed a complaint with the police against Ageta village panchayat for passing a resolution against the police and health teams and then making the resolution go viral. Such acts are demoralising our health teams that have been fighting against the pandemic,” said Patiala epidemiologist Dr Sumit. The resolution was passed by the panchayats of Ageta , Dhanauri, Dhanaura and a few other villages of Patiala district. “Health teams will not be allowed to take samples of our villagers without our consent as rumours of fake positive results have scared people. We have been holding camps for sampling in the past and we would cooperate, but they will have to conduct samplings in our presence only,” Darshan Singh, sarpanch of Dhanauri, said. The scare of the health teams has grown so much that villagers in some cases are even attacking them to prevent them from carrying out their work. Two policemen were seriously injured on Sunday night in Khang village of Patiala district after police and health teams were attacked by villagers when they were trying to take a pregnant woman, who is Covid positive, to hospital. Patran station SHO Darbara Singh said, “We got a call for help on Sunday night as residents of Khang village were not allowing them to take the pregnant woman who tested positive for Covid-19 before her delivery, which was expected by September 4. ” Over 40 persons, including 32 unidentified accused, were on Monday booked on various charges, including attempt to murder and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-rural-punjab-rumours-fuel-opposition-to-covid-testing-and-hospital-admissions/articleshow/77880856.cms||Neel Kamal
September 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Ecotourism centres in Nilambur opened||Kozhikode: The ecotourism destinations under Nilambur (north) forest division in Malappuram, including famous Conolly’s Plot teak plantation and Kozhippara waterfalls, were opened to the tourists on Tuesday. The tourism destinations had been remaining closed ever since the Covid-19 lockdown in March. However, the forest department has capped the number of visitors at the Conolly’s Plot, which is one of the oldest teak plantations in the world, to 20 tourists at a time. “We are commencing ecotourism activities by strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Though Canolly’s Plot is spread over 2.2 hectares, we are limiting the number of visitors to 20 at a time,” divisional forest officer, Nilambur (North) K J Martin Lowel, said. As the hanging bridge across Chaliyar, which used to be the easy way of access to Conolly’s Plot, was totally damaged in the floods, the forest department has made arrangement for a 16km jeep service from Areekode to reach Conolly’s Plot. The jeep service will be operated by the VSS and apart from the ticket charges, the visitors will have to pay jeep fare of around Rs 160 per person. The number of visitors to Kozhippara waterfalls has been restricted to 50 people at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ecotourism-centres-in-nilambur-opened/articleshow/77878563.cms||---
September 2, 2020||World||AstraZeneca kicks off final trials of Covid vaccine in US||WASHINGTON: AstraZeneca has begun large-scale final human trial of its coronavirus vaccine in the US, the company said in a statement on Monday, with plans to enroll as many as 30,000 adults to test the shot. The AstraZeneca shot, invented by researchers at the University of Oxford, is one of the farthest along of numerous Covid vaccines in development. In addition to the US trial, a final-stage test of the inoculation is underway in the UK and could yield preliminary results as soon as next month. Other companies that have vaccines in phase 3 trials include Moderna and Pfizer. Trial participants will receive either two doses of the experimental vaccine, dubbed AZD1222, four weeks apart, or a placebo, the firm said. President Trump suggested the possibility of a fasttrack approval in the country. “I am pleased to announce that AstraZeneca vaccine has reached phase three clinical trials. That’s joining another group of vaccines that are very close to the end, and hopefully, approval,” he said on Monday. Trump has earlier said a vaccine could be available before the November election, much sooner than most experts anticipate. In a separate statement, AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot nodded at concerns that review of a vaccine could face political pressure. “...I want to reiterate my commitment that we are putting science and the interest of society at the heart of our work. We are moving quickly but without cutting corners.” Meanwhile, AstraZeneca has expanded its deal with firm Oxford Biomedica to mass-produce the vaccine. The UK drugmaker has targeted 3 billion doses, globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/astrazeneca-kicks-off-final-trials-of-covid-vaccine-in-us/articleshow/77881340.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Casualty count continues to rise in HP as 4 succumb||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday reported four Covid deaths, two each from Solan and Shimla, and 139 positive cases. On the same day, 173 patients also recovered. In the state, total number of positive cases has now reached 6,255, of which 1,525 are active cases, 4,647 have recovered, 40 have died, while 41 have migrated out of state. A 37-year-old men from Nalagarh in Solan district had reached at the Nalagarh civil hospital on Tuesday morning around 7am with the complaint of fever, diarrhoea and respiratory problem. After admitting him, doctors took his samples for Covid-19 and he was tested positive. When being shifted to Covid Care Centre for treatment, he died at around 4pm. A 43-year-old woman from Shimla, who was admitted at Triage ward of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, died on Tuesday and was tested positive after death. Of the total Covid deaths reported so far, Sirmaur and Una districts reported two each, Shimla three, Chamba four, Hamirpur five, Mandi and Solan seven each, and Kangra eight. Those tested positive include: 35 from Bilaspur, one from Chamba, eight from Hamirpur, 25 from Kangra, 14 from Shimla, 34 from Sirmaur, five from Solan, and 17 from Una. Of the total Covid deaths reported so far, Chamba district has reported 4 deaths, Hamirpur five, Kangra eight, Mandi seven, Shimla four, Sirmaur two, Solan In the state total 216608 persons have been tested till Tuesday of which 209040 persons have been tested negative while results of 1313 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/casualty-count-continues-to-rise-in-hp-as-4-succumb/articleshow/77880858.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal and Bangladesh triggered a thunderstorm in Kolkata on Tuesday morning. It generated a wind speed of 50 km/hr even as the gust was followed by a downpour that led to several spells of steady drizzle continuing throughout the day. With the circulation, formed over land, being set to persist over the region, light to moderate rain may continue in Kolkata and its neighbourhoods on Wednesday. The city received 20.6mm rain on Tuesday. “We expect the circulation to remain over Gangetic Bengal on Wednesday, which will keep the region cloudy. Kolkata may receive light rain along with the adjoining districts. But the showers may lose intensity on Thursday when the system is likely to move towards Jharkhand,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. Earlier in last week, a low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal had triggered widespread rain across south Bengal, including Kolkata. While light to moderate showers hit most districts, the coastal areas of South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Jhargram received heavier showers. “We had four low-pressure systems striking Gangetic Bengal last month. Last week’s system didn’t trigger as much rain as we had expected. It had formed over northwest Bay, close to the Odisha coast and then sailed towards Midnapore and Chattisgarh. It took a more southerly route, away from Kolkata, than we had expected. Also, there were not enough convections to pull it closer to Kolkata,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclonic-circulation-triggers-rain-in-city/articleshow/77879527.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Fresh curbs on cycle movement||KOLKATA: Even as the police top brass indicated that the relaxed bicycle policy is likely to continue for a few more days, Kolkata Police and the Howrah Police carried out a first ever joint stock-taking exercise on the movement of two-wheelers on Howrah bridge. This happened after a huge number of cycles started plying on this iconic bridge as local trains stopped running and the suburban population shifted to two wheelers. The fresh order will be in effect till September 30. In an amended notice this time, cops spoke of not allowing cycles on flyovers, arterial roads or any road as notified from time to time. The order has asked cycles to follow one-way restrictions and other traffic rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-curbs-on-cycle-movement/articleshow/77879559.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Immersion goes off peacefully; one drowns||Hyderabad: Barring an incident of drowning on the outskirts of the city, the Ganesh immersion procession went off peacefully on Tuesday. Till 9.30pm, 4,800 idols were immersed in Hussain Sagar and over 1,000 idols were immersed at various tanks in Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates. As some devotees did not want to immerse the idol on Tuesday, police expect some more idols to be brought for immersion during the early hours of Wednesday. “Some people have not taken out the procession as it is Tuesday. We are expecting them to start early on Wednesday. As of now there are no untoward incidents and Ganesh idol immersion process is taking place peacefully,” Hyderabad commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Balapur Ganesh idol immersion was over by 11.30 am and the nine-feet-tall Khairatabad Ganesh idol’s immersion finished by 8.30 pm. More than 15,000 cops have been deployed across the city for bandobust and the entire procession was video recorded. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, devotees installed smaller idols, thereby, making it easier to transport them in autos and reducing traffic problems in the city. Srinivas, a 45-year-old grocery store owner of Kondamadugu village near Bibinagar, drowned in the village pond when he went to immerse the idol with his family members. “At around 11.30 pm on Monday, Srinivas, who was in a drunken condition, went along with his son and his friends to the pond and immerse the idol. He got into the pond and drowned. We fished out the body during the early hours of Tuesday,” Bhongir DCP Narayana Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/immersion-goes-off-peacefully-one-drowns/articleshow/77879576.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: King cobra at 2,400m altitude sets new record||NAINITAL: Forest officials in Uttarakhand have for the first time recorded sightings of king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) at heights of 2,200 m to 2,400 m in the Himalayas, a new altitude record for the species which has led to several experts calling for a detailed study on the how the world’s largest venomous snake was thriving at such elevations. The observations, part of a report prepared by the Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing in Haldwani, a copy of which is with TOI, put the species’ habitat range as varying from 400 m in Terai region to up to 2,400 m in the hills. The report said that such a wide variation in habitat for a cold-blooded or ectothermic species was “unusual” and demands scientific investigation. Reptiles are cold-blooded, meaning they depend on external heat sources for thermoregulation and generally prefer warmer climates. But during a nine-month study, forest officials found nests of the snake — classified as ‘vulnerable’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) list — at heights of up to 2,400 m in Mukteshwar (Nainital district) where winter temperatures are close to freezing and snowfall is common. Chief conservator of forests (research) Sanjeev Chaturvedi said that the research involved field investigations as well as interviews with local residents. “We found several king cobra nests in higher altitudes in Mukteshwar, even at 2,400 m. This is the highest altitude at which a king cobra has ever been sighted,” Chaturvedi told TOI. A study published in the journal Herpetology Notes in 2018 authored by Jignasu Dolia, a researcher at the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India, had mentioned the highest recorded altitude for the king cobra — India’s national reptile — at 2,303 m after a hatchling was found in the Indian Veterinary Research Institute’s (IVRI) campus in Mukteshwar in 2012. The species has been sighted at 1,840 m in Sikkim, 1,170 m in Mizoram and 1,830 m in the Nilgiris. In the upper reaches of Nainital where the king cobra was spotted, it was using pine needles — inflammable leaves of pine trees that enable forest fires to spread every year — to build nests, said the forest department’s report. “The species is traditionally found in rainforests of Western Ghats, Eastern Ghats, the Northeast and mangroves of Sunderbans and Odisha. On the basis of available data, it may be safely inferred that Nainital, perhaps, has the most robust recorded population of king cobra outside of its traditional habitats,” it added. Experts said that detailed investigations were needed to understand how the species seemed to be adapting to colder climates further up in the Himalayas. According to WII herpetologist Abhijit Das, “Cobras are very adaptive and could have found it easy to take to a new environment.” The scientist said that global warming may have played a role as well, turning cooler areas warmer and more adaptable, but added that this would need extensive studies to prove. Another reason could be that the species was simply “following the food chain”. “As more people settle in upper reaches in places like Nainital, they end up creating more garbage which attracts rats which are preyed upon by snakes,” he said. It could also be that we have only now started to document the distribution of King Cobra, added S Satyakumar, senior professor at WII. Scientists at the Zoological Survey of India also backed the thought. “It’s possible that we have more sightings now because forest departments are better equipped to conduct such research work. The species is very elusive and might even exist in elevations higher than what we have currently recorded. More research could help us understand this,” said Pratyush Mohapatra, senior scientist, Zoological Survey of India, Madhya Pradesh. (With inputs from Shivani Azad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/king-cobra-sighting-at-2400-mts-in-nainital-sets-new-altitude-record-for-species/articleshow/77876768.cms||Prashant Jha
September 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Issue over stamp paper date delays repatriation of bodies||KOZHIKODE: Expat social workers in UAE have complained that the stand taken by the Indian consulate authorities in Dubai over the issue date of the stamp papers used for preparing no objection certificates (NOC) submitted by heirs of the deceased have led to delays in repatriation of bodies from UAE to India. Social worker Ashraf Thamarassery, who has helped repatriate thousands of bodies from UAE during the last two decades, said the insistence by the consulate authorities that the date of issue of the stamp paper used for preparing notarized NOC should be after the date of death of the expat was impractical and would lead to delays in the repatriation process. He said normally, stamp papers are purchased by stamp vendors from the government treasury and often the papers have date of issue, which could be earlier than the death dates. “As the stamp papers are purchased from the treasury and stocked by registered stamp vendors, it often becomes difficult for bereaved family members to ensure that the stamp paper’s issue date is after the date of death. The NOC by legal heirs is a must for the consulate to cancel the passport of the deceased before the bodies can be repatriated. There have been no issues from the consulate in this regard in the past and it is not proper to allow a minor technicality to cause delays in the way of repatriation of bodies,” Ashraf said. He added that repatriation of as many as four bodies of expats, including that of Pattambi and Kozhikode natives, had been delayed following the insistence by the consulate authorities. He, however, added that the consulate authorities gave the nod for repatriation of the bodies on Tuesday after the social workers took up the matter with Indian government authorities. Social worker and lawyer in Dubai, advocate Hashik Thayikandy, in a letter to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan urged his intervention to ensure that unnecessary procedural complications which have led to the delay should be removed. However, Indian consulate authorities in Dubai said that there has been no revision of norms related to repatriation of bodies and added that the confusion over stamp paper date has been resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/issue-over-stamp-paper-date-delays-repatriation-of-bodies/articleshow/77878588.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||81 years on, ‘royal Ganesha’ continues to adorn Chavan family’s residence||VADODARA: On Tuesday evening, the royal Gaekwad family’s famed Ganesha idol was immersed in the Laxmi Vilas Palace compound amid chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’. But on Saturday, an exact replica of the royal Ganesha will be worshipped by the Chavan family. The family will offer ‘prasad’ and perform puja of the 81-year-old Ganesh idol that is a copy of the idol installed in the palace every year. While Barodians turn up in large numbers every year to worship the royal Ganesh idol in Durbar Hall at the palace, few know that an exact replica of this idol has been adorning a small studio in the residence of Chavan family since 1939. “We open the room where this precious Ganesh idol is kept only once in a year. The Chavan family prays to the lord, offers prasad and performs aarti for a day. The room is then locked and opened after one year. This tradition has been on since 81 years,” said Mangesh Chavan, sculptor who makes the royal family’s Ganesh idol every year. No one except the Chavan family is now allowed in this room. “It was in 1939 that Maharaja Pratapsinhrao Gaekwad invited Brahmins from Kashi to select a new Ganesh idol for the royal family. Artists from across the erstwhile Baroda state made several designs of the idol. My grandfather Krushnarao Chavan, too, made the design of Ganesh idol and it was selected by the Brahmins. Since then the look and design of the idol has remained the same,” Chavan told TOI. While making the new royal Ganesh idol in 1939, Krushnarao made an exact replica of the idol out of yellow clay. It is three-feet tall and weighs 50 kilograms. “The alternate idol was made in case the main idol suffered any damage. Since then the replica of the original Ganesh idol has been with our family. We perform puja of this idol on ‘Chaturthi’ that falls after 10 days of Ganesh festivals. The size of this idol, however, has shrunk over last couple of decades,” Chavan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/81-yrs-on-royal-ganesha-continues-to-adorn-chavan-familys-residence/articleshow/77878476.cms||Tushar Tere
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ADM, ACMO among 760 new patients in Covid grip||LUCKNOW: With Covid-19 surge refusing to relent, two more senior officers – an additional district magistrate (ADM) and an additional chief medical officer (ACMO) – in the frontline for pandemic management contracted novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday. The two officers were among 760 fresh cases reported in last 24 hours till Tuesday evening, pushing the caseload to over 28,000 since the outbreak. Of these, 20,000 cases have been reported in last 30 days. “ADM (trans-Gomti) Vishwa Bhushan Mishra, his 70-year-old mother and nine-month-old son tested positive. His wife was tested positive earlier,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesman of the chief medical officer (CMO). Four out of eight ADMs in the city have tested positive so far. ACMO Dr AK Chaudhary, who was the nodal officer for patients under home isolation, has also tested positive, taking the number of district health officers diagnosed with Covid-19 to five. Other health officials who have contracted infection are CMO Dr RP Singh, three ACMOs and a deputy CMO. Both Mishra and Dr Chaudhary have opted for home isolation. Two corporarors, Shivpal Savaria of Rajajipur Ke Kunwar Jyoti ward and Nagendra Singh Chauhan of Hazratganj Narhi ward also tested Covid-19 positive. DM Abhishek Prakash inspected facilities at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and said that 30 ventilators had been given to the institute through the PM CARES Fund. He also asked officials to increase the number of critical care beds. City’s recovery rate at 72.5%: The number of patients who have recovered so far crossed 20,000 mark on Tuesday. At least 455 patients in hospitals and home isolation recovered in last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries since the outbreak to 20,348, which is 72.5% of the total caseload of 28,050. While 368 patients could not survive, 7,334 patients are either under treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Highest corona cases from Indiranagar, Gomtinagar: Indiranagar and Gomtinagar continue to top the city in terms of number of cases. On Tuesday, 53 and 41 people tested positive in Indiranagar and Gomtinagar, respectively. Vikasnagar followed with 38 cases while Mahanagar recorded 33. Aashiana, Alambagh and Rae Bareli Road reported 28 cases each. Other areas from where cases were reported were Hasanganj (27), Thakurganj, Jankipuram and Madiaon (25 each), Talkatora (23), Chinhat (22), and Hazratganj and Gudamba (21 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/adm-acmo-among-760-new-patients-in-covid-grip/articleshow/77880498.cms||Yusra Husain
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 20 health workers infected as Covid tally touches 76,000||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state’s total infection count hit 76,525 with 1,140 new cases reported on Tuesday even as the government issued guidelines for phase-four easing of the general lockdown. Recoveries in state touched 53,653 as 2,111 more persons were added to the list. Four more deaths were recorded — N V Francis, 76, of Ernakulam; Jeevakyan, 64, and K Ramesan, 45, of Kasaragod; and, Soman, 67, of Thiruvananthapuram — taking the tally to 299. Among the new cases are 1,090 infected through contacts. However, the source of 158 cases is not known. Fourteen persons had come from abroad while 36 had travelled from other states. Among the contact cases are 20 healthcare workers, nine Coast Guard personnel of INSH and two DSC employees from Kannur. Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of new cases, at 227, followed by Malappuram (191), Ernakulam (161), Kozhikode (155) and Thrissur (133). Kannur reported 77, Kottayam 62, Palakkad 42, Alappuzha 32, Kollam 25, Kasaragod 15, Pathanamthitta 12 and Wayanad eight. Unlock 4.0 guidelinesThe state has decided to extend the general lockdown in containment zones till September 30, while it will regulate activities outside these zones in a planned manner. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for regular classes up to Sept 31. Students of classes IX to XII may be permitted to visit schools, in areas outside containment zones on a voluntary basis for seeking guidance of teachers. With effect from Sept 21, 50% of teachers and non-teaching staff can be called to schools to coordinate online teaching. 2L under observationA total of 1,96,582 persons are under observation across the state, of which 1,77,488 are under home or institutional quarantine and 19,094 in hospitals. On Tuesday, 1,466 were admitted to hospitals. More carers InfectedAmong the healthcare workers who were infected, six are in Kannur, five in Thrissur, two each in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, and one each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad. In lockstep with CentreThe state has also decided to go ahead with Union ministry of home affairs’ guidelines, under which Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from September 7 in a graded manner. Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted from September 21. However, marriage-related gatherings with number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral- or last rites-related gatherings with number of persons not exceeding 20 will continue to be allowed up to September 20, after which the ceiling of 100 persons will come into force. Open-air theatres from Sept 21Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and similar places will remain closed. However, open-air theatres can open from September 21. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons, goods and other services. No permission will be required for such movements. Train and domestic air travel under the Vande Bharat Mission and other flights will continue to be regulated as per SOPs issued earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/20-health-workers-infected-as-covid-tally-touches-76k/articleshow/77878650.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents bid adieu to the Lord from balconies||Hyderabad: Residents of of the city literally had a balcony seat to view the Ganesh festivities during the immersion procession on Tuesday. At home due to Covid-19, many cheered on from their rooftops and balconies. Lata P, a resident of NCC Urban 1 in Narsingi, described the atmosphere with around 100 families enjoying the festivities from their balconies. “About 30 people were actually involved on the ground during the immersion. An artificial pond was created in the common area and people watched from above.” Stating that despite Covid-19, the people’s spirits were still buoyant, she said the community had facilitated online darshan for most people till the immersion took place. Ragini Ravikiran from Jain Auroville Residency in Hi-Tec City said the nature of festivities have changed. “Social gatherings with physical distancing is difficult, but we need to invent ways to march together,” she said. In their apartment complex, four people took part in the main procession and people from all the flats looking on. Nanda Kishore, resident of My Home Jewel in Madinaguda, said the community idol was at a green area in the centre. “All flats with balconies facing the park, looked at the immersion proceedings and prayed from there.” There were no cultural programs, no prasadam or teertham this time, but this did not dent the community’s will to be a part of the celebrations. In Domalguda area, residents in flats that had a view of the Tank Bund clapped and cheered as idols could be seen. “I only caught a glimpse of the slightly larger idols. I cheered on clapping and singing from my terrace,” said Revathi R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-bid-adieu-to-the-lord-from-balconies/articleshow/77879611.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Two SIs deputed in Moradabad suspended on charges of graft||Bareilly: Two sub-inspectors posted at the Bilari police station in Moradabad were suspended on the charges of corruption on Monday. Moradabad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Prabhakar Chaudhary issued the orders of suspension of SIs Prem Shanker and Phool Kunwar. According to Moradabad police sources, complaints were lodged against both the SIs previously for alleged extortion of money and misbehaviour with locals. In one of the cases, a purported video of one of the SIs taking a bribe had also gone viral on social media. The SSP said, “SI Prem Shanker had extorted money from a local after threatening him to frame in a case. The victim had shot a video of the SI accepting a bribe. The clip was also circulated on social media later. Similarly, another SI Phool Kunwar was accused of demanding a bribe for allowing construction work to take place at a site. The complainant had accused the SI of misbehaving with a local and labours deployed at the site after the local refused to give him money.” “A detailed inquiry was ordered in both the cases by the Bilari circle officer, who found both policemen guilty. Based on the Co's report they were suspended,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-sis-deputed-in-moradabad-suspended-on-charges-of-graft/articleshow/77875904.cms||Maria Khan
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: From July to August, tests per day half, but +ves double||PANAJI: In a development that has alarmed citizens over the state’s intent and ability to fight Covid-19, the government has substantially reduced testing for the novel coronavirus even as case and death numbers spiral to new highs everyday. While the state conducted 1.64 lakh tests in July, fewer than 94,000 were conducted in August, but the number of daily positives in August far outnumbered July’s numbers. To add to this virtual abandonment of the universal method to arrest the virus, even the testing that the state does perform is the generally unreliable rapid antigen testing, known for its false negatives. While the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says that positive results returned by a rapid antigen test can indeed be considered positive, suspected cases who test negative must be resent for a n RT-PCR test. RT-PCR, the actual gold standard of Covid-19 testing, seems to have lost favour, thus risking the spread of infection. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that around 70% of daily testing is antigen testing. However, it’s not just the quality but also the quantity of tests that has dropped sharpy. According to the daily bulletin released by the directorate of health services (DHS), an average of 5,000 tests a day were conducted in July. In August, that figure dropped to 3,000 a day. An examination of testing figures for just the last four days of July and August reveals stark differences. On July 28, 29, 30 and 31, the state tested 8,025, 7,568, 6,611 and 6,431 tests respectively, while on the same days in August, testing dropped to 3,343, 2,830, 2,473 and 2,252. However, curiously, even though testing dropped by more than half, the number of positives in August didn’t drop proportionately, on the contrary rising sharply, indicating the state is testing way less that it ought to. The last four days of July saw 168, 202, 215 and 209 positives, while the last four days of August reported 523, 547, 451 and 414 positives — more than double the positives even with less than half the tests. Rapid antigen testing, which is faster and can be conducted outside of laboratories, was introduced by the government to bring down the huge pendency rate which was running into thousands, leaving people waiting for up to a week for their results. The state first began full-fledged rapid antigen testing at the Goa International Airport on July 30, and subsequently adopted it at all testing centres, using it for travellers and asymptomatic patients. Meanwhile, RT-PCR testing has fallen drastically. When asked about the drop in testing in August, Betodkar said that there was panic initially, which resulted in a large number of people opting to get tested. “There was a lot of unnecessary testing happening in July,” he told TOI. “If one person tested positive in the area, the entire ward wanted to get tested. This panic has reduced. It was putting a lot of pressure on labs.” Betodkar also sought to reassure people about the false negatives associated with rapid antigen testing. He said health workers are present to advise people to get retested via RT-PCR if they turn symptomatic. “The time taken to take the swab sample is the same for both the tests,” he said. “Antigen testing only cuts down the time spent in sending the samples to the laboratory.” He also said that most persons being tested these days are contacts of positives, which is a good thing. “Testing is now prioritised, and there is no delay in getting results. Everybody has been getting their reports on time,” he said. There have been instances wherein patients taken to hospital in a serious condition have tested negative in a rapid antigen test but positive on RT-PCR. In cases where the virus has advanced to the lungs, rapid antigen tests, which have lower sensitivity, haven’t been able to pick up the virus in the throat. “Although rapid antigen testing doesn’t pick up all positives, it is advantageous as a point of care test for instant diagnosis, instead of waiting for hours for the RT-PCR results from the lab,” said a doctor working at a public hospital’s casualty/ER facility. “It is helpful for us (in casualty) because when the rapid antigen test is positive, it is a definite positive,” he said, adding that it is essential that those who test negative on a rapid antigen test but are symptomatic must be cautious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-jul-to-aug-tests-per-day-half-but-ves-double/articleshow/77880516.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru airport saw 1.4 million passengers since reopening||BENGALURU: Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru catered to 1.4 domestic million passengers till August 31 since re-opening on May 25, following the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid crisis. The airport on Sunday (August 30) saw 29,950 flyers, the highest number of passengers in a single day since reopening. Kolkata has emerged as the top destination. The first flight to depart KIA since the reopening in May was an AirAsia flight to Ranchi and the first to touchdown was an IndiGo flight from Chennai. Tuesday marked 100 days since the KIA re-opened for domestic operations with never-seen-before hygienic and security measures to tackle passenger activity as the time of a pandemic. KIA statistics show 1.4 million domestic passengers used the airport despite the pandemic through 15,658 air traffic movements (ATM). Indicating a positive trend, July 2020 witnessed a 39% growth in ATMs, while passenger traffic grew further to 47% in August. With the state govern recently relaxing curbs, including doing away with medical tests and the need to register to enter the state, KIA authorities expect more airlines to begin operations and passenger numbers to go up in the coming days. Since its reopening, KIA has reconnected with 49 of a total 58 domestic cities. While Kolkata has emerged as the top destination from Bengaluru, accounting for 13% of passengers to and from KIA, Delhi’s share was 11% and Patna’s 6%. Passenger movement was the highest towards the eastern or northeastern regions of the country at 33.7%, followed closely by south India at 30.9%, KIA sources said. As part of operations during the lockdown, KIA put together various safety measures for passengers including technologically enabled parking and boarding and contactless journey that minimises all physical contact. Facial-recognition for self-boarding as well as various sanitisation and hygiene measures ensured passengers continued to have a touch-free airport experience while flying to their destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kia-saw-1-4-million-domestic-passengers-since-reopening/articleshow/77878616.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Positivity rate stays above 5% in MP, calls for more tests||BHOPAL: Even though more than 6 lakh samples have been tested in the state in the month of August, still the positivity rate is above the 5% mark. As per health officials, positivity rate above 5% signifies need for more tests. Despite the increase in tests, the number of positive cases has doubled in this month with an alarming increase of more than 100%. While 31,806 people had tested positive from March 20, when the first patient of state was found, till July 31. However, in August alone the number has shot up to more than 32,159. The positivity rate, i.e., the number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples that are tested for Covid-19 infection — has been increasing month on month in the state. The first case of Covid-19 was reported in the state on March 20 at Jabalpur, and thereafter the lockdown was imposed in the entire country on March 23. Till June 30, a total of 13,593 positive cases were reported in the state and 3.65 lakh tests were done, but the overall positivity rate was only 3.7%.  This means that out of every 100 samples that were tested till June 30, only 3.7 people were found positive. In July, 18,213 new positive cases were reported from all over the state and 4.02 lakh tests were done in the month, but the positivity rate increased to 4.5% . Thus of every 100 samples that were tested in the month of July, 4.5 people were found positive. In the month of August, 6.09 lakh samples have been tested and 32,159 have been found positive, thus the positivity rate has now increased to 5.27% for the month of August. Besides rising positive cases, 527 people have died due to Covid-19 infection in the state. This is more than July when 295 deaths were reported, but the death rate — number of new deaths in every 100 new patients — of both August and July are the same 1.6. This means that for every 100 new positive patients, 1.6 deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/positivity-rate-stays-above-5-in-state-calls-for-more-tests/articleshow/77878647.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Diabetes commonest comorbidity: SGPGI||LUCKNOW: About 50% patients landing at SGPGI’s Rajdhani Covid-19 Hospital (RCH) have diabetes as the co-morbid condition, according to estimates from the state medical education department. “Diabetes is the commonest comorbidity seen in patients at our centre, followed by hypertension. Patients with organ dysfunction, particularly lungs and kidneys, form the next big chunk,” said Prof RK Singh, medical superintendent (RCH), SGPGI. The pattern speaks for a national trend observed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which has come up with specific guidelines for management of Covid-19 patients having a history of diabetes. “Diabetes affects each part of the body in different degrees and ways. Therefore, when the body is under attack by any infection, Covid-19 in this case, the management is as challenging as filling water in a bucket with several holes,” explained a Research Society for Study of Diabetes in India (RSSDI) member. Talking about patients at RCH, director Prof RK Dhiman said: “We have seen nearly 850 positive persons till now, of whom 71% are male. Of the total patients, about 70% have recovered. An eight month-old baby was our youngest case, while a 90 year-old woman was our oldest patient to beat the pandemic virus. Also, nearly 12% have died while the remaining patients are under treatment.” About the visibly high death rate, Prof Singh said: “We keep track of every case at our centre at two levels — physically by attending doctors and virtually by a team of experts comprising the director. But the fact that we are a tertiary care centre and attend to the most serious cases not only from Lucknow but also other districts cannot be denied. Over 75% of the deaths can be attributed to co-morbid conditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diabetes-commonest-comorbidity-sgpgi/articleshow/77880527.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Hinterland’s share of Karnataka’s caseload is steadily rising||BENGALURU: While Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has decreased over the past month in Bengaluru, rising positivity rates and deaths elsewhere in the state is now a major concern. An analysis of the state health and family welfare department data shows fatality rates in some districts in Karnataaka are far ahead of the national average and Bengaluru figures. Bengaluru’s case fatality rate, which was almost 2% on July 28, fell to 1.6% on August 28. However, the CSR in Dakshina Kannada for example, has climbed from 2.3% to 2.9% during the same period. The CFR in districts like Mysuru (2.5%), Hassan (2.3%), Bidar (3%) and Tumakuru (2.8%) are also way ahead of Bengaluru. Bengaluru accounted for 45.6% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload on July 28, but the city’s share of the state’s viral burden fell to 38.1% on August 28. “Many people have moved from Bengaluru to their hometowns and villages across the state which is possibly why the virus is spreading in the hinterland,” a health official said. The official said infections reported from taluks and villages are more than in district headquarters. Take for example, Hassan: As on August 28, the district had 2,255 active cases, but Hassan town accounted only for 902 of them. Also, only 66 of the district’s 177 Covid-19 deaths are from the town. Dr Sateesh Kumar KM, district health officer, Hassan district, admitted to a delay in identifying Covid cases. “Rising deaths is a reflection of a delay in identification and the rapid transmission of the virus in taluks and villages is due to movement of people without precautions,” he said. “Testing needs to be ramped up at taluk and village level.” About 27.9% of patients are symptomatic, state War Room data shows and the district has about 80 ventilators including three each in taluk government hospitals, district government hospital and private hospitals, Dr Anoop Amarnath, head of medicine, Manipal Hospitals, and member of the government’s Critical Care Support Unit, spends two hours every day assisting district hospitals through video calls. He covers about 15 districts including Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi where positive cases and fatalities are on the rise. Dr Amarnath said the increase in cases in districts, taluks and villages was expected. “From April, we have been training medical staff including nurses on identifying, testing, oxygen supply handling and other issues. There is no option but to test, identify and isolate positive patients. Testing at taluk and village levels needs to be ramped up as more cases are reported. The ability to handle these cases has improved in the past five months and the infrastructure needs to be ramped up in taluk hospitals as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hinterlands-share-of-karnatakas-caseload-is-steadily-rising/articleshow/77878681.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 2, 2020||Mysuru||Hinterland’s share of Karnataka’s caseload is steadily rising||BENGALURU: While Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has decreased over the past month in Bengaluru, rising positivity rates and deaths elsewhere in the state is now a major concern. An analysis of the state health and family welfare department data shows fatality rates in some districts in Karnataaka are far ahead of the national average and Bengaluru figures. Bengaluru’s case fatality rate, which was almost 2% on July 28, fell to 1.6% on August 28. However, the CSR in Dakshina Kannada for example, has climbed from 2.3% to 2.9% during the same period. The CFR in districts like Mysuru (2.5%), Hassan (2.3%), Bidar (3%) and Tumakuru (2.8%) are also way ahead of Bengaluru. Bengaluru accounted for 45.6% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload on July 28, but the city’s share of the state’s viral burden fell to 38.1% on August 28. “Many people have moved from Bengaluru to their hometowns and villages across the state which is possibly why the virus is spreading in the hinterland,” a health official said. The official said infections reported from taluks and villages are more than in district headquarters. Take for example, Hassan: As on August 28, the district had 2,255 active cases, but Hassan town accounted only for 902 of them. Also, only 66 of the district’s 177 Covid-19 deaths are from the town. Dr Sateesh Kumar KM, district health officer, Hassan district, admitted to a delay in identifying Covid cases. “Rising deaths is a reflection of a delay in identification and the rapid transmission of the virus in taluks and villages is due to movement of people without precautions,” he said. “Testing needs to be ramped up at taluk and village level.” About 27.9% of patients are symptomatic, state War Room data shows and the district has about 80 ventilators including three each in taluk government hospitals, district government hospital and private hospitals, Dr Anoop Amarnath, head of medicine, Manipal Hospitals, and member of the government’s Critical Care Support Unit, spends two hours every day assisting district hospitals through video calls. He covers about 15 districts including Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi where positive cases and fatalities are on the rise. Dr Amarnath said the increase in cases in districts, taluks and villages was expected. “From April, we have been training medical staff including nurses on identifying, testing, oxygen supply handling and other issues. There is no option but to test, identify and isolate positive patients. Testing at taluk and village levels needs to be ramped up as more cases are reported. The ability to handle these cases has improved in the past five months and the infrastructure needs to be ramped up in taluk hospitals as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hinterlands-share-of-karnatakas-caseload-is-steadily-rising/articleshow/77882335.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Hinterland’s share of Karnataka’s caseload is steadily rising||BENGALURU: While Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has decreased over the past month in Bengaluru, rising positivity rates and deaths elsewhere in the state is now a major concern. An analysis of the state health and family welfare department data shows fatality rates in some districts in Karnataaka are far ahead of the national average and Bengaluru figures. Bengaluru’s case fatality rate, which was almost 2% on July 28, fell to 1.6% on August 28. However, the CSR in Dakshina Kannada for example, has climbed from 2.3% to 2.9% during the same period. The CFR in districts like Mysuru (2.5%), Hassan (2.3%), Bidar (3%) and Tumakuru (2.8%) are also way ahead of Bengaluru. Bengaluru accounted for 45.6% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload on July 28, but the city’s share of the state’s viral burden fell to 38.1% on August 28. “Many people have moved from Bengaluru to their hometowns and villages across the state which is possibly why the virus is spreading in the hinterland,” a health official said. The official said infections reported from taluks and villages are more than in district headquarters. Take for example, Hassan: As on August 28, the district had 2,255 active cases, but Hassan town accounted only for 902 of them. Also, only 66 of the district’s 177 Covid-19 deaths are from the town. Dr Sateesh Kumar KM, district health officer, Hassan district, admitted to a delay in identifying Covid cases. “Rising deaths is a reflection of a delay in identification and the rapid transmission of the virus in taluks and villages is due to movement of people without precautions,” he said. “Testing needs to be ramped up at taluk and village level.” About 27.9% of patients are symptomatic, state War Room data shows and the district has about 80 ventilators including three each in taluk government hospitals, district government hospital and private hospitals, Dr Anoop Amarnath, head of medicine, Manipal Hospitals, and member of the government’s Critical Care Support Unit, spends two hours every day assisting district hospitals through video calls. He covers about 15 districts including Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi where positive cases and fatalities are on the rise. Dr Amarnath said the increase in cases in districts, taluks and villages was expected. “From April, we have been training medical staff including nurses on identifying, testing, oxygen supply handling and other issues. There is no option but to test, identify and isolate positive patients. Testing at taluk and village levels needs to be ramped up as more cases are reported. The ability to handle these cases has improved in the past five months and the infrastructure needs to be ramped up in taluk hospitals as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hinterlands-share-of-karnatakas-caseload-is-steadily-rising/articleshow/77882337.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||After a brief lull period, fresh rain spells to lash Uttarakhand from September 2||Dehradun: After witnessing a brief period of low rainfall activity, Uttarakhand is going to receive fresh spells of widespread rainfall both in the hills and the plains from September 2 onwards. According to the regional meteorological centre based in Dehradun, monsoon is going to get active once again over Uttarakhand and light-to-moderate showers would occur at most places between September 2 and September 8. Giving details, Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, told TOI, “We witnessed dry weather at most places in the past 48-hours. However, rain spells will once again start occurring at most places of the state from September 2 and will continue throughout the week.” Light-to-moderate rainfall is likely to occur at many places in Dehradun, Tehri, Pauri, Nainital, and Pithoragarh districts and at few other places on September 2, claims the latest forecast of the Met office. Singh, however, added that monsoon will once again enter a subdued phase in the Himalayan state after September 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-a-brief-lull-period-fresh-rain-spells-to-lash-uttarakhand-from-september-2/articleshow/77877587.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 2, 2020||Goa||One held in Calangute as NCB cracks down on global drug racket||PANAJI: The narcotics control bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested one person and searched two different places in Calangute as part its investigation into a global drug racket. The bureau found that the arrested person was supplying marijuana muds to “prominent and high-profile clients” in Bengaluru. This raid was part of a wider operation against the illegal import of marijuana buds, which are primarily sourced from the US and Canada, and are in huge demand in Mumbai. So far, around 3.5kg of buds have been seized from foreign post offices. NCB said that the demand for the product in the Mumbai region has jacked up its prices, thus making it very profitable for traffickers. While probing the racket in Mumbai, the NCB found links with Goa, and the person, who works at a prominent resort as a driver, was intercepted and arrested on Tuesday. Buds are usually sourced through the dark web, which provides anonymity to both buyers and sellers. The quid pro quo for these transactions is mostly cryptocurrency. While probing the racket in Delhi, the NCB found that the buds were sourced from the US. While the consignee was based in the capital city, he was misguided by his Mumbai contact that the same was to be collected by some Mumbai-based persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-held-in-calangute-as-ncb-cracks-down-on-global-drug-racket/articleshow/77880524.cms||Murari Shetye
September 2, 2020||Meerut||Now, Meerut forest dept to take back 50 hectares of encroached land||Meerut: Days after TOI reported that 12,000 acres of forest land was ‘grabbed’ by fudging the revenue records of Bijnor, the Meerut Forest dept has now revealed it has secured a permission from the district administration to recover close to 125 acres of the forest land which was encroached upon."In fact, a large chunk of 17 hectares of land had moved to the private hands after fudging the records in the revenue records dept of Meerut,” said DFO, Meerut, Aditi Sharma.After three years of battle, the land was eventually transferred back to forest department.In the last four years, 301 hectares of encroached land has been recovered in the district already, but the biggest challenge was the one in Sarangpur near Parikshitgarh town of Meerut district."The 17-hectare land was removed from the possession sometime in the seventies. but in 1981 the then DM of Meerut Avneesh Awasthi had secured the land and got it transferred back to the forest department. There is a documentary proof of that. Later in the 90s, records were fudged again and it was transferred to the private owners and ever since then, it has been changing hands. We scrutinized the previous records and found a discrepancy at the records room. Three years of relentless pursue in the matter eventually bore results and in May 2019, the records were corrected. Now, it is in our possession and plantation drive has taken place there.”According to the officials at the forest department, only 50 hectares (125 acre) land is now remaining, that needs to be freed from the encroachment and that land is currently in the possession of encroachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-meerut-forest-dept-to-take-back-50-hectares-of-encroached-land/articleshow/77877590.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Metro rail to resume ops in phases from September 7||HYDERABAD: Five months after its services were suspended due to the pandemic and extended lockdown, Hyderabad Metro Rail will resume its operations from September 7 in the city. The Telangana government has decided to permit Metro services in a phased manner as per the Centre’s guidelines. Schools, colleges, educational institutions, coaching centres, cinema theatres, swimming pools and entertainment parks would remain shut till September 30. HMR manging director NVS Reddy told TOI on Tuesday that as per the government’s directions, the services would be resumed. “Detailed guidelines and protocols will be worked out in a day or two,” he added. Following the ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines on unlock 4.0, the state government issued a GO (No. 120 dated August 31) under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order also extended other lockdown rules till Smptember 30. As per the orders, online and distance learning would be permitted. “A maximum of 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff are permitted to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work in areas outside the containment zones from September 21,” the government said. Students of classes 9 to 12 will be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only for taking guidance from teachers. “This will be subject to a written consent of their parents and guardians,” chief secretary Somesh Kumar said while issuing the rder. Skill or entrepreneurship training will be permitted in the industrial training institutes (ITIs), short-term training centers registered with state skill development missions or other ministries of state government. These will be permitted from September 21. Higher education institutions can be operated only for Ph D scholars and PG students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory and experimental works. “Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be allowed from September 21 with a ceiling of 100 people with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser. However, marriage-related gatherings will be permitted with a maximum of 50 participants,” the order said. At funerals, not more than 20 would be allowed up to September 20. From September 21, 100 persons would be allowed at the final rites rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-rail-to-resume-ops-in-phases-from-sept-7/articleshow/77879617.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 2, 2020||Hubballi||Hinterland’s share of Karnataka’s caseload is steadily rising||BENGALURU: While Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has decreased over the past month in Bengaluru, rising positivity rates and deaths elsewhere in the state is now a major concern. An analysis of the state health and family welfare department data shows fatality rates in some districts in Karnataaka are far ahead of the national average and Bengaluru figures. Bengaluru’s case fatality rate, which was almost 2% on July 28, fell to 1.6% on August 28. However, the CSR in Dakshina Kannada for example, has climbed from 2.3% to 2.9% during the same period. The CFR in districts like Mysuru (2.5%), Hassan (2.3%), Bidar (3%) and Tumakuru (2.8%) are also way ahead of Bengaluru. Bengaluru accounted for 45.6% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload on July 28, but the city’s share of the state’s viral burden fell to 38.1% on August 28. “Many people have moved from Bengaluru to their hometowns and villages across the state which is possibly why the virus is spreading in the hinterland,” a health official said. The official said infections reported from taluks and villages are more than in district headquarters. Take for example, Hassan: As on August 28, the district had 2,255 active cases, but Hassan town accounted only for 902 of them. Also, only 66 of the district’s 177 Covid-19 deaths are from the town. Dr Sateesh Kumar KM, district health officer, Hassan district, admitted to a delay in identifying Covid cases. “Rising deaths is a reflection of a delay in identification and the rapid transmission of the virus in taluks and villages is due to movement of people without precautions,” he said. “Testing needs to be ramped up at taluk and village level.” About 27.9% of patients are symptomatic, state War Room data shows and the district has about 80 ventilators including three each in taluk government hospitals, district government hospital and private hospitals, Dr Anoop Amarnath, head of medicine, Manipal Hospitals, and member of the government’s Critical Care Support Unit, spends two hours every day assisting district hospitals through video calls. He covers about 15 districts including Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi where positive cases and fatalities are on the rise. Dr Amarnath said the increase in cases in districts, taluks and villages was expected. “From April, we have been training medical staff including nurses on identifying, testing, oxygen supply handling and other issues. There is no option but to test, identify and isolate positive patients. Testing at taluk and village levels needs to be ramped up as more cases are reported. The ability to handle these cases has improved in the past five months and the infrastructure needs to be ramped up in taluk hospitals as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hinterlands-share-of-karnatakas-caseload-is-steadily-rising/articleshow/77882336.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Boating resumes in Naini Lake after 5 months; masks, sanitizers and social distancing mandatory||Nainital: Boating has been allowed to resume in Naini Lake after a gap of five months. Operators, who said they had either lived off savings or turned to other livelihoods since March, are not too hopeful though. Restrictions on tourists from outside the state, which include a mandatory negative Covid-19 test report and seven-day quarantine in hotels, are still in place, leading boatmen to conclude only local residents will go for rides. “We earn on a daily basis and have been out of work for the last five months. Some of us have set up carts on Mall Road. Now that boating has been allowed to resume, we hope our earnings pick up,” said deputy secretary of Naini boating union, Yousuf (who uses only his first name). According to fresh guidelines released by the state, sanitizers, masks and social distancing are mandatory for going on a boat ride. Life jackets have to be sanitized before every use. Only two adults and one child will be allowed on a boat now as against the earlier cap of four people. However, the price of tickets hasn’t been increased. There are over 200 wooden and 100 paddle boats on the Naini Lake and boating is the central tourist attraction of Nainital. “Even in the new guidelines, the state government has retained most of the restrictions on tourists. So, free movement of people cannot be expected and we are not sure how many visitors from outside the state will actually come to Nainital. We hope to start earning again now but it won’t be equal to pre-pandemic days,” said Ramesh Singh, a boat owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/boating-resumes-in-naini-lake-after-5-months-masks-sanitizers-and-social-distancing-mandatory/articleshow/77877593.cms||Prashant Jha
September 2, 2020||Meerut||BSAs told to conduct weekly review of education schemes||Meerut: The Uttar Pradesh education department has instructed all the basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) of 75 districts to conduct a weekly review meeting of the education schemes being run in the state.“This is to bring to your notice that all the BSAs will have to conduct weekly review meeting on every Saturday with the block education officers and teaching staff to keep an eye on the progress of education schemes at the ground level. The decision comes after a meeting of all the districts with the state authorities was conducted earlier in August and certain agenda points were decided on,” said the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, UP director general, school education.Instructions have been given to keep the state authorities informed about the weekly review meetings or face action.This will help in keeping a tab on the activities and progress of schemes under the Prerna mission, the letter stated.This comes at a time when the initiative of Prerna app has already been launched to keep a check on the government facilities being provided at the ground level, including mid-day meal, school uniforms, furniture and others.The mission aims at keeping the state government authorities updated and also, maintain a transparent framework.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bsas-told-to-conduct-weekly-review-of-education-schemes/articleshow/77877588.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana third in heatwave deaths in India||HYDERABAD: Despite several other states reeling under intense heatwave in 2019, Telangana with 156 deaths recorded the third highest number of deaths due to heatstroke in the country. Bihar with 215 casualties had the highest number of heatstroke-related deaths, followed by Maharashtra at 159, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data said. There was a 61% increase in the number of deaths due to heatstroke across Telangana, revealed The accidental deaths and suicides in India report of NCRB. Heatstroke is caused when the body’s temperature rises to 40°C or more, accompanied by delirium, seizures or coma. Heatstroke can be fatal, experts say. While road accidents took 6,964 lives in Telangana in 2019, 5,602 people died owing to overspeeding. A total of 21,570 road accident cases were reported, in which 21,999 were injured. The traffic police say though the number of road accidents remained more or less the same, there has been a significant decrease in the number of road accident deaths. Officials attribute the decline in fatal road accidents to the initiatives taken up by the traffic police. “The department has conducted awareness programmes on road safety and also identified black spots to rectify them. This has played a major role in reducing the number of fatal accidents in the Hyderabad,” said a senior traffic cop. The official further added that overspeeding and careless driving had led to several fatal accidents. As per the data, 2,384 had died due to careless driving and 177 died while driving under the influence of alcohol. In Hyderabad, 226 died because of overspeeding and 32 others died due to careless driving. According to road safety experts, two-wheeler and pedestrian deaths are high in road accidents. As many as 3,185 two-wheeler fatal accidents were reported, while 358 pedestrians had died in 2019 in Telangana. “A majority of two-wheeler deaths are occurring because many of the riders are not wearing helmets,” pointed out Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of Indian Federation of Road Safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-third-in-heatwave-deaths-in-india/articleshow/77879632.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 tally cross 20k in U’khand||Dehradun: With 571 fresh cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand crossed the 20,000 mark of cases on Tuesday. The state reported almost 13,000 cases in the last one month itself. On Tuesday, the Covid-19 tally stood at 20,398. Not just in plains but even the hills are badly affected with the virus as active cases are rising with each passing day. Besides fresh cases, the state also reported fresh 11 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking the coronavirus toll to 280. On the day, as many as 404 people recovered from the infection. With this, the tally of cured cases reached 14,012 in Uttarakhand. Abhishek Tripati, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 169 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 106 cases from Nainital, 79 from Udham Singh Nagar, 63 from Haridwar, 42 from Tehri, 29 from Almora, 25 from Champawat, 22 from Pauri, 20 from Uttarkashi, seven from Bageshwar, six from Rudraprayag, and three from Chamoli districts. Meanwhile, the offices of three secretaries were sealed for sanitation after six employees of the secretariat were found Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Also, five journalists and three others who met BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat last Monday tested Covid-19 positive during special screening camp organised at the CM office on Tuesday. Bhagat too had tested positive along with his son last Saturday. So far, Haridwar has reported the maximum of 4,781 Covid-19 cases in the state, followed by 4,254 cases from Dehradun, 3,840 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 2,802 from Nainital. The rest of 23% (4,721) cases were recorded from nine hill districts that have 34% of the state population. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in Uttarakhand) said, “On August 10, we had crossed 10,000 cases and then, the infection rate was 4.9%. Now, it has become 5.4%. However, we are testing far more than before. Usually, the more we test, the lower the infection rate goes. So, we should keep testing in large numbers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-tally-cross-20k-in-ukhand/articleshow/77877599.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: I-T dept seizes Rs 4.2 crore unaccounted cash||COIMBATORE: A land transaction has landed two people in trouble after the investigation wing of the income tax department seized Rs 4.2 crore that the buyer paid the land seller over and above the guidance value at which the property was registered. Registration department sources said a resident of Gobichettipalayam in Erode district had sold two acres of land to businessman Somasundaram, of Sri Nagar in the same locality. Somasundaram is engaged in fertilizer sales and owns a company named Royal Fertilizer Corporation at Gobichettipalayam. The land registration was done on Monday and they showed that the land was sold at Rs 80 lakh, which was its guideline value. The sources said as per the market value, the land was worth Rs 5 crore. “The buyer had paid the seller Rs 4.2 crore in cash before registration. The seller kept the amount at his residence with a plan to distribute the same among 12 people.” Meanwhile, I-T investigation wing officials in Coimbatore and Erode got a tip about the deal and conducted a surprise search at the house of the land seller and seized the cash on Monday night. The officials also conducted a raid at Somasundaram’s house and office. “The cash is unaccounted. We have asked them to appear before the investigation officer of income tax department in Erode for further investigation," the source said. The source said the income tax department would collect 30% tax on the unaccounted money and another 30% as penalty. The land buyer has to answer for the unaccounted money before the IT department sleuths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-i-t-dept-seizes-rs-4-2-crore-unaccounted-cash/articleshow/77879628.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: I-T dept seizes Rs 4.2 crore unaccounted cash||COIMBATORE: A land transaction has landed two people in trouble after the investigation wing of the income tax department seized Rs 4.2 crore that the buyer paid the land seller over and above the guidance value at which the property was registered. Registration department sources said a resident of Gobichettipalayam in Erode district had sold two acres of land to businessman Somasundaram, of Sri Nagar in the same locality. Somasundaram is engaged in fertilizer sales and owns a company named Royal Fertilizer Corporation at Gobichettipalayam. The land registration was done on Monday and they showed that the land was sold at Rs 80 lakh, which was its guideline value. The sources said as per the market value, the land was worth Rs 5 crore. “The buyer had paid the seller Rs 4.2 crore in cash before registration. The seller kept the amount at his residence with a plan to distribute the same among 12 people.” Meanwhile, I-T investigation wing officials in Coimbatore and Erode got a tip about the deal and conducted a surprise search at the house of the land seller and seized the cash on Monday night. The officials also conducted a raid at Somasundaram’s house and office. “The cash is unaccounted. We have asked them to appear before the investigation officer of income tax department in Erode for further investigation," the source said. The source said the income tax department would collect 30% tax on the unaccounted money and another 30% as penalty. The land buyer has to answer for the unaccounted money before the IT department sleuths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-i-t-dept-seizes-rs-4-2-crore-unaccounted-cash/articleshow/77888706.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta set to retire, but Goa has not started hunt for successor||PANAJI: Even as the tenure of the Goa Lokayukta is set to end on September 17, its office will become non-functional with 75 pending cases, as the state government is yet to start the process of appointing a successor to Justice P K Misra. A Panaji lawyer, Aires Rodrigues, has approached the high court of Bombay at Goa seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta to take office after the incumbent’s term ends. In his petition, Rodrigues said that the government should have started the process to appoint a new one. The case will next come on on September 17, as the court has sought the government’s response, Rodrigues said. Misra, the current Lokayukta, took the oath of office on April 28, 2016. Most pending cases pertain to illegal construction, along with others like the labour scam and the construction of the new Taleigao panchayat ghar. Misra was appointed after the Goa cabinet dragged its feet for three years. Misra, prior to his appointment as Lokayukta, served a five-year term as chairperson of the state human rights commission. The first Goa Lokayukta, former Supreme Court judge Justice Sudershan Reddy, was appointed in March 2013, but resigned within seven months, citing personal reasons. In January this year, the Lokayukta recommended that the directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) file an FIR against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, former mines secretary Pawan Kumar Sain and former mines director Prasanna Acharya in connection with the alleged “corruption” and “criminal conspiracy” regarding the renewal of 88 mining leases between November 2014 and January 2015. The Lokayukta also directed the state government to entrust the investigation to CBI, but the state government rejected the recommendation. The office of the Lokayukta isn’t the only quasi-judicial authority without a head in Goa. The government is also yet to appoint chiefs of the Goa police complaints authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-set-to-retire-but-state-has-not-started-hunt-for-successor/articleshow/77880531.cms||Murari Shetye
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Doctors at FLTCs quit over pay cuts||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 868 doctors appointed to Covid first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) across the state have tendered their resignation over deductions in their salary. They were among the 1,080 MBBS graduates who passed out of government medical colleges this year and appointed on Covid duty on a temporary basis. While they were promised Rs 42,000 a month, what each finally gets is Rs 27,000. “From the total, Rs 8,400 was deducted in the name of the government’s salary challenge, apart from TDS and professional tax. Now, we are getting only Rs 27,000. This is being done only to us. Doctors appointed for Covid duty on temporary basis under National Health Mission are being given full salary,” said Dr Ousam Hussain K P, state president of Kerala junior doctors’ association 2020-21. In the resignation letter, the doctors said they will not be available for service after September 10. The appointment was for a period of three months and a few who joined in May have completed this tenure. “The government is likely to extend the service of these doctors since there is huge demand for healthcare workers, particularly with the caseload increasing in the state. However, we are being forced to resign since the government is not ready to listen to our grievances. We have decided not to work after September 10 if our grievances are not settled,” said Dr Hussain. The association has fired letters to the chief minister and health minister seeking their urgent intervention. “The government in its order had made it clear that salaries of doctors appointed under NHM should not be cut in the name of salary challenge. We were also appointed as temporary medical officers for Covid duty, but there is a different set of rules for us,” said Dr Krishnapriya T S, general secretary of the association. Even though these doctors were appointed in May and June, they started getting their salaries only in August, after they decided to approach the high court. “We had given several representations against the salary cuts to the concerned authorities. But there has been no response, which has forced us to take this extreme decision,” said Dr Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/doctors-at-fltcs-quit-over-pay-cuts/articleshow/77878673.cms||Rajiv G
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Gyanendra Mani appointed new CGM & officer in-charge of NABARD U’khand||Dehradun: Gyanendra Mani took the charge of chief general manager and officer in-charge of National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development (NABARD), Uttarakhand Regional Office, on Tuesday. Pant is a PhD in Agricultural Economics from GB Pant University of Agriculture & Technology in Pantnagar, Uttarakhand. He has earlier served NABARD’s Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh offices, Bankers Institute of Rural Development (BIRD), Lucknow, and Head Office in Mumbai in various capacities. Mani has also handled several consultancy projects on behalf of NABARD — including “Evaluation of SGSY Scheme” for the Union ministry of rural development. He was instrumental in replacing Swarnjayanti Gram Swarozgar Yojana (SGSY) with National Rural Livelihood Mission. Mani has also made immense contributions to the academic world with over 100 documents to his credit in form of books/study reports/ research papers in Indian and international journals/newspapers, etc. He also conceived the idea of and launched the ‘The Microfinance Review’ Journal on behalf of Bankers Institute of Rural Development (BIRD), Lucknow, and managed it from 2009 to 2015 in the capacity of ‘Managing Editor’ of the Journal. He also coordinated several National level seminars on Microfinance, Agricultural Value Chains, and others, on behalf of NABARD. He is also the National Resource Person for ‘Design of Training’ programme being conducted by DoPT, Government of India, and has conducted several DoT programmes for senior bureaucrats at LBSNAA, Mussoorie, and other state government administrative colleges. The government of Arunachal Pradesh, on its 33rd Statehood Day (20 February, 2019), awarded Gold Medal to Dr Mani in recognition of his meritorious service to the state of Arunachal Pradesh when he was officer in-charge of Arunachal Pradesh RO of NABARD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gyanendra-mani-appointed-new-cgm-officer-in-charge-of-nabard-ukhand/articleshow/77877603.cms||Shivani Azad
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Crowd-pulling laddu auctions not held this yr||Hyderabad: For the first time in a decade, on Tuesday, microphones across Ganesh pandals in the city were turned off. Also missing was the festive sound of drums and excited cries of ‘Ganesh Maharaj. Reason: no laddu auctions. Usually, the event draws tremendous attention not only from the two Telugu states but also globally as dozens of bidders queue up to ‘win’ the prasadam, which is believed to bring wealth and good health. Right from real estate biggies to politicians and even industrialists — the list of bidders is long. Among the most popular in the Balapur laddu that fetched Rs 17.6 lakh in 2019. This year though, the laddu is going to chief minister, K Chandrasekhar Rao. “Since 1994, the Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi has been organising laddu auctions. It was then sold for Rs 450. But in view of Covid-19 we have cancelled it this time. So, the committee has decided to present the Balapur laddu, weighing about 21kg, to the Telangana CM as prasadam,” said Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi president, Niranjan Reddy. On Tuesday, the committee members and locals offered special pooja to the laddu. “We are trying to meet the CM through education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy in a day or two, to hand over the laddu,” added Reddy. The scene was much the same at other Ganesh pandals. “The lockdown that’s led to financial crisis among many is a reason why Ganesha laddu auctions haven’t taken place this year,” said one of the organisers. Last year, about 15 Ganesh pandals took part in the much-hyped laddu auctions. And apart from Balapur, another Ganesh pandal at Sun City in Rajendranagar made headlines after it set a record in laddu auctions. A bidder there bought the laddu for as much as Rs 18.51 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crowd-pulling-laddu-auctions-not-held-this-yr/articleshow/77879635.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Corona blues: 44% aspirants skip JEE (Main) entrance on Day 1||LUCKNOW: The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for admission to Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) in the city on Tuesday witnessed low turnout as 44% candidates skipped the examination held amid Covid-19 pandemic. The test was held at three centres in two shifts. The district administration officials said 1,065 candidates from various districts of UP had enrolled for the test and chosen Lucknow centre. However, only 597 appeared in the test while 469 preferred to drop out. In the first shift, 224 (42.4%) out of 528 candidates skipped the exam, while the second shift saw 245 (45.6%) absentees though 537 candidates were supposed to appear. In previous years, the absenteeism rate used to just 15-20%. The candidates who appeared for the test at Lucknow centre from districts like Unnao, Hardoi, Rae Bareli and Barabanki told TOI that fear of contracting the novel coronavirus infection made many stay away from the exam. They too were apprehensive while coming, but felt reassured on finding good arrangements and strict adherence to Covid safety protocols. “I was also in two minds, whether to write or to skip the entrance test for health sake, but finally I decided to take the risk as I don’t want to lose a year. I am happy that I took the risk as all safety measures were taken at my examination centre. Not just once, the candidates were sanitized at the gate and before entering the examination hall,” said Shambhavi Mishra, an aspirant from the city. “I came all the way from Hardoi to write the examination. The only difficulty I faced was that centre was not in the main city but in the outskirts at a location difficult to reach. On reaching the centre, I was satisfied as there was no rush and Covid norms were strictly followed,” said candidate Anupriya Gupta. Another candidate Akshat from Rae Bareli said, “I was stressed when I reached the centre but I was made to walk through a sanitization tunnel. I entered the exam room and saw the examiners wearing PPE kits. Then I took a sigh of relief. Also, there was proper physical distance as two seats were left vacant between candidates.” The pictures of overcrowded examination centres of other entrance tests like BHU and BEd had been haunting me, but I was relieved, he added. The candidates shared they were stressed that the fear of catching Covid-19 infection will haunt them during and after the examination, but good arrangements at the centre eased their tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-blues-44-aspirants-skip-jee-main-entrance-on-day-1/articleshow/77882573.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 2, 2020||Meerut||Anti-CAA stir: Police put up property attachment notices at houses of 4 PFI members in UP's Kairana||Muzaffarnagar: Shamli police on Monday put up property attachment notices at the houses of four members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) in connection with an anti- Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protest held at Eidgah in Kairana in December last year. All the four PFI members — Gufran, Munawar, Ahmad and Kari Abdul Wajid — were absconding, said police. According to Kairana police station SHO Premveer Rana, “A case against dozens of protesters was registered under various sections, including section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Among the accused, four Kairana residents — all PFI members — are still at large. A local court has, meanwhile, issued a notice to the accused under section 82 (attachment of property of person absconding) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and directed them to appear before it on September 25.” Thus, Kairana police on Monday put up the property attachment notices at the houses of all the four PFI members in connection with the anti-CAA protest held on December 20, said the SHO. Notably, a protest against the CAA was organised at Eidgah in Kairana of Shamli district last year and 14 people were arrested in this connection and sent to jail. A case was registered against them at the Kairana police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anti-caa-stir-police-put-up-property-attachment-notices-at-houses-of-4-pfi-members-in-ups-kairana/articleshow/77877610.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||FB ‘unpublished’ Raja Singh’s page, then restored it||New Delhi: Facebook had "unpublished" the verified page of BJP politician T Raja Singh for a couple of days in April 2019, the politician had tweeted last year. But the account was later restored, though it is unclear why. "My official Facebook page has been unpublished / removed couple of days back @facebook may I know the reason," tweeted Singh, who is in the middle of a storm for allegedly posting "anti-minority" content on his Facebook account. The tweet is dated April 1, 2019 around 4pm. Facebook did not respond to TOI's emailed questions on Monday about the suspension and subsequent restoration of Singh's account till the filing of the report. Singh's Facebook account came under scrutiny on August 15 after the Wall Street Journal published a report, which claimed that Facebook's top public policy executive in the country, Ankhi Das, had allegedly opposed applying hate speech rules to Singh's account, which was flagged internally for" promoting or participating in violence." The Facebook moderation team had asked him to be labeled as "dangerous", but Das allegedly said it may harm the company's business interest in the country.  In a video posted on August 16, Singh had claimed his official account was "hacked in 2018" and he had filed a complaint about it with the Cyberabad police station. This is in contradiction to the 2019 tweet from his verified Twitter account, where he admitted that his Facebook page was "unpublished".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fb-unpublished-raja-singhs-page-then-restored-it/articleshow/77879638.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Number of trees to be cut in Mollem much lower than projected: Nilesh Cabral||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday said that far fewer trees in Mollem than those enumerated in the environment impact assessment (EIAs) reports for three controversial infrastructure projects, will be cut. Addressing a webinar on the three projects, Cabral said that even trees to be pruned for the project have to reflect in the EIAs. He also said he would officially engage with organisations like the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in Goa on replanting projects to compensate for the lost tree cover. During the webinar, member of the state biodiversity board Parag Rangnekar said that the EIAs for the projects were faulty. Rangnekar said that the reptile biodiversity of the region for instance was not even mentioned in one of the reports. Cabral then asked local biodiversity experts to approach him with the specifics, and said he would take it up with Union minister Prakash Javadekar. “The road project through Mollem already has one animal overpass and three animal underpasses, which have been provided after studying animal movement in the region,” Cabral said. “For the power transmission line, only 230 trees will be removed from their roots. Rest will be only pruned. All these provisions have already been made in the projects.” The minister said that it will be ensured that three times the trees being cut will be replanted elsewhere, and added that two reputed organisations will be engaged per replantation project, and will be entrusted with the responsibility to see that the saplings planted grow to maturity. The minister also dismissed fears that the railway line is being constructed through Mollem for the transportation of coal. “It is not that these projects have been planned now,” he said. “These projects were planned much earlier. The railway project was planned in 2011, the road project in 2014, and the power one in 2014-15.” TOI reported on August 18 that noted ecologist Madhav Gadgil said that the three projects are being pushed through the ecologically-sensitive Mollem national park to facilitate coal transportation from Vasco port. He also said that the new road through the Western Ghats connecting Goa to Karnataka was important, as 216 persons have lost their life travelling on this route in recent times. “As far as the land at Sangod is concerned (where trees have been felled for construction of the sub-station), it is private land acquired for the project and it is marked as orchard land,” Cabral said. “In fact, it is I who asked for more land than required to be acquired, so that we can use it for replantation of trees.” For the power transmission line project, Cabral said that the existing 110KV line through Mollem has been made defunct so that this same corridor can be used for the new power line. “So the actual area used will be much lower than projected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-of-trees-to-be-cut-in-mollem-much-lower-than-projected-cabral/articleshow/77880549.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Dumping of PPE kits in open raises concerns||Coimbatore: The indiscriminate dumping of used personal protection equipment (PPE) kits near hospital dustbins and in and around Isha crematorium at Nanjundapuram has raised concerns among the public. The government had asked health workers to put used PPE kits, which were categorized as biowaste, along with other Covid-19 waste and hand them over to the agency that operates biowaste incinerators to dispose them of on top priority. Individuals using PPE kits were, meanwhile, asked to dispose of the same in a pit after burning them to ashes to prevent people or animals from touching the kits or coming in close contact with them. On Saturday, TOI had spotted two PPE kits in a corporation dustbin on Puliakulam Road. The next day, another PPE kit was found in the same dustbin. During the weekend, commuters at Nanjundapuram had spotted PPE kits on roadside near the crematorium. Harish Ramaswamy, a regular commuter on the stretch, said, “Many corporation workers and panchayat workers are dumping their PPE kits here. We are scared that other biomedical waste would also be dumped on road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dumping-of-ppe-kits-in-open-raises-concerns/articleshow/77879647.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R establishes Chair Professorship in memory of earthquake engineering expert||Roorkee: The Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT-R) has established an Institute Chair Professorship in honour and memory of its alumnus and doyen of earthquake engineering late Prof Anand Swarup Arya on the occasion of his first death anniversary on Tuesday. The institute officials said that the Chair is the result of a generous donation worth Rs 1.5 crore pledged by his wife Mrs Kaushalya Devi Arya and children so that Dr. Arya’s professional contributions continue to inspire generations to come. “Prof AS Arya was truly a legend who spearheaded earthquake engineering and disaster management efforts throughout his life. IIT Roorkee is immensely proud of his contributions, both as an alumnus and as a faculty member. IIT Roorkee is deeply indebted to Mrs. Kaushalya Devi Arya and her children for the generous donation to make this Chair Professorship a reality,” said AK Chaturvedi, director of IIT-R. Notably, Dr Arya was born on June 13, 1931, in village Ambehta in the Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. After his early education, he joined the University of Roorkee (now IIT Roorkee) and obtained BE (Civil engineering) in 1953 and ME (Structural Engineering) in 1954; joined the university as a faculty, and later moved on to the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, USA in 1959 where he obtained his doctoral degree in 1961. After receiving his PhD, Dr Arya returned to his alma mater. He was instrumental in establishing an interdisciplinary department of Earthquake Engineering. He rose to the position of Head of Earthquake Engineering Department in 1971, became Pro-Vice-Chancellor in 1988 and continued to serve well beyond his superannuation in 1989 as an Emeritus Professor. He remained professionally active till his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-establishes-chair-professorship-in-memory-of-earthquake-engineering-expert/articleshow/77877611.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: How a timely decision helped cancer survivor have a child||HYDERABAD: When Karthik (name changed) and his wife welcomed their newborn last week, they thanked a decision they took eight years ago. In 2012, when as a 23-year-old Karthik was diagnosed with cancer, future seemed uncertain for the couple. Assessing the side effects cancer treatment could have, the couple, on the advice of doctors at a fertility centre in the city took a prudent decision of preserving the sperm in a sperm bank prior to him undergoing the cancer treatment. Karthik was diagnosed with mediastinal tumour, which sprouts in the chest area separating the lungs. A year ago, after he recovered fully, the couple decided to bring back cheer in their lives by having a child. However, though he had completely recovered from the disease a year ago, he lost the ability to father a child due to the chemo and radiotherapy dosage he was administered. The couple then opted for infertility treatment and approached the fertility centre to retrieve the frozen semen and undergo infertility care. The hospital used advanced technologies like MACS to perform ICSI, transferred the embryo sometime in December 2019, and paved the way for the couple to fulfil their long-cherished parenthood dream. The mother delivered a healthy baby girl last week and was discharged on Tuesday.  Dr Durga G Rao, medical director, Oasis Fertility said that cancer therapy is known to affect fertility significantly and has always been a cause of concern for those becoming victims of it at a young age. “Certain drugs like alkylating agents or cisplatin used in chemotherapy are known to impede fertility in patients. Therefore, it makes great sense to preserve the semen or eggs when one is healthy,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-a-timely-decision-helped-cancer-survivor-have-a-child/articleshow/77879666.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Farmer death: CBI takes over probe||Thiruvananthapuram: The special crime branch (SCB) unit of the CBI in Thiruvananthapuram has taken over the probe into the alleged custodial death of P P Mathai, a farmer from Chittar in Pathanamthitta district, from the state police. The CBI registered a FIR on Tuesday and submitted a copy of the same before chief judicial magistrate here. This follows an order issued by the high court on August 21 considering a plea filed by Mathai’s wife, Sheeba. Mathai, 41, was found dead in a well near his residence on July 28, a few hours after he was picked up from his home by eight forest officials in a jeep for questioning in connection with a missing camera trap installed in the forest. The CBI has registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, invoking section 304 of IPC. Other penal code sections invoked include 166 (unlawful act committed by public servant), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with an intent cause injury), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession), 342 (wrongful confinement), 348 (wrongful confinement to extort confession), 364A (kidnap), 404 (dishonest misappropriation of property possessed by deceased person at the time of death), 465 (forgery), and 471 (use of forged document for fraud). Deputy superintendent of police, SCB CBI, Thiruvananthapuram, Ranbir Singh Shekhawat, is the investigative officer in the case. Despite invoking sections pertaining to unlawful activities committed by public servants, the FIR has not named any forest officials or any other individual as accused. The column on details of accused persons is furnished as unknown persons. The state police too had failed to identify any accused in the case despite conducting the probe for over a month. It was after this that Sheeba approached the high court seeking a CBI probe. During the hearing of Sheeba’s petition, district police chief of Pathanamthitta stated that they could not identify the accused despite taking statements from over 60 witnesses. Sheeba’s counsel argued that the police statement itself was indicative of glaring flaws in the investigation and laxity on the part of the investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/farmer-death-cbi-takes-over-probe/articleshow/77878705.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ACB sleuths recover Rs 4.5 crore from two IMS scam accused||HYDERABAD: In a first, ACB chanced upon major investments of two accused officials, who were trapped in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, and seized the unaccounted money. ACB sleuths seized Rs 3.7 crore belonging to Devika Rani, former director of Insurance Medical Services (IMS), and Rs 72 lakh unaccounted money of Naga Lakshmi, pharmacist in ESI. Both were accused in the multi-crore IMS fraud. According to ACB officials, the accused had siphoned off crores of rupees in the guise of supplying medicines to ESI hospitals and dispensaries. Devika and Lakshmi invested the amount with a real estate firm to purchase commercial and residential space in Gachibowli and surrounding areas. The sleuths recovered the tainted money from the company. Further, Devika invested Rs 22 lakh in the name of benamis and also paid Rs 2 crore through cheques and online bank transfers through various persons to the real estate firm for purchase of the properties, the ACB official said. Devika and Lakshmi have already been arrested in the DA case and latest seizures would be added to list of DA. “Devika and Lakshmi are out on bail. They made investments with real estate company prior to their arrests in 2019,” said an ACB official. After the IMS scam came to light, the real estate firm issued a notice to the accused asking them about the investment, citing the DA case. It is learnt that the accused officials did not respond to the notices of the real estate firm, which later informed ACB. This is the first time in ACB’s history that an investment of an accused has been seized in the form of cash, officials said. “We unearthed Rs 35 crore worth DA belonging to Devika and her family. Market value of the assets will be over Rs 100 crore,” said a senior ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-sleuths-recover-rs-4-5-cr-from-two-ims-scam-accused/articleshow/77879651.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 2, 2020||Meerut||Woman teacher ‘thrashes’ 2 kids for sending vulgar messages to her, probe on||MEERUT: After over 10 minutes of class, Samhita Singh (name changed), a teacher at a prominent private school in Noida, realised to her shock that one of her students was sitting in his vest holding a foamy toothbrush. And the rest of the class was giggling at the sight. The child was then forcibly logged out of the online class. In her next lecture, a student was having breakfast with his mother yelling at him to finish it early. Repeated calls asking students to sit in school uniforms has fallen on deaf ears, she says. “Senior classes are the worst,” Singh said. “They do things intentionally to provoke teachers. Some of them disappear after switching off the video. While some keep on texting each other during the class thinking that the teacher will not know,” she said. The indiscipline is leading to widespread concern among the educators who now believe that the online mode of teaching cannot be a good substitute for the school classes. Just over 80km away in Baghpat, policemen are now probing a far graver case of indiscipline by two students and their subsequent thrashing by a woman schoolteacher. A video of the teacher beating the two students with a cane in a private school has been shared widely on social media platforms. The students had allegedly sent her “vulgar” messages. “Your brother passed out from this school. And he often asks me how the school is running and how the students are now. Shall I tell him that his younger brother is sending me abusive messages?” the teacher purportedly asks in the video. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Baghpat Ompal Singh said, “The matter has come to our notice through the viral video. A probe has been ordered in the matter and action will be taken depending on whatever is found in the investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-teacher-thrashes-2-kids-for-sending-vulgar-messages-to-her-probe-on/articleshow/77877632.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Covid fear: PhD entrance turnout dips||LUCKNOW: The PhD entrance test conducted by Lucknow University in two shifts on Tuesday saw just 64% attendance as many candidates opted to stay away due to pandemic. Though adequate arrangements of ensuring safety protocol were made in examination halls, but social distancing was missing at gates where scores of candidates stood close to gain entry. Only 1,178 candidates appeared in the test for PhD seats in commerce, law and science faculties though 1,826 had applied. Despite the low turnout, there was crowd at gates and candidates rubbed shoulders to find their seat in the seating plan pasted on walls. The PhD entrance test in March for some arts faculty subjects had recorded 79% attendance. Many candidates said LU did not take any lessons from the past as similar scenes were witnessed during BEd entrance exam last month. “Thermal scanning was done before we entered the examination hall but candidates failed to maintain physical distancing in rush to reach their halls,” said Shruti Singh. Another candidate Shweta said, “Proper distancing was maintained inside examination hall but most candidates forgot coronavirus cases are on rise while entering.” LU vice-chancellor Prof. Alok Kumar Rai said, “We strictly followed Covid-19 norms. Our responsibility begins when candidates enter our premises, not outside. Thermal scanning was done and social distancing was followed from the moment the candidates stepped into the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-fear-phd-entrance-turnout-dips/articleshow/77880565.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Two flyovers in Delhi ready for use before time||NEW DELHI: Two new flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur will be opened for public use next week. The project has been completed a month in advance of its original deadline of October, a rare achievement for the Public Works Department. An official said that the PWD initially planned to erect two flyovers — one at Seelampur and the second at Shastri Park — but given the bottlenecks impeded flow of traffic on the stretch, a third flyover became necessary at the Dharampura junction. In addition to the early finish, the phase of the project to be completed within the budget of Rs 303 crore has been implemented at a saving of Rs 53 crore. The two flyovers will ease the difficulties of the commuters in the area and should prove a big a relief to motorists going from Ghaziabad, northeast and east Delhi to Kashmere Gate inter-state bus terminal (ISBT). People from Shahdara, Seelampur, Dilshad Garden, Jafrabad and Gandhi Nagar will now escape the usual traffic snarls on Grand Trunk Road. Travel time between Shahdara and ISBT is expected to reduce by around seven minutes. “The project actually got a little delayed because of the Covid lockdown,” a PWD officials said. The Shastri Park flyover is 700 metres long and will be a two-way flyover. Each of the six carriageways is around 10.5m wide. The flyover has two loops: one for the commuters coming from Khajuri Chowk towards Kashmere Gate and the second for vehicles coming from Gandhi Nagar and turning towards Shahdara. The second flyover at the Seelampur junction is 1.3-km long and is double-laned. PWD began the construction of the flyovers in April 2019. The officials said that the two new flyovers will render the passage from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Dilshad Garden signal free and cut travel time between the two points from the current 40 minutes to barely 15 minutes. Government officials said that the budget for the flyovers was cleared by the Delhi cabinet in July 2017. The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, or UTTIPEC, the regulatory body for transport infrastructure in Delhi, had approved the project a month earlier in June 2017. PWD will also upgrade the existing roads by widening the underpasses there by three metres. The Seelampur Chowk will also be widened and provided with signal-free left turn and U-turn towards in an effort to decongest the area. A government official said that they are optimistic that these flyovers will boost the road infrastructure in the capital, particularly in east Delhi, and once operational, these flyovers will make the stretch between ISBT Kashmere Gate and the Uttar Pradesh border free of traffic signals. An official said, “The inauguration of these flyovers will end traffic bottlenecks in areas such as Seelampur, Shastri Park and Shahdara. They will also improve connectivity to Gandhi Nagar and Khajoori Khas.” Watch Two flyovers in Delhi ready for use before time, at a saving of Rs 53 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-flyovers-ready-for-use-before-time/articleshow/77879715.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Covid silver lining: 100% decline in diarrhoea outbreak||LUCKNOW: Notwithstanding the wrath of the coronavirus pandemic in terms of mortality and morbidity, a positive side was that zero diarrhoea outbreaks were reported in the rainy season months — July and August — this year, according to an assessment of comparative data by the state health department. In comparison, 621 such episodes were recorded in 2019. “This is mainly because of good adherence to hand-washing with soap protocols and improved sanitation,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, adding: “the power of the two behavioural changes has been acknowledged by health agencies across the world.” An outbreak is considered when a large group of people suffer with a condition. Therefore, the decline in outbreaks should not be confused with individual cases of diarrhoea. Prasad added that a substantial decline in the number of Kala Azar and H1N1 cases has also come to fore. “No case has surfaced this year because people are covering their faces with masks,” he said. The state also recorded a significant drop in the number of malaria cases from 15,101 in 2019 to 4,687 this year. This was almost one-third of the total number of cases. Likewise, the number of dengue cases plummeted from 135 in 2019 to 32 this season. Earlier, the UP government had noted the positive side of Covid-19 prevention on Japanese and Acute Encephalitis as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-silver-lining-100-decline-in-diarrhoea-outbreak/articleshow/77880592.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Water full of plastic as small lakes bear the brunt of idol immersions this year||Hyderabad: With few immersions taking place at major water bodies, the brunt of the Ganesh idol immersions have been on smaller lakes this year. The result has been waters filled with puja material, including plastics, which would otherwise lead to artificial ponds being created at larger lakes. “Many people came to immerse their idols at the Pathikunta in Rajendra Nagar,” said Syed Abdul Qaleeq, a resident of the area. While not opposed to immersion itself, he said large quantities of plastic were dumped leaving the municipal officials with the task of cleaning up the mess. Residents near lakes said there were no police to control the crowds. “There is no social distancing or masks being worn especially since many of these lakes are in the city’s outskirts,” says Suresh Reddy, an activist. Similar immersion was seen at Palle Chervu in Bandlaguda. “Many locals from this area used to head to the Hussainsagar every year. Since this year this was not possible, they immersed the idols in the Palle cheruvu. Sanitation staff just retrieved whatever they could find from the edge, leaving the rest to just sink into the lake,” said Ramesh Reddy, a resident of the area. Speaking about several lakes where idols are being immersed, Balaswamy Gurram, convenor, Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL) said, “People are using the Amber cheruvu, Rangadabhumi cheruvu and Saroornagar cheruvu for immersion. Putting idols that are not eco-friendly can be harmful to the ecosystem of these lakes.” He added that the government must make arrangements so that not that water bodies are protected. The best option is to encourage people to immerse their idols at home or at local community level, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-full-of-plastic-as-small-lakes-bear-the-brunt-of-idol-immersions-this-year/articleshow/77879707.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Policemen to attach gangster Dilip Mishra immovable properties||Prayagraj: After mafia don turned politician Atiq Ahmad, now its the turn of gangster Dilip Mishra to face action in the ongoing crackdown on organised crime in the state with his 12 immovable properties being earmarked for attachment. Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami on Monday night issued an order for attachment of Mishra’s 12 immoveable properties under Gangster Act. The DM has also asked police to submit a status report in this regard by September 18. The decision to attach the properties was taken after SSP Prayagraj Abhishek Dixit had recommended the action in a report to the district magistrate. He had reasoned that the properties had been allegedly accumulated through illegal means. After going through the available records, the DM decided to attach the properties owned by Mishra. In his report, the SSP said that Dilip Mishra, a resident of Lavayan Kala in Industrial Area, was running an organised gang, and he and his accomplices had accumulated wealth through illegal means. The properties are located in Poora Pandey village (Arial), Mahuwari, Lavayan, Mungari, Devrakh Uphar and Lawayan villages under Karchhana, Industrial Area and Naini police stations. SSP Abhishek Dixit told reporters, “Police have identified the properties of gangster Dilip Mishra and his accomplices. The district magistrate has ordered the attachment of 12 properties of gangster Dilip Mishra. Police would soon start the process of property attachment.” Over 46 criminal cases are registered against Dilip Mishra and he is currently lodged in Fatehgarh district jail. The district police had recently attached seven properties worth Rs 60 crore of mafia don turned politician Atiq Ahmad in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/policemen-to-attach-gangster-dilip-mishra-immovable-properties/articleshow/77876842.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: ITBP jawans carry body of 30-year-old porter on shoulders for 22km||PITHORAGARH: Bhupendra Rana (30), a resident of Mawani-Dawani in Pithoragarh, worked as a porter for the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), carrying ration and essentials on his pony to camps at high altitudes. On August 28, Rana was on his way to the ITBP outpost in Bugdiyar when he was hit by a landslide and died on the spot. On the family’s request, the ITBP agreed to take Rana’s body back home. When a chopper could not be taken due to bad weather, seven ITBP personnel carried the body on their shoulders, traversing 22km of the treacherous terrain on foot. Rana is survived by his wife and three children. His friends had informed the family about the death but were unable to carry the body back home due to the hostile condition of roads. “Rana’s friends had requested the district administration to arrange a chopper to bring the body back home but the weather didn’t allow it. So, we reached out to the ITBP instead and the deputed seven personnel to carry the body from Bugdiyar to Munsyari,” said district magistrate of Pithoragarh Vijay Kumar Jogdande. The journey started on August 29, a day after Rana died. On the first day, the seven ITBP men covered 22 km to reach Lilam village, where they stopped for the night. The next day, the body was carried to Munsyari on an ITBP jeep. From there, it was taken to Rana’s native village in Pithoragarh. The cremation was done on August 31. Repair work, coupled with frequent rains, often makes roads in the region inaccessible. “On Monday, the under-construction Munsyari-Milam road was covered in snow, making it extremely risky for villagers,” said a local resident. “Only two weeks ago, ITBP personnel carried an injured woman from Bugdiyar to Munsyari for treatment. However, efforts are on to open roads at the earliest” said the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-jawans-carry-body-of-30-year-old-porter-on-shoulders-for-22-km/articleshow/77877666.cms||Prem Punetha
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||T govt rolls out fresh regularisation scheme, breather for illegal layouts||Hyderabad: Towards legalising open plots in unapproved layouts, the state government on Tuesday rolled out a fresh layout regularisation scheme (LRS). Unauthorised layouts which have sprung up and plots registered through sale deed prior to August 26, 2020 are eligible for regularisation on payment of penalty. The last date for receiving applications under the LRS is October 15. Individual applicants have to pay Rs 1,000 towards registration fee and Rs 10,000 for layout developers. The government said if the owners fail to regularise their plots, they won’t get building permission and eligible for property registration. Last week, the government has banned registration of plots in illegal layouts and buildings. The municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department issued a GO (No. 131 dated August 31) and said the Telangana Regularisation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules 2020 would be implemented in the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), other urban development authorities, municipal corporations, municipalities and panchayats. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said land owners, private developers, firms, companies and property developers individually or through their societies could regularise their plots in unapproved layouts. The GO said no registration of plots should be done henceforth in all such unauthorised and unapproved layouts. Also, no building permissions and water connections would be granted in such layouts. “Regularisation of plots or layouts is a pre-condition for registration or sale of such plots and obtaining building approval for construction,” the GO said. The MA&UD department said no layout or plot would be regularised that has come up in river bed or lake bed, abutting nala and within the full tank level of any lake, pond, cheruvu or kunta and in shikam lands. Buffer zone should be maintained near water bodies, it stressed. According to the GO, applications can be sent online in the prescribed format. The applicants can also file online application through common web portal, MeeSeva centre or citizen service centre located at a local body and a smart phone-based mobile app as developed for this purpose. Applicants will have to pay the penal amount within three months from the intimation letter from the authority. The LRS amount collected would be kept in a separate escrow account and utilised for development of infrastructure in respective local bodies, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-rolls-out-fresh-regularisation-scheme-breather-for-illegal-layouts/articleshow/77879695.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Mom hangs baby girl to death, kills herself||Coimbatore: A 26-year-old woman murdered her 15-month-old daughter by hanging her and committed suicide on Monday night in her house at Palakkarai near Negamam on the outskirts of the city after her husband refused to take her for a wedding function. The Negamam police identified the deceased as K Thamarai Selvi, wife of Kathiravan, 28, of Palkara Thottam at Palakkarai, and her daughter Yasavi. Police said Selvi was suffering from thyroid disorder and depressed over the same. On Sunday evening, police said, the couple had attended a pre-wedding reception. On Monday morning, she asked her husband to take her for the wedding function. However, Kathiravan, a farmer, turned down her request, citing some other work, they said. K G Sivakumar, deputy superintendent of police, Pollachi sub-division, said Selvi was angry with her husband for not taking her for the wedding function. “On Monday night, she called her mother and asked her to take care of her baby girl and hung up on her. Later, she switched the mobile phone off.” Following this, Selvi’s younger brother K Giridharan rushed to Palakkarai to check on his sister. “As she did not open the door, he climbed on the house, removed the roof tiles and found his sister and her daughter hanging from a wooden angle at either ends of a sari,” the officer said. Giridharan informed his family members and the Negamam police, who retrieved the dead bodies and sent them to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. The deputy superintendent of police said there was no foul play behind the death of the mother-daughter duo. “She might have been strangulated the baby first and hung her using the sari, before hanging self at the other end of the sari.” The Negamam police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bodies were handed over to the family members after autopsy on Tuesday. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mom-hangs-baby-girl-to-death-kills-herself/articleshow/77879673.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||UP MoS, Agra rural MLA test Covid positive;105 test +ve in Bareilly, 103 in Shahjahanpur||Agra/Bareilly: Uttar Pradesh minister of state for social welfare and Agra Cantt MLA Dr Girraj Singh Dharmesh tested positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow on Tuesday. The minister left for Agra after testing positive. Meanwhile, Agra rural MLA Hemlata Diwakar Kushwah also tested positive. Kushwah has been under home isolation. At least, 69 fresh Covid-19 positive cases — including three suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two suffering from influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, one patient each of coronary artery infection and kidney disease —surfaced in Agra district till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,970, with 454 being active cases. Meanwhile, 41 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 2,970 cases, 81.11% have been declared cured and discharged. As many as 105 more people tested positive for Covid-19 and two died during the treatment in Bareilly district while 103 people tested positive in Shahjahanpur district and two died on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-mos-agra-rural-mla-test-covid-positive105-test-ve-in-bareilly-103-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77877656.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Rly laundry operators hold silent protest||Hyderabad: The Railway Boot Laundry Operators Association, that represents 25 contractors and owners of mechanical boot laundries providing bedroll linen services across the network of Indian Railways, held a silent protest in front of Rail Nilayam against discontinuation of linen services due to Covid and non-payment of dues. “As per the contract, the railways have to make a payment for minimum assured load irrespective of linen/bedroll, as these projects are of PPP nature and require capital and debt servicing. However, to release payments as per contract condition and Railway Board instructions, no payments were released by SCR,” said Yashodhar Vallala, president, Railway Boot Laundry Operators Association. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rly-laundry-operators-hold-silent-protest/articleshow/77879677.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||60-year-old man beaten to death||Coimbatore: A 60-year-old man was beaten to death at Neelambur on the outskirts of the city on Monday. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said, “The motive behind the murder is yet to established and we have formed four special teams to nab the murderer.” According to a police officer, the incident took place when G Kaliyappan, of Neelambur, went out for morning walk on Monday. “He left the house around 6am and walked towards G R Damodaran Academy of Management institute on Avinashi Road. An unidentified person was waiting for him near a truck. When Kaliyappan crossed him, he took a cricket bat from his motorcycle and followed the elderly. He beat Kaliyappan on his head with the bat and sped away on his motorcycle. This incident was captured on a CCTV camera in front of the institute.” Passersby rushed Kaliyappan to a private hospital, the authorities of which altered the Sulur police. Kaliyappan’s son Sathishkumar lodged a complaint with the Sulur police, who registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Meanwhile, Kaliyappan died in the hospital the same night without responding to treatment. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The body was handed over to the family after the autopsy on Tuesday afternoon. Following this, the Sulur police altered the Section to 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/60-year-old-man-beaten-to-death/articleshow/77879691.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka still tops states with most active cases||BENGALURU: Despite a change in policy in the number of days a patient should remain in hospital and a more than steady spike in discharges, Karnataka has the highest percentage of active cases — those still under treatment. Caseload wise, Karnataka stands in fourth place behind Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu as of August 30. Of states with more than three lakh cases, Tamil Nadu has the least percentage of active cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. Karnataka’s ‘active cases problem’ had been a concern in July as TOI had reported, but despite adding a record 1,92,441 discharges in August, the state continues to occupy the top place — by percentage — on the chart. This is because the state also added a staggering 2,11,813 new cases between August 1 and 30, the highest for any month. “States like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu peaked earlier and, naturally, their recoveries will be higher,” one official said. However, the fact that the state is behind even Andhra Pradesh, which has seen a steeper growth in new cases compared to Karnataka, suggests a bigger effort is needed. Besides this, three states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — account for 43% of all Covid cases in the country, the Union health ministry said on Monday, while advising these states to undertake aggressive measures to ensure higher testing, effective clinical management to reduce fatalities and efficient monitoring at various levels. However, the state insists the number of fresh cases has been coming down since August 1, although their stand does not reflective in its daily bulletin. “In the past five months, more than 75% cases have recovered and less than 25% are active now,” said medical education minister K Sudhakar. Another official said, “There is a declining trend in active cases because of high recoveries in the past few days. This is reassuring, but challenges remain. There is no reason to slacken our guard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-still-has-most-active-cases-among-top-four-states/articleshow/77878708.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||JEE exams held with strict compliance of Covid-19 norms||Dehradun: The Joint Entrance Test (JEE) Main examinations for the courses of Bachelor of Architecture and Bachelor of Planning were held at 10 centres across Uttarakhand on Tuesday with strict compliance of Covid-19 regulations. A few hundred students, who appeared for the examination, were sanitised before being allowed entry into the exam centres and were inspected thermally as well. The exam was conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), set-up by the Union ministry of human resource development (now, ministry of education). The JEE exams had been postponed twice earlier in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities told TOI that more students will appear for the upcoming papers of JEE MAINS in the coming days as the two exams which were held on Tuesday were opted by lesser number of students. Meanwhile, the students who appeared for the examinations on the day said that the question paper was not difficult. "I found the paper easy and got sufficient time to write the paper. The fear of contracting Covid-19 was there but I wanted the examination to take place," said Ojas Singh, who appeared for the BArch exam at Tulas Institute in Selaqui area of Dehradun. Expressing a similar opinion, Priyanka Saklani, who also appeared for the BArch exam, said, "The exam was easier than the mock tests I had solved. The questions of Mathematics, however, were a little difficult. No one in the centre was looking bothered about Covid-19. They were all focussed on the exam.” She added that she will also be appearing for the BTech paper on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jee-exams-held-with-strict-compliance-of-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77877684.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Jilted lover found hanging||Pithoragarh: A 32-year-old youth, who had allegedly killed a woman he was earlier in love with, died by suicide here on Tuesday. The accused Rajendra Chand’s body was found hanging from a mango tree 3 km away from Jayal village. He was on the run after he got into a heated argument with 22-year-old Kavita Bhatt on Sunday evening and stabbed her with a knife. She later succumbed at a hospital. Police said that he had mentioned both the killing and suicide plan in his diary. Pithoragarh circle officer RS Rautela said that the diary was recovered from his room. Rajendra used to work as a contractor and was booked earlier in a quarrel case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jilted-lover-found-hanging/articleshow/77877707.cms||Prem Punetha
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||AIMIM to contest 50 seats in Bihar assemply polls||PATNA: With an eye on Muslim votes, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen on Tuesday said it would contest at least 50 seats in the forthcoming assembly polls in Bihar. “The number of seats may increase as our organization is still surveying to find out more seats from where the AIMIM can field its candidates,” the party’s Bihar unit chief and former MLA Akhtarul Iman said here on Tuesday. The AIMIM had contested six seats in the 2015 assembly polls, but could not win any of the six seats. Later in a by-election, the party registered its maiden victory from Kishanganj assembly seat in Bihar. Apart from the 32 candidates already announced in June this year, Iman on Tuesday announced candidates for 18 more assembly seats in Bihar. “The AIMIM has so far identified altogether 50 seats to field its candidates in the coming assembly polls in Bihar,” the party’s youth wing chief Aadil Hasan said. Hasan said the 18 seats which were announced on Tuesday are Kochadhaman, Kishanganj, Bahadurganj, Thakurganj, Kasba, Araria, Narpatganj, Chhatapur, Pranpur, Jale, Darbhanga Town, Sugauli, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Purnia, Dhamdaha, Piro and Manihari assembly seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-to-contest-50-seats-in-bihar/articleshow/77879717.cms||Madan Kumar
September 2, 2020||Patna||AIMIM to contest 50 seats in Bihar assemply polls||PATNA: With an eye on Muslim votes, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen on Tuesday said it would contest at least 50 seats in the forthcoming assembly polls in Bihar. “The number of seats may increase as our organization is still surveying to find out more seats from where the AIMIM can field its candidates,” the party’s Bihar unit chief and former MLA Akhtarul Iman said here on Tuesday. The AIMIM had contested six seats in the 2015 assembly polls, but could not win any of the six seats. Later in a by-election, the party registered its maiden victory from Kishanganj assembly seat in Bihar. Apart from the 32 candidates already announced in June this year, Iman on Tuesday announced candidates for 18 more assembly seats in Bihar. “The AIMIM has so far identified altogether 50 seats to field its candidates in the coming assembly polls in Bihar,” the party’s youth wing chief Aadil Hasan said. Hasan said the 18 seats which were announced on Tuesday are Kochadhaman, Kishanganj, Bahadurganj, Thakurganj, Kasba, Araria, Narpatganj, Chhatapur, Pranpur, Jale, Darbhanga Town, Sugauli, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Purnia, Dhamdaha, Piro and Manihari assembly seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-to-contest-50-seats-in-bihar/articleshow/77883367.cms||Madan Kumar
September 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Cell to monitor progress of tourism projects||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With poll announcement expected in the first week of March 2021, the government is in a hurry to showcase its achievements before the public. Now, tourism department has appointed 17 project engineers for monitoring its projects worth Rs 314 crore. The project monitoring cell will have one project engineer in each district in addition to two project engineers and one technical assistant at tourism headquarters. The expenses for their appointment is estimated at Rs 1.41 crore and it includes remuneration, vehicle expenses, procuring technical devices etc. The cell is being constituted for carrying out day-to-day updation of project monitoring system, the chief minister’s office portal, progress verification of state and central projects. The department has schemes worth Rs 320.14 crore in the current financial year. While tourism directorate implements projects worth Rs 307.11 crore, the rest of the plan allocation is shared between KTDC (Rs 9 cr), Bekal Resorts Development Corporation (Rs 2.5 cr) and KTIL (Rs 1.53 cr). Till Aug 31, the expenditure by the department stood at Rs 122.60 crore (38.6% of plan allocation), which is much better than the departmental average (19.71% for 53 departments). In addition to the 12 mega projects that are directly monitored by the CM with Feb 28, 2021 as the completion deadline, the government has asked all departments to complete as many projects as possible. In June, the chief minister had personally reviewed Muzhuppilangad-Dharmadom beach project and Thalassery heritage project and had instructed officials to initiate the necessary CRZ clearance for the beach project. The beach project is worth Rs 233.72 crore. The Thalassery heritage project, worth Rs 142.5 crore, is spread across Kannur, Kozhikode and Wayanad. “The projects in tourism are of top priority for the government especially when the state’s unique selling proposition is tourism that was badly hit after Covid outbreak,” said government sources. In the circular issued by the general administration department on Thursday – addressed to all department secretaries, heads of line departments, heads of PSUs and all collectors – the government has asked them to complete all ongoing schemes, works and programmes before March so that seeking permission from election commission can be avoided once model code of conduct comes into force. But, at the same time, a question also arises: will appointing project monitoring cells at the last moment be another waste of public money. “There are multiple departments running several projects and schemes. Those departments are not running project monitoring cells to ensure the timely completion of the projects,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cell-to-monitor-progress-of-tourism-projects/articleshow/77878743.cms||KP Saikiran
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Remove anti-dumping duty on viscose fibre’||Coimbatore: Representatives of the Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) and the Southern India Mills Association (Sima) requested the ministries of textile, commerce, and finance to remove anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre (VSF). While anti-dumping duty on purified terephthalic acid (PTA), a raw material for polyester, was removed in the previous budget, that on VSF still continues and because of this, the entire value chain is struggling to compete in the global market, said ITF convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan. The import of VSF spun yarn in 2016-2017 was 2,022 tonnes and it went up to 56,262 tonnes in 2019-20. China has been dumping yarn here and the landing cost of Chinese yarn is cheaper by Rs 20 per kilogram than Indian spinners’ manufacturing cost. Bangladesh, Vietnam and Cambodia have gained exponential share in the global man-made fibre-based textile and clothing exports as they have access to fibre at international prices, which make them competitive even without having their own source of raw material, ITF said. “If anti-dumping duty on VSF is removed, Indian spinners will have access to the fibre at international prices, which will be competitive for the Indian spinners to match yarn imports. The benefits would then flow to the entire value chain including MSME weaving sector.” “Removing the anti-dumping duty on VSF will make domestic VSF prices aligned with global prices, making the entire Indian VSF textile value chain globally competitive and boost production and exports of the products,” said Sima chairman Ashwin Chandran. VSF attracts anti-dumping duty of $0.103 to $0.512/kg even from countries like Indonesia. Due to this, viscose fibre prices in India are much higher than international prices with a difference of around Rs 20 to Rs 23/kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/remove-anti-dumping-duty-on-viscose-fibre/articleshow/77879709.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Tnree auto drivers arrested for assaulting minor||HYDERABAD: Three auto drivers were arrested by Rachakonda police for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old minor girl who was on her way to her grandmother’s house. The trio was booked for rape. The incident occurred on August 25 evening, when the victim, a resident of LB Nagar was on her way to visit her grandmother at Kothapet. The trio took her from LB Nagar crossroads to an open plot at Amma Nagar in Hayath Nagar area and raped her. The girl along with her family lodged a complaint. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-auto-drivers-arrested-for-assaulting-minor/articleshow/77879728.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||‘Cultural complex planned on a dried-up waterbody’||NEW DELHI: Residents of Budhela village in Vikaspuri have alleged that Delhi government has issued a tender for the construction of a cultural complex for Sahitya Kala Parishad on land where a waterbody once stood. Local residents said that their calls to revive the johad had yielded no results over the last two years and the government had not provided them with any assistance in this regard. A letter written by an NGO and the residents’ welfare association (RWA) claimed that the one-acre waterbody dried up around the year 2000 after being filled up with sand by the local MLA. “On behalf of all the residents of Budhela, I am requesting you to please stop the project of building the cultural centre of Sahitya Kala Parishad. The site is not appropriate for it. We agree with your government’s thoughtful consideration that Delhi needs more cultural spaces where artistes can showcase their talents and citizens can benefit from such a recreational space. However, this site was wrongly allotted by DDA to SKP in 2002. The site had a pond that was filled up with sand and sold by DDA to SKP without any consent of the residents of Budhela,” the letter stated, adding that any construction over the johad would lead to a violation of various rules framed under Environmental Protection Act, 1986. Budhela is one of the 135 urban villages in the capital that were left by the government as villages when the land acquisition exercise took place. Paras Tyagi, an activist and village resident, claimed that DDA maps still showed the one-acre plot as a waterbody. However, permission had now been given for initiating the tender process for constructing the cultural complex. “Our efforts to revive the waterbody have yielded no results and there has been no support from civic agencies or the government. Historical data and even the latest DDA maps still show the area as a johad, so how was permission given to build something over it?” asked Tyagi. RWA president Deepak Tyagi said that the local residents had never asked for something to be built on the land as it would increase congestion. “We never asked for this cultural complex. Any fresh construction in the area will increase congestion in Budhela, which has been reduced to a ghetto,” he added. Jitendra Roja, who lives opposite the proposed cultural complex “plot”, said that requests of the villagers had been ignored for several years, leaving the area without any water. While Delhi government did not respond to queries by TOI, DDA’s response was awaited at the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cultural-complex-planned-on-a-dried-up-waterbody/articleshow/77879758.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi over GST dues||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to adopt a legally viable option to provide goods and services tax (GST) compensation to the states to help them tide over the financial crisis caused by Covid-19. Under GST (Compensation to States) Act 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years (2017-22). The Act, Kejriwal wrote, clearly provides for compensation to the states for the loss of revenue due to the implementation of GST. The two options given by the Union finance ministry, which require the states to borrow loans and then meet the repayment liabilities, will put an onerous burden on them, the chief minister stated. Rather the GST council should consider authorising the Centre to borrow on its behalf, which can be serviced and repaid “by the future collection of (GST) cess w.e.f 2022”, he suggested. The council on August 27 offered the states two options to tide over their GST revenue shortfall as the GST cess collected from items such as cars and tobacco was not adequate to compensate them this financial year. The Centre has specified that the state governments could borrow either via a special window it will facilitate through Reserve Bank of India or raise debt from the market. Terming the GST reform as a landmark in the indirect tax structure of India, Kejriwal stated that the assurance of the GST compensation was one of the pillars on which the entire GST edifice rested. Creating “an artificial distinction between the loss occurring due to the implementation of GST and those occurring due to Covid-19 pandemic goes against the very spirit of the Compensation Act and will lead to the creation of a trust deficit between the Centre and the states,” Kejriwal wrote. This, he added, will make the states hesitant in future to come together to achieve “such larger common national goals, as was done through the implementation of GST”. The chief minister also said the current options would lead to a cumbersome process of borrowing by the states and the servicing and ultimate repayment of a loan through them would also be similarly cumbersome and circuitous. “Considering the above situation, it is my humble submission that the Government of India may like to consider a much more simpler and legally sustainable option of borrowing by the Government of India to the full extent of the requirement of compensation in the year 2021 and 2022, to be serviced and repaid by the future collection of cess w.e.f 2022.” Kejriwal said he had been informed that the consensus opinion of majority of the states during the deliberations held in the 41st GST council meeting was also borrowing by Government of India for requirement of compensation in 2021 and 2022. If this option is exercised, he said, it will be acceptable to all the states and they will be obliged to the Centre for supporting them in such a situation and helping them tide over the financial crisis arisen due to the pandemic. The chief minister said all the states would overcome the unprecedented situation that the Covid-19 pandemic had brought before the country by working collectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-writes-to-pm-over-gst-dues/articleshow/77879748.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Virus spreading fast in urban areas, tally reaches 10k mark||Prayagraj: The number of Covid cases in Prayagraj has hit the 10,000-mark with most infections being reported from the urban pockets of the district. As a result, Sadar tehsil, which covers all urban and posh areas of the city, has the highest number of containment zones, while Koraon tehsil in the trans-Yamuna area has least. Health officials shared the latest statistics on Tuesday and revealed that the number of containment zones in Prayagraj district has gone up to 2,550 and Sadar tehsil accounts for the highest share with 1,653 containment zones. Sadar is followed by Phulpur (201), Soraon (194), Karchhana (165), Handia (124), Meja (111), Bara (72) and Koraon (30). Additional director, health, Dr. Sudhkar Pandey told TOI on Tuesday, “Around 53% containment zones are in the urban pockets of Sangam City compared to trans-Ganga and -Yamuna areas. This shows that coronavirus infection is spreading more in urban pockets and hence more Covid-19 cases are being detected in city areas.” “Officials are now specifically focusing on areas from where more Covid cases are being reported and have also initiated corrective measures to curb the spread of infection,” he added. The number of containment zones in Prayagraj district has crossed 2,500-mark and is more than the combined tally of Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur, the remaining three districts in the range. Similarly, the number of containment zones in Sadar tehsil comprising posh and urban areas is around double of those of trans-Ganga and -Yamua pockets put together. Dr. Pandey further said, “The number of Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj has reached 9,668, while Pratapgarh tally is 1,866 and the caseload in Kaushambi district is 969. The number of containment zones has also increased in these districts.” The good thing is that the recovery rate in Prayagraj district has improved further to 74%, and now focus is on collecting more and more samples from villages, blocks and urban areas for testing, he added. As many as 7,128 Covid patients recovered from Covid and were discharged from hospitals or completed their home isolation in Prayagraj by Monday, while the number of cured cases in Kaushambi rose to 699 and 1,166 in Pratapgarh. The number of tests conducted in Prayagraj has also increased to more than 1.14 lakh, while 28,200 people have been tested in Pratapgarh and 44,655 in Kaushambi districts. However, Prayagraj also leads in Covid casualties and has reported a total of 154 deaths, while 31 patients died in Pratapgarh and 12 in Kaushambi so far since the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/virus-spreading-fast-in-urban-areas-tally-reaches-10k-mark/articleshow/77876877.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Withdraw cases against forums that fought for reservation: Outfit||Coimbatore: Representatives of Dravida Tamizhar Katchi, a dalit outfit, on Tuesday demanded the state to withdraw cases against them for staging protests seeking reservation for Arunthathiyars.The move comes after a five-member Constitution bench of the Supreme Court reiterated the rights of states in ordering sub-quota within SC/ST reservation for select segments of society.K Sakkiyan, district secretary of the forum, said in a petition to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami that they had been demanding for separate reservation for Arunthathiyars, the most backward of scheduled castes, in education and jobs for the past 25 years to help them compete with people of other communities.“Several forums and outfits have staged demonstrations, seeking reservation for Arunthathiyars. Demonstrations were also held against those who opposed reservation for Arunthathiyars. Police have filed cases against these forums. Now, as the apex court has upheld the states’ rights to provide sub-reservation, the cases should be withdrawn unconditionally,” he said in the petition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/withdraw-cases-against-forums-that-fought-for-reservation-outfit/articleshow/77879722.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, degree students can pick and choose electives||Hyderabad: Students seeking admission to degree courses this year will have the freedom to choose from a pool of subjects as the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has introduced the ‘four bucket system’. Seats for first phase of admissions through Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) will be allocated on September 16. Under this system, students will be able to select subjects, not available in college, and learn them through an online source such as Swayam or the state’s virtual classroom. Until last year, students selecting general undergraduate courses such as commerce, science and arts had a rigid combination of subjects. The bucket system is quite in contrast to the traditional system that has prevailed all these years. “A large pool of subjects have been divided into four buckets with each having one to six subjects. Students have to select three core subjects from the four buckets that they will pursue throughout their degree course,” TSCHE vice-chairman and DOST convenor R Limbadri said. For example, if an arts student wants to study geography as one of the electives along with public administration and political science, the bucket system will enable the pupil to do so through the Swayam portal or virtual classroom. At the end of the course, an exam will be conducted by the college/university and credits will be allotted to the student as per University Grants Commission guidelines. As per the guidelines issued by the TSCHE, the university will fix an overall intake for each stream in multiples of 60. There will be a ceiling on the subjects such as computer science, computer applications, microbiology and biotechnology as per the availability of lab facilities. “Public administration, geology, psychology, sociology, mass communication and journalism will be offered through massive open online courses in the academic year 2020-21,” the guidelines stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-degree-students-can-pick-and-choose-electives/articleshow/77879746.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Incentivise smart card use; allow top-up through UPI apps: Bengaluru Metro passengers tell BMRCL||BENGALURU: With Namma Metro likely to allow only smart card users when it resumes services on September 7, many passengers urged BMRCL to remove the Rs 50 minimum balance rule. In March 2019, BMRCL increased the minimum balance to Rs 50 from the previous Rs 8.50. In January this year, BMRCL reduced the discount for smart card users from 15% to 5%. Many passengers urged BMRCL to allow recharge of smart cards through UPI mobile apps like Paytm and PhonePe. Metro operators in Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai allow it. While BMRCL plans to discontinue tokens due to Covid-19, a detailed SOP is expected soon. At present, only webtopup.bmrc.co.in is available for online recharge but the site is marred by technical glitches. Counters at many stations do not accept debit or credit cards and insist on cash payment. Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a commuter rail activist, said: “Usage of smart cards is a win-win for both passengers and BMRCL. While passengers save time at the station and reduce transactions, BMRCL gets several advantages. Unfortunately, it’s not incentivising smart card users. BMRCL could monitor the travel pattern of passengers, get a significant amount in advance and reduce cash transactions”. He said, “The validity of recharge amount is only for one year but many people have left the city. A Metro card cannot be used for other things.” BMRCL chief public relations officer BL Yashvanth Chavan said: “The validity of recharge amount for one year will continue and there’s no change in the minimum balance. We’re awaiting the SOP on operational details.” An average of 4.5 lakh passengers used the service before lockdown daily of which around 60% used smart cards. NCMC card in 6-9 monthsThe National Common Mobility Card (One Nation One Card), launched by the central government in March 2019, may be implemented in Bengaluru in 6-9 months. Passengers can use one card for various transport modes, including Metro and buses, and pay parking fees. “While a card exclusive for Metro will continue, a commuter with NCMC can pay for journeys in Metros, public transport, parking lots, and even taxis once all operators upgrade their fare collection systems to become NCMC compliant,” said BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth. “All new cards to be issued by banks including credit and debit cards are expected to be NCMC. In addition, customers can seek change of their existing cards. BMRCL is also putting such a system in place in next 6 to 9 months” he said. Earlier deadline for the NCMC card was December 2020. BMRCL has installed new Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) gates at two stations at Mysuru Road and Byappanahalli on NCMC based ticketing as a pilot project. In addition to NCMC, the Phase 2 AFC system will also support QR-code based ticketing wherein commuters will be able to buy tickets using their mobile phones. BMRCL has had a closed-loop card since it began operations in 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/remove-rs-50-min-balance-rule-demand-namma-metro-users/articleshow/77878735.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana IPS officer 1st woman to head CRPF in Srinagar||HYDERABAD: For the first time, CRPF Srinagar sector will have a woman IPS officer as its boss. Charu Sinha, a 1996 batch Telangana cadre IPS officer, will head the Srinagar sector, a highly volatile area as inspector general. First woman IG to be posted in Srinagar sector of CRPF since its inception in 2005, Charu Sinha is likely to assume charge within a week. On Monday, an order was issued appointing Sinha as IG of Srinagar sector. Director general of CRPF AP Maheshwari headed Srinagar sector as IG in 2005. For Sinha, this won’t be the first time that she had been handed out a tough task. She was IG, Bihar sector of CRPF and under her leadership, anti-Maoist operations had been carried out. Later, she was transferred as IG, Jammu sector of CRPF where she supervised counter-insurgency operations. The Srinagar sector is located in Brein Nishat and has operational jurisdiction over three districts of Budgam, Ganderbal and Srinagar and Union territory of Ladakh. Sources said Sinha would also be heading all operations involved in the sector.An alumna of University of Hyderabad, the IPS officer had officiated as IG (training), ACB, and IG of CID, before her deputation to CRPF in 2018. r. When AP was united, Sinha worked as secretary of APPSC and DIG of Anantapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-first-t-cadre-ips-officer-to-head-crpf-srinagar-sector/articleshow/77879742.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Kayasthas missing in BJP team, posters out||LUCKNOW: Posters highlighting the Kayastha community's absence in the BJP’s new state executive have come up at main crossings of the city. Though the BJP is terming it as a conspiracy of the Samajwadi Party and the Congress to tarnish its image, insiders feel that the Kayastha community, which has been voting for the party since the days of Jan Sangh, is feeling hurt and dejected. However, OP Srivastava, a senior member of the state executive of the ruling party, defended the new committee by saying that the party did not give any post on the basis of caste and community. Strongly denying any resentment, Srivastava further said that members of theKayastha community should not feel dejected as the party has many plans for them too. The posters, which have been pasted in several localities, state that “BJP ko dhanyawad party kebandhuva voters Kayastha Samaj ko koi sthan na dene ke liye” (Thanks to BJP for not offering any post in its state executive to Kayastha community which is linked with the party since long). State president of the BJP Swatantra Dev Singh had last week announced a new executive, comprising 42 office-bearers, to lead the party for the 2022 Assembly elections. But not a single post has been given to any Kayastha leader. The BJP's new executive comprises seven general secretaries, 16 vice- presidents and 16 secretaries. Though the BJP claimed to have given adequate representation to different social groups not a single member of the Kayasthacommunity has been included in it. In the previous committee also the Kayasthas were denied any position. Later, following a strong protest lodged by community leaders they were assured of getting due representation in the new team. But this time too they were denied any post by the party leadership. Now, opposition parties are trying to make it an issue and perhaps this is the reason why anonymous posters highlighting Kayasthas' absence in the BJP executive have come up at main crossings of the city. Contrary to UP BJP chief’s claims of giving adequate representation to all communities, a Kayastha leader of the party said that the BJP did not have any Kayastha mayor or MLC. Besides, no community member has been sent to Rajya Sabha or named governor of any state and that despite the fact that they stood by the BJP all the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kayasthas-missing-in-bjp-team-posters-out/articleshow/77880618.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC directs govt not to allow ‘hookah’ in bars||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary (CS) not to permit bars, restaurants and cafes to serve ‘hookah’ till further orders of this court with immediate effect in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Treating a letter petition as PIL, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed also directed the chief secretary to file his response and a compliance report by the next date of hearing through his personal affidavit. The court directed to list this matter on September 30 for the next hearing. Pointing towards the threat of spread of Covid-19, the court observed, “It cannot be denied that coronavirus cases are increasing day by day and in case public places such as restaurants and cafes are not restricted from serving hookah with immediate effect, there might be chances of vast community spread of corona-virus cases in Uttar Pradesh.” “The pandemic is spreading like wildfire despite harsh lockdowns and is threatening the existence of human life. The situation is very grim. We are standing in a forest of darkness and do not know what tomorrow holds,” the court added. The court directed the registrar general of the high court to send a copy of this order forthwith to the UP chief secretary and all the district magistrates in the state for necessary compliance. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the court appointed a high court lawyer, Vinayak Mithal, as amicus curiae in the matter to assist the court. Earlier, the petitioner, Hari Govind Dubey, a student of law at the Lucknow University, had approached the higher authorities seeking a ban on the smoking hookah but was of no avail. Hence, he wrote a letter to the court, which the court treated as a PIL. The order dated August 27 came to limelight on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-directs-state-cs-not-to-allow-hookah-in-bars-cafes/articleshow/77876891.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam likely to get Polavaram water, DPR in works||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has started preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to lay a pipeline to draw and convey water from the Polavaram project to Vizag city. The DPR will come up with plans to draw 12tmc water to address the needs of Vizag and areas en-route including urban and rural parts of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. Estimated to cost around Rs 3,600 crore, GVMC wants to make use of funds from CSR initiatives and the central government’s water scheme, since the project involves many rural areas, to fund the project. According the officials of the civic body, the pipeline project from Polavaram will be a long-term solution for the gap in water demand and supply and will be a stride forward in supplying water round-the-clock. GVMC’s chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said the DPR will be prepared within the next six to eight months. “GVMC has entrusted the responsibility of the DPR to a private agency chosen in a bidding process for around Rs 1.8 crore,” Rao said. The city’s civic body currently has six to seven water sources. The Yeluru reservoir, located nearly 150km away from the city provides the lion’s share. However, the GVMC realises only 50% of the water drawn through Yeluru left main canal. The Yeluru left main canal, an open canal, has problems due to water pilferage, seepage, evaporation and accumulated silt. Polavaram, which is under construction is only 50km away from Yeluru reservoir and could emerge as the primary source of water for the city. The projected domestic and industrial water demand in the GVMC area in the near future is nearly 12tmc. Consequently, there is a clear necessity for an efficient and long-term solution to water supply issued in the GVMC area. The pipeline is supposed to transmit water from Polavaram reservoir to the GVMC area along Polavaram main canal till its confluence with Yeluru left main canal and later follow Yeluru’s path to the GVMC area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-likely-to-get-polavaram-water-dpr-in-works/articleshow/77878759.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 2, 2020||Agra||Missing 9-year-old girl found dead in UP’s Mathura||Agra: A 9-year-old, who had gone missing on Monday evening, was found dead in a field outside Mathura’s Dehrua village on Tuesday. The post-mortem examination of the girl has confirmed that she was raped before being murdered at the spot where her body was found. The accused, however, is yet to be arrested. Agitated local residents staged a protest against the police after the body was taken for post-mortem in the morning. Mathura SSP Guarav Grover told TOI that the findings of the postmortem report suggest the girl was sexually assaulted, “as blood clots and injuries were found on her private parts”. He said that the cause of death was identified as “asphyxia due to manual compression of the neck”. According to police, the girl had gone to buy some stuff around 8 pm from a nearby shop with another girl of the same age group, who returned to her house alone on Monday. When the victim did not return till 10 pm, her father started searching for her frantically. He lodged a police complaint around 12:30 am. Police registered an FIR under section 363 (kidnapping), which was converted to sections 302 (murder) and 376 (rape) of IPC and under the POCSO Act after her body was found today. Police said that the girl, who had accompanied the deceased to the shop on Monday, revealed during questioning that her maternal uncle, Banvari, 38, had taken both of them with him on his bike. While he dropped her back to her house, he took the victim with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-9-year-old-girl-found-dead-in-ups-mathura/articleshow/77877746.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||SFI petitions before Amma’s photo to cancel NEET||Coimbatore: Usually, people would meet ministers or officials to represent their demands and submit petitions. The unusual happened on Tuesday when members of the Student Federation of India (SFI) here petitioned a politician, who is no more. SFI members submitted their petition, seeking cancellation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), before a photograph of former chief minister and AIADMK leader, the late J Jayalalithaa. They did this was part of the protest against NEET and to mark the death anniversary of S Anitha, an MBBS aspirant who committed suicide a few years ago after she failed to secure a seat because of low score in NEET. SFI district secretary M Dhinesh Raja said they chose to submit the petition before the picture of Jayalalithaa as she was against NEET. “But the present state government, which says it follows ‘Amma’s rule’, has not done enough to oppose the test. A decision against NEET was passed in the state legislative assembly. But when the Centre is imposing NEET, the state is not courageous enough to oppose it,” he said. If the state doesn’t oppose NEET, he said they would submit the petition before Jaya’s statue in the city. After Anitha’s suicide in 2017, R Subashree, a student from the district, had taken her own life this year because of stress and anxiety caused by NEET. “NEET would make it difficult for students from underprivileged backgrounds to secure MBBS seats. This would cause a divide,” the SFI leader said. Holding NEET at a time when Covid-19 spread is increasing across the country was condemnable, he said. “We seek to restore the old method of admitting students to MBBS based on Class XII marks. This would ensure social justice.” SFI members also submitted a petition to district collector K Rajamani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sfi-petitions-before-ammas-photo-to-cancel-neet/articleshow/77879745.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Agra||Health department to conduct Covid-19 tests at 26 centres||Agra: Following orders of the state government to increase Covid-19 testing, the Agra district health department has established rapid antigen testing facility at 26 centres in the district. Majority of the centres have been established at the public health centres and community health centres. The testing will be conducted after the screening of the symptomatic patients.According to the health department officials, result of the antigen test will come in around 20 minutes. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Anyone suffering from fewer, breathing problems or bad throat can come for Covid-19 testing at any of the 26 centres in the district. Patients will be provided on the spot test report. Medicines will also be provided to the patients suffering from common illnesses.” In city areas, Covid-19 tests will be done at Motimahal, Naglapadi, Mantola, Jeevani Mandi, Nai Ki Sarai, Balkeshwar, Sikandra, Bundukatra and Shahganj. Locals can also get their Covid-19 test done at the employment exchange adjacent to the district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/health-department-to-conduct-covid-19-tests-at-26-centres/articleshow/77877737.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Petrol dealers write to CP over attack on worker||Ludhiana: The Petroleum Dealers Association here has written to the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal demanding for addition of relevant sections, including attempt of murder and snatching, in the FIR lodged against a group of miscreants for attacking Gurwinder Singh, a worker of a filling station, on Gill Road. The miscreants allegedly snatched Rs 14,000 from the worker. The police in this matter have registered a case under Sections of 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC. The association has demanded addition of Section 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (trespassing), 379-B (snatching) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Ranjeet Singh Gandhi, president of Ludhiana, said, “The reason for this attack was that one worker had denied giving petrol in a bottle as per the directions of the government. On this, the miscreants abused the workers after which they manhandled them. The accused left from there claiming to attack them again and teach them a lesson for obeying government rules. After that the accused returned with more miscreants laced with weapons and attacked Gurwinder Singh. He suffered severe injuries and cash was also snatched from him but the police imposed lighter sections.” “The accused have violated the curfew orders, they conspired the attack with intention of killing the worker, they trespassed the premises and also snatched money, but none of the sections related to these are added in the FIR. We sent an application to CP Rakesh Agarwal by mail on Monday, but got no reply. So, on Wednesday, we are meeting him with the demand of adding relevant sections in the FIR,” added Gandhi. Further, he added that the worker was seriously injured and was admitted to a hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/petrol-dealers-write-to-cp-over-attack-on-worker/articleshow/77877760.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Traffic remains disrupted on Mussoorie-Doon road for the second day||Mussoorie: The traffic on Mussoorie-Dehradun road could not be restored even on Tuesday as rubble and fresh landslides thwarted attempts of the Public Works Department (PWD) officials to clear the road. Earlier on Monday, the stretch had got blocked by landslides. Speaking to TOI, Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer of PWD, told TOI that the rubble was cleared twice during the day but fresh landslides blocked the road. “We had deployed four JCBs to clear the road but as we were clearing the road, fresh rubble and boulders came down the hillside,” Kumar informed. Meanwhile, the local residents are facing severe difficulties in commuting to Dehradun while supplies of essential goods were also affected. Local residents are forced to go to Dehradun via the Lambidhar-Kimadi (LKD) road, which is a narrow road devoid of parapets or crash barriers and has witnessed several accidents over the past few years. “It took me two hours to travel from Dehradun to Mussoorie via this road. It is a narrow road devoid of parapets and it is advisable to avoid this road unless very necessary,” said Aalok Mehrotra, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traffic-remains-disrupted-on-mussoorie-doon-road-for-the-second-day/articleshow/77877756.cms||Anmol Jain
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Ghaghra swallows several houses in Kheri village, 70 families shifted||Bareilly: Ghaghra river continues to wreak havoc in Kheri district with its current eroding residential areas in Ramnagar Bagha village, which had not seen floods before. On Tuesday, four pucca houses and several huts were swallowed by the river, prompting the district administration to evacuate the remaining houses, and as many as 70 families were shifted to safe locations. SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran said the soil erosion was taking place due to whirlpools formed by receding water by causing collisions of opposing flows and forcing water flow downward spiral. The water level in the Ghaghra has, however, gone down and the threat of flood seems to be over as monsoon will last for a few more weeks. Sudhakaran told TOI, “Fortunately, the erosion took place during the daytime, and thus, the area was evacuated immediately. Had it happened in the night, the situation would have been worsening. The erosion exposes the lack of preparedness by the flood and irrigation department. It appears that the contractor left the work midway as sandbags and geo tubes are there in the village, but not at the right place.” “We have shifted 70 families to safe places and distributed among them ration kits and other necessary items like tarpaulin, kerosene, etc. Besides, the affected families will get compensation under the government beneficiary schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ghaghra-swallows-several-houses-in-kheri-village-70-families-shifted/articleshow/77877742.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Produce bills for meters installed at houses of your employees: HC orders UPCL||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) to produce the electricity bills after its compliance report informed the court that it has installed meters at the residences of most of its employees. The direction from the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation highlighting unlimited use of electricity by the UPCL employees virtually free of cost. The counsel representing the UPCL informed the bench that the corporation has already installed meters at the residence of most of its former and serving officials and that the meters are functioning. “The court, however, directed them to submit the bills from these meters so that they are taken on record to be functioning and it should be made clear the UPCL employees are finally paying the bills,” said a counsel who appeared in the hearing. The court has given the UPCL two weeks’ time to produce the electricity bills before the court. As reported by TOI earlier, the electricity bills of several high ranking officials of the UPCL run into lakhs. These officials had not paid these dues for years. The court had directed the UPCL in March to file an affidavit furnishing details of the number of residences where they have installed the electricity meters and to specify the time frame by when the rest of the homes will have functional meters. The corporation, however, has not filed the affidavit even after five months of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/produce-bills-for-meters-installed-at-houses-of-your-employees-hc-orders-upcl/articleshow/77877747.cms||Prashant Jha
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||HC puts in abeyance order for removal of stray dogs from Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: On a recall application moved by former Union cabinet minister and BJP leader, Maneka Gandhi, the Allahabad high court has directed to put in abeyance its earlier direction for the removal of stray dogs from Prayagraj and directed the Nagar Nigam to file its reply within 10 days. In her application, Maneka’s plea was that the law related to stray cattle and dogs is sub-judice (pending) before the Supreme Court in a case. “Therefore, to avoid any conflict, the High Court may not pass any such order till the pendency of the case before the apex court,” she requested. Hearing an intervention application moved by Maneka, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed that propriety demands that their order relating to the removal of stray dogs from the city area be put in abeyance. In her application, she had sought recall of an earlier order of the high court dated August 28 regarding removal of stray dogs from the city. Hence, the court went on to direct that its direction relating to stray dogs remain in abeyance. Earlier, at one stage, while hearing a PIL related to spread of Covid-19, the Allahabad high court on August 28 directed the removal of stray cattle and stray dogs from Prayagraj on the grounds that stray cattle were a major cause for accidents while rabies was rampant among stray dogs in the city. “In this time of pandemic when people are worried about their safety stray cattle and stray dogs must compulsorily be removed to avoid any nuisance,” the court had said in its order dated August 28. The current order was passed on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-puts-in-abeyanceorder-for-removal-of-stray-dogs-from-city/articleshow/77876909.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers seek probe into central scheme scam||Coimbatore: A group of farmers staged a protest demanding CB-CID inquiry into the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme scam at multiple places in Tirupur on Tuesday. The central government scheme offers Rs 6,000 a year to all landholding farmers. “Since March, multiple camps were organized across the state to enroll eligible farmers under the scheme and the number of beneficiaries kept increasing. It is only a few days ago it was revealed that thousands of the people who were enrolled under the scheme were ineligible. Subsequently, the agriculture department launched an inquiry into it,” district secretary of All India Kisan Sabha R Kumar said. But we don’t have trust in the inquiry as it was the same officials from the department who had organized the camps and enrolled ineligible people as beneficiaries were conducting the inquiry. So, we demand CB-CID probe into the issue, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-seek-probe-into-central-scheme-scam/articleshow/77879756.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Deadline for OTS gets extension till September 30 in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a relief to homebuyers facing financial distress due to coronavirus pandemic, the state government has decided to extend the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for allottees till September 30. The development gains significance as it comes amid soaring number of allottees defaulting on payments resulting in revenue loss to the housing board and development authorities. In a communique to the housing board and various development authorities, the UP housing and urban planning department has laid down detailed amendments effected in the OTS scheme which came into being on February 7 this year. The step came after directives from chief minister Yogi Adityanath to the housing department to come up with an OTS scheme for those defaulting on payment of instalments. The government has decided not to impose any penalty on delayed payment of instalments for the period between March 1 and August 31. Besides, the government has also advised the development authorities and housing board to charge simple interest for this six-month period. The new terms and conditions alter the duration in which the application will have to be disposed of. While earlier, the application was to be disposed of in three months, under new terms, the housing board and development authorities would do so in two months only. Those who continue to default would face action. In the communique, principal secretary, housing, Deepak Kumar said following coronavirus pandemic, the UP chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) had made representations on May 4 and 8 seeking extension of OTS scheme. Following this, the department constituted a committee headed by the housing commissioner to look into the issue. Subsequently, the housing commissioner sought the opinion of development authorities of Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Agra, Kanpur, Varanasi, Moradabad and Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deadline-for-ots-gets-extension-till-sept-30/articleshow/77880627.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Unlock 4: Schools, colleges to remain closed in Sept, religious and political events allowed with ceiling of 100 people||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday issued guidelines for the Unlock 4 phase that began on September 1. According to the new order, schools, colleges, other educational institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, and entertainment parks would remain closed till September 30. However, the government has permitted social, sports, academic, entertainment, cultural, religious and political events from September 21 while adding that not more than 100 persons can gather at a place. It has also been stated that the district administration cannot impose any kind of lockdown without the permission of state authorities. All hotels, homestays, and hospitality services have been allowed to open in the state and there shall be no restrictions regarding the minimum period of stay in hotels/B&B/homestays for persons who have undergone RT-PCR/TrueNAT/CBNAAT with negative test reports from ICMR authorised labs not earlier than 96 hours from the time of arrival. In addition to mandatory RT-PCR tests, the state has now allowed the less expensive TrueNAT or CBNAAT tests too. Such persons shall be allowed to proceed to their destination and shall not be quarantined after they have shown the negative report at the border check post. If there is any doubt or a person displays certain symptoms, the district administration may also randomly take samples of such people. All inbound persons from high-load Covid-19 infected cities irrespective of the mode of travel shall undergo a period of seven days in institutional quarantine and subsequently, seven days in home quarantine. They will have the option to choose from a free-of-cost government institutional quarantine or a paid quarantine facility. However, all inbound asymptomatic persons who have undergone RT-PCR/TrueVAT/CBNAAT test from ICMR authorised lab not earlier than 96 hours from the time of arrival reflecting Covid-19 negative report, shall be exempted from being quarantined. In case of exceptional and compelling reasons like death, serious illness or pregnancy, inbound persons would be exempted from quarantine. Also, all inbound persons from other states, irrespective of the mode of travel will have to mandatorily register themselves on the Smart City web portal — smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in — prior to their travel. There would be no restrictions on movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries but the registration documents shall necessarily be verified at the border check posts. All restaurants, shopping malls, religious places, other places of worship have been allowed to open in the state. However, the district administration, in consultation with Boards/Trusts/Management Committees, may decide to put necessary restrictions in place, in the interest of public health. Char Dham Devasthanam Board, in consultation with the respective district administrations and other stakeholders, may decide to put necessary restrictions in place, in the interest of public health. The districts have been allowed to call up 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff for online teaching and counselling of students. Students of Class IX and above can go to the schools for guidance and counselling purposes. Additionally, a gathering of 50 people is permitted for marriage and 20 people for funeral till September 20. Thereafter, the ceiling would be raised to 100 people. Central ministers, state ministers, chief justice, advocate general, government advocates of high court, MPs and MLAs of Uttarakhand would be exempted from quarantine. All inbound students, teachers and parents coming to Uttarakhand for entrance tests and interviews will have to register themselves with the Smart City website and be exempted from quarantine. All asymptomatic inbound persons travelling from other countries shall undergo a period of seven days in institutional quarantine and subsequently, seven days in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unlock-4-schools-colleges-to-remain-closed-in-sept-religious-and-political-events-allowed-with-ceiling-of-100-people/articleshow/77877759.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE: Many students skip BArch paper||Hyderabad: About 40% to 50% of the candidates, especially from corporate colleges, in Telangana skipped their B Arch/ B Planning paper, for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), on Tuesday, as they have to appear for the B Tech/BE entrance on Wednesday. This was confirmed by Sushma Bopanna, academic director, Sri Chaitanya Group . “More than 50% of our students skipped the test. That’s also because they already appeared for it in January,” she said. Candidates who appeared for the test, meanwhile, said that the paper was moderately difficult, with Mathematics being the toughest. “I could only attempt 20 out of 25 questions in Mathematics. I felt that the paper was difficult when compared with the January exam,” said S Sai Ganesh, who secured 90 percentile in JEE (Main) in January. He added that the overall arrangements - sanitisation, social distancing, etc were good. Another student, R Ram Sagar, who shifted his center from Hyderabad to Srikakulam due to the pandemic, said that although he was scared to appear for the test, he went for it as he did not want to waste an academic year. While he agreed there was no problem in crowd management, Sagar said that the situation can different on Wednesday. “That’s because there will be more students in each centre,” he added. Some students, however complained about the about lack of transportation available, especially in the city, due to non-availability of buses and metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-many-students-skip-barch-paper/articleshow/77879770.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 2, 2020||Hubballi||Short on sleep & rest, docs are being stretched to limit||B.Kishansingh Hubballi: “I have small corner in my house reserved for myself. I have my breakfast and lunch there. I avoid having lunch at home and my son brings me lunch everyday. In fact it’s been months since I ate with my family. Ever since the start of the pandemic, I have not taken leave for even a single day. I visit the hospital on Sundays too for a round to check on the critical patients,” says Ishwar Hasabi, head of the department of medicine at Karnataka Institute of Medical. It is a grim sentiment shared by thousands of health-care workers on the front line of the pandemic. Dr Hasabi says he has been livingin a separate room in his house to avoid infecting other members of the family— his wife, son and elderly parents. “I hardly get any time for them nowadays,” he says. “Since the start of the pandemic, attending calls of patients’ relatives and other doctors have become a regular routine. I get calls till midnight. No doubt — our lives have been disturbed a lot, but it’s our duty to save lives. I don’t think of it as a burden. We will continue to work till the pandemic ends,” Dr Hasabi says. “All KIMS staff are working day and night in the fight against Covid-19. The list of front line workers is quite big, be it a medicine department or pulmonology department or cardiology, everyone is putting their lives under risk and treating the patients,” says Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi, deputy superintendent of KIMS. “I hardly get time for my family. With children at home, I have taken extra precaution. The pandemic has definitely affected our lives — we do not eat on time, nor do we sleep well,” he says. “Handling the relatives of Covid patients is a big challenge,” says Dr Ram Kaulgud who is in-charge of plasma treatment at the hospital. “Most of them approach to convince me to give plasma to the patient which he/she may not actually require. Obtaining plasma for a critically ill patient is really challenging. Yes, we are working day and night, but the gratitude and happiness of the recovered patients makes us forget mental and physical toil,” he says. “We are happy that the KIMS is earning a good name for treating Covid patients. It’s the hard work of all our doctors, paramedical-nursing staff and group D workers. They have all immersed themselves in treating the patients. If we miss any name it will be an injustice to them. The list is very big,” said KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/short-on-sleep-rest-docs-are-being-stretched-to-limit/articleshow/77877754.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vadodara||After Mumbai, A’bad set to get bullet train connectivity to Delhi||Vadodara: After Mumbai, Delhi too will not be far away in the future. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is implementing the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project, has invited tenders to collect data for bullet trains connecting Ahmedabad to the country's national capital Delhi. The NHSRCL officials said that while Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train corridor is 508 km long, the Ahmedabad-Delhi high speed rail (HSR) corridor is longer at 886 km. The NHSRCL is a joint venture of government of India and participating state governments for implementation of HSRs across the country. “For Ahmedabad, this will be the second HSR corridor. We have invited tenders for collection of relevant data for the preparation of a detailed project report (DPR) for 886km long Delhi-Jaipur-Udaipur-Ahmedabad HSR corridor,” said Sushma Gaur, NHSRCL spokesperson. Tenders have also been invited for preparing general arrangement drawings (GADs) of crossing bridges over rivers/ canals/ railways and roads including expressways, national and state highways and major district roads and GADs of proposed stations and maintenance depots for the Delhi-Ahmedabad corridor. “The bids have also been invited to carry out ridership study (traffic study) for this corridor,” Gaur said, adding that NHRSL will prepare DPR based on the data collected. Going by the bidding document, the task has to be completed within four months. NHSRCL will carry out e-tendering process once the process is over. Meanwhile, 80% land acquisition for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project has been completed in Gujarat, NHSRCL officials said. They added that a 100% joint measurement survey has been carried out in the state. “A lot of preliminary work like shifting of electrical towers, water pipelines, oil wells or other obstacles that were infringing upon the high speed rail corridor have been carried out. We are now working on the Sabarmati hub,” said the official. Since, the Ahmedabad HSR corridor will be integrated with the main railway line, platform number 10, 11 and 12 have been dismantled at the Kalupur railway station in Ahmedabad to pave way laying of metro tracks on one side. The ministry of railways has entrusted the task of preparing DPRs of seven new HSR corridors in the country to NHSRCL. These include 886km Delhi-Ahmedabad, 865km Delhi-Varanasi, 753km Mumbai-Nagpur, 435km Chennai-Mysore, 459km Delhi-Amritsar, 711km Mumbai-Hyderabad and 760km Varanasi-Howrah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-mumbai-abad-set-to-get-bullet-train-connectivity-to-delhi/articleshow/77878541.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 2, 2020||Delhi||JNU student Devangana Kalita gets bail, but can’t leave jail||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to JNU student Devangana Kalita in one of the several northeast Delhi riot-related cases in which she is an accused, noting that police have failed to produce any evidence to show that her speech had instigated or triggered riots. The court said that according to the material — the case diary produced in a sealed cover along with a pen drive — before it, Kalita was seen in a peaceful agitation, which is her fundamental right. Police have “failed to produce any material that she in her speech instigated women of a particular community or gave a hatred speech due to which precious life of a young man has been sacrificed and property damaged”, said Justice Suresh Kait. The Pinjra Tod member, however, will not be released from jail as she is yet to secure bail in a case lodged against her under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The agitation against Citizenship Amendment Act was going on for long with print and electronic media present throughout, in addition to the cameras of the police department, but there is no evidence that establishes that the alleged offence took place on Kalita’s action, the court noted. Kalita’s case, Justice Kait said, fulfilled the triple test applied by the Supreme Court in Congress leader P Chidambaram’s money laundering case. It said Kalita was arrested without notice under Code of Criminal Procedure though she remained available at her home on May 23 and even provided her phone to the police previously and had joined the investigation. “Evidently, she did not try to evade arrest or even file for anticipatory bail because she had no reason to believe that she ought to be in custody,” the court noted. “The petitioner is a student pursuing her higher education and has sufficient standing in society without any possibility of fleeing from justice.” All evidence against her have already been recorded by police; so there is no chance of tampering with evidence nor is she in a position to influence witnesses, the judge pointed out. Justice Kait also noted that a chargesheet had already been filed against her. “No prejudice would be caused to the respondent’s investigation by grant of relief to the petitioner, and she would be prevented from suffering further unnecessary harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention,” the judge noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-student-kalita-gets-bail-but-cant-leave-jail/articleshow/77879797.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 2, 2020||Business||Residual tenure of loan can be extended by 2 yrs: Govt tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre has told the Supreme Court that RBI has asked banks to provide relief to borrowers by extending the residual tenure of loan by up to two years, with or without including the six-month moratorium on payment of instalments from March 1 to August 31. In an affidavit filed in response to the SC’s criticism that the Centre was not specifying its stand and was trying to hide behind the RBI, the finance ministry took a stand similar to that of the central bank and said interest could not be waived as it would adversely affect 197 crore depositors, most of whom depended on interest earned on money put in banks. “Any moratorium is transient by its very nature and has to end one day. Thus, the best interest of the economic health of the country, as well as that of respective borrowers, would be best served by paving the way for a more durable long-term solution of debt restructuring,” the ministry said. SG Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah on Tuesday that the Centre, the RBI and the association of banks were putting their heads together to identify stressed sectors and assess the varying impact of the slowdown to devise sector-specific financial relief instead of a "one size fits all" mechanism. The bench said a bunch of PILs by individuals and industries seeking waiver of interest on the principal amount during the moratorium period, or at lease waiver of interest on interest accrued during the sixmonth period, would be heard on Wednesday. "This will be the only case that we will hear on Wednesday," it told the SG, indicating that no more adjournments would be granted. The finance ministry said RBI's August 6 circular provided a framework fully empowering the banks “to resolve Covid-19-related stress and customise relief to individual borrowers through grant of various concessions in terms of alteration in rate of interest and haircut on amount payable as interest; extension of residual tenor of loan, with or without moratorium, by up to two years; waiving penal interest and charges; rescheduling repayment; converting accumulated interest into a fresh loan with a deferred payment schedule; and, sanction of additional loan".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/residual-tenure-of-loan-can-be-extended-by-2-yrs-govt-tells-sc/articleshow/77881363.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man kills two roommates in sleep after tiff over rent payment, held||NEW DELHI: Two men were murdered for asking their roommate to pay his share of rent. The incident took place in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar area on Monday night. Police said that the roommate bought a butcher knife and stabbed them in their sleep at least a dozen times. The roommate had refused to pay the rent as he was in his hometown for the last four months. The accused was arrested in less than 24 hours from his village in Amroha, Uttar Pradesh. A chopper and a knife used in the murder were recovered. The alleged murderer has been identified as Sakir and the two deceased are Ajam (45) and Amir Hasan (46). Ajam and Hasan worked as garlic vendors. Police said they had fatal stab wounds on their chest and abdomen. Deputy commissioner of police, west, Deepak Purohit said that at 7.25pm , a PCR call was received wherein the caller stated that two persons had been murdered at D block in Raghuvir Nagar. “Sakir who was last seen on Monday was the prime suspect behind the brutal murders. Various teams were formed immediately and raids at all the possible hideouts of the suspect were carried out. On Tuesday, Sakir was arrested from his village Chuchela Kala in Uttar Pradesh,” said Purohit. During interrogation, the accused revealed that he had returned to Delhi only 15 days ago. “Ajam and Hasan were pressuring him to pay the rent of the months he spent in the village, but he argued that he did not live there to pay the rent. During such arguments, the deceased had used foul language against the accused and he was holding a grudge against them,” Purohit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-kills-two-roommates-in-sleep-after-tiff-over-rent-payment-held/articleshow/77879841.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||MJP Rohilkhand University bars final-year students from giving exams if Covid-19 positive||Bareilly: The Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University (MJPRU) said the final-year students who have Covid-19 and undergoing treatment would be barred from giving exams. The administration said a final call as to when such students would be allowed to give their exams would yet to be taken soon and they would be informed accordingly. As per the Supreme Court directives, states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30. The university has stated that a student previously tested positive for Covid and recovered successfully will be permitted to give exams. The students suffering from Covid-19 are requested to inform their respective college authorities of their medical condition at the earliest and submit a medical certificate along with the test reports in the college. MJPRU associate professor, head of department, law, Dr Amit Singh said, “All students of the first and second year of all courses will be promoted without them having to give exams, as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and UGC. They will be promoted based on several aspects including assignments, practicals, attendance, etc. However, the final decision as to when the final-year students who are infected with the disease will be able to give exams shall be decided after September 30.” MJPRU sources said the final-year exams are being observed from September 1 across all colleges affiliates while ensuring that the Covid-19 protocols are being strictly followed. The associate professor said, “Screening of students is mandatory before entering the exam halls while cleaning of hands, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, etc, shall also be followed. Students having high body temperatures shall be made to sit in a separate hall during the exams as a precautionary measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mjp-rohilkhand-university-bars-final-year-students-from-giving-exams-if-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77877798.cms||Maria Khan
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways defer boundary wall construction after locals protest||Ludhiana: After witnessing resentment from local residents of Prem Nagar over the construction of boundary walls by the Northern Railway authorities around railway tracks crossing through the Ludhiana-Sahnewal section to curb the menace of trespassing, local engineering department officials of the railways have stopped the work for the time being. With a view to increasing the speed of all major long route trains in the next few months, the Northern Railway authorities had begun the development work of constructing boundary walls around railway tracks passing through Prem Nagar in the city as the Ludhiana-Sahnewal section will soon be upgraded for trains running at a speed of above 160 km per hour. Prem Nagar is considered to be one of those areas in the city where mostly residents trespass the railway tracks in unusual ways during day and night, which can lead to some major railway mishap if operations department of the railways begin the service of fast express train without following safety norms like construction of boundary walls along its sides, officials said. Although local residents are not against the development work along with tracks but they are against the railway authorities move to cover every single part of railway land which is being used by local residents for getting entry or exit into their homes located around the railway tracks. Kamaldeep Singh of Prem Nagar, a loal resident, said, “We are not against the railway development work of construction boundary walls alongside tracks but they should also consider the demand of local people of Prem Nagar as they are covering every single part of land which is being used by several families for gaining entry to our homes. They are not even leaving 4-5 feet of space for us.” “Railway officials are not cooperating with local residents and have begun the construction of the walls just alongside our houses, which had been constructed around 60 years back,” he added. Another woman resident Bindu said, “Despite requesting the railway authorities to not cover every single piece of land in their development project alongside house, they begun the construction by breaking the sewerage lines, which forced the residents to raise voice against this.” On the other hand, Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The higher authorities will conduct discussions with local administration officials to resolve the issue between the local officials and residents of Prem Nagar. We have stopped the construction for some time as we are completing all officials formalities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-defer-boundary-wall-construction-after-locals-protest/articleshow/77877796.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Metro GM plans 90 trains, to seek state help for regulating commuters||Kolkata: Around 90 trains will ply a day from September 8, when Metro will resume services after a gap of more than five months. The state government’s announcement came after the ministry of home affairs on Saturday sought graded resumption of Metro services from September 7. “Metro will start operations with regulated entry of commuters and we will need enormous support from the state government for that,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Monday. A meeting with the state government officials will be convened later this week to work out the modalities, he added. Joshi said resumption of services will depend on crucial issues, which must be first resolved with the state government. “We have been finalizing the number of trains we can run because time will be limited and there will be many other issues. So maybe we can run one-third (of the total fleet of 288 trains) of the services for the time being. So that comes to around 90 trains,” he said. The Metro general manager then went on to elaborate on the most crucial issue: crowd management. “Before we start, there are two most important issues that must be resolved. The Metro sector is so crowded… If social distancing has to be implemented, the number of passengers per service has to be brought down by a large extent. We need to arrive at this number and find out how to control the crowd in a station.” According to Joshi, Metro would request the state government to find a way to control the crowd. “It has to be a regulated affair. We cannot do this on our own. Otherwise, it will be very difficult with people trooping in,” he said. The GM talked about regulating the passenger flow right at the station’s entry point. “First, passengers already standing on the platform will have to be cleared. Then, those waiting at the queue will have to enter the platform. Inside the station, we can deploy our people to maintain distancing, but how will we control those who are arriving at the station for the Metro journey? There, we will require state help,” he said. As per MHA guidelines, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs — the nodal authority of Metro corporations in India — is due to come out with a set of guidelines for running trains. “We are waiting for the SOP and we are working on our SOP as well. After the SOP is ready, we will request the state government for a meeting. Our team will discuss with them and if some workable solution can be arrived at during the meeting , we will decide when to start,” Joshi said. Metro’s SOP, he said, should be ready in a day or two and the meeting with the state government would take place later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-gm-plans-90-trains-to-seek-state-help-for-regulating-commuters/articleshow/77859280.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt labs to be roped in for tests as Covid tally jumps to 16,000||Coimbatore: A day after the Covid-19 cases zoomed past the 15,000-mark in the district, the tally crossed the 16,000-mark on Tuesday, when it recorded 581 new cases. The district’s Covid-19 count now stands at 16,075, of which 3,904 are active cases. At least 392 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. So far, 11,861 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the district. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, rose to 310 with the state including two more deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. The new cases were spread across Peelamedu (more than 25), Vilankurichi (21), Kuniyamuthur (6), Race Course Road (4), Selvapuram (13) Telungupalayam (7) and Telungu Street (2), among other areas. With the number of fresh cases now hitting almost 600 a day, officials seem to have realized the need to increase the number of people being tested for Covid-19 to at least 6,000 a day to keep the positivity rate at 10%. To ensure that the government laboratories are not overburdened, the health department and district administration are now trying to rope in private labs to test samples collected by them. Health department officials had on Monday held talks with representatives of private laboratories in this regard. An official said they didn’t want to overburden the labs at the ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The government hospitals together could test around 4,500 samples a day. “We are trying to understand if we could place a cap on the number of government-collected samples that private laboratories could test and if the government can directly pay for the same rather than making them apply for insurance and reimbursement. The private laboratories can also directly submit their documents and reimbursement requests through health department headquarters in Chennai,” the official said. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said all test results have to be issued within 24 hours of sample collection. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani also convened a meeting at the district collectorate to review the situation. He ordered officials to take all measures to bring down the curve in 15 days. He asked them to implement stricter containment measures on streets with more than three cases, ensure guidelines were followed by people in home quarantine to protect other family members from infection and test all the people, who they come across at fever camps and door-to-door surveillance, with flu-like symptoms for Covid-19. Fever camps would be ramped up at Covid-19 hotspots of Gandhipuram, Puliyakulam and Selvapuram. On his part, district collector K Rajamani met managements of private labs and principals of nursing colleges. Labs were ordered to test all patients with flu-like symptoms and announce results within 12 hours. Labs were also ordered to inform the city corporation or local health body immediately about the positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-labs-to-be-roped-in-for-tests-as-covid-tally-jumps-to-16000/articleshow/77879806.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Pollution of lakes remains a worry||Hyderabad: Even as environmentalists said immersion of idols went against the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) issued earlier this year, civic officials said they are concerned how people still throw plastic waste on roads despite a lot of awareness. While the Centre has not enforced these guidelines, experts worry that immersions are still far from being eco-friendly. India’s pollution watchdog CPCB had passed an order in May banning the use of plastic, thermocol and plaster of paris in making idols. In spite of that, several idols made of PoP as well as plastic material were dumped into the Hussainsagar. Speaking about the matter, green activist Lubna Sarwath slammed the government for not taking precautions to protect the water body. “In spite of the CPCB’s guidelines on protecting lakes there is a blatant disregard for them in the state. Even as the case for Hussainsagar is pending with the NGT in Chennai, the pollution of the lake continues.” She added that as citizens struggle at courts for the protection of the water body, the government is actively promoting the pollution of lakes. Environmentalist Subba Rao said: “While the number of idols coming are fewer this year, it is worrying that there are still so many.” He said during the pandemic a few idols were expected, but the numbers are still in the thousands. Meanwhile, GHMC had deployed more sanitation staff to clean up the vicinity of the lake. “Plastic is strewn across all roads. Our staff are working to ensure streets are kept clean. It is surprising that people do not understand the need to maintain cleanliness,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pollution-of-lakes-remains-a-worry/articleshow/77879816.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||NHIDCL all set to construct landslide protection gallery at Gangotri highway||Uttarkashi: In a bid to thwart landslide threats, the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) has decided to construct a landslide protection gallery at the vulnerable Badethi Chungi region of Gangotri national highway in Uttarkashi. Officials have claimed that the construction work of the underpass, which will allow smooth flow of traffic, will get started within a few months. The nearly 300-metre-long landslide protection gallery will be built with an estimated budget of around Rs 35 crore. NHIDCL has already completed the tender process and is all set to start the work within a few months. According to TOI sources, the road widening and landslide treatment work was started a few years ago at Badethi Chungi region of Gangotri highway under the All Weather Char Dham Road project. However, the concerned agencies failed to restore the landslide prone area despite much efforts, which cost nearly Rs 28 crore. Due to this, travelers crossing from the region face a constant threat of being hit by falling rocks or a road block during monsoon seasons. Lieutenant Colonel Deepak Patil, general manager NHIDCL, said, “For the smooth flow of traffic in Gangotri highway, we have decided to construct a landslide protection gallery at Badethi Chungi. Under this unique technique, adopted from France, we will construct nearly 300-metre-long underpass or bridge kind of structure. Besides eliminating roadblock issues, the structure will also protect vehicles from falling rocks.” He added that all the formalities regarding the project have been completed and we will start the work within a few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nhidcl-all-set-to-construct-landslide-protection-gallery-at-gangotri-highway/articleshow/77877783.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor police issue notice to former CM N Chandrababu Naidu||VIJAYAWADA: TDP national president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday wrote a letter to the state director-general of police (DGP), citing ‘deteriorated (sic) law and order’ in the state and mentioning the recent deaths of two Dalit men — M Narayana and Om Prathap — under suspicious circumstances in Punganur assembly constituency in Chittoor district. Chittoor police issued a notice under Section 91 of the CrPC to Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh, asking them to submit evidence on Om Pratahap’s death within one week’s time. On August 24, Om Prathap, who criticised in a video the state government’s decision to levy an additional tax on liquor was found dead in his residence. “There were two suspicious deaths of people belonging to the Dalit community, M Narayana and Om Prathap. This highlights deteriorated law and order in Punganuru assembly constituency represented by the minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy himself,” Naidu’s letter to the DGP read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-police-issue-notice-to-former-cm/articleshow/77878790.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||No pomp, no show: Devouts bid silent adieu to Ganesha||NEW DELHI: For the past few decades, Maratha Mitra Mandal had been celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi in Karol Bagh with fervour. However, when the society members bade farewell to Lord Ganesha on Tuesday after hosting him for 10 days, the festivity was different. Unlike previous years, there was no procession and the height of the idol was down from the usual five feet to 1.5ft for easy immersion in a small tank. Claiming that the subdued affair was a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Karnal Mohan Kakatikar, executive president of the group, said, “Instead of a large gathering, only a few society members were present when we bid adieu to Ganpati Bappa. Others performed cultural programmes from their respective homes through Zoom videoconferencing app.” With Delhi government restricting the immersion of Ganesha idols at public places, most of the event organisers and residents immersed their eco-friendly idols in tubs on the spot. Following the order of National Green Tribunal, idol immersion was bannsendinged in Yamuna. Last year, artificial ponds had been created at public places for idol immersion. However, this year residents were advised to follow the ritual at home to avoid crowding and prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Fearing that immersing the Ganesha idol in the city would attract a huge crowd, committee members of “Delhi Ka Raja” in west Delhi went to Hapur in Uttar Pradesh for visarjan in the Ganga. “We used to bid adieu to Ganesha in Yamuna. But in 2019, we immersed the idol in a 15-feet pit. For the first time, we covered a distance of over 100 kilometres to immerse the idol in the Ganga as we would not have been able to control the large congregation in Delhi. We organised a Facebook Live session for the devotees,” said Mandeep Singh, president, Delhi Ka Raja Gayatri Navyuvak Mandal. At Jhandewalan temple in Karol Bagh, the idol was immersed in a tub. “We bid farewell to Lord Ganesha in a simple ceremony. We had opted for a small 3-foot size of Ganpati this year,” said Ravinder Goyal, trustee of the temple. Many residents had even cut short the number of days of celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-pomp-no-show-devouts-bid-silent-adieu-to-ganesha/articleshow/77879844.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Passenger rush as flight embargo ends; 200 fail to board on first day||By: Tamaghna Banerjee & Mayukh Sengupta KOLKATA: More than a plane-load of passengers missed their flights on Tuesday as Kolkata airport struggled to cope with the sudden rush of passengers as the flight count shot up by 50% on a day a two-month embargo on flights from six tier-I cities was lifted. Lengthy queues at the entry point with wait time to enter the terminal extending up to an hour led to nearly 200 no-shows. The spike in passengers also threw up major challenges in crowd control and enforcement of social distancing measures at the airport terminal. "There were plenty of no-shows in each flight as passengers reported beyond the minimum time for reporting. Most passengers complained they had been stuck outside the airport's entrance for nearly an hour. If various agencies including CISF that does the checks at the entrance fail to find a solution, it will lead to more chaos in future," warned an airline official. The airport operator has exactly 24 hours to get its act together and ensure better coordination between various agencies so that when the passenger count again shoots up on Thursday, the mess is avoided. While 60 flights were operating till Monday, the flight count shot up to 90 on Tuesday as flights from six banned cities were allowed to operated thrice a week from Tuesday. Harried and hassled, fuming passengers vented their anger on social media platforms. They posted photographs of large queues outside the airport entrance and negligible maintenance of social distancing protocols at the airport almost throughout the day. Prompted by the early morning chaos outside the terminal gates, Airports Authority of India (AAI) deployed additional floor walkers and instructed airlines to send emergency text messages to passengers to reach the airport three hours before the flight to beat queue. Authorities at Kolkata airport also met on Tuesday evening to chalk out further strategies to prevent crowding in the terminal. "We were expecting a surge in passengers but the problem happened in morning peak hours when passengers of multiple flights reached airport in a short span of time, leading to chaos at entrance. We expect the rush to continue for the first two weeks," said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. "I had to wait for 40 minutes before I could enter the airport. Thankfully, I had reached pretty early," said Pallabi Bhattacharya, who was heading to Delhi on Tuesday. Alipore resident Jayashree Tehrani, who was heading back to her family in Delhi, was alarmed by the queue of people around her standing shoulder to shoulder with very little gap between them at the entrance. An officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said it was the duty of airport operator to manage queues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-passenger-rush-as-flight-embargo-ends-200-fail-to-board-on-first-day/articleshow/77881365.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Father an emotional pillar for girl accused of killing mom, brother||LUCKNOW: The 16-year-old girl, accused of shooting her mother and brother, has got an unflinching support from her father, a senior Railways official, who was in Delhi when this devastating incident took place. It was his birthday on Saturday and he was planning to celebrate with his family after coming back. But he had to rush back to Lucknow after hearing about the development. No one in the family was exactly able to anticipate how the father and the daughter would face each other. “But it was an exemplary display of self-control and affection from him who instantly hugged his daughter and did not make her realise even once that she had done anything wrong,” said an eyewitness to the event. The girl, too, who had also injured herself with cuts made from a blade and mostly maintained a stoic silence after the tragedy, rushed forward on seeing her father and hugged him tightly, says a police official who was present on the occasion. Emotions overflowed as the duo wept bitterly while holding each other and later. The two spoke little but father spent all night providing emotional comfort to the girl and even encouraged her to play piano and sing some of her favourite songs, recalled a lady cop who was deployed for the security. “The tragedy might have devastated the family, but could not separate a father from his minor daughter and reduce his affection for her. He is now an emotional pillar for the psychologically vulnerable girl,” he adds. Police officials privy to the probe meanwhile point towards the state of depression and hallucination that could have led the girl to the ghastly act. She has confessed that she was guided by one Reshu, who would live in her imagination, says a female officer. The cops who rushed to the spot after the incident were shocked when the girl allegedly confessed that she shot her mother and brother after trying to kill herself as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/father-an-emotional-pillar-for-girl-accused-of-killing-mom-bro/articleshow/77880634.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Soon, DBT for power subsidy in agriculture sector||AMARAVATI: The state government has decided to implement Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) from the 2021-22 financial year for all farmers drawing free power. The pilot scheme will be implemented in one district by the end of December 2020. The decision has been taken as part of implementation of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 of the Centre. Although the state government initially raised its objections over several clauses in the central Bill, it has decided to follow the guidelines. Many state governments, particularly ruled by non-BJP parties, including Kerala and Telangana have refused to budge on the Centre’s proposed legislation. The state government will now pay the full amount for power consumption by farmers. The government’s decision to fit meters to agriculture pump sets is likely to trigger protests from farmers. The energy department contended that the meters are installed to estimate consumption. Sources said that the department might also keep an eye on preventing misuse of free power given to the agriculture sector. The state government has promised to pay the entire consumption amount to farmers, who in turn had to pay the same to the discoms. The government would remit the amount directly into farmers’ bank account as part of DBT, a condition set by the Centre. Since discoms across the country are facing massive debts, the Centre wants to strengthen discoms by making the states pay up for the discounts offered. The state government is spending close to Rs 8,400 crore for providing free power to nearly 18 lakh farmers. Three discoms are supplying nearly 12,000 million units to the agriculture sector annually. “Besides free power to the agriculture sector, we are also giving nearly Rs 1,707 crore in subsidies to domestic (household) connections, Rs 450 crore for aqua sector and Rs 220 crore for providing free power up to 200 units per month to the SC, ST families in the state,” said Dr Nagulapalli Srikanth, CMD, AP Transco. He said that the total subsidies are likely to go up to Rs 11,000 crore by next fiscal. “Free power to agriculture is achieved by farmers through agitations. It is not government’s charity. The state government should immediately withdraw the GO-22 which is aimed at surrendering the rights of the state to the Centre,” said P Madhu, state secretary, CPI(M).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/soon-dbt-for-power-subsidy-in-agri-sector/articleshow/77885149.cms||Samdani MN
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Soon, DBT for power subsidy in agriculture sector||AMARAVATI: The state government has decided to implement Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) from the 2021-22 financial year for all farmers drawing free power. The pilot scheme will be implemented in one district by the end of December 2020. The decision has been taken as part of implementation of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 of the Centre. Although the state government initially raised its objections over several clauses in the central Bill, it has decided to follow the guidelines. Many state governments, particularly ruled by non-BJP parties, including Kerala and Telangana have refused to budge on the Centre’s proposed legislation. The state government will now pay the full amount for power consumption by farmers. The government’s decision to fit meters to agriculture pump sets is likely to trigger protests from farmers. The energy department contended that the meters are installed to estimate consumption. Sources said that the department might also keep an eye on preventing misuse of free power given to the agriculture sector. The state government has promised to pay the entire consumption amount to farmers, who in turn had to pay the same to the discoms. The government would remit the amount directly into farmers’ bank account as part of DBT, a condition set by the Centre. Since discoms across the country are facing massive debts, the Centre wants to strengthen discoms by making the states pay up for the discounts offered. The state government is spending close to Rs 8,400 crore for providing free power to nearly 18 lakh farmers. Three discoms are supplying nearly 12,000 million units to the agriculture sector annually. “Besides free power to the agriculture sector, we are also giving nearly Rs 1,707 crore in subsidies to domestic (household) connections, Rs 450 crore for aqua sector and Rs 220 crore for providing free power up to 200 units per month to the SC, ST families in the state,” said Dr Nagulapalli Srikanth, CMD, AP Transco. He said that the total subsidies are likely to go up to Rs 11,000 crore by next fiscal. “Free power to agriculture is achieved by farmers through agitations. It is not government’s charity. The state government should immediately withdraw the GO-22 which is aimed at surrendering the rights of the state to the Centre,” said P Madhu, state secretary, CPI(M).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/soon-dbt-for-power-subsidy-in-agri-sector/articleshow/77878822.cms||Samdani MN
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University to remain closed till end of September||PRAYAGRAJ: The campuses of Allahabad University and its constituent colleges have been further closed till the end of September. A notification to this affect was issued by the registrar on Monday. However, the office associated with day-to-day working of the AU administration will remain open with minimum attendance. The notification says that online teaching at AU and its constituent colleges should continue during this period so that the studies of the new academic session (2020-21) does not suffer amid the pandemic. Taking cognizance of the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, dated August 29, the university authorities decided to close AU till the end of this month. The letter of the registrar, Prof N K Shukla, mentions that during this period, the academic and administrative work of the university and its constituent colleges will continue as per instructions issued through earlier notification dated July 3. Online classes of the next session shall continue, as notified earlier. Moreover, essential services of the university/faculty/department will remain functional during this period. In case of an exigency, any faculty member/ non-teaching staff /researcher may be asked to report to the office, taking all necessary precautions, as communicated from time to time. It is advised that social distancing norms and other precautionary measures need to be followed strictly on the campus, said the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-remain-closed-till-end-of-september/articleshow/77876927.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid effect: Priests request resident to give dry food for shradhs||Ludhiana: City residents are going to find out difficult to trace priests for the rituals related with shradhs of their ancestors as priests are requesting them for giving dry food instead of cooked food, along with other things they want to give. The priests claimed that number of coronavirus cases are rising at a fast pace in city so it will not be wise enough for them to visit house to house for the shardhs. The shradhs will start from September 2 and will continue till September 17. But this year devotees will have to wait for one month for Navaratras as one additional month is there in between shradhs and Navaratras. A priest, Radhey Shyam Jha, from Sri Ram Ttemple near Arya College (Boys), Civil Lines, said, “It is advisable for the devotees to give dry food to the priests instead of giving them cooked food because as per government guidelines nobody should visit anybody. People have started calling me asking about possibilities in case priests deny for coming to the households.” He said at this moment safety of individuals is of utmost importance so people should keep this in mind and should avoid coming in contact with each other. Another priest Om Parkash Shastri from Shree Shakteshwar Mahadev Ashram said, “I will suggest people to give dry food and donations as per their wishes because unlike previous years first of all priests will not go to anybody’s house and if they will go, they won't be able to eat much.” He said he also used to go to eat food at households during shardhs but this year he is in dilemma and will avoid as much as possible. He requested people to give dry food at the temple premises only so that they could first sanitise things and then use the items. Rakesh Chander from Shree Raghunath Temple said, “If anybody wants to give anything he or she should come to my house and give only dry food as I would not be accepting cooked food from anybody.” He said they could not move from one house to another for eating food as they used to go earlier because at this moment it is difficult to judge in which house people have symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-effect-priests-request-resident-to-give-dry-food-for-shradhs/articleshow/77877807.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Dehradun||Cong attacks BJP over ‘tussle’ with bureaucrats||Dehradun: As several BJP leaders are complaining that the bureaucrats are not listening to them, the Congress has attacked the ruling BJP party saying that while “the BJP MLAs have lost faith in bureaucrats, the people have lost faith in them”. Leader of Opposition in the state Indira Hridayesh, said, “The recent development shows that while BJP MLAs have lost faith in the bureaucrats, the people have lost faith in them. Three ministerial posts are lying vacant and officers are unwilling to listen to lawmakers. It is a sorry state of affairs in Uttarakhand.” While taking a swipe at the legislators of the ruling party, Hridayesh said, “When officials are unwilling to listen to them, then why would they hear the Opposition party or the common man.” She did not fail to mention that though the polls were more than a year away, “the BJP has lost the faith of the common man who voted them to power”. Commenting on the issue, Congress leader and former CM Harish Rawat, said, “In the next few months, we will hear more such accusations as the saffron party has done nothing for development and is now looking for a person or an official on whom the blame can be shifted. By targeting the bureaucracy, the BJP leaders are not only showing their helplessness but also exposing the ongoing state of affairs in Uttarakhand. Now, the BJP state leadership is worried about 2022 polls and due to poor performance, its situation is a precarious one ” Earlier, senior BJP legislator from Didihat constituency Bishan Singh Chufal joined a number of other party lawmakers to criticise officials for not listening to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-attacks-bjp-over-tussle-with-bureaucrats/articleshow/77877810.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ganesh immersion goes smoothly despite flouting of Covid norms||HYDERABAD: After 10 days of festivities, the city finally bid adieu to Lord Ganesha on Tuesday. Unlike other years, the road leading up to the Hussainsagar Lake, where majority of the idols are immersed, was sparsely populated as only a limited number of revellers joined the ‘Shobha Yatra’, for fear of the pandemic. There was neither a fleet of trucks waiting in queue for their turn nor the blaring sound of drums, DJs and a cheering crowd — all synonymous with immersion day. While there was some celebration as the popular Khairatabad Ganesh procession made its way to the lake — passing through Telephone Bhavan, Telugu Talli Flyover and up to NTR Marg — it was very low-key in comparison to earlier times. The procession began at 12.30 pm after a pooja of the nine-feet ‘Dhanvantari Maha Ganapati’ idol at the pandal and continued for six hours, till the idol was immersed around 5.30 pm. About 200 people travelled along with the vehicle, with more joining in along the way — some, worryingly, without a mask. Apart from the local police, private security personnel also followed the Khairatabad Ganesh procession. The Balapur Ganesh Utsav Committee made an early start as a brightly decorated vehicle, carrying the six-feet idol, left the village by 9 am and travelled 18 km to reach Hussainsagar. By 2.30 pm, the members had said their goodbye to the Lord. Apart from a smaller gathering, some organisers said they appealed to devotees not to litter roads around the water body as pandal organisers. Some organisers, keeping with the appeal of Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi, refrained from distributing prasadam and water packets to devotees. “It has certainly been a more sombre affair this year. But I think, given the situation at hand it is best that we keep it this way. While it is a festival and it calls for celebration, we also have to be responsible,” said a devotee seen waiting with other revellers at the immersion site. Away from the Hussainsagar, several gated communities across twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, that had installed small idols within their premises, decided to conduct immersion rituals inside their societies, to avoid large gatherings. Some organisers in Secunderabad Cantonment, however, travelled to nearby water bodies for Ganesh immersion. But even these were sans the usual fanfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganesh-immersion-goes-smoothly-despite-flouting-of-covid-norms/articleshow/77879848.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Court finds no merit in bail plea of MBA grad||NEW DELHI: A court has refused to grant bail to MBA graduate Gulfisha Fatima, booked in a Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case connected to the northeast Delhi violence. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, dealing with riots cases, rejected the bail application on Monday on the ground that it was without any merit. Fatima sought bail stating that she had already spent 120 days in custody from the day of arrest on April 11. Her counsel argued that police hadn’t filed a chargesheet within the statutory period of 90 days. The court was also informed that the prosecution previously moved an application under UAPA before a sessions court at Patiala House Courts. The application was allowed on June 29 and the investigation agency was granted time till August 15 for filing the chargesheet. It, however, came on record that the time of investigation had been further extended till August 29 and then extended further. “When the period to investigate has been extended till August 29 and the applicant (Fatima) remanded in judicial custody under the provisions of UAPA by the sessions judge, there arises no reason for the applicant to state that the chargesheet has not been filed on August 10,” the court noted. The court further observed that Fatima had challenged the order extending the investigation by the sessions judge, stating that it was not competent to pass any order. “However, such an assertion cannot be made before this court,” it added. As the period of investigation has been extended, “there arises no occasion for consideration of the question of statutory bail on the ground that the final report has not been filed on August 10. Present application is without merits and is dismissed,” the order held. In February, the northeastern parts of the capital was rocked by communal riots erupted over protests against the amended citizenship Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-finds-no-merit-in-bail-plea-of-mba-grad/articleshow/77879861.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||NE violence: Narwal takes back bail plea||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi high court indicated probe by police till now revealed material against her that can’t be ignored, Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal withdrew her bail plea. The high court had advised Narwal’s lawyer to wait till the chargesheet in the case against her is filed in next few weeks, before pressing for bail. It said that after examining 20 per cent of the case diary shared by police in sealed cover, the court is of prima facie opinion that there is material against Narwal and it is such, which is not likely to be ignored by any court. “As far as this petitioner (Narwal) is concerned, a chargesheet will be filed within the time given. Then you will have the entire material with you which this court has with it right now. We are of the prime facie view that there is evidence against you,” justice Vibhu Bakhru had remarked during the hearing on Monday. Even as Narwal decided to approach the trial court for bail, justice Bakhru directed police to provide the entire chargesheet, once it is filed, to the student booked in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during the anti-CAA protests in February this year. The high court also ordered police to provide her all the statements, including those of protected witnesses, that it was relying upon to prosecute her. It said statements of the protected witnesses can be suitably redacted to protect their identity. The court also noted that police have assured it will file the chargesheet on or before September 17. Narwal, who was arrested in May, had challenged a trial court’s order denying her bail. She is an accused in three cases under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Another member of the group, Devangana Kalita, was arrested in the case in May this year by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch and booked under various sections of the IPC, including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. They have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law—Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act—in a separate case related to the communal violence, for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-violence-narwal-takes-back-bail-plea/articleshow/77879876.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa initiates probe against 11 Colvale jail staff for instigation, irregularities||PANAJI: The authorities of the Colvale Central Jail have initiated disciplinary proceedings against 11 prison staff — jailors, assistant jailors and jail guards — after obtaining prima facie evidence that they not only instigated inmates to protest but were also responsible for irregularities in procurement of food items for the jail. Show-cause notices have been issued to two jailors, three assistant jailors and six jail guards, while one jail guard was recently placed under suspension after he was found to be consuming alcohol on duty. A few have responded to the notices, but their replies are not satisfactory, inspector general of prisons Gurudas Pilarnkar, said. A jailor who was in charge of the mess has been transferred and given other duties even as his entry to the kitchen and mess has been banned. Last week, another jail guard was suspended after an undertrial escaped while under his supervision. Police are yet to arrest the fugitive. Explaining the reason behind the transfer of the mess in-charge, a senior jail officer said, “Even after repeatedly asking the staff to give in writing the details of the previous month’s procurement, total goods consumed and balance at the end of the month, he did not.” From January, the authorities had begun questioning the staff involved about the quantum of groceries and other items procured. The senior jail officer said that after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, the number of jail inmates dropped as many were granted parole. “So ideally, the quantum of purchases ought to have reduced, but it didn’t,” the officer said. At least 500-600 inmates, including undertrials, were held in the Colvale Central Jail in January. Following the pandemic, this number dropped to a little over 400. “The monthly toor dal requirement for 500 people was about 30kg. When the number of inmates reduced to 400 after February, the requirement ought to have decreased to 20 or 25kg. Yet, requests were placed for 60-90kg of dal. That’s when we got suspicious,” the officer said. “Before the mess in-charge was transferred, he had also placed a request for 800kg of potatoes and 1,700kg of onions.” The authorities also found that some of the items procured were of premium brands despite a direction that goods of Indian brands but of standard quality be procured. “The brands have been listed. They (staff) cannot decide what they want to buy,” the officer said. Over the past month, jail inmates protested over meals on two occasions. In one instance they said the food served didn’t have onion, while in the second instance they objected to not being given non-vegetarian food. The officer maintained that inmates are given nutritious meals in adequate quantities and said that inquiries revealed that protests over food were prompted by a few convicts who were “hand-in-glove” with certain jail staff after the latter were questioned about excess procurement of groceries. “They (the staff involved) felt that if the inmates protested, we would take a lenient view and they would have freedom to buy whatever they wanted, raising bills in lakhs. It’s not that we serve inferior quality meals or deny the inmates what they ought to be given. But excesses will not be tolerated,” the officer said. The jail will now procure seafood from the fisheries department as the services of a regular vendor were stopped after she tested positive for Covid-19. Monday is the only day vegetarian food is served to the inmates. Either eggs or fish is served on other days and chicken fortnightly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-initiates-probe-against-11-colvale-jail-staff-for-instigation-irregularities/articleshow/77879896.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 2, 2020||Allahabad||Budget of Rs 15 crore approved for nutrition gardens in govt schools||PRAYAGRAJ: With the aim to grow fresh and nutritious vegetables within the school campus and use them in preparation of a school’s own mid-day meals, nutrition gardens will be set up in 30,000 government-run primary and upper primary schools spread across the state. The state basic education department has already identified the schools in various districts where these gardens would come up. Each of the schools will receive financial assistance worth Rs 5000 for the same. On the proposal of the state mid-day meal Authority, the central government has approved a budget of Rs 15 crore for this mission, informe a senior official of the state basic education department. The initiative will also involve students in nurturing the plants of these kitchen gardens. Schools run by the basic education department of UP were instructed to build kitchen gardens on their premises last year. However, there was no financial assistance for the purpose. As a result, teachers of many of these schools started gardening using their own resources. “Around 9,000 government schools of the state have already build such gardens on their own. In fact, in Hardoi district, all the primary and upper primary government schools have such gardens on their premises,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general of school education and state project director of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. But to provide a further fillip to this initiative, schools which have adequate space available for laying gardens, proper boundary walls and enough water for irrigating the plants, have been identified this year, said the officials. The authorities are confident that in coming years, all 1.59 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools of the state would get financial aid for developing these vegetable gardens. Prayagraj mid-day meal district coordinator, Rajiv Tripathi, said that information was sent to the mid-may meal authority identifying 400 schools in the district which could develop and nurture these proposed nutrition gardens properly. Apart from this, the administration has also informed all officers and teachers concerned to undertake this new initiative in a focused manner. With the financial assistance, work will start at the selected schools soon. For efficient execution of the proposal, agriculture, panchayat and other departments of the state government would also cooperate, said basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), Prayagraj, Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/budget-of-rs-15-crore-approved-for-nutrition-gardens-in-govt-schools/articleshow/77876947.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Hearing begins as Covid holds court||NEW DELHI: Manjit Singh’s morning anxiety receded soon after his daughter’s case was announced in the afternoon at the Tis Hazari courts. Not wanting to take any chances, the father of three turned up early on the first day of the courts’ graded reopening on Tuesday, five months after the Covid closure. Singh was glad to have the courts in Delhi functioning again, though with some restrictions. “I am going back happy because my daughter’s case finally saw some development in her favour," said the 58-year-old who had travelled to Tis Hazari from Tilak Nagar’s Jail Road for the hearing. The court functioning is visibly different now. Plastic barricades divide the walkways to ensure lane discipline and distancing. Physical separation is also reinforced though signage on the floors. Policemen at entry points stop those not wearing masks or those who aren’t a party to the listed proceedings. Amid the sparse crowd at Tis Hazari on Tuesday, a policeman at an entry point could be seen barring entry to a young couple. Delhi high court’s plan is to have physical functioning of one-fourth of the courts on rotation, while the rest continued taking up matters through videoconferencing. A senior judicial officer at Tis Hazari, the largest court complex in Delhi, elaborated on the precautionary measures undertaken to maintain a safe environment for the hearings. “Each district court is currently functioning with one-fourth of its total strength. At the West district court here, there are 52 courts of which 13 are working today,” said the officer. Similarly, at the Central district courts, 17-18 courts of the 70-odd are open. This graded system of functioning is being termed as a ‘hybrid’ system to allow litigants to attend physical hearings in urgent matters besides appearing in cases through videoconferencing. To ensure safety of visitors as well as judges, policemen and staff, the court administration is leaving no stone unturned. Besides the UV-C machines for ultraviolet disinfection, UV lights have also been installed to disinfect courtrooms and chambers. “These machines sanitise each floor of the building,” the official added. A lawyer, who did not wish to be named, said partitions have been put up in courtrooms to facilitate social distancing. Only those clerks or munshis of advocates are allowed in who carry an identity card issued by the bar association. Besides, only one advocate for each litigant or party is asked to appear; interns are not allowed entry, keeping in mind the possibility of overcrowding of courtrooms. The graded hearings have also retained the previous directive of not bringing undertrial prisoners from jail to the courts. “No pleadings, applications, documents, etc., shall be permitted to be filed across the dais in the court and the same shall either be handed over to the ahlmad (court official) in a closed envelope or put in the petition box. In either case, the same shall be processed after three days,” reads the order of district and sessions judge Poonam A Bamba of the Saket courts in south Delhi. Interestingly, at the Karkardooma courts, which has jurisdiction over East, North-East and Shahdara districts, the administrative heads have suspended all “official function of judicial officers or the Bar associations, such as farewells or parties” for six months. A lawyer’s associate at the Patiala House courts felt the number of cars in the parking lot was higher than in the past months. “Even the stationery shops and photocopiers on the premises reopened today,” he disclosed. However, there is some scepticism being expressed about the courts’ reopening. Advocate Arpit Bhargava pointed out that Covid cases were on the rise in Delhi and it was “not wise at all to start physical hearings. Hearings via videoconferencing are better, especially for young lawyers who have no office setup and can’t spend on staff much”. In fact, Bhargava suggested that courts adopt video hearings permanently with online process fee filings and other miscellaneous filings. “Lawyers will save a lot of time and effort that go into visiting different courts. This will lead to an increase in their productivity and cause less stress,” he remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hearing-begins-as-covid-holds-court/articleshow/77879892.cms||Aamir Khan
September 2, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB proposes to use treated water for watering fields||Ludhiana: For putting to use the treated water that will come out of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) after passing through dyeing units, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has started the process. The proposal is to use this treated water for irrigation purpose instead of throwing it into the Buddha Nullah. In this regard the PPCB chairman S S Marwaha conducted a meeting with dyeing unit owners in the presence of agricultural experts at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Tuesday. One CETP at Bahadurke road is complete and it will start functioning shortly while CETPs for Focal Point and Tajpur Road will be complete in next three months. Talking to media persons, Marwaha said that dyeing units were taking out at least 100 MLD of groundwater for daily use and thus water after being treated at a CETP could be used for irrigation purpose. He said if they would throw it into Buddha Nullah, then it would be useless to treat the water. He said if they would use this treated water in fields for irrigation, then farmers’ dependence on tubewells for irrigation would be reduced. He said it would also help in reducing the depletion of groundwater table. The chairman of PPCB also claimed that to utilise this treated water they would require irrigation land in huge quantity. He said as per estimates the discharge coming from dyeing units could water at least 3,000 to 4,000 acres in paddy season, while for wheat crop more than 7,000 acres could be watered. He said they would need to encourage the farmers to use this water for irrigation and this responsibility had been taken up by the agriculture department. Meanwhile, the dyeing unit owners who participated in the meeting gave assurance of providing every possible help to the PPCB in this initiative. They claimed that they would do every possible help to save groundwater. The chairman also claimed that the CETPs would start functioning before December end, which is the deadline for Focal Point and Tajpur Road CETPs. They have given 15 days time to consultants for preparing the report to utilise this treated water in the nearby villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-proposes-to-use-treated-water-for-watering-fields/articleshow/77877816.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit businessman booked in extortion case||PILIBHIT: A 35-year-old businessman was booked on Tuesday for allegedly demanding “50% share of temple earnings” from a 62-year-old female caretaker of Adarsh Ganga temple in Inayatganj locality, Pilibhit. Accused Nikhil Mittal has been booked under extortion charges and is yet to be arrested. Victim Manju Mishra of Mohammad Farukh locality filed the FIR after she received threats from Mittal, who had sought Rs 20,000 immediately. According to the police, the accused also carries two criminal cases registered in connection with the attempts of encroaching upon the temple’s property. Mishra said in her FIR that the accused barged on the temple campus at 6 am on June 26 and sought Rs 20, 000. He later robbed Rs 5, 400 from the woman and warned her to pay the remaining Rs 15,000 within three days. The victim said she approached the Sungarhi police station soon after the incident but with no positive outcome. She then filed a written complaint to the superintendent of police who ordered a probe, but the FIR was not lodged. “But the FIR was registered only after the intervention of additional director general of Bareilly zone Avinash Chandra,” the victim said. SHO of Sungarhi police station Atar Singh said Mittal has been booked under section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt). “He is yet to be arrested,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-businessman-booked-in-extortion-case/articleshow/77877817.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Finish site selection for skill centres, says Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to complete selection of suitable sites for skill development centres in the state. The state will have 30 skill development centres and be affiliated to the proposed Skill Development University in Tirupati. The skill development centres and the university would be connected to industry which will suggest suitable skill training. This is to fulfil the 75% quota legislation for locals made by the state government last year. The government has already prepared the curriculum and appointed consultants for training, keeping in view the employment demand from industry in the state. Several corporate companies have already tied up with the state government to advise on the curriculum for the centres. Each skill development centre will fall under a Lok Sabha constituency and be spread over a minimum of 10 acres. The state government wants to invest Rs 50 crore on each centre. Industries in the state have been given three years to implement the 75% quota for locals and the skill development centres are expected to be ready by then. Officials told the chief minister that suitable sites were identified at 20 places. They said 162 courses have been prepared and a number of companies have signed MoUs with the state government to partner with the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finish-site-selection-for-skill-centres/articleshow/77885313.cms||Gopi Dara
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Varsities to conduct terminal semester exams by Oct 18, publish results by Oct 31||Kolkata: State-run universities will conduct terminal semester examinations between October 1 and October 18 and publish the results by October 31, it was decided in a meeting, which was attended by 19 vice-chancellors and chaired by education minister Partha Chatterjee, on Monday. It has also been decided in the meeting that higher education secretary Manish Jain will write to the University Grants Commission (UGC), seeking permission to extend the September 30 deadline to conduct exams. However, the higher education department has expressed its reluctance to issue any further directive. “When some of the VCs inquired if, like the last time, when 80-20 formula was suggested and now stands scrapped, another advisory will be issued, Chatterjee refused,” said an attendee of the virtual meeting. Going by the apex court’s verdict, both Vidyasagar University and Raiganj University are now going to withdraw their already published terminal semester results that were conducted on the earlier formula. Even a few departments of Jadavpur University — both in humanities and science — will also have to withdraw the results and conduct exams again. About 2,500 UG and PG candidates of Raiganj University have already received their results for the final examination. But following the Supreme Court order, the results would be revoked. “It was decided in Monday’s meeting that online examination would be held between October 1 and October 18 and the result would be published by October-end. We will sit with our staff on Tuesday to finalize the details. In no way shall we conduct the examination offline,” VC Anil Bhuimali told TOI.“Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology and Presidency University, along with the engineering faculty of Jadavpur University, who have published their results, have stuck to the apex court verdict and hence will not require to take the exams,” said a source. When pointed out if the 17,000 common service centres that have been set up by the state to hold the West Bengal Joint Entrance Exams can be utilized to conduct online exams for those students who do not have access to internet at home, higher education officials did not give a go-ahead yet. “It is a possibility that can be explored, particularly for those varsities who have decide to hold online exams and where many students may not have internet access. In the case of online exams, mostly it will be an ‘open-book’ assessment,” pointed out a VC. The government has formed a five-member committee to look after the procedure of conducting exams. It will be chaired by JU VC Suranjan Das. “Each university will now place their respective proposal with the highest administrative decision-making body to take a call and accordingly, inform the test takers about the exam mode and schedule,” said a source in the higher education department. Partha Pratim Ray, general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, pointed out that the faculty members are being inundated with calls from students who want to study in the IITs. “Those who will be taking admissions in IITs will have a setback because if the exam is to be conducted in October, publication of results will be delayed and IIT classes will begin by then. This may force them to take a break for a year. (With inputs from Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/varsities-to-conduct-terminal-semester-exams-by-oct-18-publish-results-by-oct-31/articleshow/77859296.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Shahjahanpur: Bookseller makes rape bid on 10-year-old girl, arrested||BAREILLY: A 30-year-old man, a bookseller, was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in a remote village of Shahjahanpur district. The girl, who had gone to buy notebooks at the bookseller’s shop in a village under Kalaan area of Shahjahanpur district on Monday evening, managed to get herself freed from his clutches and narrated her ordeal to her parents upon reaching home. The parents soon approached Kalaan police station SHO Dileep Singh with a complaint and an FIR was registered under sections 376 (rape) and 511 (offences punishable with imprisonment for life) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused, who was arrested on Tuesday and sent to jail. After recording the girl’s statement, she was sent for a medical examination, said the SHO. The SHO told TOI, “Following a complaint lodged by the girl’s father, a farmer, we recorded her statement. We then arrested the accused. During questioning, the accused refused to have committed the crime, and thus, we sent an investigation team to the village to collect evidence. After the initial investigation, we were convinced that the accused had committed the crime. Later, we presented him in the court of a remand magistrate and he was sent to jail. The girl was sent to a hospital for a medical examination. Her statement would be recorded by a magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bookseller-makes-rape-bid-on-10-year-old-girl-who-has-gone-to-buy-notebooks-at-his-shop-arrested/articleshow/77877833.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Finish site selection for skill centres, says Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to complete selection of suitable sites for skill development centres in the state. The state will have 30 skill development centres and be affiliated to the proposed Skill Development University in Tirupati. The skill development centres and the university would be connected to industry which will suggest suitable skill training. This is to fulfil the 75% quota legislation for locals made by the state government last year. The government has already prepared the curriculum and appointed consultants for training, keeping in view the employment demand from industry in the state. Several corporate companies have already tied up with the state government to advise on the curriculum for the centres. Each skill development centre will fall under a Lok Sabha constituency and be spread over a minimum of 10 acres. The state government wants to invest Rs 50 crore on each centre. Industries in the state have been given three years to implement the 75% quota for locals and the skill development centres are expected to be ready by then. Officials told the chief minister that suitable sites were identified at 20 places. They said 162 courses have been prepared and a number of companies have signed MoUs with the state government to partner with the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finish-site-selection-for-skill-centres/articleshow/77878876.cms||Gopi Dara
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Finish site selection for skill centres, says Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to complete selection of suitable sites for skill development centres in the state. The state will have 30 skill development centres and be affiliated to the proposed Skill Development University in Tirupati. The skill development centres and the university would be connected to industry which will suggest suitable skill training. This is to fulfil the 75% quota legislation for locals made by the state government last year. The government has already prepared the curriculum and appointed consultants for training, keeping in view the employment demand from industry in the state. Several corporate companies have already tied up with the state government to advise on the curriculum for the centres. Each skill development centre will fall under a Lok Sabha constituency and be spread over a minimum of 10 acres. The state government wants to invest Rs 50 crore on each centre. Industries in the state have been given three years to implement the 75% quota for locals and the skill development centres are expected to be ready by then. Officials told the chief minister that suitable sites were identified at 20 places. They said 162 courses have been prepared and a number of companies have signed MoUs with the state government to partner with the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/finish-site-selection-for-skill-centres/articleshow/77885311.cms||Gopi Dara
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||FIR against UPCC chief, 9 others for violating Covid curbs||VARANASI: Jaitpura police have lodged a named FIR against 10 persons including weavers’ fraternity leader Sardar Maqbool Hassan, UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and 100 unidentified for holding public meeting without seeking permission from the district administration and for violating Epidemic Act as well as social distancing norms prescribed in view of Covid-19 scare. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, SSP Amit Pathak said that on the complaint of sub-inspector Vinay Tiwari an FIR was lodged under section 269 (Negligent Act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and section 51 of Disaster Management Act 2005. The FIR was lodged for overlooking restrictions imposed in view of epidemic and congregating people without seeking permission and violating prohibitory orders, he said adding that further investigation in this matter has been started. In his complaint, Tiwari mentioned that while patrolling, he along with his followers reached Katehar area where a large number of people had gathered at a girls’ madrasa despite prohibitory orders. On this campus Sardar Maqbool Hassan, Sardar Shamsuddin, Sardar Alimuddin, Sardar Serajuddin, Maulavi Abdul Aziz, Neyaj Ahmed, Imtiyaj Ahmed, over 100 unidentified people and members of political group including UPCC general secretary Vishajit Singh, city Congress committee president Raghvendra Chaubey, Ajay Rai and UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu had gathered a large number of people violating norms of social distancing and the directives issued in view of Covid-19 epidemic. The UPCC chief, along with other party leaders, had taken part in a ‘Jan-Samvad programme organised at by Sardar Maqbool Hassan on a day before the weavers started their indefinite ‘Murri-Band strike on Monday against the problems, especially of power tariff, being faced by the weavers fraternity. Addressing this meeting, the UPCC president assured weaver leaders to extend all support to the stir and demands. He had also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party led state government alleging that at a time when the weaving industry was in need of special package in view of no work due to Covid-19 lockdown, the state government has compelled them to pay the power tariff on the basis of meter reading in place of fixed charges realised from them in past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fir-against-upcc-chief-9-others-for-violating-covid-curbs/articleshow/77877845.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Poor swachh rating: AAP ups stir against corporations||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday upped its attack on the BJP-led municipal corporations by holding protests and alleging that the party had failed to keep Delhi clean despite ruling the civic bodies for 15 years. Senior AAP functionary and in-charge of the corporations Durgesh Pathak said it was very unfortunate that the capital was found to be the dirtiest city in the recent Swachh Survekshan. “Tourists from across the world come to Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lives here. So do all the Union Cabinet ministers and members of Parliament,” he added. “According to the survey, the areas under the jurisdiction of the BJP-led corporations are very poor. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) was ranked 31, north corporation 43 and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) was at 46th position. One of the key responsibilities of the municipal corporations is cleaning the city, but the survey clearly showed that they had failed miserably,” said Pathak. Pathak also claimed that the corporations had failed in the education sector as they could not provide books to students. They even failed in the health sector by being unable to pay salaries the doctors. “The citizens of Delhi will give a befitting reply to BJP in the upcoming municipal polls. We will run the corporations within the same budget and make Delhi a model of cleanliness, just like the education and health sectors, if we come to power,” he added. As a part of the plan, all AAP MLAs, councillors and workers protested in the 70 assembly constituencies and put up 250 banners and hoardings across the city. EDMC leader of Opposition Manoj Tyagi led the protest outside the civic body’s office in Patparganj. “East Delhi was ranked 46th in the survey, which was the second last position. For the past 15 years, the corporation has been governed by BJP. Despite this, there are mountains of garbage in the area,” he said. Vikas Goel, leader of Opposition in north corporation, led the protests outside the Civic Centre. “The corporations have a budget of around Rs 18,000 crore. If BJP had spent just 20% properly, the situation would have been much better,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/poor-swachh-rating-aap-ups-stir-against-corpns/articleshow/77879913.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP toes Centre’s line on Unlock-4, but movie halls to remain silent||BHOPAL: Additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Kumar Rajora issued two separate orders regarding Unlock-4 guidelines to all district collectors on Tuesday. In the first order, he asked the officials to scrap Sunday lockdown all over the state, and in the subsequent order he told district collectors to ensure compliance with all the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry. The Union home ministry, in its guidelines for Unlock-4 beginning September 1, had allowed serving of liquor in bars and restaurants. It also allowed running of metros in a phased manner from September 7, but this won’t be applicable for MP. But, whether city buses in Bhopal would ply or not will have to be decided at the state-level or by the district collector. Marriage ceremonies, political functions and social gatherings with a maximum attendance of 100 people will be allowed from September 21. Schools will be allowed to summon 50% staff for campus duty from September 21. Students of class 9 to 12 will be allowed to go to school to seek guidance from teachers with the permission of their parents. However, schools will remain closed till September 30. Open theatres will be allowed to open from September 21, but cinema halls will remain closed. Following Rajora’s order on Sunday lockdown, district collector Avinash Lavania issued an order scrapping Sunday lockdown in Bhopal and permission to open markets just like the other days. In another order, he said that all the government offices in the district will now run with 100% staff and not with 35% on rotation basis as was the arrangement till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-toes-centres-line-on-unlock-4-but-movie-halls-to-remain-silent/articleshow/77878883.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Second coming: Kolkata's Patuli records case of Covid re-infection||KOLKATA: A 52-year-old woman from Rabindrapally in Patuli has tested Covid positive for the second time in a month and a week after testing negative. KMC has reported it to the state health department, which is likely to be the first case of re-infection in Bengal. “We will look into the matter. So far, no case of re-infection has been reported in the state. There have been a few instances of relapse after hospital discharges. Discharges from hospitals do not require Covid tests and are based on stable clinical parameters," said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the state Covid advisory committee. The patient first tested positive on August 3 and was admitted to MCH. She returned home on August 15 but had to be admitted to a hospital again after suffering a bout of fever. On August 22, she was tested again and the RT-PCR report came negative. However, she tested positive for dengue and was shifted to another hospital in Mukundapur. There, she was tested for Covid and the report issued on August 29 declared her positive again. “We are confused about the RT-PCR reports. How did my mother catch the infection again?” wondered the patient’s son. In addition to her, there are five other in the vicinity who have fallen ill after recovering. According to Bappaditya Dasgupta, the ward 101 co-ordinator, cases have cropped up in the past fortnight. “We have received a list of six people who have tested positive twice in the past 15 days. Of them, the woman has tested positive after testing negative earlier. The rest did not test negative but were considered to have been cured,” Dasgupta said. An octogenarian from Rabindrapally has tested positive twice in 11 days. He was first admitted to a private hospital on August 14. Though he was released after eight days, a Covid test done on August 25 found him to be positive again. Amitava Chakraborty, a KMC health department official, didn’t rule out the possibility. “If some patients are testing positive after testing positive, then there are chances of re-infection,” Chakraborty said. Some doctors say the possibility of “false positives” has to be ruled out before ringing the alarm. The ultra-sensitive RT-PCR test has been picking up traces of dead virus proteins, causing the false positives. Both RT-PCR and TruNat tests are so sensitive that they can catch traces of the dead virus’ protein, Raja Dhar, Fortis Hospital pulmonologist told TOI. Doctors pointed out that the volume of viral load can also lead to a patient testing positive for long. “We can’t measure the viral load. But in some patients, the immune system fights the virus better and prevents its replication, reducing the load,” said doctor Arindam Biswas, a consultant at RTIIS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/second-coming-patuli-records-case-of-covid-re-infection/articleshow/77878885.cms||Saikat Ray
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Cutoffs at Delhi University set to rise further with record applicants||NEW DELHI: With over 5.6 lakh applications for admissions, the highest in Delhi University’s history, it is being presumed that the cutoffs will also be high. Many principals said the first two cutoffs would be steep considering the large number of high scorers in the Class XII board exams. However, some pointed out that as the admission form had been tweaked this year and allowed students to apply for all courses, this would make it difficult to ascertain cutoffs for certain courses. Earlier, applicants were required to choose courses, but this year all subjects were automatically selected while filling the form. Jaswinder Singh, principal of SGTB Khalsa College, said this was done to ensure that applicants didn’t face trouble later. “The first couple of cutoffs will be on the higher side due to the large number of applications. Many students could not go abroad to study due to the pandemic, so chose DU,” he added. Mamta Sharma, principal of Aditi Mahavidyalaya, concurred with Singh and said, “The cutoffs will certainly be on the higher side considering there will be many students with the same percentage.” Asked if students not selecting specific courses would make it difficult for colleges to set their cutoffs, SharRedod ma said it won’t be much of a problem as the faculty would rely on their past experience. “Every college is aware of the bracket of students who come to take admission. The first list is not very important and is a test run. The actual scenario is generally known in the second and third lists,” she added. SP Agarwal, the principal of Ramanujan College, said, “The more pressing issue is that we are very late in starting the admission process. Most students with high marks will get accommodated somewhere. Some may even join private universities. Things will not be rosy this year due to the time constraint. There may not be much movement of students once the cutoffs have been declared.” Some principals believed that the cutoffs would be high because of the large number of high scorers. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu College, said, “The cutoffs will be affected by the number of applicants who have high scores. For that, we will have to look at the data that DU will share with us. We would like to stick to what we had last year with a marginal increase.” This was reiterated by Shobha Bagai, dean of admissions at DU. “More than the number of applications, it is students who have scored 90% and above who will influence the cutoffs,” she said. Watch Delhi University cutoffs expected to rise further with record number of applicants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cutoffs-at-du-set-to-rise-further-with-record-applicants/articleshow/77879949.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Sunni Board Mosque Trust appoints Jamia professor as project architect||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board for construction of the mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of the Babri masjid has appointed a senior professor of Jamia Millia Islamia University as the architect of the project. Taking to TOI, mosque trust secretary Athar Hussain said, “We have appointed Prof S M Akhtar, dean, faculty of architecture at Jamia Millia Islamia University, as the architect for construction the mosque, library and hospital on 5acre allotted by the state government as mandated by Supreme Court.” A doctorate with multiple academic achievements to his credit, Prof S M Akhtar, has also authored a book — Islamic Architecture at Crossroads. “As an academician, he has an impressive resume with eight PhDs awarded under his supervision. He was also chairman of Indian Institute of Architects, Uttar Pradesh chapter, and secretary of Institute of Town Planners, the country’s best-known country planning organization focused on economic, scientific and artistic development of towns and cities. “We have to hammer out the blueprint of the mosque, hospital and library. Now, we have no design in mind, but we are moving with a mission to establish this project to heal, teach and preach the common man,” said Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunni-board-mosque-trust-appoints-jamia-professor-as-project-architect/articleshow/77880663.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal, cops step up measures to help JEE candidates reach centres today||KOLKATA: To ensure JEE (Main) candidates did not face problems commuting to their exam centres from other parts of the city and suburbs on Tuesday, the Bengal government on Monday made arrangements for the availability of adequate public transport. The engineering entrance tests will be held between September 1 and 6. The state transport undertakings (STUs) will start operating their services from depots in the districts as early as 5am. The Kolkata Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has also requested private bus, auto and taxi operators to provide additional services from 7am to 7.30pm so that examinees and their guardians do not have trouble travelling to and returning from the exam centres. Regional Transport Office (RTO) of South and North 24 Parganas as well as ARTOs of Baruipur and Barrackpur have spoken to private bus, auto and taxi operators there to start services from 5am. On Tuesday, 1,121 examinees are to take the test in the first shift (9am to noon) and 1,466 in the second shift (3pm to 6pm). From allowing students to enter the venue one-and-a-half hours before the exam, slots drawn on the ground to ensure social distancing, disinfection mats at the entrance, mandatory thermal check and hand sanitisation: these are the measures that TCS Gitabitan at Salt Lake Sector V—one of the biggest among the 15 JEE centers in Bengal—has decided to take. “Earlier exam centres let in students only half-an-hour before the start. But now, the timing has been increased for screening and sanitization,” said an officer from Bidhannagar Commisisonerate, which has formed a team to help the authorities maintain a queue and facilitate students reach the venue. The students will be divided into two queues with two guards screening them . “Only those with normal temperature will be allowed inside after hand sanitization. They will have to wear masks and the desks will be set away from each other,” said the officer. Police, who will be ready to extend any kind of help, said the candidates could put up a board on their vehicles. “Several students, especially those from the fringes of the city, have expressed online their apprehension about commute. Given the challenges, one must leave home early. We will provide real-time update from the centres on our social media platforms so that students can plan their travel on their preferred routes,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-cops-step-up-measures-to-help-jee-candidates-reach-centres-today/articleshow/77859359.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||South Kolkata OC battles virus, on ventilation||KOLKATA: An officer in charge of an important police station in southeast Kolkata is presently on ventilation and is in a serious condition. Although just nine new cases —against a daily average of 40 plus — was reported on Monday, at least three of them had to be admitted to hospital after they complained of severe breathing problems. One of them happens to be a sergeant from the Howrah Bridge traffic guard. Cops said the officer-in-charge had reportedly fallen ill and was running temperature after serving in an area that had several Covid cases. He, however, managed to slowly bring down the numbers. “With Entally on one side and Park Circus on the other, this area is home to several hospitals. The cop, who played a decisive role in implementing several lockdowns in the past few weeks, had initially quarantined himself at home. After the deterioration of his health, he had to be admitted to a Covid hospital off EM Bypass. On Sunday, his condition further deteriorated and had to be moved to another hospital, closer to Mukundapur,” said a police officer. Sources later added the OC has been put in ventilation. Police sources said the doctors have decided to keep the OC under observation for the next three days before deciding on the next round of treatment. “He is doing better than what he was last Sunday. He is fighting on bravely,” added an officer, quoting the doctors. The force has so far seen more than 1,936 Covid cases with less than 150 active cases at present. Nine cops, including an ACP and an OC, have lost their lives in Kolkata police so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-kol-oc-battles-virus-on-ventilation/articleshow/77878920.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Cops nab Maoist commander||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam rural police arrested a Maoist commander Korra Malleswara Rao alias Mallesh (28) of Nanubari village in Injari panchayat under Pedabayalu mandal in the district. Mallesh has worked for the Communist Party of India (Maoist) since 2012. Police said he has been gathering information on their movement and that of security forces in tribal areas. Mallesh allegedly planted the landmine that led to the death of two tribals from Chintalaveedi at Kundram forest in Pedabayalu mandal on August 2. The landmine was planted to eliminate security forces combing the area. He was also involved in the killings of Korra Ranga Rao of Chitrakayaputtu in Pedabayalu, K Surya and Mukkala Kishore of Maddigaruvu in G Madugula mandal and Korra Sattibabu of Bongajangi in Pedabayalu mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-nab-maoist-commander/articleshow/77878894.cms||Siva G
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||Over a dozen test positive for Covid after mall visit||BHOPAL: The risk of going to centrally air-conditioned buildings in the pandemic has once again come to the fore, with a dozen plus people being diagnosed with the infection after a visit to a private mall in the state capital. The private mall along Hoshangabad road reported two more cases of the infection on Tuesday. In the last few days, the spurt in infection had begun with eight people testing positive. Earlier in May, a call centre operating from a private mall was declared a hotspot after three dozen employees tested positive for Covid-19. Contact tracing of recent visitors to the mall has been initiated by the health department. Health experts have pointed out that air ventilation (or air change) needs to be healthy. Ventilation of air exchange or the air volume should take place 12 to 14 times in an hour. Simply put, wherever 20% of floor area is not ventilated, air quality suffers. Meanwhile, 189 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital on Tuesday. Since the pandemic began, more than 11,000 people have been infected with the contagion and 285 have died, going by health department reports. Eight more doctors have tested positives in the state capital. Four of them are from Gandhi Medical College while two are from AIIMS, Bhopal. Two other doctors who have tested positive are from Arvind Vihar and CI Homes. Police cyber cell office reported two positive cases of the infection. Gautam Nagar police station, RPF Thana, 25th Battalion, CRPF (Bangrasia) and 23rd Battalion reported one positive each. Police Line (Govindpura) reported seven positives. Food and Civil Supplies Department reported five positives of the infection. Rivera Township, Custom Colony (Kolar), (E-2, E-4, E-5), Arera Colony, Golden City, Old Minal Residency, CBI Colony (Char Imli) reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-a-dozen-test-positive-for-covid-after-mall-visit/articleshow/77878918.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||‘Metro restart date after talks with West Bengal’||KOLKATA: The date of resumption of Metro’s commercial services has not been fixed yet, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Tuesday. When it resumes, no new smart card will be issued from counters. Selling tokens are off, for now. So, only those with existing smart cards, who can’t recharge them digitally, will be allowed to queue up at counters, maintaining social distancing. The Ministry of Home Affair’s Unlock 4 guidelines issued on Saturday had sought “graded” resumption of Metro services from September 7. Following this, the Bengal government on Monday notified that services could resume from September 8. In Bengal, there is a total lockdown on September 7. “We are making preparations. Discussions with the state about the crowd management are yet to take place. Once all these issues are sorted, we will take a call on the date for resumption of services,” the GM said after convening a high-level meeting on Metro’s readiness on Tuesday. The Metro is working on its own SOP. The draft includes running only a third of the existing fleet of 288 trains and non-issuance of new smart cards. Around 3.5 lakh Metro commuters have smart cards. They will be encouraged to recharge through the newly launched Metro app. Only those who can’t do it digitally can reach out to ticket counters, which won’t be issuing tokens during the pandemic. A commuter may be allowed to enter the station only after downloading the Aarogya Setu app. To facilitate talks with the Bengal government, the Railway Board has asked three zonal railways — Metro, Eastern Railway and South-Eastern Railway — to seek a meeting with state officials to finalise the SOP, with focus on crowd management. The Railway Board’s instruction is in response to home secretary Alapan Bandopadhay’s letter to board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav on Saturday, saying Metro and local train services could start in Bengal in a limited manner. Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said, “The planning that goes into starting the services was discussed in today’s meeting. But the GM has asked for aggressive sanitization, which will be done throughout the night, after services end. As soon as a rake ends its run, it will be thoroughly spruced up, so that commuters can board fully sanitized coaches. We are also awaiting Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs’ (MoHUA) guidelines. Finally, we exchange ideas with the state government.” She added, “The number of services will come down considerably. Timings will change. We are discussing if blowers could be used and air-conditioning reduced. But the SOP will be finalized only after the meeting with the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-restart-date-after-talks-with-west-bengal/articleshow/77878917.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi weavers go on indefinite Murri-bandh in protest against new power tariff system||VARANASI: Protesting against being charged power tariff on meter reading basis instead of fixed rate as in practice till 2019 end, weavers have started indefinite ‘Murri-bandh’ (closure of manufacturing and trading) from Tuesday. The weavers’ leaders claim it to be the state-wide strike. The call of strike has been given at atime when the industry has already suffered due to Covid-19 lockdown. The weavers dominated localities, which otherwise used to be resonating with sound of powerlooms working, wore a complete silence as the weavers working on old orders have also stopped their looms on the call of Murri-Bandh. The effect of strike was evident when the TOI visited the areas like Revaritalab, Ashfaq Nagar, Pilikothi, Badi Bazar, Bunkar Colony on Tuesday. Small groups of weavers could be found extending their support to the agitation. The Pancho Bunkar Biradarna Tanzim office bearers and members could be found holding a meeting with their Sardar (chief) Haji Ali Ahmed. Ahmed said, “Our demand is very simple and clear that we should be given power supply against the fixed charges to run our weaving units. We had opposed the new provision of power tariff on meter reading basis as soon as it was introduced. Situation has worsened after the work was halted for past months due to Covid-19.” Senior member of this Tanzim, Ramjan Ali Ansari said, “After the work halt due to lockdown we were expecting a special package but instead the government gave us an extra burden of power consumption cost at commercial rate. The industry earns huge foreign exchange and generates revenue through exporters and traders but the material for sale is supplied weavers who cannot survive in new power tariff structure.” They claimed that regarding the issue, a delegation of weavers led by BJP MLC Ashok Dhawan had met CM Yogi Adityanath but despite his assurance of looking into the matter sympathetically, nothing was done. A large number of weavers had already sold their powerloom machines to scrap vendors and shifted to other works like construction labourers in past few months, they said. The weavers are divided in different tanzims (sects) known as Pancho, Baraho, Chaudaho, Baisi and Bawani, they said adding that all the tanzims are extending support this indefinite strike. The Baisi-ke-Sardar Haji Abdul Kalam in Kajisadullapura and Chaudaho-ke-Sardar Maqbool Hassan in Katehar said that fixed power tariffs for weaving units is the only solution against their problem. They said that 60% of the weavers are Hindus, who also have joined the strike due to same reasons. They said that they would continue their strike and agitation following Covid-19 restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-weavers-go-on-indefinite-murri-bandh-in-protest-against-new-power-tariff-system/articleshow/77877871.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vijayasai meets VIMS patients||Visakhapatnam: Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy said the state government is developing Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences, TIMS in Tirupati and AIMS in Guntur along modern lines and the best facilities. The state government also plans to develop VIMS as one of the best medical institutions in the country, he said. The MP interacted with patients at VIMS who expressed their satisfaction with treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-meets-vims-patients/articleshow/77878931.cms||Siva G
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two clubs start serving liquor, others likely to follow suit over the week||KOLKATA: Two premier city clubs, one heritage and the other a new-age establishment, opened their bars for members on Tuesday — the first day of resumption of bars after over five months. The two clubs — Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) and Princeton Club — opened their liquor counters in the afternoon. Most of the other clubs are likely to follow suit in a few days. Tolly Club may resume liquor service on Wednesday while Eastern Metropolitan Club has planned to restart the same next week. Calcutta Club will fix a date for resuming liquor and dining in the next few days while it may take a fortnight for Calcutta Rowing Club (CRC) and Lake Club. DI and International Club are yet to take a call on resuming bar operation. G S Baweja, who oversees the F & B section at RCGC, told TOI that the club started the bars in open areas after taking all the necessary permissions. “The lounge bar and third shaamiyana bars were open on Tuesday. Our bowling club bar will open on Wednesday. We are getting a good response,” he said. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group that owns Princeton Club, too, was upbeat about the response. “It (permission to open bars) was a welcome move and we are getting a good response,” he said. CEO of Tolly Club Anil Mukherjee said, “Some of the prices have to be revised, following the hike in April. Besides, some approvals have to be taken and most of the government offices were closed on Tuesday,” he added. CRC secretary Chandan Roy Chowdhury said they will start liquor service in 9-10 days after sanitization and cleaning of premises. Lake Club secretary Subrata Guha said they were planning to restart the operation after Vishwakarma Puja. “Many of our staffers are from Odisha and most of them went back home as the club had been closed,” he added. Sanjib Ghosh of Eastern Metropolitan Club said they would start both bar and dining next Tuesday. Calcutta Club is yet to fix a date said committee member Pramit Ray. Jayajeet Biswas, president of DI, felt that reopening of clubs at this juncture could be profitable for new-age commercial clubs, but heritage clubs, like DI, needed to assess the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-clubs-start-serving-liquor-others-likely-to-follow-suit-over-the-week/articleshow/77878934.cms||Udit Mukherjee
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: MP records highest single-day toll of 32||BHOPAL: The state reported a whopping 32 deaths from Covid-19 on Tuesday, the highest single-day toll so far. Moreover, for the third consecutive day, more than 1,500 new positive cases were found. With 1,525 new cases, the tally of Covid-19 patients in state reached 65,490. On August 30, the highest 1,558 cases were reported followed by August 31 when 1,532 new positive cases were found. Besides a high number of positive cases, 32 deaths were also reported in the day. This means one person died of covid-19 every 45 minutes during the past 24 hours. Of these 32 casualties, 5 deaths each were reported from Indore and Bhopal. With these deaths the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has touched 1426. Of the 52 districts, new cases were reported from 49 and deaths from 16 districts. However in a good news, 1,335 people were discharged from hospital taking the total number of recoveries so far to 49992 in the state. Thus the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state reached 76.3%. The recovery rate has improved though the tally of cases has increased in the past one month. On Tuesday, a total of 20,850 samples were tested and an alarming 7.3% tested positive. This is far above the overall positivity rate in state which is around 4.6%. The number of active cases has now increased to 14,072 in the state. In the meantime, the state government has declared 5,454 localities as containment zones and movement of any kind in these containment zones is restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-record-its-highest-single-day-toll-of-32/articleshow/77878933.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Buzz back at airport as 35 flights from 6 hotspot cities bring 5,000 back to Kolkata after 2 months||KOLKATA: The buzz returned to Kolkata airport on Tuesday after two months with the addition of 35 flights that flew in more than 5,000 passengers from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. The state government had banned flights from these six cities to Bengal from July 6. The first plane to arrive was a flight from Delhi that touched down at 6.40am. Throughout the day, there were 89 more arrivals, the largest number that the city has recorded in five months. Before the ban had kicked in, only 65 flights were operating. That figure fell further to 40 as 25 flights to these high-load sectors went off the radar in Kolkata. “The flight was packed to capacity. The fact that passengers from another 5.30am flight were accommodated in the same aircraft after the former was cancelled, contributed to the extra load. We were so relieved when the flight finally departed for Kolkata at 4.30am. We are happy to be back home after so many months,” said Dibyendu Chatterjee, an IT professional who reached Kolkata airport in the first flight with his wife Ankita. Businessman Rajeev Kumar Gupta, who has to hop between Delhi and Kolkata for work, was also one among the 170 passengers on the first flight. “I did not return to Kolkata to avoid a detour via other airports. Now that direct flights have resumed, it will be hugely beneficial,” said Gupta. There were thousands of other passengers taking the first batch of flights from the six cities. While some rushed to join work, others — many of them out of jobs — were simply relieved to return to a city where cost of living was still low. However, passengers are uneasy about the flight schedules. The embargo on flights from the six cities has been lifted for Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday in the first and second weeks of September while operations will be allowed on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in the third and fourth weeks. No flights will operate on the three lockdown dates — September 7, 11 and 12. Anticipating a rush, some flyers like Bablu Piyada had camped outside the airport with his wife and six-year-old daughter on the lockdown day on Monday to get in the queue early on Tuesday morning to catch the flight to Ahmedabad. “I didn’t want to take any chance. I knew there would be a rush and didn’t want to get late or miss the flight,” said Piyada, a labourer at a construction site in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buzz-back-at-airport-as-35-flights-from-6-hotspot-cities-bring-5k-back-to-kolkata-after-2-months/articleshow/77878929.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||From next week, Calcutta HC to fast-track hearings||KOLKATA: From next week, Calcutta High Court will fast-track hearing of cases filed till 2018 and arbitrations filed till 2019 if both parties consent to hearings. The HC is even ready to hold physical hearings if the applicants want but will not permit more than eight lawyers in the courtroom. The court has also left it to the applicants to choose online or hybrid hearings, which start from September 8. The order says there will be no court on lockdown days and that the courts can stop functioning at any moment if there is a breach in Covid protocol. The HC also says that within a week of resumption of local train services, the physical functioning of the high court will be resumed in a limited manner while adhering to all Covid protocols. In a detailed order issued by Chief Justice Thottathil B Nair Radhakrishnan on the recommendation of the HC’s Covid committee, the court will form three division benches that will sit daily in addition to the bench headed by the chief justice. There will be four single benches which will also take up cases daily. The HC order said if more cases are filed, another division bench will also start functioning to take up the increased caseload. Moreover, the HC has advised district courts to increase judicial activities. It has suggested district courts to resume criminal trials in which evidence has already been recorded. It says that the courts can also start recording evidence but the presiding officer should stop the functioning if Covid protocols are violated. The HC said the courts can resume regular listing of cases to be heard but should not pass adverse orders if anyone is unable to attend court due to genuine reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-next-week-hc-to-fast-track-hearings/articleshow/77878930.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
September 2, 2020||Goa||Campaign launched to protect constitutional rights of people||PANAJI: Bringing together several organisations and groups under its wings, the ‘If We Do Not Rise’ campaign, Goa chapter, was launched online, on Tuesday. The umbrella organisation consists of women’s groups, fish workers groups, environmental rights groups, human rights organisations, disabled persons groups, tribal groups, LGBTQIA communities and dalit groups, Core team representative advocate Dipti Arolkar said the objective of the campaign is to protect the constitutional rights of the people. She also announced that the umbrella organisation will hold a day of resistance on September 5 to protest against the targeted attacks on the constitutional rights of the people. So far, 31 such groups have signed up, she added. Arolkar pointed out several autonomous bodies or institutional mechanisms constituted to monitor the enforcement of fundamental rights such as Goa State Commission for Women, Goa State Police Complaints Authority and State Disabilities Commission, have no chairperson appointed for extended periods of time or are not provided with appropriate assistance or infrastructure as mandated under law. Stating that the foundation of democracy rests on two principles — representation and participation, Deepika D’Souza said that those very principles were sought to be taken away through legislation or proposed legislation such as the draft EIA 2020, and the notification seeking to bypass the rights of the panchayats. Akbar Gaded said that everyone has a right to basic infrastructure, but this was being sacrificed at the altar of a development paradigm. Favita Dias said the problems that tribal communities face are swept under the carpet to give Goa a good name for tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/campaign-launched-to-protect-constitutional-rights-of-people/articleshow/77879976.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tipplers tread cautiously to watering holes||KOLKATA: Tipplers raised a toast to the government’s decision to allow bar and pub operations but the usual buzz seemed missing at the establishments on Tuesday. Most bars and pubs across the city started serving liquor on Tuesday after remaining shut for over five months owing to the pandemic. However, the usual scene of tipplers jostling for space was absent. As the evening drew near, neon signs of bars on Park Street and central Kolkata flickered to life. Small groups of people were seen stepping cautiously into their favourite watering holes. Some were seen stepping out of the bars for a smoke before returning to their tables. Rajiv Kothari, owner of Bar B Q, was delighted when the first set of customers walked in and ordered drinks. By evening, the buzz that had been missing for months was back. “A lot of families visited our restaurant. But liquor still contributes to 35%-40% of sales. In fact, liquor also leads to higher spending on food as people usually order starters alongside drinks,” he pointed out. Nitin Kothari, whose restaurants Mocambo and Peter Cat also began serving liquor on Tuesday, said the move made the biggest difference for bartenders and waiters who were back to their jobs after being on leave without pay for five months. “At our restaurants, liquor contributes to only 20% of the business. But people like to order drinks while waiting for the food. The cheerful atmosphere will also rub off on others and lift the confidence of people,” said Kothari. But Olypub, a favourite with youngsters and officegoers, witnessed the maximum turnout. “I was missing this ambience. More than the liquor, it is the feeling of moving towards normalcy that is important,” said Ankita Kapadia, an aspiring chartered accountant. In central Kolkata, many bars even put up lights outside to welcome their patrons. Regulars spoke to the waiters and other staffers enquiring how they made ends meet during the lockdown. “We removed the bar stools and increased the space between tables. By evening, almost 40% of the tables were taken,” said the manager of a central Kolkata bar. The industry was relieved with the move. “We hope to bounce back to business now,” said Pranav Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tipplers-tread-cautiously-to-watering-holes/articleshow/77878941.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon cools Delhi, but sets vegetable prices on fire in mandis||NEW DELHI: Monsoon rains might have cooled Delhi in the last few weeks, but excessive rainfall in other states has set vegetable prices on fire in the capital. Disruption in transportation and the Yamuna bank getting flooded have also led to the prices soaring. From kitchen staples like potato and tomato to brinjal, bitter gourd and cabbage, all vegetables have seen wholesale prices go up by 36% to 76% compared with the last month. Potato, for instance, is selling for Rs 13 to Rs 46 per kg in wholesale at Azadpur Mandi, depending on the quality and for Rs 32 to Rs 46 per kg in retail. While prices of onion have also seen a hike, it is the price of tomato that is skyrocketing. It is available for Rs 12 to Rs 48 per kg in wholesale and is selling for Rs 43 to Rs 61 in retail. “The prices of vegetables are now going beyond my budget. The prices increased around the same time when Delhi started witnessing heavy rains,” said Akanksha Sharma, a resident of Dilshad Garden. “While prices of potatoes, onions and tomatoes have soared, it is the price of parval (pointed gourd) that is shocking. The vegetable was available for about Rs 60 till a fortnight ago but now vendors are unwilling to sell it for less than Rs 120 a kg,” she added. Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman of Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), said that price rise during monsoon is an annual phenomenon. “In Delhi, the Yamuna bank gets completely flooded and the vegetables get spoiled. Similarly, vegetables coming to Delhi are mostly grown in the terai (lowland belt) area and face a similar situation,” he added. “Also, this is a period of overlap in vegetable cultivation when the season for one crop gets over and that for another is on the way,” he said, adding that the situation would improve in another month. “Vegetable prices go up by 15 to 20% every year around this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-cools-capital-but-sets-vegetable-prices-on-fire-in-mandis/articleshow/77879985.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Sarus atlas to give wings to conservation||LUCKNOW: In an attempt to conserve sarus cranes, the state bird of Uttar Pradesh, the forest department is set to prepare an ‘atlas’ of this avian species. The work on atlas will take off after the sarus census, the first phase of which will be conducted on Wednesday. The forest department, in association with the Institute of Wildlife Sciences, Lucknow University, will collect and compile data for the atlas which will map the nesting, breeding and feeding sites of sarus cranes. Deputy chief wildlife warden, Uttar Pradesh, Anand Srivastava said the Sarus Protection Society has roped in the Lucknow University for the project. “The training of our staff and other field workers, who will carry out the sarus census, has been done by the Institute of Wildlife Sciences. The effort is aimed at collecting scientific data,” Srivastava said. Sarus Protection Society was formed by the UP government in 2006 for the conservation of UP’s state bird. The society has representation from forest department, private organizations and individuals who are working towards conservation of sarus cranes. The society conducts sarus census twice every year, in April and October. UP has the maximum number of sarus and its population is mainly concentrated in Etawah, Mainpuri and Shahjahanpur. “The first phase of the census that we will take up on Wednesday will be a two-hour exercise (from 6am to 8am) in the morning and for about an hour-and-a-half in the evening. The census will be conducted in all the districts at the same time,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator, Institute of Wildlife Sciences, LU. The longitudinal and latitudinal position of the sites where sarus bird, its chicken and eggs are found will be recorded along with the photographs. The second phase will be conducted on December 16 and third phase on June 16 next year. On the basis of the data collected in the census, an atlas will be prepared which will make studies on conservation, breeding and habitats of sarus easier. KS Gopi Sundar, a National Geographic explorer and co-chair at International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Stork, Ibis and Spoonbill Specialist Group, said: “There are two types of sarus population, breeding pairs and non-breeding flocks. In UP, at least 50% of sarus population is non-breeding.” Sundar, a sarus conservationist of international repute, has worked extensively in UP and is also a member of Sarus Protection Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sarus-atlas-to-give-wings-to-conservation/articleshow/77880672.cms||Neha Shukla
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Patrons back as bars reopen after more than 5 months in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several leading restaurants that had kept the shutters down despite being allowed to operate since June 8 are finally set to open following the lifting of the ban on liquor service from Tuesday. Among the restaurants that are now getting ready to restart business are Asia Kitchen and Hoppipola. Speciality Restaurants chairman Anjan Chatterjee said several group restaurants — Mainland China, Oh! Calcutta, Haka, Café Mezzuna, Flame & Grill — that are in operation have started liquor service from Tuesday. “The response is encouraging but it would take time to assess the situation,” he said. Times ViewExtreme care should be maintained to preempt any spread. Cases and deaths have stabilised somewhat and all efforts should be taken to maintain that and flatten the Covid curve.At Songhai and Manthan, popular restaurants on Waterloo Street in Dalhousie, the uptake in business was visible after the liquor service resumed. Owner Suresh Poddar, who is also the secretary of the Hotel & Restaurant Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), was delighted at the response. “Songhai was full most of the time and Manthan, too, recorded high footfall,” he said, adding that both restaurants are currently operating at 50% capacity due to Covid protocol. “Even the available capacity was not fully utilized earlier. But Tuesday was a different story. Let’s hope it remains this way,” he said, adding that the footfall is expected to improve further in weekends. Restaurateur Rajiv Kothari was delighted when the first set of customers walked in and ordered drinks. By evening, the buzz that had been missing for months was back at Bar B Q on Park Street. “A lot of family customers visited our restaurant. But liquor still contributes to 35%-40% sales. In fact, liquor also leads to higher spends on food as people usually order starters alongside the drink,” he pointed out. Nitin Kothari, whose restaurants Mocambo and Peter Cat also began serving liquor on Tuesday, said the biggest difference would be to bartenders and waiters who are back in their jobs after being on leave without pay for five months. “At our restaurants, liquor contributes to only 20% business. But people like to order a drink when waiting for food to be served. The cheerful atmosphere will also rub off on others and lift the confidence of people,” said Kothari. Savourites Hospitality also started serving liquor at its Pan Asian restaurant The Wall. However, Speciality Restaurants are yet to take a call on when to start the two Hoppipola bars in the city, one at Acropolis Mall and the other at Sector V in Salt Lake. HRAEI member Ashoke Singh, who has bars in central Kolkata, said many regular customers who had become irregular in post-pandemic scenario walked in again on Tuesday. “We are getting calls from customers for weekends as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bars-reopening/articleshow/77878936.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit businessman booked in extortion case||Pilibhit: A 35-year-old businessman was booked on Tuesday for allegedly demanding “50% share of temple earnings” from a 62-year-old female caretaker of Adarsh Ganga temple in Inayatganj locality, Pilibhit. Accused Nikhil Mittal has been booked under extortion charges and is yet to be arrested. Victim Manju Mishra of Mohammad Farukh locality filed the FIR after she received threats from Mittal, who had sought Rs 20,000 immediately. According to the police, the accused also carries two criminal cases registered in connection with the attempts of encroaching upon the temple’s property. Mishra said in her FIR that the accused barged on the temple campus at 6 am on June 26 and sought Rs 20, 000. He later robbed Rs 5, 400 from the woman and warned her to pay the remaining Rs 15,000 within three days. The victim said she approached the Sungarhi police station soon after the incident but with no positive outcome. She then filed a written complaint to the superintendent of police who ordered a probe, but the FIR was not lodged. “But the FIR was registered only after the intervention of additional director general of Bareilly zone Avinash Chandra,” the victim said. SHO of Sungarhi police station Atar Singh said Mittal has been booked under section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt). “He was yet to be arrested,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-businessman-booked-in-extortion-case/articleshow/77876143.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||My resignation won’t help: Cabral||Panaji: I will not resign as me resigning will not make any difference. I feel I can make a difference by staying on in office, environment minister Nilesh Cabral told an environmentalist on Tuesday, when the latter asked for the minister’s resignation over approval to the three projects through Mollem wildlife sanctuary and national park. “I may not be a minister sitting in this chair after two years, but I will be meeting all of you and I will not put my head down then,” said Cabral, while speaking to environmentalists and activists during a webinar on the controversial projects. Cabral said that during the protests over the coastal zone management plan, he tried to meet citizens protesting on the matter. “I was trying to understand the issues. But I was booed,” said Cabral, who said he is keen to address any apprehensions over the Mollem projects too and is not averse to taking up the issue with the central government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/my-resignation-wont-help-cabral/articleshow/77879990.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bareilly||BJYM district vice-prez, three others booked for attacking six Mahasabha men||Pilibhit: District unit vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) Harshit Chaudhary and three of his supporters were booked by Pilibhit police on Monday night for allegedly assaulting state general secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha Akash Saxena and five members of his outfit. The alleged attack took place on Sunday night when Saxena and his men were busy attending to an injured cow. They were waiting for the municipal van to ferry the cow to a shelter, when a drunk man, identified as Ajai Kumar, reached the spot and allegedly started abusing Saxena and his men. A police picket happened to come by and removed Kumar. Barely 10 minutes later, Kumar returned along with three others, including Chaudhary, who allegedly attacked and abused Saxena and his men. They were again rescued by the police patrol team. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said all four named accused, including Chaudhary, were booked under IPC section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjym-district-vice-prez-three-others-booked-for-attacking-six-mahasabha-men/articleshow/77876154.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||Supreme Court's ruling brings hope for Voda Idea, feel analysts||NEW DELHI: Will Vodafone Idea, unarguably the weakest player in the Indian telecom sector with a pile of debt and huge statutory outstanding, manage to stay afloat after the Supreme Court’s decision to grant mobile operators a period of 10 years to pay pending AGR dues? Analysts believe so, though there are still those who feel that the company’s inability to generate healthy cash flows may limit its march towards any credible and quick revival. Read Also'Jio, Airtel need not pay RCom, Aircel dues'The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that Reliance Jio and Airtel could not be made liable for the past AGR dues of RCom and Aircel for using their spectrum and will have to pay AGR charges only for the period during which the spectrum was used.Vodafone Idea, which had been formed post merger of Vodafone and Idea Cellular of the Birlas after the disruptive launch of Reliance Jio, has never really managed to show synergy benefits kicking in, even as it drains out cash and loses coveted customers to rivals Jio and traditional competitor Airtel. Read AlsoMobile phone consumers should brace for tariff hikes, say expertsConsumers are facing imminent tariff hikes for voice and data services by minimum 10% with the likes of Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea needed to pay 10% of their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues within the next 7 months, as per industry estimates.“For the company to make a complete turnaround, it urgently requires a strong fund inflow, global partnerships, and a healthy cash register,” a top analyst, who requested anonymity, said. The stock of Vodafone Idea was hit as it closed the day at Rs 8.9 at BSE, down 13%. Airtel grew by 6% and Reliance Industries (the parent of Jio) by 0.5%. “Even though this (AGR payment judgement) is some sort of a relief, it would still be extremely difficult for Vodafone Idea to manage its finances due to heavy interest outgo and AGR payment outgo,” Hemang Jani, equity strategist at Motilal Oswal, told TOI. “It’s doubtful on how they would manage their business, unless new money flows into the company.” Read AlsoSupreme Court gives telecom companies 10 years to pay Rs 1.4 lakh crore dues to governmentThe Supreme Court on Tuesday granted telecom companies 10 years to clear AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues of around Rs 1.43 lakh crore to the Centre, providing much needed relief to some of the telcos which could have faced the prospect of winding up their operations for being unable to pay theA senior industry analyst with a top consulting company said the "worst seems to be over" for the company as the uncertainty over its payment tenure and dues is behind it. “The company will now build its business parameters on this reality. Not all is lost. They may survive,” he added. Legal eagle Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Vodafone Idea in the top court, also said the difficult period is behind the company. “They will survive.” Read AlsoTelcos get 10 years to clear AGR dues: ExplainerAGR is the amount that telecom operators must pay to the department of telecom (DoT) for using airwaves and in license fees. They have to pay the DoT nearly 3-5 per cent of their AGR in usage charges for airwaves and 8 per cent of AGR as licence fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/supreme-courts-ruling-brings-hope-for-voda-idea-feel-analysts/articleshow/77881379.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Applicants brave it all at JEE centres||NEW DELHI: Faces behind masks, hands in gloves and with sanitisers at hand, candidates sitting for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), the national test for admission to engineering and architecture course, reached the exam centres on Tuesday with parents and guardians in taxis and autorickshaws. Many of them had wished the exam to be held later to avoid the risk of Covid infection, but an equal number felt it was better to get it out of the way without losing an academic year. The first-day of the tests on Tuesday was for admission to the bachelor of architecture and planning degree course and had fewer aspirants. There were 100-140 students in each test centre. The exams for entry into engineering institutions that a much larger group will attempt begin on Wednesday. Shruti Mehra, accompanied by her father, took a cab from Laxmibai Nagar in south Delhi to the exam centre in Vivek Vihar in east Delhi. She expressed satisfaction with the arrangement made for the exams. “We were asked to take off our masks and given surgical masks there. There was no physical frisking, only a metal detector,” she said. “There were just 26 candidates in the classroom, so there was sufficient gap in front of us and behind us. We were told that examinees in the evening shift would sit in the chairs left vacant in our shift.” Mehra, who will also write the engineering exam on Wednesday, said no biometric attendance was taken, unlike in January. For the purposes of attendance, the team of four invigilators used a computer tablet to scan the hall ticket and photo of the students. Puneet Kaushal of Rewari, Haryana, was also pleased with the management and the planning for the day. He came to Delhi a few days ago with his brother and left his uncle’s home in Palam for the test centre at 7.40am. “I chose to travel in the Rapido bike service as it was cheaper than hiring a taxi,” said Kaushal. He is one of the students who thinks it is best to write the exam and be done with it. Colonel Deepak, who drove his daughter to the centre at Pitampura, was also of the same view as Kaushal. “I don’t think the Covid situation is going to improve in a short time, so there is no need to postpone the exams and affect the students’ academic year. Life has to carry on,” said the army officer. However, Harshit felt that it would have been better to schedule the exams for later. “We are worried. It would have been safer for students not to sit for the exams at this time,” Harshit said. He reached Delhi from Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district 12 days before the exam and is staying with a cousin in Janakpuri. “I came to Delhi early in order to stay in self-quarantine for a while,” said Harshit. While Covid had got nothing to do with it, the schedule meant Himanshu Shekhar Das had to write the exams at a difficult time. Having prepared for over two years, he almost couldn’t make it to the Mehrauli centre from Pitampura. His accompanying aunt, Sushma Mitra, explained, “Himanshu lost his grandfather two days ago. For the two months of his illness, it was a difficult time for the family. I hope my nephew does well in the exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/applicants-brave-it-all-at-jee-centres/articleshow/77880019.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||With 75% attendance & strict Covid norms, JEE kicks off||BHOPAL: With around 75% attendance in Bhopal on the first day, the joint entrance exam (JEE) began on Monday. On the first day, JEE was organised only at a private college exam centre in the state capital. Students said that those who had studied in-depth for their board exams could easily solve the paper. Last year, around 85% of students appeared for the exam. In Bhopal, there are four centres. Exams in other centres will be organised from Wednesday. Around 460 students went to participate in the exam. Total 610 students had registered for the exam. As the crowd was small not much issues were witnessed in following the Covid-19 norms. “Real testing situations for exam centres will be from Wednesday when exam will be organised at multiple centres in Bhopal. Today, there was not much any issue,” said a senior official of the exam centre who did not wish to be named. Students said that Covid-19 norms were strictly followed at the exam. “Social distancing was maintained inside the campus. This is good that norms were followed properly,” said a student Vikas Yadav. State government had announced on Monday to provide public transport for the students appearing in the JEE and national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET). CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said that all possible measures will be taken in favour of the students. Several students, however, said that they were unaware about such transport facilities. “Government should have announced earlier to provide the facility. I am unable to understand the logic of announcing it a day before the exam started,” said Manu Vaid, a student. Another official said, “On the first day, most of the students appeared from Bhopal city only. Real situation will get clear from tomorrow.” There are 27 centres in MP this year. Students who appeared in the first shift said that the paper was quite easier than the last session. Ayush, a student, said, “Maths numerical part was a bit lengthy. There were a lot of calculations involved in that part. Topics like calculus and coordinate geometry were well covered mostly.” A student said, “Paper followed the CBSE syllabus of classes 11 and 12. Most questions in the section were from coordinate geometry, probability, states. and others.” Meanwhile, the students said the preparation at the centre was good, and they have not faced any difficulties during the exam so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-75-attendance-strict-covid-norms-jee-kicks-off/articleshow/77878950.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sun Temple opens to public, cap on number of visitors||Bhubaneswar: The Sun Temple at Konark re-opened to public amid strict social distancing norms after over five months on Tuesday. Every day 2,500 visitors will be allowed inside the Sun Temple between 6 am and 1 pm and another 1,000 will be allowed in the afternoon hours. Visitors can buy entry tickets by scanning QR codes and will have to make the payment online. Masks and social distancing norms will be strictly followed while thermal checking of each visitor will be carried out at the entrance, said Arun Mallik, superintendent of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Odisha circle. On the first day, very few people visited the monument. Though other monuments like Khandagiri-Udaygiri caves, Rajarani Temple, Lalitgiri Buddhist sites were opened earlier, the Sun Temple at Konark was shut due to the restrictions imposed by the Puri administration till August 31. Meanwhile, the demand for reopening the places of worship has become louder in the state as it has badly hit the livelihood of thousands of priests and small vendors who depend upon temples and pilgrims for their livelihood. Most states across the country have already reopened places of worship. “If the government has already reopened offices, malls, markets and all other places to revive the economy, then how can they ignore the temples. Temples are a huge economy in themselves because many people depend upon it for their livelihood. The priests and their families will die of poverty even if they survive the pandemic,” said Biranchi Narayan Pati, secretary of Brahmana Nijog (an association of priests) at Lingaraj Temple. Hearing a PIL, the Odisha high court had asked the state government to take the final decision on reopening of places of worship and the law minister had assured that the government will take a decision on it soon and will come up with fresh guidelines. “If the government is against re-opening of major shrines or places of worship to avoid rush of devotees, then why is it allowing small temples and other religious institutes to reopen and allowing people to go there by adhering to Covid guidelines,” said Sanghamitra Pati, a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sun-temple-opens-to-public-cap-on-number-of-visitors/articleshow/77878949.cms||Minati Singha
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||Lack of orders since Marchbroke our back, say weavers||Varanasi: The weavers had been protesting against the new power tariff structure, but the impact of lockdown has been severe and they are now in extreme distress. TOI had reported a month ago when power dues of over 19,000 connections to powerloom units had gone above Rs 285 crore and over 150 weavers had submitted applications to disconnect their supply. Electricity department’s superintending engineer of Varanasi circle-I Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Tuesday, “Weavers were paying fixed charges till 2019. As per a government order, from January 1 they had to pay commercial rates after consuming subsidised units from 120 to 240.” Noman Abdin of Koyala Bazar said, “A weavers operating a machine with jacquard earns Rs 5,000 and around Rs 35,000 on non-jacquard machine, running them round the clock in a month. Now, with new power tariff, even big weaving unit owners are in serious trouble.” Many weavers even disposed their machines to scrap dealers of Chowkaghat, Jalalipura and Kajjakpura area. Jagdish Prasad Jaiswal, a scrap dealer in Jalalipura, said, “Till March, one or two outdated or damaged machines came to us per month. But in last three months, on an average one machine is sold every alternate day.” Mohd Arif showed his vacant hall at Hanuman Phatak after selling five powerloom machines last month and said, “We did not have any order after March 22 while our dues were not being cleared by Gaddidars and Girista (traders and middlemen). Power dues were also accumulating while feeding our families was proving to be difficult. So, we decided to sell the machines. I sold the five machines for Rs one lakh and have started a general merchant shop now.” Assistant director, handlooms, Nitesh Dhawan said that he has apprised the state government of the crisis and hardships being faced by the weavers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lack-of-orders-since-marchbroke-our-back-say-weavers/articleshow/77877933.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Sonu Sood ensures help to 350 boatmen||VARANASI: On the appeal of a non-profit organization, Hope, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood through his tweet on Tuesday, assured to extend help to the families of around 350 boatmen of Varanasi who are on the verge of starvation due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods in the Ganga. Hope office-bearer Divyanshu Upadhyaya said that the payment to the local vendor has been done by Sood. As soon as kits containing groceries and other essentials are delivered by it, distribution among the needy will be ensured. In his tweet, in which Sood was also tagged, Upadhyaya stated that around 350 boatmen at 84 ghats along the Ganga in Varanasi and their family members facing acute financial hardship. Their problems have only piled up due to the floods in the Ganga. He also claimed that for 15-20 days, the boatmen’s children had to sleep empty stomach. Responding to his tweet, Sood tweeted that no one from these 350 families of Varanasi ghats will sleep empty stomach anymore, and help will reach them on the same day. Upadhayaya said that during the lockdown, Hope had been distributing relief items among the boatmen fraternity, but the 200 relief hampers that they had, proved to be insufficient. This is why, he tweeted about the struggle of boatmen, and was successful in bringing Sood’s attention to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sonu-sood-ensures-help-to-350-boatmen/articleshow/77877947.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Now, weekly curbs in Uttar Pradesh will be on Sundays||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday announced to do away with weekend curbs in which all establishments except essential supplies remained closed on Saturdays and Sundays. Instead, there will be just one-day closure on Sundays. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Team-11 on Tuesday. “In the meeting headed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the lockdown on Saturdays was lifted. But the closure on Sundays will continue as usual,” additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said, adding that all the cleanliness and sanitation activities will take place on Sundays. He also said that markets could function as usual between 9 am and 9 pm on Saturdays like the rest of the weekdays. “Markets can function through the week but they will have to close down on Sundays. This excludes shops coming under essential services,” he said. Awasthi said that a number of other issues were also reviewed in the meeting of Team 11. “The CM asked all the divisional commissioners to review developmental works worth over Rs 50 crore. The CDOs of the districts concerned should remain present in the meetings. He also asked that the people's representatives should also be invited to such meetings,” he said. Awasthi that the CM wanted Udyog Bandhu to convene a meeting for timely disposal of problems being faced by entrepreneurs. “The CM has stated that he would like to personally attend virtual meetings to hold dialogue with all the three kinds of entrepreneurs – those running their businesses in the state, those who are in the process of establishing their units and those desirous to set up their business base in the state,” he said. Asking to give fillip to economic activities in the state, the CM said that the GST should be reviewed. “He stated that he will himself review the revenue collection under GST besides reviewing the progress of Smart City and AMRUT schemes,” he said. The CM told officials to explore the possibilities in the dairy sector. “The CM stated that here is a need to constitute more and more milk committees for expansion of the sector,” Awasthi said. With regard to flood, the CM directed the DMs of flood-hit districts to conduct an early survey of damage to the crops and expedite payment of compensation to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-weekly-curbs-in-state-will-be-on-sundays/articleshow/77880687.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 2, 2020||Goa||Third report on Kala Academy structure suggests major repairs: Gaude||Panaji: Art and culture minister Govind Gaude on Tuesday said a third report on the condition of the Kala Academy — conducted through the PWD — has proposed major repairs to the iconic building. He also said he would take a final call in the matter by September 10 after meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant. Last year, the government had maintained that the open-air auditorium of the Charles Correa-designed masterpiece was “fragile”. Gaude had subsequently said that it would have to be demolished and reconstructed. Another affected area of the complex is the Dinanath Mangueshkar Kala Mandir, which floods up to the first four rows and beneath its stage each monsoon. “Unless the structure is increased in height or demolished, the problem of water entering the main auditorium will not be solved,” Gaude, who is also chairman of the Kala Academy, said. Structural audits of the complex were conducted last year by the Goa College of Engineering and Mumbai-based consultancy firm Gem Engserv Pvt Ltd, which was appointed by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation. Gaude told TOI that he had later appointed another consultant through the PWD, whose report he had recently received and which reiterated that the building needed major repairs. The state government will hold a public meeting to decide on whether the open-air auditorium should be strengthened or demolished, the art and culture minister said. He had earlier told TOI that a meeting of all stakeholders, including environmentalists, NGOs and even members of the media, would be called for before taking a decision in the matter. The Kala Academy has now reached out to the premier institute, CSIR-Structural Engineering Research Centre (SERC), Chennai, to find appropriate solutions to the strengthen the building’s structure. Construction of the Kala Academy, which is considered to be Goa’s capital of culture, was completed in 1981. The complex was renovated and refurbished in 2004. It is situated in a picturesque location on the bank of the Mandovi river and comprises facilities such as auditoriums, an art gallery, an amphitheatre and classrooms for drama, western music and Indian music and dance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/third-report-on-kala-academy-structure-suggests-major-repairs-gaude/articleshow/77880055.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Students, parents relieved after JEE begins, hope for quick admissions||PANAJI: After answering the JEE, the first batch of students to take the test from Goa and their parents said on Tuesday that they were relieved that the exam is finally done with. The test dates were announced and cancelled on two previous occasions. Parents said the admission process should also be expedited now or else students stand to lose half their first semester. The exam will continue till September 6. “There was five to six months delay. Students were waiting to enjoy their holidays. But it was all ruined. Now we don’t know how the admissions will take place. Most part of the year has been wasted,” said Mahadev Chavan, a parent from Vasco. “The students are preparing for the exams at least for one and a half years. If admissions are not held now within the next one month then students are sure to lose a major part of their semester,” said Ramprasad Prabhudessai, a parent .Students began queuing up from 7.30am for the 9am session of the exam. The SOPs for the test provided by the National Testing Agency (NTA) were followed to the last mile. Students lined up outside the exam centre with one meter distance between them more than an hour before the exam. Each students was thermally screenedand their admit cards were scanned using a device to avoid touching. Sanitisers were provided at different points and students were divided into batches of 12, giving them staggered entry and exit timings. “We were tense at first due to the circumstance, but it was comforting to see the arrangements. We were guided well through the entire process,” said Megha Jacob, a resident of Santa Cruz. All those engaged by the NTA for conduct of the exam were seen wearing gloves, masks and face shields to ensure safety. Students were asked to discard their mask when entering the exam centre and were made to wear masks provided at the centre. “I had gone to Sangli to my native place, but to ensure that I am able to answer the exam, I entered Goa much in advance on August 16 itself,” said Shailesh Pandhare, a resident of Dabolim. “It is very stressful for the child and the parents as well. It is a wise decision as some consensus had to be arrived. Thank god the exam was today,” said a parent Maria Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-parents-relieved-after-jee-begins-hope-for-quick-admissions/articleshow/77880006.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Renewal of health cards extended||PANAJI: The government has extended the renewal for its cashless medical cover Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) till September 30. Health services had moved the renewal process online via www.goaonline.gov.in during the pandemic where citizens can pay the renewal fee and renew their cards for the policy period September 1 ending August 31, 2021. They can also visit 40 centres and panchayats carrying their DDSSY card, adhaar card and renewal fees. DDSSY consultant B V Pai said 40,000 persons are yet to renew their cards. “There’s no need of waiting for the SMS. Citizens can go to the nearest centre or go online and renew it,” he said. He warned against falling prey to agents. “There are no government authorised agents. The public must avoid agents. They can go directly to their centre or complete the procedure online,” he advised. There are 2.25 lakh card holders, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/renewal-of-health-cards-extended/articleshow/77880018.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bhopal||Petrol prices in Bhopal set to breach Rs90/L-mark soon||Bhopal: After remaining stable for over a couple of months, petrol prices have started rising again — and at the current rate, it is likely to breach Rs90 per litre-mark anytime soon.On the other hand, diesel rates continue to be stable with no increase in prices throughout August. Petrol price on Tuesday stood at Rs89.81 per litre while diesel was Rs81.32 per litre.President of MP Petrol Pump Owners’ Association, Ajay Singh, said petrol prices were stable till the first fortnight of August but started rising again. “The rise is gradual but it is set to breach Rs90-mark soon,” he said.When asked whether crude prices in the international market are jacking up the petrol prices, he said, “Following agreement between Saudi Arabia and Israel, price war in oil market is a remote possibility. Crude prices in international market are stable,” Singh said.On the other hand, the common man, faced with economic hardships coupled with high inflation following lockdown, hopes the Union and the state government would roll back some of the additional taxes on petrol and diesel to bring their prices down a bit.“Even if the prices of petrol and diesel are reduced by Rs5 a litre, it would be great help for common people at a time when prices of everything from vegetables to snacks to non-veg items are skyrocketing and income has reduced,” said Rajesh Kushwaha, who works at a private firm.Government, on the other hand, has no such plans. “Dip in revenue is a major concern. The cess on petrol and diesel was imposed for that reason. As far as I know, there is no possibility to withdraw it at this point of time,” said a senior official of commercial tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/petrol-prices-in-bhopal-set-to-breach-rs90/l-mark-soon/articleshow/77878980.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||‘Pranab Mukherjee got funds for assembly complex’||PANAJI: Pranab Mukherjee played an important role in the construction of the assembly complex in Porvorim, former speaker Shaikh Hassan Haroon said while paying tributes to the former President. In 1990, then CM Ravi Naik and his deputy Dr Wilfred de Souza requested Hassan to make a presentation before the Planning Commission for funds to get the project of having a new assembly complex rolling. Mukherjee was chairman of the Planning Commission. “I got all the details from the PWD and highlighted the need to have a new assembly as Adil Shah palace was very old. In my presentation, I emphasised that the palace was older than the Taj Mahal. Besides, the strength of the house had gone up to 40 after Statehood and that Goa needed a new assembly building. I also informed that land had been purchased in Porvorim for the new complex and needed funds to move ahead,” Hassan, former revenue and law minister, told TOI. Impressed by the point that Adil Shah Palace was older than Taj Mahal and that it had to be preserved, Mukherjee told Planning Commission members that Rs 10 crore be sanctioned for the new assembly assembly complex. With that the government went ahead and the foundation stone for the project was laid by then President of India Shankar Dayal Sharma. “People of Goa are grateful to Mukherjee. He always had a soft corner for Goa”, Hassan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pranab-got-funds-for-assembly-complex/articleshow/77880040.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Surat||SMIMER tops plasma collection in the state||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital’s blood bank on Tuesday became the highest plasma collection centre in the state, crossing the 500-mark in plasma donation collections.According to officials, SMIMER Hospital’s blood bank received the plasma collection nod in the first week of July. A total of four blood banks, including the two hospital blood banks have received the nod for plasma collections in the city. Over 900 people have donated their plasma in the four blood banks till now and SMIMER Hospital tops the chart.‘As on Tuesday, we have collected plasma from 507 plasma donors and we have received a tremendous response from Covid-19 recovered people turning in large numbers at the hospital’s blood bank. We have issued 673 units of plasma for therapy to private hospitals as well as for patients admitted to SMIMER Hospital,” said Dr Ankita Shah, head of immunohematology and blood transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER Hospital.Shah said that initially they had to work hard to call the Covid-19 recovered patients requesting them to donate plasma. “We have dedicated our full energy behind creating awareness about plasma donation and slowly people started coming. Moreover, employees for various diamond units came in large numbers and are donating their plasma, which made our task easy. Also, we consider every plasma donor as our ‘guest’ and therefore they come again and again,” Shah added.“SMIMER Hospital has done a remarkable job in plasma collections and the staff worked round-the -clock to ensure that Covid-19 patients receive enough plasma for the treatment. As per our information, SMIMER became the largest plasma collection hospital in the state and credit must be given to Covid-19 recovered patients who came forward to donate it,” Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Surat told TOI. Nayyar is the officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 at SMIMER Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smimer-tops-plasma-collection-in-the-state/articleshow/77877990.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 2, 2020||Goa||New EIA will allow more eco degradation by units: Madhav Gadgil||PANAJI: In its intent to open up the country’s natural resources for exploitation and unhindered pollution by industries, the environment impact assessment (EIA) notification 2020 will perversely discourage development, adoption of advanced technology and competitiveness, noted ecologist, Madhav Gadgil said. Slamming it as unacceptable and the notification as an attempt to further sabotage democracy, Gadgil said India’s environmental degradation for decades, growing social discord and erosion of trust in government was reflected in its low ranking in the world happiness rankings. India is at 141 in the world, a few places above bottom-ranked Afghanistan at 156 while countries taking proper care of their environment are at the top. “Giving full licence to industries and to urban centres to externalise the costs of all their activities provides perverse incentives to remain highly inefficient, not to develop and adopt advanced technologies and to remain highly uncompetitive. The Western Ghats experts panel member cited an example of how a paper industry has unleashed high levels of air and water pollution in the area, but the unorganised fishing community and rural folks are voiceless against the pollution of the Vasisthi river. “This (the notification) will make our industry even less competitive and it will continue to produce products at very high prices,” he stated. Further, Gadgil said that Finland earns sizeably not only from paper production — once a polluting industry — but also from its zero effluent technology, which it developed after people’s protests. “Finland is the world’s happiest country,” he said. The notification has justifiably drawn intense protests — 17 lakh responses — as it will bolster perverse incentives some paper mill enjoys in continuing with highly polluting industries. Criticising the move to do away with public hearings, Gadgil said notification in only English and Hindi is not known to a vast majority of people, or else there would be 17 crore messages to the ministry. Efforts are on to translate the draft in a few states. “These people in the countryside and along rivers and sea coast are going to be the real victims of rampant pollution, mining, quarrying, illegal construction, highways, railway lines, airports and sea-ports grabbing their lands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-eia-will-allow-more-eco-degradation-by-units-gadgil/articleshow/77880031.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||‘Swachhta lays foundation of a prosperous nation’||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that maintaining cleanliness is must for achieving prosperity and lays the foundation of a prosperous nation. “Swachh samaj hi samriddh rashtra ka aadhar hai,” the CM said, while speaking in a seminar on ‘Swachh Bharat Evam Hamara Swasthya’ on the second day of a week-long programme to mark the 51st death anniversary of Mahant Digvijaynath and 6th death anniversary of Mahant Avaidyanath. “In India, cleanliness has always been very important from the times of Rishi-Munis. Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath had made cleanliness and environment conservation a mission of their life. The Union and state governments are strengthening the country with the cleanliness drive Swachh Bharat Mission. We all must contribute in making a strong nation by maintaining cleanliness,” he added. The CM said that India has been able to control the Covid-19 pandemic due to better sanitation and cleanliness. “Gandhi ji also believed in cleanliness and always said it was very important in life. He also stressed on the importance of transparency in work. Our government is also following the great traditions of cleanliness and has made it a mission,” he added. Yogi said, “Swachh Bharat Mission has played a key role in making the society open defecation free. More than 10 crore toilets have been constructed in the last six years, which is a record. Skin ailments, vector-borne diseases and encephalitis have been controlled because of cleanliness.” “Maintaining cleanliness is not only the work of the government, but also the responsibility of people,” he added. Two minutes’ silence was maintained to pay tribute to former President Pranab Mukherjee who passed away on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/swachhta-lays-foundation-of-a-prosperous-nation/articleshow/77877963.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to implement scheme to promote food units||Bhubaneswar: The state government has decided to implement the Prime Minister Formalization of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PMFME), a new central scheme, in Odisha for the growth of micro food processing enterprises on the basis of One District-One Product (ODOP) concept. Recently, chief minister Naveen Patnaik approved the proposal. The state micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) department has been selected as the nodal department for implementation of the scheme, said an official statement. Under the PMFME, the Centre aims to promote formalisation in the existing unorganised individual micro-food processing enterprises as well as support the farmer producers organisations (FPO), self-help groups (SHGs) and producers cooperatives with the support of developing infrastructure, branding and marketing and imparting training. The sector has massive potential for employment generation. The PMFME offers credit-linkage to the existing micro food processing units like capital subsidy of 35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling of Rs10 lakh per unit. There has also been provision of credit-linkage facility for FPOs and SHGs under the scheme, said official sources. The Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) would impart training to the micro food processing entrepreneurs, FPOs and SHGs. The Centre has already released Rs 2.31 crore for Odisha as the first phase contribution under PMFME, said an official. State MSME secretary Satyabrata Sahu recently asked all districts to take necessary steps for early utilisation of the grant received from the Centre to receive supplementary grant. Under the One District-One Product concept, the state government has decided to promote fruit-based micro enterprises in districts like Sonepur, Sundargarh, Nabarangpur, Keonjhar, Dhenkanal, Deogarh, Boudh, Angul, Balangir and Kalahandi, fish-based micro enterprises in Balasore, Bhadrak and Ganjam, oilseed-based products in Bargarh and Jajpur, spices-based products in Jharsuguda, Kandhamal, Koraput and Sambalpur and coconut-based enterprises in Puri and Kendrapada. Similarly, it has also decided to promote millet-based enterprises in Malkangiri, honey-based enterprises in Mayurbhanj, mushroom-based enterprises in Khurda, tamarind-based enterprises in Rayagada and milk-based enterprises in Cuttack and Jagatsinghpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-implement-scheme-to-promote-food-units/articleshow/77879012.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Nilesh Cabral seeks virtual public meet for CZMP||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral has written to minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar to allow holding of public hearing in virtual manner to complete Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) 2011. Cabral said that the demarcation of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) is in progress in all talukas. “We will complete CZMP 2011 for the state which is in the interest of the state,” he said Earlier, the state government had written to the Centre to allow holding the virtual public hearing to invite objections and suggestions to CZMP, but this was rejected by the central government. “Four days ago, the National Green Tribunal upheld the public online consultation, and based on this order, I have once again written to the Centre to allow the state to hold a virtual hearing. I am awaiting their directives,” he said. He also said that after completing CZMP 2011 we have to start work for CZMP 2019. “How much we can wait to complete the CZMP,” he said. The state government has nearly completed the exercise of mapping bunds and sluice gates across the state. The details will be submitted to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), which is preparing the state’s draft CZMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-seeks-virtual-public-meet-for-czmp/articleshow/77880053.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Two tourists rescued off Vagator||Saligao: Two male tourists, aged 24 and 27, were rescued by lifeguards off Vagator beach on Tuesday. Drishti sources said when the two tourists had entered the water at 3pm, the lifeguard on duty had requested them to return to shore as the sea was rough. Since the tourists refused to come out of the water, the lifeguard stayed on guard. Sources added the tourists were pulled into the sea after they ventured deeper. The lifeguard called for back-up over the radio and two lifeguards rushed with a rescue tube and board. One of them had swallowed large amounts of water, which lifeguards helped expel and oxygen was administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-tourists-rescued-off-vagator/articleshow/77880056.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crop damage likely across 8L ha||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat agriculture department estimates that heavy rain and flooding in several parts of the state have damaged nearly 9% of the total area sown. Sowing has so far taken place across 84.50 lakh hectares. The department has begun a survey to assess the losses. In some districts, field officers are waiting for waters to recede. Sources in the department said that early estimates indicate substantial destruction of crops in Saurashtra. The officials fear losses in nearly 8 lakh hectares across the state, much of which is likely to lie in the Saurashtra region. Indeed, the officials said that about 75% of the total losses in the state may have occurred in the Saurashtra region. The sources said that crops affected are expected to include sesame, moong, tuvar, and urad apart from groundnut and cotton. The officials said that groundnut crops that were sown early will be affected the most. In the case of cotton, heavy rain can damage flowering. The officials said that in Amreli, crop damage may have occurred across 10,000 hectares in 60 villages. The final numbers will be available only next week. An official said that in Porbandar, of the nearly 1 lakh hectares where sowing has taken place, crops may have been damaged across 70,000 hectares. The official said that about 130 villages in the district were badly affected and 20 have reported moderate damage. The officials said in Jamnagar, the damage was more acute in areas downstream of Aji and Und rivers. The area of damage is estimated to be about 9,000 hectares. In Rajkot, the area of damage may be 25,000 hectares; in Bhavnagar, 50,000 hectares; and in Surendranagar, 40,000 hectares. The officials said the losses put together in central and south Gujarat could be 1.5 lakh hectares. In north Gujarat, major losses are expected in Mehsana. Sowing till Monday was completed across an area of 84.5 lakh hectares, only 40,000 hectares less than the 10-year average sowing of 84.9 lakh hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crop-damage-likely-across-8l-ha/articleshow/77880063.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Cops await nod on use of alcometers||PANAJI: With bars allowed to open in the state, the nature of handling drunken driving will have to be relooked at minus the use of alcometers. The Goa police’s traffic cell is avoiding the use of alcometers for the time being. “As of now, we are not using the alcometers. In fact, the traffic cell has decided not to use the alcometers till the end of the pandemic. However, we will await orders from the government to decide whether they must be used now since the bars and borders are opening,” an official said. A lot of policeman are at a risk of getting infected due to contact with the public. With borders being opened, the chances of officers getting infected are very high, he added. “If the amended M V Act was notified in the state, it would have triggered an effect on those who consume liquor as the fines for drunk driving are very heavy,” convenor of the Goa Consumer Action Network (GoaCan), Roland Martins said. The organisation is currently in the process of writing to the commissioner of excise on the implementation of ‘don’t drink and drive’ signage to be put up at bars. In the letter, they are appealing to the commissioner to ensure the signages are up before September 27, which is World Tourism Day. “Behavioural change comes about with the implementation of all these practices. We are therefore asking for a fresh compliance since there has been a long break due to the lockdown,” he said, adding that a similar letter will also be sent to the tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-await-nod-on-use-of-alcometers/articleshow/77880060.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Only four drunken driving violations during lockdown from April to June in Goa||PANAJI: The nationwide lockdown had restricted the movement of vehicular traffic to purchase of essentials only and put a halt on nightlife in a bid to contain the coronavirus pandemic. In addition to this, reduced usage of alcometers due to the pandemic, shutting of bars during the lockdown and lesser drives to crackdown on drunken driving translated in a drastic drop in the number of drunk driving cases detected in the state during the peak of the lockdown period. Figures shared by the transport department reveal that there were a total of four violations detected for this offence from April to June. This is as opposed to 1,681 violations for driving under the influence of alcohol from January to March, this year. “Alcometer usage was reduced due to the pandemic and people were most likely drinking at home since bars were closed. The number of drives conducted to crackdown on drunken driving have an impact of the number of cases booked. Therefore, the cases are likely to be lesser during this time,” road safety activist Roland Martins said. He further said that the low numbers would not give an indication that less number of people are drinking and driving. While the lockdown may have resulted in people not driving their vehicles in a drunken stupor, officials from the Goa police traffic cell said that they have been avoiding booking offences for this violation over the past months. “When we check drunken drivers, we have to approach the defaulter and conduct the breath test with the alcometer. Chances of us getting infected are very high since they’re breathing into the device,” an official said. “We are not booking cases of drunken driving right now. There is no crackdown on this violation due to the pandemic. We are putting more stress on keeping people indoors and ensuring containment in barricaded areas,” an official said. Other offences like helmetless riding, use of mobile phone while driving, etc, are being booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-four-drunken-driving-violations-during-lockdown-from-april-to-june/articleshow/77880064.cms||Nida Sayed
September 2, 2020||Rajkot||Jobless diamond polishers turn ship breakers in Alang||Rajkot: Despite Unlock 4.0, labour shortage continues to haunt Alang, world’s biggest ship breaking yard in Bhavnagar district as the migrant labourers are yet to return from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. There are 100 ship breaking yards in Alang and almost all have work but insufficient hands. However, amid the crisis there is new hope after local labourers have evinced interest in getting the compulsory 12-day safety training at Gujarat Maritime Board’s (GMB) training centre, which resumed operation last week. More than 10,000 migrant labourers, of whom around 8,000 are from UP and Bihar, had left Alang for their hometowns during the lockdown, thereby plunging the ship breaking industry in choppy waters. Industry sources claim that almost 50 percent of the migrant hands are yet to return. Attrition rate in Alang is as high as 90 percent because of the hard work. Looking at the crisis, the Alang Industrial Association demanded the GMB to resume training at the centre so that unemployed local labourers can be used in the ship breaking industry. Those who have joined training are mostly Surat-returned diamond workers who had earlier worked in Alang but chose to polish diamonds later. President of Ship Recycling Industrial Association, Vishnu Gupta said: “Alang’s hard work pushes workers to seek employment in diamond industry. But owing to the recession, many have returned and don't want to go back to Surat. These unemployed locals have come for training.” GMB provides a to the workers. The centre also trains people sent by other industries too while many some labourers enroll to get a job in Alang itself. The training center resumed work with 50 percent capacity. While 105 people are being trained at present, some 200 are in the waiting. Director of the training centre, Rajesh Ashadhi said, “Looking at the rush we are planning to increase our capacity to include more people and clear the backlog in one month. These are all fresh workers as we had completed the refresher course for existing workers just before lockdown was imposed.” Chintan Kalathiya, a ship breaker in Alang said, “The government policy is confusing UP labourers as they are unsure how many documents they need to submit to come to Alang. Also there is no transportation available even for migrant workers who want to return to their jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jobless-diamond-polishers-turn-ship-breakers-in-alang/articleshow/77878018.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Restaurants, hotels in a fix over resuming dine-in facility||Bhubaneswar: Lack of clarity from the government on running of restaurants has put owners in a spot whether to run full-fledged dine-in facilities or not. During unlock 3.0, the government had not mentioned dine-in as a result of which some opened their restaurants. But as crowd swelled, the government came up with a fresh circular that allowed only home delivery and takeaways only. This has now forced hotel and restaurant owners to do a rethink before allowing customers to sit-and-dine during unlock 4.0, announced by the state government on Monday for the month of September. The recent order said, “Activities that are not specifically prohibited/regulated/restricted are allowed, subject to adherence to safety and health protocols and SOPs/guidelines issued by appropriate authorities.” But in the absence of clarity, most standalone restaurants –from the beach town of Puri to capital Bhubaneswar to small towns in the state – remained shut and those that opened, didn’t allow people to sit inside and have lunch or dinner. “A lot of money goes into operating restaurants in a full-fledged manner. In August, we allowed people to avail the restaurant services, but a few days later, we were asked to stop dine-in facility. To serve people, we have to prepare logistics accordingly and such abrupt closure hurt our earnings,” said city-based hotelier Debashis Patnaik. The capital city has around hundred big hotels, which have been catering to guests since lockdown 2.0. The guests, who stay in hotel rooms, are only allowed to use the restaurant facility. Pilgrim town Puri allowed tourists to stay in hotels since unlock 1.0. There too, the restaurant is meant for in-house guests. “We are still confused about whether to allow people to walk-in and have lunch or dinner inside the restaurants. We have kept the restaurant partially open as we are allowing only takeaways,” said Debashis Kumar, vice-president of Puri Hotel Association. Puri town has more hotels than Bhubaneswar though the latter has several star hotels in comparison. While Puri has more than 400 hotels, the capital city has 250. As far as standalone restaurants (including budget ones) are concerned, Bhubaneswar has over 3,000 such facilities. In small towns like Boudh, Balangir, Bhawanipatna, Nayagarh, Angul and Dhenkanal, many restaurant owners felt they would have to bear the wrath of the police if they open restaurants and allow people to sit and have food. Amid the confusion, however, small hotels and restaurants catering have kept their facilities open and people were seen eating inside. “It is the Day I of unlock 4.0 and as such very few people will step out due to coronavirus fear. However, the working class need food which we are doing,” said Santosh Mohanty, owner of a budget hotel in Bhawanipatna. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/restaurants-hotels-in-a-fix-over-resuming-dine-in-facility/articleshow/77879055.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Varanasi||Dr Kafeel Khan’s mother hails HC verdict, says he is a good person||GORAKHPUR: “I am very happy with the high court judgment. My son will now come out of jail,” said an elated Nuzhat Perween, mother of Dr. Kafeel Khan, whose detention under NSA was set aside by the Allahabad High Court on Monday. Dr. Kafeel is presently lodged in the Mathura district jail. “I’m very happy that my son is coming out of the jail. I will now be able to see him, touch him and feel him after a long time. My son is a good person and has never gone against the country or society. Today is my daughter-in-law’s (Dr. Kafeel’s wife) birthday and we are carrying a cake with us as she is in Mathura,” said Nuzhat on phone while on her way to Mathura. In fact, Nuzhat had filed the habeas corpus writ petition in which the verdict came on Monday. Dr Kafeel’s elder brother Adeel Khan, who was also with his mother, said: “I am happy over the victory of truth. But even after the high court verdict, Mathura jail authorities have not released him so far. We are on our way to Mathura as today is his wife Dr Shabistan Khan’s birthday and we thought of celebrating together. We are carrying a cake with us and hope that today we’ll celebrate the day together.” “There was nothing like anti-national or provocative in my brother’s speech which he gave at AMU. Instead, he tried to bring everyone together in his speech but police lodged FIR against him and NSA was imposed on him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dr-kafeels-mother-hails-hc-verdict-says-he-is-a-good-person/articleshow/77877997.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 2, 2020||Goa||KTC monthly pass concession raised to 35%||PANAJI: Pass holders to the bus service of the the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTCL) will now have to pay lesser for their daily commute. KTC has decided to increase the concession by 5% for the monthly pass users. The new rates will be applicable from this month. “There was a demand from the general public to further decrease the rates. So the demand was placed before the state government and the same has been granted. The concession percentage on the monthly passes has been raised to 35% this month from the prevailing 30%. This is being implemented from September 1 onwards,” managing director of KTC, Venancio Furtado, said. Of the 500-odd fleet of KTCL buses, currently about 200 buses are operational per day. These buses are running at a 50% capacity of passengers owing to the Covid pandemic, as per the MHA orders to maintain social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-monthly-pass-concession-raised-to-35/articleshow/77880133.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||ONGC net dives 92% to Rs 496 crore on oil price crash||NEW DELHI: Flagship explorer ONGC’s standalone net profit dived almost 92% to Rs 496 crore in the April-June quarter from from Rs 5,980 crore in the previous corresponding period as a result of the April oil price crash and the subsequent spell of subdued prices as well as gas price shrinking to lowest in a decade. The profit came about as the company delayed payment of cess on crude. After the oil price crash, ONGC deferred paying royalty in anticipation of relief from the government to deal with a oil price crash. It paid royalty at the ned of June and cess in July. ONGC pays about Rs 400 crore of royalty and cess every quarter to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-net-dives-92-to-rs-496-crore-on-oil-price-crash/articleshow/77881385.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Low passenger count trips bus rides, costlier tickets blamed||Ranchi: After a five-month hiatus, although buses wheeled out of the stands on Tuesday, the passenger count is yet to increase, leaving operators in fear of more losses. After the state government last Friday approved movement of buses in the state as a part of Unlock 4.0, bus operators were seen busy repairing and sanitizing the buses over the next two days. However, on Tuesday at 5am, though buses lined up at Birsa Munda bus terminus at Khadgarha in Ranchi, there were hardly any passengers throughout the day. Md Khalid of Sapna Bus, operating between Ranchi and Tatanagar, who was found waiting at the bay for passengers, said, “During pre-lockdown times, buses would get full within half an hour but in three hours since 6am, I managed to get only four passengers. I need at least 10 more to ply or else I will have to abort the trip,” he said. Rajesh Minz, another bus operator to Hazaribag, said “Usually, two-three rounds can be made between Ranchi and Hazaribag, but I managed only one trip today, but had to cancel the morning trip.” He further said, “Doubling the fares could be a reason, but we have no option in order to sustain.” The increased fares came after the government said buses will operate at 50% capacity. It also made wearing masks and face shields for both staff and passengers and regular sanitization mandatory. There is a blanket ban on tobacco to curb instances of spitting among other SOPs. However, on Tuesday, many drivers and conductors were found without face shields though they were wearing masks during the journey. In order to overcome financial constraints, Rajesh and others are pinning hopes on the state government to pay heed to their request by waiving road permit taxes for the period of the lockdown. Meanwhile, on Day-I, passengers had a mixed response. While they were happy to be able to move around once again, lack of facilities irked some of them. “I wasn’t provided any hand sanitizer on board, but I am carrying my own,” said Dilip Khalxo, who was travelling to Simdega with his wife after six months. “Tickets for two cost Rs 700, which is double the fare we used to pay before lockdown.” Several buses have done away with window curtains but isolating the driver’s cabin, as prescribed by the state government, were not found in any bus. An official of Ranchi Bus Owners’ Association said that for public convenience they have put up a stall at the bus stand for free distribution of masks. “Since it is the first day, there could be some lapses on our part, but we shall adhere to all safety norms in public interest,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/low-passenger-count-trips-bus-rides-costlier-tickets-blamed/articleshow/77878342.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Hotels slash tariff in bid to stay afloat, hope for festive cheer||Ranchi/Dhanbad: Hotels across the state have come up with attractive discounts amid strict safety norms in order to woo customers after they reopened following a nearly six-month closure due to rising number of Covid cases in Jharkhand. Despite financial losses since March, hotels look at the discounts as a last resort to somehow sustain in the business. Ranchi’s BNR Chanakya announces a 50% discount on bookings across different types of rooms. The hotel’s general manager, Sudhir Mishra said, “The 50% discount, plus taxes, is for a limited period offer as a part of the unlock endeavour to work towards a revival. Our heritage rooms that were priced at Rs 7,000 per night are now available at Rs 3,500.” On Day-I, Mishra said that they received 10 bookings from outstation clients. “Three guests landed early in the morning while others will come during the course of the day,” he said, adding that they are banking on the upcoming festive season to get back into business amidst a new normal. Shantanu Guha Roy, general manager at Radisson Blu, a star hotel near Ranchi’s Overbridge, said, “Our room rates have been fixed at Rs 4,000 plus taxes per night irrespective of what type of room a guest chooses. This is part of an introductory offer for limited days.” The hotel has currently opened only a few rooms for bookings. “We have only opened the second and third floors from today (Tuesday). More rooms shall be reopened depending on the requirement,” Roy said, adding that about 10 bookings came on the first day while two big corporate firms contacted them for queries. In the coal capital of Dhanbad, Arka Ghosh, general manager of Hotel Sonotel, said they are providing 24% discount on room charges. Ghosh said, “We received only one booking from Jamshedpur, but the scene is likely to get better in the coming days. The 14-day mandatory quarantine rule by the state government is still a deterrent for corporate clients outside the state.” (With inputs from Praduman Choubey in Dhanbad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hotels-slash-tariff-in-bid-to-stay-afloat-hope-for-festive-cheer/articleshow/77878427.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Salons still struggling as many avoid going for trim||JAMSHEDPUR: Majority of the salons in the Steel City failed to reopen on Tuesday after 160 days with the owners and workers citing various problems. Some of those which opened also could not find any customers, who are unwilling to take risks by having haircuts and hairdos. Talking to TOI, Ritu Thakur, owner of a unisex beauty parlour in Sonari area, said, “I have decided not to open my parlour as I cannot afford to pay rents in the last five months. The landlord said he will not allow me to operate if I don't pay the dues.” She added, "In the last five months, I did not earn a paisa. Moreover, I am yet to give pending salaries to my staff. It is very difficult to arrange so much money in this situation.” Echoing similar problems, Mahesh Paramanik, who owns a salon in Gudri Bazar area, said, “Till I clear my rent, my landlord will not allow me to operate from my shop.” Paramanik further said he had taken a bank loan to refurbish his shop but could not pay the EMIs because of the lockdown. “In the last five months, rodents have destroyed seats and other materials as the shop was shut. I cannot reopen now without making repairs.” Smaller barber shops which reopened had no customers. Raj Thakur, who owns a shop in Sundernagar area, said not a single customer came since he opened his shop in the morning. Hundreds of other barbers in the city suffered a similar fate. Sushanta Roy, a Tata Steel employee from Sakchi, said when there is a surge in Covid cases, it will be highly risky to visit salons and beauty parlours. Roy said he would rather use a trimmer at home than risk going to salons. Stating that she does not have the confidence to visit parlours, Sumi, a teenage girl said it is unlikely that the owners will implement the new protocols as it is not cost-effective. In the past few months, three barbers in the city had ended their lives after falling into financial crisis. Associations of barbers have taken out rallies many times and had even written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an economic package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/salons-still-struggling-as-many-avoid-going-for-trim/articleshow/77886454.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||‘Coronavirus patients in home quarantine will be monitored over phone’||Ranchi: Mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, who have availed the home-isolation facility, will be monitored through a newly developed interactive voice response system (IVRS), the state department of health, medical education and family welfare said. Ravi Shankar Shukla, mission director of the National Health Mission’s Jharkhand chapter, launched the new IVRS platform through which Covid-19 patients will be called twice a day on their mobile numbers. The platform has a set of pre-set questions framed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and NISHTHA, a joint flagship health system strengthening project of USAID and Jhpiego in India. The patients must answer in a yes or no format during the call by pressing designated keys. If the patients complained of health problems developed during their stay in home isolation, experts from the state’s dedicated Covid-19 helpline (104) and health workers from the respective district health machinery will assist them and provide help in case of need for hospitalisation. Talking to TOI, nodal officer of the mission, Dr L R Pathak said, “The IVRS has been jointly developed with the help of USAID and NISHTHA. The patients who have opted for home isolation will be called once for 10 consecutive days. Besides regular monitoring of their health, it will also help us wheel them into healthcare facilities in case of an emergency.” The IVRS was formally launched on Tuesday after five consecutive days of a trial run, which began on August 27. The system is also aimed at decongesting the beds at the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health facilities amid the surge in infections. For regular monitoring, details of the patients in home isolation was sourced from all 24 district administrations, Pathak added. While Jharkhand detected a total of 41,656 Covid cases till Monday night, there were over 14,000 active cases. As per records available with the state health department, as many as 550 patients were in home isolation till Tuesday evening. “Of them, 70 patients reported health problems through the IVRS on the first day, which were duly addressed by referring to the respective district health officials,” an official of the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/coronavirus-patients-in-home-quarantine-will-be-monitored-over-phone/articleshow/77878497.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Back in business, but hospitality, dine-out sectors staring at long turnaround period||Jamshedpur: Steel City entrepreneurs, hotel and eatery owners, who restarted their operations after 160 days of lockdown on Tuesday, said they are facing multiple challenges in reviving their businesses. Expecting the challenges to continue for a few more weeks, the business community members said the immediate issue before them is the shortage of manpower as many of their employees have left during the lockdown period. “The fear of Covid is such that our staff members who have gone back home are unwilling to return without persuasion, motivation and assurances on their salaries, health check-ups and quarantine facilities. It has impacted our costs,” said Mithlesh Jha, director of Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) run Kannelite Sakchi Vihar hotel. Anurag Chaurasia, general manager of Madhuban, a motel located in the Adityapur ancillary town, said 80% of his staff members have gone back home during the lockdown. “After analyzing the business for the next 30 days, we will decide whether to call our staff members back or wait for some more time. With SMEs resuming operations, eating out has picked up page, but opening on a large scale would be risky at the moment.” Another hotelier and proprietor of Yashwee International, Anil Khemka, said the other issue which they are facing is the lack of customers, whose confidence to venture out even for business purposes during the pandemic is very low. Stating that till the business activity at heavy and small industries gets back to normal in the industrial town, he said running the hotel industry will be a challenge. “We are hoping for wider reopening of railways and aviation sectors so that meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions resume. It would bring in professionals and delegates from various companies and will ultimately translate into a higher number of hotel bookings.” To woo customers, the hotel industry is also offering a host of discounts, said Randeep Bhatia, secretary of the Jamshedpur Hotels and Restaurants Association (JHRA). Bhatia, who also owns a restaurant, said, “We are optimistic about the revival of the business but not very sure that the hotel and restaurant bookings will see a rise immediately as the customers' mindset has changed drastically during the pandemic.” A senior staff member at the food and beverages wing of BS Palace said the initial days of reopening will be spent in training the staff on proper compliance of the safety protocols framed by the government. In Bokaro, majority of the hotels did not open citing lack of clear-cut guidelines from the district administration and shortage of staff. Owners of a few prominent hotels such as Hans Regency and West Inn said they will wait for a few days more to decide on reopening. “We have not opened our restaurant and hotel today. We are streamlining the process currently,” said Dipak Gupta, owner of Hans Regency. West Inn owner Amit Johar said, “Staff crunch is a problem faced by many hotels these days. With Covid cases rising in Bokaro, many are also unwilling to resume their duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/back-in-business-but-hospitality-dine-out-sectors-staring-at-long-turnaround-period/articleshow/77878481.cms||B Sridhar
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Scrap 14-day quarantine rule for visitors, say hoteliers||Dhanbad: Ahead of reopening their establishments following lockdown relaxations by the state government, hoteliers in Dhanbad are have asked the authorities to remove the 14-day-mandatory quarantine for people entering Jharkhand as it deters people from embarking business trips. On Monday, Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram met the hoteliers and apprised them on the norms for resumption of hotels and restaurants from Tuesday. While hotel owners assured they will comply with all the protocols, they also sought an end the quarantine rule. Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Skylark Hotel, said, “A very few customers visit us from within the state as most are business customers from outside the state. With the 14-day quarantine rules in place, we expect only two or three of our 36 room to be occupied.” Kuber Hotel owner Kunal Singh agreed. “We are concerned about the quarantine rule as no business traveler will enter the state,” he said, urging the district administration to conducting camp for Covid-19 tests of staffs. On marriage bookings, Singh said the administration has strictly asked hoteliers to follow the rules of allowing 50 persons at the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/scrap-14-day-quarantine-rule-for-visitors-say-hoteliers/articleshow/77878544.cms||Praduman Choubey
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Salons still struggling as many avoid going for trim||JAMSHEDPUR: Majority of the salons in the Steel City failed to reopen on Tuesday after 160 days with the owners and workers citing various problems. Some of those which opened also could not find any customers, who are unwilling to take risks by having haircuts and hairdos. Talking to TOI, Ritu Thakur, owner of a unisex beauty parlour in Sonari area, said, “I have decided not to open my parlour as I cannot afford to pay rents in the last five months. The landlord said he will not allow me to operate if I don't pay the dues.” She added, "In the last five months, I did not earn a paisa. Moreover, I am yet to give pending salaries to my staff. It is very difficult to arrange so much money in this situation.” Echoing similar problems, Mahesh Paramanik, who owns a salon in Gudri Bazar area, said, “Till I clear my rent, my landlord will not allow me to operate from my shop.” Paramanik further said he had taken a bank loan to refurbish his shop but could not pay the EMIs because of the lockdown. “In the last five months, rodents have destroyed seats and other materials as the shop was shut. I cannot reopen now without making repairs.” Smaller barber shops which reopened had no customers. Raj Thakur, who owns a shop in Sundernagar area, said not a single customer came since he opened his shop in the morning. Hundreds of other barbers in the city suffered a similar fate. Sushanta Roy, a Tata Steel employee from Sakchi, said when there is a surge in Covid cases, it will be highly risky to visit salons and beauty parlours. Roy said he would rather use a trimmer at home than risk going to salons. Stating that she does not have the confidence to visit parlours, Sumi, a teenage girl said it is unlikely that the owners will implement the new protocols as it is not cost-effective. In the past few months, three barbers in the city had ended their lives after falling into financial crisis. Associations of barbers have taken out rallies many times and had even written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an economic package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/salons-still-struggling-as-many-avoid-going-for-trim/articleshow/77878396.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi's biggest spike in 2 months with 2,312 cases||NEW DELHI: The lack of social discipline in Delhi is leading to a spike in cases of Covid-19 once again. On Tuesday, the city recorded 2,312 new cases of the viral infection — its highest single-day tally in nearly two months. The state health department said 18 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases department, said people in Delhi have developed “pandemic fatigue”. “Only a few people wear masks properly. Many of them move around in crowded places without wearing them at all,” he said. Over 4,200 Covid beds occupiedThere is an urgent need to communicate to people about the need to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing to prevent disease spread. Also, we need measures to enforce these practices,” Dr Kant said. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in Delhi has now crossed 1.77 lakh and fatalities have mounted to 4,462. According to Dr N K Mehra, ICMR emeritus scientist and former dean of AIIMS, one can draw a parallel to HIV, where even after 34 years we do not have a vaccine but the disease was controlled to a large extent through public education. Similar attempts should be made also with Covid-19 to encourage public participation in following the three norms of mask wearing, social distancing and frequent hand-washing. “An effective vaccine may or may not come soon,” Dr Mehra said. A serological survey conducted in Delhi recently showed nearly 30% of the city’s population had developed antibodies against the virus already. Public health specialists say this should not become a cause for any celebration or complacency. “There are at least six coronaviruses that cause the common cold. It is possible antibodies are detected in people with previous exposure to them. The presence of antibodies, therefore, cannot guarantee that the person cannot get infected with Covid-19,” said another senior doctor. In the last few days, Delhi has seen a significant increase in testing through RT-PCR, considered the gold standard. RT-PCR detects the presence of infection by targeting specific genetic sequences of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It has 68% to 80% sensitivity (ability to correctly identify those with the disease). A rapid antigen test (RAT) detects the presence of infection by targeting specific viral proteins present in the patient sample. Though it gives results faster, the test’s sensitivity is significantly lower, which means it throws up a high rate of false negative results. Many public health specialists have stressed on the need to do more tests using RT-PCR and say RAT should utilised for survey purposes. Most big hospitals say there has been a significant increase in Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days, after a brief decline last month. The same is also reflected in the occupancy rate for beds that had reduced to less than 3,000 on July 30 and continued to be so till August 5. It has reached 4,275 now. Of the 1,216 ICU beds with ventilators that have been earmarked for coronavirus patients, 486 are occupied. Watch Delhi's biggest spike in 2 months with over 2,000 cases in a single day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-biggest-spike-in-2-months-with-2312-cases/articleshow/77881395.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 2, 2020||Business||Higher loan tenure: Banks seek clarity from RBI||MUMBAI: Lenders have sought clarification from RBI on whether the maximum two-year extension of loan tenure that has been allowed is inclusive of the time for repayment of dues during the moratorium. Bankers say those with 20-year loans, who have availed the moratorium, will see their home loans term extended by 24 months if the dues for the last six months are amortised. This would not leave them with any scope for further restructuring. Another issue is with loans below Rs 30 lakh where lenders are allowed a loan-to-value ratio of 90%. For those who have availed moratorium in the early stages of the loan, the six-month dues would have ballooned the outstanding to well-past Rs 30 lakh. For loans above Rs 30 lakh maximum loan-to-value that can be allowed is 80%. This would place banks in violation of RBI guidelines. Read AlsoBig borrowers safe bet for lendersBig borrowers are turning out to be safer for lenders. According to banks, there are only a small number of large companies where they may need to make a sacrifice after referring to the K V Kamath committee for restructuring.With the six-month moratorium on loan repayments ending on August 31 banks have started the process of debiting dues from the account of borrowers. Several borrowers approached branches of banks and finance companies seeking a restructuring of loans and to avoid EMI debit in September. However, they were informed by the branches that there has been no communication from their head office on restructuring and as of now, their existing repayment schedule would continue. Read AlsoResidual tenure of loan can be extended by 2 yrs: Govt tells SCNEW DELHI: The Centre has told the Supreme Court that RBI has asked banks to provide relief to borrowers by extending the residual tenure of loan by up to two years, with or without including the six-month moratorium on payment of instalments from March 1 to August 31. In an affidavit filed inWhile RBI has said banks can provide an additional moratorium as part of restructuring scheme, lenders said it was not clear how much of a moratorium could be allowed. A senior banker said unlike the moratorium that was granted to almost anyone who asked for it, the restructuring would be made available depending on circumstances. Watch Higher loan tenure: Now, lenders seek clarity from RBI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/higher-tenure-banks-seek-clarity/articleshow/77881400.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Mutation in virus may hamper vaccine progress||NEW DELHI: A study published in a medical journal has revealed that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, has undergone multiple mutations in its "spike proteins". This is the protein that gives the virus the ability to infiltrate the human cells. Once this occurs, the virus starts replicating, which leads to infection. The paper published in Journal of Laboratory Physicians was based on an analysis of 1,604 spike proteins extracted from 1,325 complete genomes and 279 partial spike coding sequences of SARS-CoV-2 available at National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) in the US till May 1. Dr Sarman Singh, the lead author of the study, said they found 12 mutations in the spike proteins, six of which were novel mutations. "One deletion was also found in an Indian strain (MT012098.1). Deletion means change in the genetic structure of the virus. We don't know how it will affect the virulence of the disease though," he added. The maximum genetic mutations were observed in spike proteins extracted from genomes of SARS-CoV-2 from the US, the experts said. "Viruses are known to mutate or change their genetic structure upon exposure to different environments. But in this case, the change is happening quite fast. We are not sure how it will affect the disease spread," Singh said. The others participants of the study included experts from Infectious Diseases and Immunity in Global Health Programme, Research Institute of McGill University Health Center, and McGill International TB Center, Canada. The study said spike protein was the major target for vaccine development, but several mutations were predicted in the antigenic epitopes across all genomes available globally. "The emergence of various mutations within a short period might result in conformational changes in the protein structure, which suggests that developing a universal vaccine could be a challenging task," the study added. Mutation was also found in the antigens responsible for producing antibodies, indicating that the patients infected with the mutants would have very low or nil antibodies. Recently, Hong Kong reported a case of re-infection due to Covid-19. Similar cases have also been documented in the US and India. "Even if a person gets Covid-19 again due to a mutated strain of the virus, the likelihood of severe symptoms would be less as seen in the patient in Hong Kong. This is because the antibodies against one strain of Covid-19 can offer protection against the mutated virus too. However, further scientific study and analysis is needed to ascertain this. The disease is new and we are still learning about it," said a virologist from Maulana Azad Medical College. In Delhi, the cases of Covid-19 had dipped significantly in July. However, it has started rising over the past few days. While lack of social discipline and opening of the economy are two key factors, many doctors said a mutation of the virus could also be behind it. "Multiple strains of the virus have been identified in the country, including the original one from Wuhan, China and the ones spreading in Europe," said a doctor. Watch Mutation in virus may hamper vaccine progress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mutation-in-virus-may-hamper-vaccine-progress/articleshow/77881401.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 2, 2020||Business||Festive season optimism spurs car, two-wheeler sales||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: Car and two-wheeler companies started stocking up for the festive period as wholesale deliveries to dealerships in August beat the numbers achieved in the same month last year, holding out hope that a credible revival is around the corner. The industry, which was battered by the corona-induced slowdown and economic downturn, seems to be taking small steps towards a recovery, though industry officials warn that a confirmed view can only be taken after looking at actual retail demand in the coming months. Read AlsoPetrol demand at 92% of year ago periodIndia’s fuel demand has started crawling up after faltering in July, with petrol consumption reaching nearly 92% of the year-ago period but diesel consumption continued to skid as widespread rains, floods and local lockdowns in industrialised states combined to scupper demand from farm, constructionThe surge has been led by smaller cars and entry models as more people look at personal mobility in view of safety concerns around coronavirus, which has restricted public transport movement, including that of shared car platforms such as Ola and Uber. Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai, the top two carmakers, brought in some good news as their numbers were up by around 20%, even as companies such as Toyota (-48%) and Honda Cars (-9%) still struggle, while Mahindra just-about managed to stay positive at 1% growth. On the two-wheeler side, Hero managed to come out positive (year-on-year), and so did TVS. Read AlsoDiesel cars tumble to low of 1.8% of small car, sedan sales in April-JulyThe share of diesel variants in sale of small cars and sedans has fallen to just 1.8% during April-July, 2020 period — the lowest in recent history. In any case, the higher price of diesel vehicles — costing at least Rs 1 lakh more — has been a deterrent. In the SUV category, the share of dieselAccording to industry officials, the fear of coronavirus and less cash at hand has almost doubled the sales of entry-level cars with Maruti Suzuki witnessing a nearly 95% rise in sales of Alto and S Presso models. Hyundai too clocked maximum sales in the hatchback segment in August at 20,650 units, while the Renault Kwid hit top gear with 3,677 units, up 68%. Watch Amid slowdown, auto sales jump in August ahead of festive season||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/festive-optimism-spurs-car-sales/articleshow/77881409.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 2, 2020||Business||Petrol demand at 92% of year ago period||NEW DELHI: India’s fuel demand has started crawling up after faltering in July, with petrol consumption reaching nearly 92% of the year-ago period but diesel consumption continued to skid as widespread rains, floods and local lockdowns in industrialised states combined to scupper demand from farm, construction and transport sectors. Latest industry data showed August petrol sales rising to 2,140 tmt (thousand metric tonnes), an increase of 6% from the July volume, as more curbs were eased and people increasingly opted for personal vehicles to get around. Similarly, jet fuel sales rebounded to 238 tmt, or 8% higher than a month ago, as the number of flights increased. But diesel sales, a key indicator of economic activity since it is mainly used in the farm, transport and construction sectors, dropped to 4,257 tmt, or 12% lower than July. According to Hindustan Petroleum chairman M K Surana, diesel sales remained affected because industrial activity was not yet back fully and flow of material and products needed to stabilise after the ready stocks were gone. “There is no leisure travel. Low flight and train operations means lesser use of taxis by travellers,” he told TOI recently. Once the lockdown was eased in June, petrol sales jumped to 83% and diesel to 85% of their year-ago levels. Jet fuel sales, however, remained subdued at 32% of June 2019 level due to limited flight operations. But July saw diesel sales dropping to 75% and petrol 83% of their year-ago levels. Jet fuel sales gained marginal ground at 35% of the year-ago period. Industry watchers said the recovery from 50% to 80-90% was quick but it would take some time to reach 100%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/petrol-demand-at-92-of-year-ago-period/articleshow/77881417.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reported 17 suicides daily in 2019||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least 17 people committed suicide in Andhra Pradesh on average every day in 2019, according to data from ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A total of 6,465 people killed themselves in the state in 2019. Suicide has emerged as the second biggest killer in Andhra Pradesh following road accidents. Between 2018 and 2019, the number of people dying by suicide increased by 21.54%. While 5,319 people in the state committed suicide in 2018, the number rose to 6,465 within a year. Of the people who committed suicide, 4,740 were men and 1,725 women. Among several reasons that led people to commit suicide, family disputes are listed as the reason for 1,706 suicides and illness for 1,845 suicides. Psychiatrists in the state are not surprised by the figures. According to them, suicides have emerged as the new major killers among youngsters. Dr NN Raju, a noted psychiatrist said that the rise in number of suicides is due to the rapid changes in the social fabric. It is the collective responsibility of everyone to address the problem, said Dr Raju, while adding that people often lack a support system and are unable to cope with academic or work pressures leading them to suicide. Loneliness, professional dissatisfaction, failures in romantic relations and unemployment are some other reasons that drive many to commit suicide, he added. Social activist G Srinivas believes that greater engagement in physical activity coupled with counselling can help check the tendency of suicide among youngsters. Despite the increased role of counsellors, especially in corporate schools and colleges, many ignore appointments and physical education, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-reported-17-suicides-daily-in-2019/articleshow/77882481.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reported 17 suicides daily in 2019||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least 17 people committed suicide in Andhra Pradesh on average every day in 2019, according to data from ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A total of 6,465 people killed themselves in the state in 2019. Suicide has emerged as the second biggest killer in Andhra Pradesh following road accidents. Between 2018 and 2019, the number of people dying by suicide increased by 21.54%. While 5,319 people in the state committed suicide in 2018, the number rose to 6,465 within a year. Of the people who committed suicide, 4,740 were men and 1,725 women. Among several reasons that led people to commit suicide, family disputes are listed as the reason for 1,706 suicides and illness for 1,845 suicides. Psychiatrists in the state are not surprised by the figures. According to them, suicides have emerged as the new major killers among youngsters. Dr NN Raju, a noted psychiatrist said that the rise in number of suicides is due to the rapid changes in the social fabric. It is the collective responsibility of everyone to address the problem, said Dr Raju, while adding that people often lack a support system and are unable to cope with academic or work pressures leading them to suicide. Loneliness, professional dissatisfaction, failures in romantic relations and unemployment are some other reasons that drive many to commit suicide, he added. Social activist G Srinivas believes that greater engagement in physical activity coupled with counselling can help check the tendency of suicide among youngsters. Despite the increased role of counsellors, especially in corporate schools and colleges, many ignore appointments and physical education, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reported-17-suicides-daily-in-2019/articleshow/77878359.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reported 17 suicides daily in 2019||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least 17 people committed suicide in Andhra Pradesh on average every day in 2019, according to data from ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A total of 6,465 people killed themselves in the state in 2019. Suicide has emerged as the second biggest killer in Andhra Pradesh following road accidents. Between 2018 and 2019, the number of people dying by suicide increased by 21.54%. While 5,319 people in the state committed suicide in 2018, the number rose to 6,465 within a year. Of the people who committed suicide, 4,740 were men and 1,725 women. Among several reasons that led people to commit suicide, family disputes are listed as the reason for 1,706 suicides and illness for 1,845 suicides. Psychiatrists in the state are not surprised by the figures. According to them, suicides have emerged as the new major killers among youngsters. Dr NN Raju, a noted psychiatrist said that the rise in number of suicides is due to the rapid changes in the social fabric. It is the collective responsibility of everyone to address the problem, said Dr Raju, while adding that people often lack a support system and are unable to cope with academic or work pressures leading them to suicide. Loneliness, professional dissatisfaction, failures in romantic relations and unemployment are some other reasons that drive many to commit suicide, he added. Social activist G Srinivas believes that greater engagement in physical activity coupled with counselling can help check the tendency of suicide among youngsters. Despite the increased role of counsellors, especially in corporate schools and colleges, many ignore appointments and physical education, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-reported-17-suicides-daily-in-2019/articleshow/77882482.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Third sero survey to collect ward-wise data in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The third serological survey kicked off on Tuesday even as the capital recorded its highest single-day spike in fresh Covid-19 cases in nearly two months. In a shift from the first and second serological surveys carried out in the city over the last two months to assess the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in the population, Delhi government has adopted a new strategy for the third round of survey. While the samples collected in the last two surveys were analysed with district-wise breakup of seroprevalence, this time it would be done ward-wise. There are 272 municipal wards in the capital and the new strategy will help analyse the spread of infection and prevalence of antibodies at a more micro level. "The fresh round of sero survey began today. This time we will be doing it ward-wise. So, all 272 municipal wards will be covered, plus two assembly segments. Sampling will be done for a week. After that, results should come in seven to ten days," state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. While over 21,000 samples were collected during the first round of survey, 15,000 samples had been collected in the second round. The government expects to collect around 17,000 samples this time around. A seroprevalence of 23.4% was found during the first sero survey, which was led by the National Centre for Disease Control and conducted between June 27 and July 10. Jain had later announced that Delhi government would conduct sero surveys every month. The second survey, meanwhile, was conducted in the first week of August by the AAP government with support from Maulana Azad Medical College. It revealed the prevalence of Covid antibodies in 29.1% population, indicating that nearly 60 lakh of the two crore population of Delhi were infected with coronavirus and had recovered. For the third round of survey, collection would be based on a scientific formula to ensure that the samples are representative of the population. These will be divided into three different categories - below 18 years of age, between 18 and 49 years of age and above 50 years of age. Watch Coronavirus: Delhi government's next round of sero-survey begins||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/third-sero-survey-to-collect-ward-wise-data-in-delhi/articleshow/77881421.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dubious distinction: Andhra Pradesh ranks 7th in road mishaps||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has ranked seventh in the country in terms of road accidents in 2019, according to the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India (ADSI) report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The state saw road accidents dip by a meagre one per cent from 2018. Overall, Andhra Pradesh accounted for 4.8% of all road accidents in the country and 5.2% of all deaths due to road accidents. A total of 7,984 people died in road mishaps in the state in 2019 and 24,619 suffered injuries. Unsurprisingly, the largest offenders as well as victims of road accidents were two-wheeler riders. Unfortunately, pedestrians were the second largest victims accounting for 760 deaths. Following two-wheelers and pedestrians, come three-wheelers, four-wheelers and trucks. Vijayawada stands at the ninth place in deaths due to road accidents among 89 cities in the country while Visakhapatnam follows suit at the 10th place. Most road accidents were reported in the month of December when the winter fog prevails across most parts of the national highway. However, the month of May sees the second highest number of road accidents when the heat waves are rampant. In terms of timing, a majority—21%— of all road accidents in the state took place between 6pm and 9pm. 17% took place between 3pm and 6pm. ADSI’s classification of road accidents shows that 37% fatalities took place on the national highway while 26% on the state highway. The major cause of the accidents in the state was over-speeding. A whopping 62% of the road accidents happened due to over-speeding. Of those who died in road accidents, 84% were men. However, going against the trend, most of the road accidents took place in the rural parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dubious-distinction-state-ranks-7th-in-road-mishaps/articleshow/77885211.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Dubious distinction: Andhra Pradesh ranks 7th in road mishaps||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has ranked seventh in the country in terms of road accidents in 2019, according to the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India (ADSI) report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The state saw road accidents dip by a meagre one per cent from 2018. Overall, Andhra Pradesh accounted for 4.8% of all road accidents in the country and 5.2% of all deaths due to road accidents. A total of 7,984 people died in road mishaps in the state in 2019 and 24,619 suffered injuries. Unsurprisingly, the largest offenders as well as victims of road accidents were two-wheeler riders. Unfortunately, pedestrians were the second largest victims accounting for 760 deaths. Following two-wheelers and pedestrians, come three-wheelers, four-wheelers and trucks. Vijayawada stands at the ninth place in deaths due to road accidents among 89 cities in the country while Visakhapatnam follows suit at the 10th place. Most road accidents were reported in the month of December when the winter fog prevails across most parts of the national highway. However, the month of May sees the second highest number of road accidents when the heat waves are rampant. In terms of timing, a majority—21%— of all road accidents in the state took place between 6pm and 9pm. 17% took place between 3pm and 6pm. ADSI’s classification of road accidents shows that 37% fatalities took place on the national highway while 26% on the state highway. The major cause of the accidents in the state was over-speeding. A whopping 62% of the road accidents happened due to over-speeding. Of those who died in road accidents, 84% were men. However, going against the trend, most of the road accidents took place in the rural parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dubious-distinction-state-ranks-7th-in-road-mishaps/articleshow/77878384.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Dubious distinction: Andhra Pradesh ranks 7th in road mishaps||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has ranked seventh in the country in terms of road accidents in 2019, according to the Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India (ADSI) report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The state saw road accidents dip by a meagre one per cent from 2018. Overall, Andhra Pradesh accounted for 4.8% of all road accidents in the country and 5.2% of all deaths due to road accidents. A total of 7,984 people died in road mishaps in the state in 2019 and 24,619 suffered injuries. Unsurprisingly, the largest offenders as well as victims of road accidents were two-wheeler riders. Unfortunately, pedestrians were the second largest victims accounting for 760 deaths. Following two-wheelers and pedestrians, come three-wheelers, four-wheelers and trucks. Vijayawada stands at the ninth place in deaths due to road accidents among 89 cities in the country while Visakhapatnam follows suit at the 10th place. Most road accidents were reported in the month of December when the winter fog prevails across most parts of the national highway. However, the month of May sees the second highest number of road accidents when the heat waves are rampant. In terms of timing, a majority—21%— of all road accidents in the state took place between 6pm and 9pm. 17% took place between 3pm and 6pm. ADSI’s classification of road accidents shows that 37% fatalities took place on the national highway while 26% on the state highway. The major cause of the accidents in the state was over-speeding. A whopping 62% of the road accidents happened due to over-speeding. Of those who died in road accidents, 84% were men. However, going against the trend, most of the road accidents took place in the rural parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/dubious-distinction-state-ranks-7th-in-road-mishaps/articleshow/77885212.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Deadly August as month sees five deaths a day & over 11,000 +ve cases||PANAJI: August has been the deadliest month for the state till date with close to 150 Covid deaths reported — a daily average of 4.8 — and over 11,000 new infections. Covid mortalities went up ten times in July compared to June and they more than tripled in August. This month saw the state’s daily Covid count cross 300 for the first time. Fresh cases touched 570 on August 13. August deaths constitute 77% of the total Covid deaths since the first person succumbed to the virus on June 22. The state is currently in the eye of the storm and witnessing a peak in cases, medical practitioner Dr Oscar Rebello said. “It is but natural that deaths rise proportionately as the state’s Covid cases surge,” he added. The mortality rate is high compared to other states as the reporting in Goa is better, Rebello said. “Other states have poorer collecting and testing facilities. The state is also doing post mortem testing,” he said. A senior health official, who didn’t come on record, said it’s difficult to predict whether Covid is at its peak in Goa. “My prediction is that cases will decline by the end of September,” the official said. Rebello, who also believes in the four-month theory, said, “I’m convinced this is the peak. Whether you like it or not, whether it was New York or Delhi, it takes around four months for cases to dip. We started in June and by the end of September we should not have this kind of volume of cases, which are presently suffocating the system.” “We’re at the peak of that four-month period where the virus is at its ferocious best. We’re exactly in that phase that Italy was a few months ago when it was flooded with cases. It’s a time when everybody you know has contracted the infection, whether they’re in hospital, in Covid care homes or home isolated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deadly-august-as-month-sees-five-deaths-a-day-over-11k-ve-cases/articleshow/77879323.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Start-up sanitises homes of poor patients free of cost||GUNTUR: A social activist has launched a start-up to sanitise and disinfect houses of Covid-19 patients from economically weaker sections, free of cost. Staffers at the start-up are also providing free services to orphanages, old age homes and shelters for the destitute and charging a nominal price from other patients to meet costs. The idea to launch the start-up— Bhairaa Corporates— was developed by former president of Guntur Round Table (GRT-86) Raavi Balakrishna after being struck by the plight of Covid-19 patients battling social stigma and poor hygiene at home. Balakrishna was joined by truck owner J Sivanarayana, who had been forced to sell his truck once the pandemic struck. A third partner, Raghavenedra, a college student, was also taken on to coordinate with patients and officials from different departments. “The decision to take Sivanarayana and Raghavendra on board was taken not only to provide employment during the crisis period but also to pump morale among many of their neighours and relatives,” said Balakrishna. The start-up has recruited around 10 youths as telecallers to check in on Covid-19 patients and inquire about their health. It also plans to rope in young medical professionals to provide free services to patients from economically weaker sections. On its social media platforms, the start-up is sharing success stories of patients who have recovered from the disease. “We are also distributing pamphlets from time to time, with precautionary measures advised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and state health department to contain the virus,” said Balakrishna, adding that they follow stringent norms while carrying out disinfection and sanitisation at homes and in commercial establishments. “We have engaged trained personnel to carry out the disinfection operations,” Balakrishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/start-up-sanitises-homes-of-poor-patients-free-of-cost/articleshow/77878417.cms||Samdani MN
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: First day of September records highest surge in Covid cases||PANAJI: The first day of September saw the state recording its highest single-day jump with 588 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total active count to 3,962. The last such spike was reported on August 13 when 570 new cases were detected. Two more deaths in Pernem and Margao on Tuesday pushed the death toll to 194. Both the deceased were males, aged 70, and suffered from comorbidities. While one died at the ESI hospital, the other expired at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, the directorate of health services stated. Panaji reported more than 50 fresh cases on Monday and Tuesday. Cases in Sankhali shot up by 70 over a period of 24 hours with its active tally crossing the 200 mark on Tuesday. Pernem also witnessed a rise of around 30 cases. Margao continues to lead with 433 cases. Ponda has become a cause for concern for authorities, with its primary health centre reporting 300 active cases. Mapusa and Porvorim also witnessed a spike, with each reporting more than 180 active cases. Vasco, which once had the highest cases, is witnessing a steady decline. A senior health official on condition of anonymity said that it is difficult to say whether the state is experiencing the peak. “We will know that we have peaked only once the number of cases plateaus and then starts declining,” the official said. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that it appears that the state is nearing the peak. “Cases are rising each day. We’re already on a peak. Whether it will peak further is difficult to say. All arrangements are being made for the daily increase in cases that we are witnessing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-day-of-sept-records-highest-surge-in-covid-cases/articleshow/77879329.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000-plus cases for seventh day on trot, 84 dead||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,368 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 4,45,139. It is the seventh day in a row that the state has recorded 10,000-plus cases. The state also registered 84 deaths on Tuesday, raising the overall toll to 4,053. East Godavari, which is believed to be on the verge of crossing its peak curve, became the first district to cross the 60,000-case mark. Chittoor leads the casualty tally with 429 deaths. The recovery rate improved to 76% with 9,350 recoveries in the last 24 hours. There are currently 1,01,210 active cases in the state with 3,39,876 cumulative recoveries. The state has conducted a total 37.82 lakh tests, including 59,834 tests on Tuesday. While East Godavari has 18,924 active cases, the highest among all districts, Krishna has only 2,240 active cases. Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, Srikakulam and West Godavari districts have been witnessing a spurt in daily cases for the last two weeks, indicating the peak curve. The state government has created a portal (https://plasmaap.com/) for plasma donors and receivers. Those who want to receive or donate can do the same through the platform. The health department has also decided to send the health status of Covid-19 patients who were admitted to hospitals or Covid care centres, to the phone number of a relative chosen by the patients at regular intervals. Patients’ relatives too can check the same at https://health.ap.gov.in/MAATHASISU/Home/Index, which has added the option of ‘patient status’ button. The relatives should enter the sample ID, mobile or Aadhaar number on the website to avail the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-reports-10k-plus-cases-for-seventh-day-on-trot-84-dead/articleshow/77882436.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000-plus cases for seventh day on trot, 84 dead||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,368 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 4,45,139. It is the seventh day in a row that the state has recorded 10,000-plus cases. The state also registered 84 deaths on Tuesday, raising the overall toll to 4,053. East Godavari, which is believed to be on the verge of crossing its peak curve, became the first district to cross the 60,000-case mark. Chittoor leads the casualty tally with 429 deaths. The recovery rate improved to 76% with 9,350 recoveries in the last 24 hours. There are currently 1,01,210 active cases in the state with 3,39,876 cumulative recoveries. The state has conducted a total 37.82 lakh tests, including 59,834 tests on Tuesday. While East Godavari has 18,924 active cases, the highest among all districts, Krishna has only 2,240 active cases. Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, Srikakulam and West Godavari districts have been witnessing a spurt in daily cases for the last two weeks, indicating the peak curve. The state government has created a portal (https://plasmaap.com/) for plasma donors and receivers. Those who want to receive or donate can do the same through the platform. The health department has also decided to send the health status of Covid-19 patients who were admitted to hospitals or Covid care centres, to the phone number of a relative chosen by the patients at regular intervals. Patients’ relatives too can check the same at https://health.ap.gov.in/MAATHASISU/Home/Index, which has added the option of ‘patient status’ button. The relatives should enter the sample ID, mobile or Aadhaar number on the website to avail the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-10k-plus-cases-for-seventh-day-on-trot-84-dead/articleshow/77878441.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000-plus cases for seventh day on trot, 84 dead||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,368 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 4,45,139. It is the seventh day in a row that the state has recorded 10,000-plus cases. The state also registered 84 deaths on Tuesday, raising the overall toll to 4,053. East Godavari, which is believed to be on the verge of crossing its peak curve, became the first district to cross the 60,000-case mark. Chittoor leads the casualty tally with 429 deaths. The recovery rate improved to 76% with 9,350 recoveries in the last 24 hours. There are currently 1,01,210 active cases in the state with 3,39,876 cumulative recoveries. The state has conducted a total 37.82 lakh tests, including 59,834 tests on Tuesday. While East Godavari has 18,924 active cases, the highest among all districts, Krishna has only 2,240 active cases. Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, Srikakulam and West Godavari districts have been witnessing a spurt in daily cases for the last two weeks, indicating the peak curve. The state government has created a portal (https://plasmaap.com/) for plasma donors and receivers. Those who want to receive or donate can do the same through the platform. The health department has also decided to send the health status of Covid-19 patients who were admitted to hospitals or Covid care centres, to the phone number of a relative chosen by the patients at regular intervals. Patients’ relatives too can check the same at https://health.ap.gov.in/MAATHASISU/Home/Index, which has added the option of ‘patient status’ button. The relatives should enter the sample ID, mobile or Aadhaar number on the website to avail the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-reports-10k-plus-cases-for-seventh-day-on-trot-84-dead/articleshow/77882435.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Bars told to follow strict safety norms in Goa||PANAJI: The excise department has stated that bars, restaurants and taverns must ensure that social distancing norms are followed on their premises. Following the Union ministry of home affairs order, Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday had said that the state government will allow bar and restaurants to reopen from Tuesday. Excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi said that social distancing guidelines issued by the MHA has to be implemented by the licensees. Persons in-charge of the workplace will need to ensure adequate distancing between workers, gaps between shifts and staggered lunch breaks, his order read. Licensees have been directed to wear face masks or appropriate face covers while selling liquor or serving customers. The responsibility of ensuring that customers maintain a minimum distance of six feet from each other is also rested with the licensee, the excise department order stated. The licensees have to make provision of sanitiser, thermal scanning and have to also ensure that their entire premises are frequently sanitised. It has also been made mandatory for all their employees to use the Arogya Setu app. Violations will be strictly dealt with, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bars-told-to-follow-strict-safety-norms/articleshow/77879334.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||After four months, factory activity rebounds||NEW DELHI: Activity in the country’s manufacturing sector rebounded in August after four months of contraction, led by an increase in new orders, a survey showed on Tuesday. The data provided some relief from the grim economic numbers in recent months that showed the economy contracting by a record 23.9% in the June quarter. The survey showed that output and new orders expanded at the fastest pace since February. But job cuts continued into August, extending the current sequence of decline to five months. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing PMI rose to 52 in August from 46 in July, signalling some improvement across the manufacturing sector. The 50-point mark separates expansion from contraction. The strict national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus has hurt the overall economy and led to job losses, heaping misery on businesses and workers. The survey is compiled from responses to questionnaires sent to purchasing managers in a panel of around 400 manufacturers and serves as an advance indicator of manufacturing conditions. Data released on Monday showed the country’s GDP contracted 23.9% in the April-June quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-four-months-factory-activity-rebounds/articleshow/77881425.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Six Amrapali projects get new lease of life||NEW DELHI: Construction in six of Amrapali's stalled housing projects in Noida is all set to resume with SBI Capital agreeing to infuse Rs 625 crore after the Supreme Court approved its demand for 12% interest on its investment. With SBI Capital insisting on 12% interest rate, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit agreed with the condition to ensure that funds are made available for the court-monitored construction of Amrapali projects in which over 46,000 buyers had invested their money. SBI Capital is managing SWAMIH (Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Projects) Investment Fund created by Centre and it agreed to infuse money in Amrapali projects from this fund. The bank, however, selected only six projects as it claimed that only those are viable and safe for investment. The six projects are - Silicon City 1 & 2, Crystal Homes, Centurion Park Low Rise, O2 Valley and Tropical Garden. These projects cover around 7,000 flats. NBCC will carry out the construction work in the projects under the supervision of SC-appointed committee. As per estimates, these projects will fetch a surplus of Rs 81 crore after unsold inventories are sold. The total cost of construction of six housing projects would be around Rs 987 crore and SBI Cap will take Rs 169 crore as interest. The amount receivable from homebuyers and unsold inventories on these projects will total up to Rs 1,382 crore. It has been more than a year since the SC took over management of the Group, but construction work remained sluggish due to fund crunch as NBCC, which has been given the task to complete the projects, refused to invest while buyers were not able to clear their dues with banks refusing to disburse money. The total estimated cost for construction of all housing projects is pegged at Rs 8,500 crore by NBCC and the amount recoverable from homebuyers and buyers of commercial areas is Rs 3,700 crore. Though SC-appointed forensic auditors submitted that around Rs 11,000 crore is the recoverable amount, enough to bear the cost of construction, the fund is not available as auctioning of the Group's assets has not been successful so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/six-amrapali-projects-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77881429.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
September 2, 2020||Goa||Ayush mantri moved out of Covid ward||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik was shifted out of the Covid-19 ward of Manipal Hospitals, Dona Paula, on Friday, after 20 days of treatment. He will, however, remain hospitalised for two or three more weeks for respiratory rehabilitation. The hospital’s chief of clinical services, Dr Shekhar Salkar, said Naik was moved out of the Covid care facility on the advice of Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. “According to them (AIIMS doctors), the virus is active for seven days. After 14 days, it is unlikely to be transmitted,” Salkar said. On Monday, Naik had tested negative under the TrueNat test, but the subsequent RT-PCR test found him to be positive, Salkar said. Naik was admitted to hospital on August 12, a day after he contracted the virus. He initially chose to be under home isolation as he was asymptomatic. Doctors from AIIMS have been monitoring Naik’s treatment. Meanwhile Benaulim NCP MLA Churchill Alemao and Marcaim MGP MLA Ramkrishna 'Sudin' Dhavalikar are recovering from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-mantri-moved-out-of-covid-ward/articleshow/77879343.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh legislative council chairman Shariff tests positive for Covid-19||AMARAVATI: Andhra Pradesh legislative council chairman MA Shariff tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. After he complained of breathing trouble, his family members took him to a private hospital in Hyderabad. Sources said Shariff is in the ICU. Shariff (65) got elected as council chairman in 2019 after incumbent chairman NMD Farooq was inducted into the cabinet by then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. Shariff has been TDP’s state general secretary for over a decade and become a legislative council member in 2015. His tenure runs till May 2021. TDP president Naidu wished for Shariff’s speedy recovery. Meanwhile, another cabinet minister in the state has tested positive. The senior minister from Chittoor district has been admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad. A YSRC legislator from East Godavari too has tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lc-chairman-shariff-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/77878464.cms||Samdani MN
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rent-a-cab owners seek relief package||CALANGUTE: Owners of rental vehicles in the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt have urged the government to extend the moratorium on repayment of loans to banks and finance companies at least till December. Speaking to reporters at Calangute on Tuesday, the vice-president of the North Goa Rent-a-Cab Association, Nitesh Chodankar, said there has been no business for them and others like rent-a-bike operators and rickshaw owners since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The moratorium period ended on August 31. I request the CM and all the MLAs to extend the moratorium at least till December. Even though tourism has restarted it will take some time before tourists start coming in large numbers because the number of cases is increasing. It will take some time for us to start getting business again,” Chodankar said. “The road tax should also be waived off and we should be allowed to pay our insurance fees in instalments because our vehicles are lying idle and there has been no income. The state should also give us a relief package or bailout,” he added. Vishwanath Nagvekar, representing rent-a-bike owners, said with the vehicles lying idle, they would have to spend money to make them roadworthy again. “With some having 5-10 bikes, the instalment amount is very high. There has been no income at all and whatever savings were there, have been exhausted in the last six months,” he said. “We cannot make the payments not because we don't want to, but because we don't have the money,” an owner of rental vehicles business said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rent-a-cab-owners-seek-relief-package/articleshow/77879367.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Mapusa temples closed till September 30||SALIGAO: At a meeting held on Tuesday, the executive committees of temples in Mapusa have decided to keep the temples shut to devotees until September 30, and this will be reviewed again at the end of the month. It was also decided that all rituals will be performed behind closed doors without public participation The presidents and committee members of Vithal Rakhumai Temple, Shri Hanuman Maharudra Sanstha Temple, Shri Ganesh Temple at Ganeshpuri, Shri Sateri Devi Temple, Laxmi Narayan Temple, Mapusa, Shri Datta Temple, Shri Ganesh Temple at Khorlim, Shri Rastroli Temple, and Ghateshwar Temple attended the meeting. “We decided to keep the temples closed until September 30 in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases,” Tushar Tople, president of the Vithal Rakhumai Temple, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-temples-closed-till-sept-30/articleshow/77879373.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two Zuarinagar areas redefined as mirco containment zones||VASCO: South Goa district magistrate, Ajit Roy, has delisted the Zuarinagar containment zone, while two areas have been redefined into micro containment zones. It may be recalled that Zuarinagar was declared a containment zone on June 29. “Since 14 days have not elapsed since the recovery of patients in two areas, these have been notified as micro containment zones. All restrictions from the other area of Zuarinagar have been lifted,” Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai told TOI on Tuesday. The notification signed by the South Goa district magistrate also states that medical teams will be set up for conducting door-to-door thermal screening of every person in the micro containment zones. “The entire area will be sanitised by the Mormugao Municipal Council with assistance from the Vasco fire station staff. Strict police security will be deployed by the Verna police to restrict the movement of people in the two zones,” the notification further states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-zuarinagar-areas-redefined-as-mirco-containment-zones/articleshow/77879400.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 2, 2020||Goa||Goa CM says government staff to donate plasma||PANAJI: Stating that more than 1,000 government employees have recovered from Covid, chief minister Pramod Sawant directed collectors to urge government employees who have recovered to donate plasma. Sawant took stock of the medical facilities at Covid care centres, including availability of doctors, ambulance, occupancy of beds, disposal of medical waste and security arrangement. He not only stressed on the need to create awareness among those who have recovered about plasma donation, but also on providing quality food and good hygiene at all Covid centers. Sawant held a comprehensive review meeting with the officers in-charge of all Covid care centres over video conferencing. Collector (north) R Menaka and collector (south) Ajit Roy were also present for the meeting. It was highlighted during the course of the meeting that more than 1,000 patients who have recovered are officials of various government departments. CM also asked officers to be vigilant and promptly resolve any issue that creates inconvenience to patients, whenever they arise. Both district collectors also briefed the CM regarding the Covid management at the care centre in their respective districts. Sawant urged all officers to put in their best to tide over the current period of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-says-govt-staff-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77879389.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Delhi||Neighbour stabs man to death in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A man who thrashed his neighbour for misbehaving with his wife was stabbed to death at a colony near Chhatarpur Metro Station on Monday. Police said the accused, Surender, had hurled abuses at the wife of the victim, Sagar, following which he was thrashed. Surender returned three days later with a knife and stabbed Sagar in the neck. The initial fight took place on Saturday when Surender, who was drunk, entered Sagar's shack and passed out next to his wife. The woman saw Surender and raised an alarm, following which Sagar thrashed him. On Monday night, Surender returned drunk and provoked Sagar, which led to an argument when Surender, in a fit of rage, stabbed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/neighbour-stabs-man-to-death-in-delhi/articleshow/77881434.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Goa||Fatorda inches past Margao in infection numbers||MARGAO: Fatorda has surpassed Margao in terms of number of persons infected by Covid-19 with altogether 885 people having tested positive until August 31. It is followed closely by Margao with 818 cases. Fatorda currently has 392 active cases while Margao has 350, data obtained from health authorities reveal. Salcete has recorded altogether 4296 cases until August 31 with 1958 cases currently active. Margao, however, accounted for 10 Covid deaths until August 31— the highest in Salcete — followed by Fatorda with seven. Gogol, which saw 223 positive cases so far with two deaths, currently has 125 active cases. Two more cases were recorded from Gogol on Tuesday. Cases continue to spike in Fatorda and Margao with both towns reporting eight new cases on Tuesday. Cuncolim, which saw a spurt in cases in the Cuncolim industrial estate recently, has recorded altogether 297 cases, with 111 active ones. Two persons from Cuncolim succumbed to the infection. On Tuesday, four more cases were reported from Cuncolim. Meanwhile, cases continued to spike in Margao with 12 more detected from areas under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre, taking the tally to 425. Of the 193 cases reported from Verna so far, 25 cases are currently active with no deaths reported from the village so far. Davorlim, which saw 200 cases of Covid 19 so far, currently has 113 active cases, though no incidence of deaths has been reported from the village so far. Raia with 85 active cases as on date, Nuvem with 80, Navelim with 79, Sao Jose de Areal with 74, and Curtorim with 62 are the areas under the watch of the health authorities. While Navelim and Curtorim accounted for two deaths each until August 31, one death was reported from Nuvem, while Sao Jose de Areal reported no death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatorda-inches-past-margao-in-infection-numbers/articleshow/77879410.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 2, 2020||Nagpur||‘Surprised’ HC warns lawyer of imposing Rs 10K cost for adjournment||Nagpur: Expressing “surprise” over a lawyer’s behaviour of seeking adjournment while pleading a senior citizen’s case, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday warned him of imposing Rs10,000 cost if he appears unprepared during the next hearing. The warning came while hearing a plea of Anant Kshirsagar, a pensioner, who had moved against Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education for pensionary benefits. Before deferring hearing till September 7 on the petitioner lawyer’s demand, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala hoped that counsels for petitioner and respondents would be ready with their documents without wasting the court's time. “Our anxiety to decide matters of senior citizens in relation to pensionary benefits seems to be more than petitioner’s counsel. We asked him to argue now so that case can be finally disposed of. It was pending since 2010 and relief claimed includes pension and gratuity. The counsel however prayed for taking up the matter next month, which surprised us,” the bench noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surprised-hc-warns-lawyer-of-imposing-rs-10k-cost-for-adjournment/articleshow/77907942.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 2, 2020||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal should exit Congress, join BJP: Ramdas Athawale||NEW DELHI: Union minister Ramdas Athawale has suggested that senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal should resign from the Congress party and join the Bharatiya Janata Party. Athawale said that the NDA government in the Centre will keep returning to power and that since veteran Congress leaders like Sibal, Azad and others have been accused of colluding with the BJP, they should submit their resignation just like Jyotiraditya Scindia did and join the BJP. "There is a controversy over the post of Congress chief. Rahul Gandhi has accused Sibal, Azad of working on BJP's behalf. Therefore, I request Sibal, Azad to resign from Congress. They have spent many years expanding the Congress, but they should exit the party and join BJP now," Athawale told ANI here. "If they are being disrespected there they should leave just like Jyotiraditya Scindia did, even Sachin Pilot did so but he reached a compromise. Rahul Gandhi is wrong in blaming people who built the Congress," he added. Athawale said that the BJP led NDA would stay in power for many more years, and expressed the hope that it will win over 350 seats in the next general elections. "BJP is the party of the masses today, people of all castes, sects, and religion are joining BJP. It will win keep winning in the coming elections and eradicate Congress," the Union minister of state for Social Justice said. Sibal and Azad were among the 23 big leaders from Congress who had written to interim president Sonia Gandhi for sweeping changes in the party. Later defending the letter, Azad had said it was no big deal if their letter got leaked and asked if action should not be taken for "indiscipline" against leaders who targeted them. Azad also said that party leader Rahul Gandhi initially had issues with the letter which was discussed during the stormy meeting of Congress Working Committee held last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ghulam-nabi-azad-kapil-sibal-should-exit-congress-join-bjp-ramdas-athawale/articleshow/77881451.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rajnath Singh’s son +ve; 28-year-old journo loses Covid battle||LUCKNOW: As many as 57 persons, including a 30-year-old TV journalist working for a national media house, succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. Pankaj Singh, Noida MLA and son of defence minister Rajnath Singh, also tested positive for Covid-19. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of the journalist who breathed his last at the Air Force Hospital in his native city Kanpur. The Covid-19 toll in the state reached 3,542 with Kanpur leading in casualties. Meanwhile, steady rise in the number of active infections – from 51,323 last week to 55,538 on Tuesday which is a jump of 7.5% in five days -- was recorded as the state’s Covid-19 tally crossed 2.35 lakhmark with addition of 5,571 new cases in the past 24 hours. “Of the active cases, 28,270 were under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad, urging people to follow the prevention protocols especially in wake of the Unlock-4. Data showed that Lucknow (760), Gorakhpur (315), Prayagraj (301), Kanpur (370) and Varanasi (146) accounted for one third of the total cases reported in the day. Spikes were recorded in Bareilly (133),Aligarh (166), Saharanpur (145), Deoria (114), Ayodhya (104) and Kushinagar (109). The total number of persons recovered reached 1,76,677 with the addition of 4,537 persons in the past 24 hours. This translates into a recovery rate of over 75%. Death of 63 persons in the past 24 hours took thee state toll to 3,486 while, discharge of 4,597 persons took the ttotal number of recoveries to 1,72,140.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-rajnath-singhs-son-ve-28-year-old-journo-loses-covid-battle/articleshow/77881459.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 2, 2020||Business||CIL coal offtake up 9.3% in Aug||Kolkata: Shrugging off the Covid-constricted growth and monsoon downpour, Coal India (CIL) came back strongly in August logging a 9.3% growth in coal off-take and 7.1% growth in coal output compared to August a year ago. For the first time in the ongoing fiscal, CIL has clocked growth in both the facets. Over burden removal (OBR) registered a growth of 37% this August, while composite OC production, which is the sum total of the OBR uncovered and coal produced through opencast mines, witnessed 30% growth against same month a year ago. “The growth slowdown is contained and going forward, in the ensuing months of the fiscal, we endeavour to maintain our production and off-take tempo,” said a senior official of the company. CIL as whole supplied 44.3 million tonne (MT) of coal to different consuming sectors during the referred month against 40.5 MT in the year-ago period with a growth of 9.3%. Increased supplies in volume terms during the month was at 3.7 MT. Mahanadi Coalfields (MCL) clocked a robust 40.4% growth followed by 10.4% growth by Bharat Coking Coal and South Eastern Coalfields (SECL) 7.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cil-coal-offtake-up-9-3-in-aug/articleshow/77879870.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||TCG CREST bets on AI learning||Kolkata: The Institute for Advancing Intelligence, one of the verticals of TCG CREST — a not-for-profit research institute — has started its doctoral programme in artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, cryptography and security last week. The course will help in bridging the academics-industry gap by creating job ready manpower for related industry, feels the group officials. TCG CREST is one of the first Indian institutes in this pandemic affected year to start its fully online academic programme. “State-of-the-art on-line educational technology has been adopted to provide a customized learning experience to the students. The incumbent research fellows will undergo a rigorous selection process. Candidates will be short-listed on the basis of their academic performance right from high school level up to the level of the national written tests and then appear and clear a viva session with an expert panel of Professors. Some of the selected research fellows will attend the online classes from England, The Netherlands and Singapore,” an official added. Purnendu Chatterjee, founder & chairman of TCG CREST, said, “The course aims at giving a competitive advantage to students and professionals in artificial intelligence, machine learning, cryptography, analytics of cyber data and other related fields in order to stay relevant, innovative and competitive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcg-crest-bets-on-ai-learning/articleshow/77879881.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Business||OFB gets new chairman and DGOF||Kolkata: The man in charge of developing the crucial sighting mechanism of the Dhanush artillery gun has taken over as the director-general of Ordnance Factories and chairman of the Kolkata-based Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). C S Vishwakarma replaced Hari Mohan, who superannuated. An MTech, Vishwakarma was additional DGOF and Member, Armoured Vehicles Group, before taking over as chairman and DGOF. “He served at the Gun Carriage Factory Jabalpur, Ordnance Factory Trichy, Ordnance Factory Dehradun, Ordnance Factory Kanpur, Ammunition Factory Khadki (Pune), Machine Tool Prototype Factory Ambernath (Mumbai) and the headquarters. He was closely associated with the development of the 155mm Dhanush at Jabalpur. He also monitored the sighting system of the Dhanush system at Ordnance Factory Dehradun. His contributions towards the development of the 40mm grenade at Khadki and the 40mm Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) at Trichy are also noteworthy,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ofb-gets-new-chairman-and-dgof/articleshow/77879898.cms||---
September 2, 2020||India||NASA congratulates Indian astronomers on Star Galaxy discovery||WASHINGTON DC: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has congratulated Indian astronomers on the discovery of one of the farthest Star galaxies in the universe estimated to be located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth. Speaking about the achievement to ANI on Tuesday, NASA described this discovery as an effort that will further humankind's understanding. "NASA congratulates the researchers on their exciting discovery," NASA's Public Affairs Officer Felicia Chou told ANI. Chou further added, "Science is a collaborative effort around the world, and discoveries like these help further humankind's understanding of where we come from, where are we going, and are we alone." India's first Multi-Wavelength Space Observatory "AstroSat" detected extreme-UV light from a galaxy located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth. The galaxy called AUDFs01 was discovered by a team of astronomers led by Dr Kanak Saha from the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics(IUCAA) Pune. India's AstroSat/UVIT was able to achieve this unique feat because the background noise in the UVIT detector is much less than one on the Hubble Space Telescope of US-based NASA. Director of IUCAA, Dr Somak Ray Chaudhury, stated that the discovery offers a very important clue to how the dark ages of the Universe ended and there was light in the Universe. "We need to know when this started, but it has been very hard to find the earliest sources of light," he said. India's first Space Observatory AstroSat, was launched by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) on September 28, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nasa-congratulates-indian-astronomers-on-star-galaxy-discovery/articleshow/77881469.cms||---
September 2, 2020||World||Trump spins baseless tale of 'thugs' flying to protests||CHICAGO: President Donald Trump is recycling a baseless conspiracy theory to claim that recent protests have been orchestrated by powerful people in "dark shadows" intent on undermining his reelection prospects. The claims first took root on Facebook and Twitter earlier this year after racial justice protests swelled across the country following the deaths of Black Americans in police custody. Thousands of social media users shared posts suggesting a covert network was coordinating the protests and rioters were descending on communities across the country. Trump appeared to amplify those unfounded conspiracy theories in an interview with Fox News host Laura Ingraham that aired Monday night, suggesting that protests in Washington during the Republican National Convention were orchestrated by unspecified forces. "We had somebody get on a plane from a certain city this weekend. And in the plane, it was almost completely loaded with thugs wearing these dark uniforms, black uniforms with gear and this and that," said Trump, adding that the matter is under investigation. When asked by reporters Tuesday for additional details on his assertion, Trump said someone else witnessed the activity and he would have to check to see if that person was willing to speak with news media. Vice President Mike Pence was asked in an interview Tuesday evening to explain what the president was talking about. "Well, I think what the president's referring to is actually what we heard in many of the cities. I know in Detroit there were a large number of arrests several weeks ago and the vast majority of people were from out of state. The same thing occurred in arrests that took place in recent cities," Pence said on Fox News Channel's "Special Report with Bret Baier." "Look, there's something going on here, where the radical left _ these anarchists and antifa _ are moving people around the country, and it's one of the reasons that the Justice Department is looking into where is the funding for this coming from? ... We're vigorously investigating where this is being organized from." He said during recent rioting that occurred in the nation's capital, the administration "heard some organization was pre-positioning assets and resources" around the city. The president has a history of elevating online conspiracy theories from his powerful podium, sometimes amplifying Twitter posts to his 85.6 million followers or dropping references to debunked claims in interviews and appearances. As the November election approaches, he's been particularly focused on the unproven notion that widespread protests against racist policing are being coordinated and driven by shadowy forces intent on defeating him. Trump is picking up on unproven conspiracy theories that began spreading earlier this year during protests for racial justice. One of the first public Facebook posts suggesting a similar conspiracy theory appears to have been made in May when Idaho resident Russell D. Wade wrote on Facebook that a plane was transporting protesters from Seattle to Boise, Idaho. "Be ready for attacks downtown and residential areas," Wade wrote in a post that has been shared more than 3,500 times. Wade, who lost a bid for local sheriff earlier this year, urged his followers to arm themselves. A social media message sent to Wade on Tuesday was not immediately returned. Local police departments from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, to Payette County, Idaho, were forced to knock down similar social media rumors in June that "busloads" of rioters were coming to town. Other social media posts claimed that throngs of "antifa," a term for leftist militants, were plotting to violently disrupt cities and towns. In Michigan, a limousine businessman had to refute online rumors that his buses were purchased by liberal financier George Soros to coordinate protests after Facebook users manipulated images of his white charter buses to show the words "Soros Riot Dance Squad" emblazoned on the sides. In Facebook and Twitter posts earlier this summer, Trump also blamed antifa for violence that broke out during racial justice protests. But an Associated Press analysis of court records, employment histories and social media posts for 217 people arrested in Minneapolis and the District of Columbia, cities at the center of the protests earlier this year, found evidence that only a few of those arrested indicated they were involved in left-leaning activities. A few others expressed support for the political right and Trump himself. Trump's allies have ramped up their efforts to push similar uncorroborated theories over the past week. During the Republican National Convention, his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani claimed that "Black Lives Matter and antifa sprang into action" and "hijacked" peaceful protests. Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky called on the FBI to investigate protests outside of the RNC in Washington last week, describing it as "an organized interstate racket." "They need to be arrested, questioned," said Paul, who had to be escorted to his hotel during the final night of the convention. "The bills need to be subpoenaed by a judge to say, who paid for your bill? How did you get here on a plane, and staying in a fancy hotel, and yet you're acting like a criminal?" The messaging from the president and his GOP supporters is aimed at building up fear among voters in hopes of driving them to cast a ballot in the president's favor this fall, said Jennifer Mercieca, a professor at Texas A&M University who studies what she calls Trump's "rhetorical genius." "Everything is on the line, you have to be sure to vote," Mercieca said in summing up the message. "They're out to get you and destroy the American way of life. They're already here . just a short plane ride away. They're scary, they wear black."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-spins-baseless-tale-of-thugs-flying-to-protests/articleshow/77881473.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker ‘shot at’ in West Bengal's Keshpur||MIDNAPORE: A BJP worker was allegedly shot at on Monday night in Keshpur, months ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. Police have begun investigations, reports Sujoy Khanra. Ajay Khamrui, a resident of Korongopota village under Trinamool Congress-run Jagannathpur panchayat in Keshpur block, has been admitted to Midnapore Medical College with “head injuries” that sources in police say “may not be from a gunshot”. Khamrui, however, insisted that he was fired upon when he was returning from the market. Trinamool’s Keshpur block president Uttam Tripathi has denied firing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-shot-at-in-keshpur/articleshow/77880842.cms||Sujoy Khanra
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bangla deputy high commission in Kol to fly flag at half-mast as tribute||Kolkata: The Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Kolkata will keep its national flag flying at half-mast on Wednesday in honour of former President of India Pranab Mukherjee, a rare show of tribute by the neighbouring country to any Indian leader. “The government has taken the decision to show our respect to the former President of India. We will fly the flag at half-mast on September 2,” said Md Mofakkharul Iqbal, first secretary (Press) of Bangladesh Deputy High Commission, Kolkata. In 2010, Bangladesh Parliament had passed a resolution to pay tribute to former Bengal chief minister Jyoti Basu. “I cannot recollect Bangladesh has shown such a tribute to any Indian leader in the recent past. Pranabbabu was truly a friend of the people of Bangladesh,” said Col (retd) Md Faruk Khan, former commerce minister of Bangladesh. Khan was commerce minister and Mukherjee held the finance ministry portfolio during the UPA government when a trade agreement was signed between the two countries in 2009. “Pranabbabu played a crucial role during the period. His blessings remained with us even when he became the President of India. He has always been a guardian to many of us and is respected across party lines. It is an irreparable loss for each one of us,” Khan said over the phone. On Monday, Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina recalled Mukherjee’s “outstanding” and “unforgettable” contribution to the 1971 liberation war. “When Sheikh Hasina and her family members were in India after Bangabandhu was assassinated, Pranabbabu helped the family and the ties grew stronger over time,” recounted Mesbah Kamal, a professor of history at Dhaka University. On Tuesday, Narail, Suvra’s ancestral home, mourned the demise of its “jamaibabu” (son-in-law). On Wednesday morning, a memorial service will be organised by the Suvra Mukherjee Foundation at a temple in Sadar (upa-zilla) area. Mukherjee had visited the place, along with his wife, first in 1995. He went back to Narail again in March 2013. It is the same year when he was conferred the “Bangladesh Muktijuddho Sommanona”. Indo-Bangladesh Forum for Secular Humanism will bring out a special issue commemorating Mukherjee. “His role during the liberation war and support to the people of Bangladesh cannot be forgotten,” said Bidyut Debnath, secretary of the organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-deputy-high-commission-in-kol-to-fly-flag-at-half-mast-as-tribute/articleshow/77880799.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal-Sikkim rail route tunnels near completion||JALPAIGURI: All 14 tunnels on the Sivok-Rangpo railway line are nearly ready, putting the project on course to meet the completion deadline of December 2022 despite the coronavirous pandemic, the North East Frontier Railway (NFR) has said. Work on the project, which will put Sikkim on the Indian Railways map, had come to a halt in March after lockdown was imposed. But the railways managed to complete 7-8% of project construction, of the total 20% done so far, after Unlock I began in May. “First, we could not work for two months. Then, we had to reduce our workforce to ensure social distancing. But we are confident of doing that (meeting deadline) in the given time. We are planning to work double shifts now,” said NFR’s CPRO Subhanan Chanda. The problems were compounded by the landslide-prone hilly terrain and heavy showers. TOI has accessed a few photographs of the tunnels, constructed by IRCON (Indian Railway Construction Company) International Ltd on behalf of NFR. The national project was sanctioned way back in 2008-09 but could not make much headway due to environment-related issues as the proposed rail line was to pass through the Mahananda wildlife sanctuary. Once completed, it is expected to boost connectivity of Sikkim, a landlocked Himalayan state that shares borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan and is strategically important. The 44.96km rail line, of which 41.55km falls in West Bengal and the rest in Sikkim, is expected to cost around Rs 8,900 crore, of which Rs 335.5 crore have been utilized till August 2020. A new bridge over the Teesta, near Jalpaiguri in Bengal, and a new double-line track of 5.7km are expected to be completed by January 2021. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-sikkim-rail-route-tunnels-near-completion/articleshow/77880815.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||1 in 3 applicants skips JEE as safety takes precedence over future plans||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Bokaro: The first day of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) was held smoothly at five cities across the state on Tuesday amid safety measures to prevent spread of Covid-19 among students, who in turn said they felt safe inside the examination halls. In all five cities, the turnout was above 60% and examination controllers termed it as average. In the first session at the Tata Consultancy centre in Ranchi, the attendance was low. City coordinator for the examination and principal of Delhi Public School Ram Singh said, “Overall attendance was 60% to 70% in the first session which improved in the second session. Around 400 students were expected to appear for each session.” Although the first session was to start from 9am, students were asked to report by 7.20am. Students were allowed entry in a staggered manner after sanitizing their hands and a thermal screening at the entrance gate. Students were asked to display their admit cards, aadhaar cards and a photo from a distance of six feet. Inside the examination hall, students sat at alternate computers which ensured six feet distance between two students. Upon entry, students found answer sheets and pens on the tables. The centre provided masks to the students in order to prevent any chance of use of bluetooth or other devices used for unfair means. Anudeep Kumar, a student of Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli, said, “We felt very safe inside the examination hall. With the kind of measures that were taken at the centre, there was less chances of infection.” Kumar was echoed by another student Sanskriti Singh. Students were by and large satisfied with the questions asked, barring a few in mathematics. Purwa Kumari, a student of a Ranchi-based school, said, “I had to leave several questions in the mathematics section due to negative markings.” She was echoed by Isha Bharti who felt the questions in the section were a bit tough. Meanwhile, parents had a mixed response over the examination being conducted. Sashi Bhushan Singh said, “The test was already delayed for a long time and students were getting frustrated. It was a good decision to hold the examination amid measures to minimise Covid infection.” Another parent, who preferred anonymity, said, “Even if one student has not been able to appear for the examination due to fear of the virus or lack of transport, it is an injustice towards him or her.” In Jamshedpur, the first day of the week-long online JEE (Main) 2020 commenced smoothly at iON Digital Zone in Yash Plaza at Mango with 250 aspirants from different parts of the district and adjoining towns. The district administration had made arrangements for free transportation of examinees to the centre, but most candidates preferred private vehicles. Officials deputed at the examination centre ensured every candidate is wearing a mask and getting their hands sanitized before walking inside the examination hall. “A landline phone service was available for the candidates to call up and seek help for transportation to the examination centre,” said an official at the district public relations department. In Bokaro, the examination was conducted at one of the two centres which saw a total of 170 candidates on the first day. Thermal scanning of the candidates was done before allowing entry. Masks were made compulsory for all candidates. More than 3,300 candidates are participating in the mains in Bokaro which is scheduled to run till September 6. Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh assessed the arrangements at the examination centre and said examination at both centres will start from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-in-3-applicants-skips-jee-as-safety-takes-precedence-over-future-plans/articleshow/77878715.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Underground fire, squatters reducing BCCL’s coal production: New CMD||Ranchi: The underground fire in Jharia, coupled with unauthorised human settlements in and around land subsidence-prone zones, is holding back Bharat Coking Coal Limited’s (BCCL) potential to achieve an annual production target of 100 million tonne, its newly-appointed chairman cum managing director (CMD) Gopal Singh said on Tuesday. “I have headed BCCL twice. In one of my stints as the head of Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), I was given BCCL’s additional charge. I am aware of the Jharia Master Plan and my objective will be to sit with all the stakeholders and find a solution to the problems so that BCCL’s production capacity increases,” Singh told the media at the CCL headquarters (Darbhanga House) in Ranchi before relinquishing his charge and heading to Dhanbad. Singh, who served as the CMD of Ranchi-based Coal India Limited subsidiary CCL since March 2012, was on Monday evening appointed as the CMD of BCCL in a notification issued by the Union government’s secretariat of the appointments committee of the cabinet. Singh was also appointed as the interim chairman of Coal India Limited in September 2017. A formal notification from the Union coal ministry and the CIL is yet to follow. Singh, who superannuates on January 31 next year, will swap places with BCCL’s CMD P M Prasad, who will take over as the new CMD of CCL. Singh, an alumnus of ISM Dhanbad, worked in CCL’s various projects for two decades and was its CMD for 8.5 years. When he took over in 2012, CCL’s annual production hovered around 48 MT per annum. In the 2019-20 FY, CCL produced 68 MT coal. In the ongoing fiscal, CCL has set itself a target of producing 84 MT coal, but its production suffered in the first two quarters due to a slump in industrial demand due to the lockdown. Maintaining that coal-based energy still accounts for fulfilling India’s 75% annual power needs, Singh added that the implementation of the Jharia Master Plan was crucial for the turnaround of BCCL, which was once termed as a sick PSU after its net worth was wiped out due to accumulated losses to the tune of Rs 5,600 crore in 2012. “Against India’s 700 MT annual coal requirements, we procure 242 MT from outside. CCL and BCCL are the only two CIL subsidiaries which produce good quality coking coal and hence, BCCL’s turnaround is crucial to bridge the supply gap,” Singh told the TOI. BCCL’s production target for this fiscal is 34 MT. Expressing satisfaction with his stint at CCL, Singh said during his tenure, the PSU was able to clear the pending clearances and bottlenecks and commission projects which will augment its production capacity up to 200 MTPA (including the 75MTPA Magadh, 35 MTPA Amrapali and the 20 MTPA Sanghamitra open cast coal projects). “We were also able to eliminate the problem of coal evacuation from our mines after the Mcluskeyganj-Piparwar and Sheopur-Tori railway lines, which were pending completion since being envisioned in 2000, were completed by 2018,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/underground-fire-squatters-reducing-bccls-coal-production-new-cmd/articleshow/77878837.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||Banna discharged from Rims, Shibu recovering in Delhi||Ranchi: State minister for health, medical education and family welfare Banna Gupta (Congress) was discharged from Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Tuesday evening after he tested negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, JMM president and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren, admitted at a private hospital in New Delhi, is on the road to recovery, party sources here said. Gupta was admitted to Rims on August 18 after he tested positive for Covid-19 through an RT-PCR test, hours after he had attended a cabinet meeting, sending most ministers, including CM Hemant Soren, into home quarantine. Gupta, who was discharged 14 days after he was admitted, said he will resume his duties after completing his mandatory 14-day-home quarantine. “I am grateful to the doctors who helped me recover quickly. I pledge to donate my plasma once I become eligible for it (after 28 days),” Gupta said. Last week, state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur donated his plasma. Shibu, who tested positive on August 22, was taken to New Delhi by train from Bokaro. “His throat and nasal swabs were collected three days ago for tests. He is doing fine and we are awaiting further updates,” a JMM office-bearer in Ranchi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-discharged-from-rims-shibu-recovering-in-delhi/articleshow/77878744.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||One in three aspirants sits for JEE on Day 1 in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Only one in three, or 33.2%, of the 4,653 students from Bengal who had registered for the BArch and BPlanning examinations on Day 1 of the much-deferred JEE (Main) took the tests on Tuesday. With the BTech examination scheduled from Wednesday, the turnout is expected to increase. The engineering entrance examination is scheduled to continue till September 6 and has 37,973 registered candidates in Bengal. It is being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). It was originally scheduled to be held in April but was postponed due to the Covid situation in the country. On Day 1, only 697 of the total 2,037 candidates appeared for the B(Arch) paper in the first half. For the B (Planning) paper in the second half, the turnout was expected to be higher but eventually only 848 of the 2,616 registered candidates took the test. The poor turnout surprised teachers of architecture, who called this an abnormal reaction to an abnormal situation. “Till last year we were used to seeing almost 100% attendance for the architecture-related papers. This year the Covid situation is such that many may not have been able to reach the designated venues,” said Aditya Bandyopadhyay, the seniormost faculty in the department of architecture at IIEST that accepts JEE (Main) and NATA scores for admission to architecture. Tuesday’s examination was held in keeping with the strict Covid safety protocol laid down by the NTA and implemented across all the 12 venues in the state by TCS iON, which is conducting the exam countrywide on behalf of the NTA. “We can normally seat 4,000 candidates at Geetabitan (the TCS complex at Sector V) but we made arrangements for only 1,121 candidates here in keeping with social- distancing norms,” said a senior official in charge of the examinations in Bengal. ‘Crowd marshals’ and volunteers were deployed at every point from the entrance of the premises to the exam halls to ensure there was no clustering. The pathways were marked for candidates in queue. Students were made to sanitise their hands before entry and handed out fresh masks that they had to keep on throughout the length of the exam. “We seated them in such a way that there was a gap of several computers between two examinees. Though the exam was online, in case of B Arch and B Planning some drawing and rough work needs to be done, so all such extra rough sheets had to be binned for the sake of safety. Even after leaving the venue, if they had to visit the washroom, candidates had to follow markings to access stalls and only alternate ones were in operation. They were then guided out of the venue by the marshals,” the official said. The time between the two exams was spent in thoroughly sanitising the exam halls, chairs, tables, computers and other touchpoints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-in-3-aspirants-sits-for-jee-on-day-1-in-bengal/articleshow/77880773.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Man turns transporter for Covid suspects||Gopiballavpur: A 35-year-old man from Jhargram’s Gopiballavpur does what even family members fear to do in Covid times, that too in the face of opposition from his wife. Sattakam Pattanayak ferries Covid-19 suspects to hospital on his bike. He dons a PPE kit and sets out for hospital, Covid suspect riding pillion, a scene some passersby happened to photograph and post on social media. It soon went viral. Satyakam, who is part of a local venture providing internet connection, got down to work after buying a PPE kit for Rs 550 from a local pharmacy recently. What drives him to do what he does? “It is simply out of humanitarian consideration that I do such social service,” said Satyakam, whose wife Tanushree is opposed to this activity. On August 11, he carried a person with fever to hospital fron Sijua village, about 4km from his Gopiballavpur home. A neighbour of the suspect had tested Covid-positive a few days earlier. Satyakam ferried him to hospital and back after his swab sample was collected. The man tested positive, prompting a health department ambulance to take him to Jhargram superspeciality hospital. He returned home cured. On August 30, Satyakam ferried another Covid suspect to hospital from Gopiballavpur’s Shyamsundarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-turns-transporter-for-covid-suspects/articleshow/77880846.cms||Sujay Khanra
September 2, 2020||Kolkata||Teen who took on drug thugs found hanging||Malda: A Class IX student who went missing on Monday night, shortly after a kangaroo court was convened to examine his allegations of a drug racket thriving in Mothabari, was found hanging from a tree near his home on Tuesday morning. While 16-year-old Ali Karim Sain’s father has claimed murder, police are investigating both suicide and fatal assault angles. According to relative Asif Iqbal, Ali and his elder brother Hasan had been protesting against illegal liquor and drug business in the area. “Recently, the two brothers were assaulted. Their father lodged a named police complaint,” Iqbal said. Mothabari police station in-charge Bitun Pal said, “We have sent the body for post-mortem.” The accused youths are reportedly absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teen-who-took-on-drug-thugs-found-hanging/articleshow/77880826.cms||Subhro Maitra
September 2, 2020||Ranchi||951 new cases in Ranchi, Jharkhand’s active caseload past 15,000-mark||RANCHI: In the biggest one-day spike in new Covid cases, Ranchi district reported 951 fresh infections on Tuesday night as the district administration on Tuesday conducted a special rapid antigen mass testing drive with 6,943 samples tested across 20 centers in the district’s urban and rural residential pockets. Jharkhand reported 2,064 new infections and 969 recoveries on Tuesday. With it, the state’s Covid 19 cases rose to 43,833. With more than 5,000 new Covid cases in two days, including 3,331 on Monday, Jharkhand’s active caseload surpassed the 15,000 mark for the first time since the pandemic broke out here on March 31. Of these, Ranchi has 4,036 active cases, the highest among the 24 districts. Ranchi has reported 8,754 cases and 65 fatalities so far since and Jamshedpur has the second highest number of cases (7,322) and the maximum fatalities (192). Jharkhand also recorded 11 Covid casualties in 24 hours, including six late on Monday night, taking the toll to 428. Of the five fatalities on Tuesday, three were from East Singhbhum while one death each was reported from Dhanbad and Sahibganj districts. After Ranchi, the most number of infections were reported from East Singhbhum district (244) followed by Bokaro (203). Giridih reported 155 cases while Hazaribag and Ramgarh reported 70 cases each. Seraikela-Kharsawan reported 48 cases while Khunti reported 39. Earlier in the day, chief minister Hemant Soren took to social media to congratulate the state health department for testing over 1.5 lakh samples on Monday. “This may be the highest number of tests conducted in a day anywhere in the country. Despite limited resources, our government is committed to the service, security and health of every Jharkhand resident,” Soren tweeted. The testing figure fell to 28,304 on Tuesday as the special statewide rapid antigen testing drive came to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/951-new-cases-in-ranchi-states-active-caseload-past-15k-mark/articleshow/77878877.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||951 new cases in Ranchi, Jharkhand’s active caseload past 15,000-mark||RANCHI: In the biggest one-day spike in new Covid cases, Ranchi district reported 951 fresh infections on Tuesday night as the district administration on Tuesday conducted a special rapid antigen mass testing drive with 6,943 samples tested across 20 centers in the district’s urban and rural residential pockets. Jharkhand reported 2,064 new infections and 969 recoveries on Tuesday. With it, the state’s Covid 19 cases rose to 43,833. With more than 5,000 new Covid cases in two days, including 3,331 on Monday, Jharkhand’s active caseload surpassed the 15,000 mark for the first time since the pandemic broke out here on March 31. Of these, Ranchi has 4,036 active cases, the highest among the 24 districts. Ranchi has reported 8,754 cases and 65 fatalities so far since and Jamshedpur has the second highest number of cases (7,322) and the maximum fatalities (192). Jharkhand also recorded 11 Covid casualties in 24 hours, including six late on Monday night, taking the toll to 428. Of the five fatalities on Tuesday, three were from East Singhbhum while one death each was reported from Dhanbad and Sahibganj districts. After Ranchi, the most number of infections were reported from East Singhbhum district (244) followed by Bokaro (203). Giridih reported 155 cases while Hazaribag and Ramgarh reported 70 cases each. Seraikela-Kharsawan reported 48 cases while Khunti reported 39. Earlier in the day, chief minister Hemant Soren took to social media to congratulate the state health department for testing over 1.5 lakh samples on Monday. “This may be the highest number of tests conducted in a day anywhere in the country. Despite limited resources, our government is committed to the service, security and health of every Jharkhand resident,” Soren tweeted. The testing figure fell to 28,304 on Tuesday as the special statewide rapid antigen testing drive came to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/951-new-cases-in-ranchi-states-active-caseload-past-15k-mark/articleshow/77886495.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Dalit youth dies in custody, three cops suspended||LUCKNOW: Three policemen, including a station house officer, were suspended in Rae Bareli after a Dalit youth allegedly died of police torture. Those suspended are SHO Lalganj police station Harishankar Prajapati and two subinspectors. The action came after the family members of the deceased approached SP Rae Bareli Swapnil Mamgain and accused police of torturing the 19-year-old boy Mohit.DM Rae Bareli has set up an inquiry panel to probe the matter. Mamgain has also ordered a departmental inquiry into the incident. Mamgain told TOI that Mohit was accused of bike theft and was brought for questioning at Lalganj police station on August 29 where he complained of vomiting and pain. “He was immediately taken to a community health centre where doctors referred him to district hospital. He died during treatment on August 30 morning. The postmortem examination could not ascertain the cause of death and his viscera has been preserved,” SP said. He added that no external injuries were found on Mohit’s body in the autopsy. “Prima facie, SHO Lalganj, Harishankar Prajapati, was found accused of unlawful detention beyond 24 hours at police station along with two sub-inspectors. Therefore, the trio has been suspended,” SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-dalit-youth-dies-in-custody-three-cops-suspended/articleshow/77881531.cms||---
September 2, 2020||World||Coronavirus infection in Nepal enters community transmission phase: Nepal Health Ministry||KATHMANDU: With growing cases of Covid-19 cases in Nepal, 12 districts in the country have entered the phase of community transmission, the Ministry of Health and Population said on Tuesday. In a press briefing, the country's Public Health Advisor, Dr Suresh Tiwari said that Nepal has entered community transmission in 12 districts, including its capital Kathmandu. "...12 districts and out of them, 4 have more than 1000 active cases till today. Combining it with other 8 districts --- these 12 districts hosts around 73 per cent of the active cases. This has signalled that these 12 territories, or the pocket areas which we also can call hotspots have been adversely infected, with this we have reached to the point that there has been Community Transmission in these areas," Tiwari said. The districts under the community transmission include Morang, Sunsari, Dhanusha, Mahottari, Parsa, Bara, Rautahat, Sarlahi, Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Chitwan and Rupandehi. Dr Tiwari also pointed out the rate of transmission amongst women had gone up from 5 per cent to around 22-23 per cent and fatality of elderly population soared to around 4 per cent. On Tuesday, a total of 1069 new cases of infection were reported throughout the country. Kathmandu Valley alone reported 481 cases of infection. With newly reported cases, Nepal's COVID-19 count on Tuesday reached 40,529.The COVID-19 death tally of the country stands at 239 while a total of 22,178 people have recovered from the virus so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/coronavirus-infection-in-nepal-enters-community-transmission-phase-nepal-health-ministry/articleshow/77881557.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||One-fifth of Chennai infected with Covid-19 till mid-July: Survey||CHENNAI: A little more than 1/5th or 21% of the city’s population has been infected with SARS-COV2 or Covid-19, a seroprevalence survey conducted by the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) for Greater Chennai Corporation has found. Around 80% of the population is still susceptible to the virus, warned the survey whose results were released on Tuesday. The NIE in July collected blood samples from 12,405 people from 51 of the 200 most populated wards of the corporation. Of these, 2,673 had evidence of catching the infection — their blood showed the presence of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) antibodies. The corporation estimates that by mid-July, 17.66 lakh people among a population of 82.16 lakh would have been infected. The survey, however, showed that seroprevalence ranged from 7% in Madhavaram zone to 44.2% in Tondiarpet. Even among wards, 50% of sampled residents at Korukkupet in North Chennai showed presence of antibodies, against 25% in Saligramam and 8% in Mugalivakkam. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said the survey had helped the civic body scientifically refocus its health interventions. “In zones where seroprevalence is high, the number of cases is gradually decreasing. We can see that they are attaining stability,” he said, indicating that efforts would be intensified in zones where the seroprevalence was lower. The seroprevalence data also shows that among those sampled, more women (24%) showed the presence of antibodies than men (19%). The seroprevalence was as high as 65% among those with a history of respiratory symptoms. Among age groups, it was highest in the 10-19 age group and the 40-49 age group and only 16% among those aged above 60. Prakash indicated that since this was done in July, many more could have obtained immunity since then and that the corporation would continue with more such surveys. The survey has found that the ratio of actual infections (as seen in the seroprevalence) to that of the recorded cases was lower in comparison to that in some published studies. This indicated a high testing performance, the study said. Similarly, the infection to fatality ratio was comparable or lower to that in published studies. The study has also indicated that there is a need to understand why seroprevalence varies widely across zones so that control measures can be improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/one-fifth-of-chennai-infected-with-covid-19-till-mid-july-survey/articleshow/77881551.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu adds 5,928 cases, 96 deaths to Covid count||CHENNAI: Six months since Tamil Nadu began its battle against Covid-19, deaths due to the virus were just four shy of the 100-mark. The state added 5,928 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 96 deaths on Tuesday, which pushed the case tally to 4,33,969 and the toll to 7,418. There were 52,379 people still under treatment in the state. While Tamil Nadu had the highest number of positive cases after Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, the number of people still under treatment was higher in Maharashtra (1.94 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (1.01 lakh), Karnataka (91,018), and Uttar Pradesh (56,810). The state has the highest number of deaths after Maharashtra (24,583). Chennai, the worst affected district, continued to report the maximum number of cases on Tuesday, with 1,084 new infections and 22 deaths. Neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (384), Tiruvallur (296) and Kancheepuram (191) – together reported 871 cases and 19 deaths. There were 19,273 active cases in the region, including 13,107 in Chennai. TN’s west zone (1,286) reported the most infections on Tuesday, second only to the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported 581 cases, followed by 335 in Salem, 90 in Erode, 87 in Tiruppur and 74 in Namakkal. The region together reported 15 deaths. After reporting 14 deaths on Monday, Coimbatore reported two deaths while Salem reported 10. There were 10,925 people still under treatment. The other northern districts together added 1,173 cases and 17 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 286 cases, Kallakurichi reported 209, Ranipet 182, Villupuram 166, Tiruvannamalai 154 and Vellore 137. Tirupattur recorded the lowest in the zone with 39 cases. Ranipet and Vellore reported four deaths each, Kallakurichi and Tiruvannamalai reported three. There were 27,722 people still under treatment in the northern zone The 10 districts in the south together reported 857 cases, while districts in the central zone together reported 646 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 153, Tirunelveli reported 152 cases, Madurai 128 and Dindigul 111. In the central zone, Thanjavur had 132 cases, followed by 99 in Thiruvarur, 98 in Trichy and 95 in Pudukottai. The central zone reported the least number of active cases in the state. The region has 5,508 active cases compared to 8,099 in the south. Four patients whose deaths were reported on Tuesday did not have comorbid conditions. The most common comorbid condition were diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-adds-5928-cases-96-deaths-to-covid-count/articleshow/77881572.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu adds 5,928 cases, 96 deaths to Covid count||CHENNAI: Six months since Tamil Nadu began its battle against Covid-19, deaths due to the virus were just four shy of the 100-mark. The state added 5,928 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 96 deaths on Tuesday, which pushed the case tally to 4,33,969 and the toll to 7,418. There were 52,379 people still under treatment in the state. While Tamil Nadu had the highest number of positive cases after Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, the number of people still under treatment was higher in Maharashtra (1.94 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (1.01 lakh), Karnataka (91,018), and Uttar Pradesh (56,810). The state has the highest number of deaths after Maharashtra (24,583). Chennai, the worst affected district, continued to report the maximum number of cases on Tuesday, with 1,084 new infections and 22 deaths. Neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (384), Tiruvallur (296) and Kancheepuram (191) – together reported 871 cases and 19 deaths. There were 19,273 active cases in the region, including 13,107 in Chennai. TN’s west zone (1,286) reported the most infections on Tuesday, second only to the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported 581 cases, followed by 335 in Salem, 90 in Erode, 87 in Tiruppur and 74 in Namakkal. The region together reported 15 deaths. After reporting 14 deaths on Monday, Coimbatore reported two deaths while Salem reported 10. There were 10,925 people still under treatment. The other northern districts together added 1,173 cases and 17 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 286 cases, Kallakurichi reported 209, Ranipet 182, Villupuram 166, Tiruvannamalai 154 and Vellore 137. Tirupattur recorded the lowest in the zone with 39 cases. Ranipet and Vellore reported four deaths each, Kallakurichi and Tiruvannamalai reported three. There were 27,722 people still under treatment in the northern zone The 10 districts in the south together reported 857 cases, while districts in the central zone together reported 646 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 153, Tirunelveli reported 152 cases, Madurai 128 and Dindigul 111. In the central zone, Thanjavur had 132 cases, followed by 99 in Thiruvarur, 98 in Trichy and 95 in Pudukottai. The central zone reported the least number of active cases in the state. The region has 5,508 active cases compared to 8,099 in the south. Four patients whose deaths were reported on Tuesday did not have comorbid conditions. The most common comorbid condition were diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-adds-5928-cases-96-deaths-to-covid-count/articleshow/77888819.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Final year students to write exams in person after September 15||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government is making arrangements for college students to write final year exams in person after September 15, higher education minister K P Anbalagan said on Tuesday. Nearly 4 lakh students are yet to take their final year exams in arts, science and other professional courses, including engineering, due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “The final semester exams for students in state universities and polytechnic colleges will be held after September 15. The details of exam schedule and exam centres will be released later. Arrangements are being made for all final year students to write exams in person,” the minister said in a statement. He asked students to begin preparations for the tests. With the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) underway and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled for September 13, the state’s decision to also conduct final year exams in person has surprised many universities given that the higher education department has been consulting with state varsities on conducting online exams. “When the government can conduct physical exams for all final year students, why don’t they conduct arrear exams in a similar way,” former vice-chancellor of Anna University E Balagurusamy asked. Career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi urged the state to give some leverage to final year students by conducting exams online. “When other students are exempted from semester exams, final year students alone are asked to write exams in person. Anna University is ready with the technology required for conducting online exams. They should conduct online exams for engineering students and maybe consider offline exams for others,” he said. The higher education minister also added that candidates can apply for BArch admission from September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-final-year-students-to-write-exams-in-person-after-september-15/articleshow/77881832.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Durai Murugan likely to be DMK general secretary||CHENNAI: The DMK has convened a virtual meeting of the party’s general council on September 9 to elect a new general secretary and treasurer for the party, Senior leaders S Durai Murugan and T R Baalu are likely to be unanimously elected to the two posts respectively, multiple sources in the party said. Prior to that, the DMK had also convened a meeting of the party’s district secretaries this Thursday (September 3). While no agenda has been set for the meeting, it is likely to take stock of the recent political developments in the state, besides gearing up for electing the two new office-bearers at the general council meeting next week. The meeting of the party’s general council will be held virtually, under my leadership, on September 9. All members of the general council are requested to participate without fail,” DMK president M K Stalin said in a statement. “Unless there is any exigency or need, DMK has always gone with seniors for such top posts. The posts of president, general secretary and treasurer are elected by the general council, while all other state-level posts are appointed. With the last day for filing nomination being September 3, we will get to know about the next general secretary and treasurer this Thursday itself,” a senior DMK leader told TOI. Originally, the DMK had initiated the process to elect the new general secretary early this year, following the demise of K Anbazhagan, who had held that post since 1977, on March 7. The fact that Durai Murugan would be the next general secretary became clear, when he resigned from the post of treasurer to file his nomination to contest for the post. Subsequently, Stalin issued another statement on March 16, setting the agenda for the party’s general council meet, earlier planned on March 29, to elect a new general secretary and the treasurer. As Stalin was clearly in favour of accommodating senior leaders for these two top posts, Durai Murugan and T R Baalu became the obvious choice. Due to the Covid lockdown, the March 29 general council meeting got postponed. After a couple of months, Stalin, on June 3, announced that Durai Murugan will continue as the party treasurer. While the move had reportedly upset the senior leader, Durai Murugan later issued a statement that he is not in the DMK for any posts. In the case of Baalu, who is DMK parliamentary party leader, he was reportedly miffed when the post of principal secretary was taken away from him and given to K N Nehru on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/durai-murugan-likely-to-be-dmk-general-secretary/articleshow/77881618.cms||D Govardan
September 2, 2020||Chennai||Over 10 lakh arrested in Tamil Nadu for violating lockdown norms||CHENNAI: Police have arrested more than 10 lakh people across the state for violating lockdown norms since March 24, when lockdown 1.0 was implemented to curb the spread of coronavirus. According to a statement issued by the DGP office,10,04,550 were arrested for the 9,06,939 violations reported from March 24 to 6am on September 1. The city police have registered 9,06,939 FIRs against violators and seized 6,99,826 vehicles. Police have collected fines totalling to more than ₹22 crore from violators. The Tamil Nadu government issued strict orders to the state police on cracking down on lockdown violators to prevent the spread of the virus. Officers said many were caught travelling across the city without a valid reason when lockdown norms stated that people were barred from travelling beyond 2km from their residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-10-lakh-arrested-in-tamil-nadu-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/77881657.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four-storey building collapses in Nalasopara, five families escape unhurt||MUMBAI: A four-storey redeveloped residential building collapsed in Mumbai's Nalasopara, even as five families had a miraculous escape in the wee hours of Wednesday. No casualty was reported. The collapse comes nine days after a five-storey building Tarique Gardens in Mahad, Raigad district, collapsed on August 24, killing 16 people and injuring nine. This building was constructed seven years ago. The 25-year-old building in Majithia Park, Achole Road, Nalasopara (east) was redeveloped in 2009. Two years ago the building developed major cracks. The Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) had declared the structure dangerous and evacuation notices were issued to the 20 flat owners. While 15 occupants moved out, five families, comprising around 22 people, including children and senior citizens, stayed in the building. The families who stayed back claimed they could not afford the rent outside and were fighting a legal battle with the builder identified as one Abhay Naik.  Residents alleged that the builder had carried out inferior and illegal work. Residents claimed that the building was legal when it went for redevelopment. On Tuesday evening, when residents were having an informal meeting in the building compound, they noticed a pile of mud near the gate. Sensing that the structure was further weakening, they decided to approach the civic body on Wednesday. At around 11pm, they heard some sounds of falling rubble. The families stepped out and found that portions of the cracked structure had given way. They waited outside and were discussing their next plan. At around 1am, a family even returned to their fourth-floor flat to collect some cash and lock their room. The couple Seema and Dayanand Deorukhkar picked up some cash and hardly stepped out of the gate, the structure came crashing down at around 1.30am. The VVMC fire brigade personnel reached the spot and have taken up search operation. Families have, however, told firemen that no one is trapped inside the debris. Power supply in the area was hit as the structure brought down with it some electric poles. Families said that all their belongings and valuables were buried under the structure. A team of around 20 firemen are at the spot. Work of clearing the debris is underway. The sound of the crash woke up residents of neighbouring buildings. The area has been cordoned off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nalasopara-building-collapse-miraculous-escape-for-five-families/articleshow/77881642.cms||Sandhya Nair
September 2, 2020||World||Trump visits Kenosha, calls violence 'domestic terrorism'||KENOSHA: President Donald Trump charged into the latest eruption in the nation's reckoning over racial injustice on Tuesday, blaming “domestic terror" that he said fuelled the violence in Kenosha, Wisconsin, and declaring it was enabled by Democratic leaders. While Trump declared the violence “anti-American,” he offered no words for the underlying cause of the anger and protests — accusations of police violence against Black men — and did not mention Jacob Blake, who was badly wounded last week in Kenosha. Soon after arriving in the city, a visit made over the objections of state and local leaders, Trump toured the charred remains of a block besieged by violence and fire. With the scent of smoke still in the air, he spoke to the owners of a century-old store that had been destroyed and continued to link the violence to the Democrats, blaming those in charge of Kenosha and Wisconsin while raising apocalyptic warnings if their party should capture the White House. “These are not acts of peaceful protest but, really, domestic terror,” said Trump. And he condemned Democrats for not immediately accepting his offer of federal assistance, claiming “They just don't want us to come, These governors don't want to call, and the mayors don't want to call. They have to ask.” The city has been riven by protests since the Aug. 23 shooting of Blake, who was hit seven times in the back by police as he was getting into a car while they were trying to arrest him. Protests have been concentrated in a small area of Kenosha, and while there were more than 30 fires set in the first three nights, the situation has calmed since then. Trump's motorcade passed throngs of demonstrators, some holding American flags in support of the president, others jeering while carrying signs that read Black Lives Matter. A massive police presence, complete with several armoured vehicles, secured the area, and barricades were set up along several of the city's major thoroughfares to keep onlookers at a distance from the passing presidential vehicles. Offering federal resources to help rebuild the city, Trump toured a high school that had been transformed into a law enforcement command post. He said he tried to call the Blake's mother but opted against it after the family asked that a lawyer listen in. He later added he felt “terribly" for anyone who suffered a loss, but otherwise only noted that the situation was “complicated" and “under investigation." The only words acknowledging the suffering of African Americans came from a pastor who attended the law enforcement roundtable. Pressed by reporters, Trump repeatedly pivoted away from assessing any sort of structural racism in the nation or its police departments, instead blasting what he saw as anti-police rhetoric. Painting a dark portrait of parts of the nation he leads, the president again linked the radical forces he blamed for the violence to the Democrats and their presidential nominee, Joe Biden, declaring that chaos could soon descend on other cities across America. Trump condemned unrest in Portland, Oregon, too — as well as an increase in shootings in cities including Chicago and New York — and tried to take credit for stopping the violence in Kenosha with the National Guard. But it was Wisconsin's Democratic governor, Tony Evers, who deployed the Guard to quell demonstrations in response to the Blake shooting, and he had pleaded with Trump to stay away for fear of straining tensions further. “I am concerned your presence will only hinder our healing,” Evers wrote in a letter to Trump. “I am concerned your presence will only delay our work to overcome division and move forward together.” Biden has assailed Trump as an instigator of the deadly protests that have sprung up on his watch. On the eve of his visit, Trump defended a teenager accused of fatally shooting two men at a demonstration in Kenosha last week though he did not mention the young man Tuesday. Claiming the mantle of the “law and order” Republican candidate, Trump insists that he, not Biden, is the leader best positioned to keep Americans safe. He said his appearance in Kenosha would “increase enthusiasm” in Wisconsin, perhaps the most hotly contested battleground state in the presidential race. Blake's family held a Tuesday “community celebration” at a distance from Trump's visit. “We don't need more pain and division from a president set on advancing his campaign at the expense of our city,” Justin Blake, an uncle, said in a statement. “We need justice and relief for our vibrant community.” The NAACP said Tuesday neither candidate should visit the Wisconsin city as tension simmers. Biden's team has considered a visit to Kenosha and has indicated that a trip to Wisconsin was imminent but has not offered details. Biden, in his most direct attacks yet, accused Trump on Monday of causing the divisions that have ignited the violence. He delivered an uncharacteristically blistering speech in Pittsburgh and distanced himself from radical forces involved in altercations. Biden said of Trump: “He doesn't want to shed light, he wants to generate heat, and he's stoking violence in our cities. He can't stop the violence because for years he's fomented it.” Trump and his campaign team have seized upon the unrest in Kenosha, as well as in Portland, where a Trump supporter was shot and killed, leaning hard into a defense of law and order while suggesting that Biden is beholden to extremists. Trump aides believe that tough-on-crime stance will help him with voters and that the more the national discourse is about anything other than the coronavirus, the better it is for the president. Protests in Kenosha began the night of Blake's shooting, Aug. 23 and were concentrated in the blocks around the county courthouse downtown. There was an estimated $2 million in damage to city property, and Kenosha's mayor has said he is seeking $30 million from the state to help rebuild. The violence reached its peak the night of Aug. 25, two days after Blake was shot, when police said the 17-year-old armed with an illegal semi-automatic rifle shot and killed two protesters in the streets. Since then marches organized both by backers of police and Blake's family have all been peaceful with no vandalism or destruction to public property. In Pittsburgh on Monday, Biden resoundingly condemned violent protesters and called for their prosecution — addressing a key Trump critique. And the former vice president also tried to refocus the race on what has been its defining theme — Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, which has left more than 180,000 Americans dead — after a multi-day onslaught by the president's team to make the campaign about the violence rattling American cities. Biden's wife, Jill, on Tuesday kicked off a multi-week, 10-city tour of schools disrupted by the pandemic in eight battleground states, drawing a direct line from the empty classrooms to the administration's failures combating COVID-19. During her tour of a Wilmington, Delaware, school, she spoke with teachers and administrators about doubts that in-person learning will actually resume anytime soon and the challenges -- including obtaining new small desks and protective equipment to make sure classrooms can handle social distancing -- if they do. She said feelings about heading back to school “have turned from excitement into anxiety, and the playgrounds are still.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-visits-kenosha-calls-violence-domestic-terrorism/articleshow/77881664.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dead men working under job guarantee scheme in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In a major expose of corruption, dead men have been found to be allotted work and payments made in their name under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme in Gujarat. At least five men in Balundra village of Amirgadh taluka in Banaskantha who died between 2016 and 2019 worked at MGNREGA sites and payments were made in their name by district authorities. The money obviously never reached them or their kin who say they had no inkling of their deceased labouring for rural employment schemes. A major MGNREGA scam was busted here around a month ago in Balundra, a small hamlet on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border with a population of nearly 2,600, by a local activist Kiran Parmar and Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani. “Dummy job cards were made in the name of 800 people in this tribal village. Further inquiry has revealed that at least five villagers who are shown to have reported for work, signed on the musters and received wages, have already died. How can this happen? Officials stealing money in the name of the poor must be punished,” said Mevani. The dead men found working on paper have been identified as Bhera Vasiya, Jalma Ghorana, Hima Ghorana, Kala Ghorna and Vali Shrimali. They died between 2016 and 2019 but payments, estimated around Rs 900 per week, were issued in their name till April 2020, according to the latest MGNREGA records available. Vasiya’s father Hira told TOI, “My son was 21 when he died in a road accident three years ago near our village while returning home from a farm where he worked as a labourer. He has left behind a family of five kids, a wife and elderly parents. I am working day and night to feed our family while money was being stolen in his name. This is a cruel joke on the poor.” Officials clueless on MGNREGA scamJ alma Ghorana’s nephew Munna Ghorna said his uncle never worked for MGNREGA. “My uncle died in October 2018 as he suffered an acute bout of stomach ache. He never mentioned working at MGNREGA sites ever," he said. Authorities say they are clueless about any such scam while local activists suspect that it could just be a tip of a massive corruption scam set in motion by elected representatives in connivance with government personnel to pilfer money meant to reach the poor as guaranteed income for survival. Ravindrasinh Vala, director of Jilla Gram Vikas Agency which monitors MGNREGA work, said that he is unaware of dead persons given work and payments under MGNREGA. “Classone officers of Banaskantha district administration are conducting an inquiry into dummy job cards. An FIR was lodged in the alleged scam. I am not privy to any further information," said Vala. Vala said that an inquiry into the dummy job card scam was put on hold after one of the five members of an inquiry committee formed by the district collector went on sick leave complaining of fever. Investigating officer in dummy job cards scam, DySP Deesa division, Kushal Ojha said, “I have been taking statements in the case every day but have not come across with dead persons getting wages in the case.” Kiran Parmar, the local activist who busted the scam, was working at the Jamalpur APMC market before the lockdown. He says he stumbled upon such gross irregularities when he returned to his village during corona pandemic lockdown. Parmar said that the job cards were issued to the five people in 2014. "It is possible that job cards were created in their names without their knowledge to steal government money. Even after their deaths, the corrupt practice continued", said Parmar who says he was abused and threatened for life by the village sarpanch on exposing the dummy job card scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dead-men-working-under-job-guarantee-scheme-in-gujarat/articleshow/77881687.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||India’s most unwanted: Teenager joined mom’s failed tubectomy suit in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 16-year-old girl had joined her mother in a case against Civil Hospital, arguing that her issue has been produced by the hospital’s botched up tubectomy on her mother. Jyoti, 16, and her mother Kokilaben were disappointed with a court’s decision on Friday to not grant full compensation for Jyoti’s birth as an unwanted girl child after the failed tubectomy. The girl and her mother had sued Civil Hospital for Rs 6.68 lakh compensation for the unwanted birth and for the expenditure incurred on raising her. The court did not grant compensation for the birth, but ordered the government to pay Rs 25,000 to each. The compensation was not for Jyoti’s unwanted birth. It was awarded because doctors at Civil Hospital had not obtained Kokilaben’s consent for sterilizing her. They carried out the procedure, albeit unsuccessfully, by getting consent from her husband. In this case, Kokilaben and her husband visited the public hospital on November 25, 2001, for abortion because they did not want the fifth child. The doctors also performed tubectomy under the family planning scheme. However, Kokilaben became pregnant again and gave birth to Jyoti on November 1, 2004. In 2012, the mother-daughter duo approached the city civil court “for unwanted birth of a female child after sterilization operation for family planning failed”. Kokilaben told the court that the revelation about the sterilization operation had shocked her and she consequently went into depression. Moreover, she said, she had to endure the pain of pregnancy and also has to bear the expenses of raising a child with limited financial resources. Their advocate, Piyush Jadugar, also submitted that because Kokilaben had conceived a child after sterilization, she had become a laughing stock and a subject of public ridicule and humiliation. For its part, Civil Hospital submitted that the sterilization operation cannot be termed a failure. She had not come for any follow-ups, the hospital said. When she became pregnant, she could have sought an abortion but she did not, the hospital contended. After hearing the case, city civil court judge Andleep Tiwari concluded that the hospital had not followed the due process for obtaining consent for tubectomy. The form was signed by the husband in a stereotyped manner sans any counseling, the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/indias-most-unwanted-teenager-joined-moms-failed-tubectomy-suit-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/77881704.cms||Saeed Khan
September 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Jains had Covid-like advisory 2 millennia ago||AHMEDABAD: ‘Don't touch the infected person with bare hands, if you need to touch, please wash your hands rigorously... Isolate an infected person and maintain distance from each other to reduce chances of infection.' It may be one of the incessant health advisory messages given by the Union health department or World Health Organization (WHO) in wake of the Covid pandemic. But this advisory - aimed at Jain sadhus and sadhvis (monks and nuns)-- is a good 2,400 years old. Jain muni Ajitchandrasagar told ToI that upon study of Ogh Niryukti Sutra, one of the Aagams in Jainism, he came across the stanzas 14 to 19. “Even in that era, the author Bhadrabahu Swami, advised new sadhus and sadhvis against health hazards,” he said. While ancient scriptures have no concept of an epidemic, texts related to Ayurveda do mention Janpadodhwans - referring to diseases that could destroy entire Janpad of ancient India, said city-based Vaidya Praveen Hirpara. The scripture mentions that those infected should be kept in a separate room. “If that's not possible, the person should be kept in a corner of the room, covered by a cloth curtain,” it says. The scripture also mentions that the path taken by the infected person should not be taken by others and one should not stop near the infected person. “If an infected sadhu dies, his belongings should be disposed of, and should not be used by anyone,” it adds, even advising ascetics not to drink water or have food from such houses. “Food with liquid or salt, cloth with wool and utensils made of iron should not be touched - it can infect a person for long,” says the Sutra. Muni Trailokyamandanvijay, said even before the concept of 'social distancing' was advocated, the scripture mentioned the sadhus and sadhvis should not do vihara (travel) in groups in areas with infection. “I read it a couple of years ago, but when the WHO advisory was issued, we found similarities between what was preached two millennia ago and now,” he said, adding it has nothing to do with any specific religion. “But we as society are no stranger to epidemics and we knew how to control it.” Watch Gujarat: Jains had Covid-like advisory 2 millennia ago||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-jains-had-covid-like-advisory-2-millennia-ago/articleshow/77881717.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 2, 2020||World||Khmer Rouge's chief jailer, guilty of war crimes, dies at 77||PHNOM PENH: The Khmer Rouge's chief jailer, who admitted overseeing the torture and killings of as many as 16,000 Cambodians while running the regime's most notorious prison, has died. Kaing Guek Eav, known as Duch, was 77 and had been serving a life prison term for war crimes and crimes against humanity. He died at a hospital in Cambodia early Wednesday morning, said Neak Pheaktra, a spokesperson for the tribunal in Phnom Penh that handled the trials over the regime's crimes. Duch was admitted to Cambodian Soviet Friendship Hospital after developing difficulty breathing Monday at the Kandal provincial prison, said Chat Sineang, chief of the prison where Duch had been transferred from the tribunal's prison facility in 2013. He added that the body would be examined for a cause of death before being handed to his family. Duch, whose trial took place in 2009, was the first senior Khmer Rouge figure to face the U.N.-backed tribunal that had been assembled to deliver justice for the regime's brutal rule in the late 1970s, which is blamed for the deaths of 1.7 million people _ a quarter of Cambodia's population at the time. The commander of the top-secret Tuol Sleng prison code-named S-21 was one of the few ex-Khmer Rouge who acknowledged even partial responsibility for his actions, and his trial included his own wrenchingly graphic testimony of how people were tortured at the prison. Men, women and children seen as enemies of the regime or who disobeyed its orders were jailed and tormented there, and only a handful survived. ``Everyone who was arrested and sent to S-21 was presumed dead already,'' he testified in April 2009. Torturers under Duch beat and whipped prisoners and shocked them with electrical devices, Duch admitted to the court, but still he denied accounts from survivors and other trial witnesses that he took part in torture and executions himself. The offspring of detainees were killed to ensure the next generation could not take vengeance. Duch called himself ``criminally responsible'' for babies' deaths but blamed his subordinates for battering the young bodies against trees. He said the prison's own guards and interrogators were killed for small mistakes and showed rare emotion on the witness stand in June 2009 while speaking of seeing his fellow revolutionaries locked in the cells of his prison. Confessing to betraying his own friends, he said: ``That was beyond cowardly.'' When a guilty verdict was finally delivered against him in July 2010, he was sentenced to 35 years, shortened to just 19 due to time served. The judges said they considered the Cold War context of the atrocities and Duch's cooperation and expressions of remorse, however limited. But outraged survivors feared he could one day walk free. On appeal, the sentence was lengthened in 2012 to life in prison for his ``shocking and heinous'' crimes against the Cambodian people. Like many key members of the Khmer Rouge, Duch was an academic before he became a revolutionary. The former math teacher joined Pol Pot's movement in 1967, three years before the U.S. started carpet-bombing Cambodia to try to wipe out Northern Vietnamese troops and Viet Cong inside the border. The Khmer Rouge seized power in 1975 and immediately attempted a radical transformation of Cambodia into a peasant society, emptying cities and forcing the population to work on the land. They backed up their rule with ruthless elimination of perceived enemies, and by 1976, Duch was the trusted head of its ultimate killing machine, S-21. Tribunal judges said he signed off on all executions there and was often present when interrogators used torture to extract confessions, including pulling out prisoners' toenails, administering electric shocks, and waterboarding. Despite his denials, the judges said he had at times taken part in the torture and executions himself. The torture and executions that took place at Tuol Sleng were routinely recorded and photographed, and when the Khmer Rouge were forced from power in 1979, the thousands of documents and film negatives left at the prison became proof of the regime's atrocities. Duch fled, disappearing for almost two decades in northwestern Cambodia and converting to Christianity until a chance discovery by a British journalist in 1999 led to his arrest. Duch has several times asked for forgiveness, even offering at one point to face a public stoning. But his surprise request on the final day of the trial to be acquitted and freed left many wondering if his contrition was sincere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/khmer-rouges-chief-jailer-guilty-of-war-crimes-dies-at-77/articleshow/77881746.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Land registry resumes today, e-appointments a must now||GURUGRAM: The Haryana revenue department has resumed land registries after 40 days, when it had to be stopped following multiple complaints of illegal registries. The government has created a digital database of available land in the state, where a buyer can access all information related to a particular property, such as an ongoing dispute or pending dues, if any. Under the new Haryana Land Records Information System (HALRIS), a buyer first needs to acquire an online no-objection certificate from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) before going ahead with the registry. This is a crucial feature as most of the illegal registries in the past three months were done without the DTCP’s approval. The new system has all the records of government land or plots acquired by it. A database of land owned by the forest department or falling in a controlled area — like in Bandhwari where an Aravali hill was flattened to build a road to an illegal colony of farmhouses — has also been fed into the system. The new digital platform has enough room for issuing alerts to a buyer to tread cautiously. If a land chosen by the buyer is already owned or acquired by the government, the system will not allow him/her to go ahead with the process. In case a land falls in a controlled area, the district town planner will get a notification soon after a buyer has applied for registry. If the town planner gives the approval, the buyer will get a number, which he/ she needs to feed into the system to generate an online NOC. After a buyer has secured the online NOC, he or she will have to visit the tehsil office to proceed further with the registry process. Earlier, the entire procedure was physical — a buyer needed to visit the office even for an NOC. “The new system is aimed at plugging all holes in the land registry process,” district revenue officer Basti Ram said. For private land in the Aravali region, a buyer who has secured the online NOC will also get a list of restrictions imposed by the Supreme Court on construction. “If any land is owned by a private individual and comes under sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA Act, we cannot stop its sale or purchase. Registry will be allowed for such land, but the buyer will also be made aware of the restrictions on construction,” a forest department official said. He added that the move would discourage people from buying land in protected areas, and if anyone did so, he/she could not claim to be ignorant about the restrictions. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said the new registry system will take time to sink in. “People would need at least a week to understand how it works,” he added. On Tuesday, only two or three registries were executed in Gurugram. The district sees about 300 registries on usual days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/land-registry-resumes-today-e-appointments-a-must-now/articleshow/77880601.cms||Bagish Jha
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Unlock 4: Gurugram follows Centre, activities to begin in phases||GURUGRAM: The district administration has decided to follow Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. An order issued by deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Tuesday stated that certain activities will be resumed in a phased manner. Rapid Metro will be allowed to operate in Gurugram in a graded manner from September 7, but the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs will be followed. “We have received these guidelines from the MHA and state government and we are going to follow the same guidelines. Rapid metro will also start operating in Gurugram from September 7,” Khatri told TOI. The administration has capped the number of guests to 100 for social, academic, cultural, religious, and other gatherings from September 21. While schools and colleges will continue to remain closed till September 30, students from classes 9 to 12 will be allowed to visit the school to take guidance from teachers. “Students from classes 9 to 12 need special guidance, otherwise they will lose a year,” said Col K Pratap Singh, president, Haryana Progressive Schools’ Conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/unlock-4-gurgaon-follows-centre-activities-to-begin-in-phases/articleshow/77880268.cms||Vishakha Chaman
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Doctor falls to death from eighth-floor balcony||GURUGRAM: A 39-year-old doctor working with Medanta hospital allegedly fell to his death from the eighth-floor balcony of his Sector 47 flat early on Tuesday. No suicide note has been found, police said. The deceased, identified as Dr Sujeet Kumar Saha (39), was from Nepal and had been staying alone in a rented accommodation in HEWO Apartments. He was working as a consultant in liver transplantation and regenerative medicine at Medanta since 2016. He had specialisation in robotic liver surgery, robotic donor hepatectomy and living donor liver transplantation. Dr Saha had been involved in matrimonial litigation with his wife, who is also a doctor and currently in West Bengal, police said. The couple have a six-year-old daughter who lives with her mother. The doctor’s in-laws live in Noida. Police said the doctor jumped around 3am on Tuesday. The security guard of the society, who heard a loud thud, rushed to the spot and found him lying in a pool of blood. He then informed the police. “Our security guard alerted us about the incident. Some residents took him to the hospital but he could not be saved and was declared brought dead,” a resident said, adding that the doctor had very little interaction with others in the society. The doctor’s body has been kept in a mortuary. Police said they have informed his family members in Nepal. “The post-mortem will be done as soon as the family arrives,” police spokesperson Subhash Boken said. Boken added that prima facie it seemed like a case of suicide and there was no sign of foul play. Police are yet to record the statement of his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/doctor-falls-to-death-from-8th-floor-balcony/articleshow/77880317.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 196 new cases, active cases cross 1,000 mark||GURUGRAM: For the first time in last 30 days, the active cases in the city crossed 1,000-mark on Tuesday. At present, the city has 1,048 active patients with 196 new cases reported on Tuesday. Covid tally stands at 12,113 cases and 877 patients are in home isolation. The health department said 142 people recovered on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 10,932. No death due to the infection has been reported in the last 24 hours, officials said. On Tuesday, 20 people were put under government quarantine and till now 1,74,849 people have been put under surveillance in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/196-new-cases-active-cases-cross-1k-mark/articleshow/77880322.cms||---
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru colleges abuzz as students back for revision||BENGALURU: Five months after they were closed following Covid-19 outbreak, college campuses in Bengaluru woke up to giggles and chatter of students on Tuesday with revision kicking off for final-year undergraduate exams starting on September 12. The final batch of undergraduate students under the undivided Bangalore University will write the exams. Many campuses saw a handful of students turning up. Colleges didn't conduct regular classes; they held a session to clear students' doubts and correct records and notes. A lecturer at Maharani's Cluster University met students in a PPE suit. "I've a history of wheezing. I haven't ventured out during the lockdown and I realise that people are careless when it comes to wearing masks. I have worked in hospital labs and am used to working in gloves and masks for hours. Hence, being in a PPE kit wasn't hard," he told TOI. College-goers glad to be backThe lecturer said it was a joy to have students back on campus even though it was not the right time. A few colleges insisted on Covid-19 negative certificates before allowing students in. “Apart from a consent form from parents, we ask for a Covid-negative certificate to ensure students are not infected. We had five BCom students today. Benches in the classroom have been placed in a zigzag manner and only one student is allowed per bench so that two-metre distance is maintained,” said Nagesh Rao, principal, East West College of Management. “Students seem to have lost their confidence. We are giving them a boost,” said a lecturer from RC College of Commerce, which had 18 students in a class of 100 for undergraduates on Tuesday. He said many students complained that BMTC did not allow them to travel with old bus pass, and he suggested students should be allowed to use old pass till exams are over. Some students said online classes were not effective; others were happy to return to the place they loved to be in. “I missed college life for five months. Even today, I did not feel we were back on campus since only five students were there. We were briefed about the important questions that might be asked for the exams,” said a student from Oxford College of Science. “I’m glad there are regular classes before the exams. The college looked so empty. Our friends from other states and cities have not returned yet,” said a student from Maharani’s Cluster University. University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering started its final semester and backlog engineering exams on September 1, following all protocols. Eighth semester theory exams will be over on September 8. Practical exams begin on Septembr 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-colleges-abuzz-as-students-back-for-revision/articleshow/77881784.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Monkey ‘menace’ in Gurugram but complaints come from Rajasthan||GURUGRAM: The MCG has started a probe into what appears to be instances of fake capture and release of monkeys after an animal rights activist filed a complaint. The alleged scam seems to have had help from within because the mandatory health certificates that are needed once a monkey that has strayed into an urban area is captured and has to be released were issued by the government animal hospital. The bills were approved and cleared by MCG officials. Rehabilitating monkeys that have strayed into the city is in the corporation’s domain. MCG had in July 2019 outsourced the job to a private company, Rajveer Associates. For every monkey rehabilitated, the company gets Rs 1,500 from the corporation. Between July 2019 and January 2020, records show 686 monkeys were caught. However, going by the same records, it appears complaints about monkey invasions in Gurugram were coming from as far away as Jaipur and other parts of Rajasthan. Rajveer Associates is a Jaipur-based company. When this correspondent called on the contact numbers of the complainants mentioned in the documents the firm submitted to MCG along with its bills (copies of which are with TOI), most of them led to persons living in different areas of Rajasthan. The addresses of the complainants are vague — only the name of the complainant, sector and mobile number are given, with no mention of the flat number, name of society or street house number. The ‘work reviews’ or ‘karya santushti patra’ attached with the bills and submitted to MCG were found to be in the names of the people who could either not confirm the addresses, or are residents of Rajasthan, or are/have been employees of the same agency. MCG had awarded the contract for catching and rehabilitating monkeys from different parts of the city to Rajveer Associates after receiving several complaints from Gurugram residents. Rajveer Associates didn’t respond to calls for a comment. Chetna Joshi, a member of animal welfare group People for Animals who filed the complaint with MCG, said, “What is shocking is that these monkeys allegedly caught by Rajveer Associates have also been issued health certificates by the government hospital in Kadipur, which comes under the animal husbandry department. The initiative to catch monkeys, which was primarily started in public interest, is being allowed to run without checks.” She added that photos of the ‘captured’ monkeys in cages, which are on record, can be probed for GPS coordinates and dates to verify their authenticity. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the corporation had received the complaint and the joint commissioner had been asked to set up an inquiry, while the firm had been asked to submit a reply. “If the allegations are found to be correct in the inquiry, we will not only blacklist the company but will also file a criminal complaint against them for cheating and fraud,” said Singh, adding that a separate inquiry will be carried out by the district wildlife officer. Singh also said MCG will probe the role of its officials. “We will check who has sanctioned the bills. Appropriate action will be taken against the civic officials if they are found guilty,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/monkey-menace-in-gurgaon-but-complaints-come-from-rajasthan/articleshow/77880587.cms||Bagish Jha
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Cured patients return with lung, skin issues||BENGALURU: Amid widespread fears of Covid-19 reinfection, Karnataka has not seen such an instance among its 2.5 lakh recovered patients, though another concern has surfaced: those discharged are returning to hospital with breathlessness, fibrosis or scarring in the lungs, psychological distress and skin rashes. Health department officials said they have not maintained any data on recovered patients returning to hospitals or facing complications. Doctors say that since Covid-19 tests not being done prior to discharge in most of the hospitalised cases, the SARS-CoV-2 infection may not have been completely cured in such cases. Dr Satynarayana Mysore, head of department of pulmonology at Manipal Hospitals, said some Covid-19 patients they treated had returned to hospital. In one case, a middle-aged man, discharged on the 11th day of admission, came back on the 14th day with fever. City hosp starting post-Covid clinic to address complicationsIt was not a case of reinfection. The man had renal issues and had not got cleared of the virus. He got better in a couple of days,” said Dr Satynarayana Mysore. However, he said Covid-19 sequelae (consquent conditions) is possible. Doctors said skin rashes and urticaria flare-ups are seen in a considerable number of patients. Worsening of diabetes control is also seen. “The way insulin behaves in the body is related to the drugs given during the time of treatment,” he said. Following multiple discharged patients coming back with one or other symptoms, the government-run Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, which was the first hospital to treat Covid in Karnataka, is starting a post-Covid clinic. “This is to ensure that Covid sequel complications are recorded and analysed for research purposes, apart from treating such patients,” said hospital director Dr C Nagaraja. In Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, where thousands of patients have been treated so far, two middle-aged men returned to hospital after discharge in July. One of them was suffering from chronic kidney disorder. “Four days after discharge, he had gone to a dialysis centre and they conducted a Covid test. What appeared in the patient’s second Covid-19 test was nothing but the remnant of the dead virus. It’s not a case of reinfection,” said Dr Ravi K, professor and HOD, general medicine, BMCRI. “Some people can test positive for Covid-19 for six weeks, one month or even two months. Studies have shown that when a viral culture is done on such patients, it will be negative,” Dr Ravi further added. The second man, who had mild Covid-pneumonia the first time, came back with breathlessness and fibrosis in his lungs in July. Both patients were re-admitted in Victoria Hospital and discharged. Referring to the first confirmed case of Covid-19 reinfection reported from Hong Kong where a 33-year-old man was found reinfected after four-and-a-half months, Dr Myosre wondered if the patient’s swab was further tested for virus culture. “Swab samples are considered biohazards and are disposed of scientifically. I wonder if, in the time of pandemic, somebody would do a virus culture of the first sample. It is not clear. What if the first test was a false-positive,” he said, adding that claims of reinfection have to be backed by data. To declare a case of reinfection, it has to be proved that the genetic sequence of the virus was different in both infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cured-patients-return-with-lung-skin-issues/articleshow/77881800.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Reserve 30% of Covid-19 beds for Haryana residents, city hospitals told||GURUGRAM: Forty-six private hospitals in the city have been directed by the health department to reserve 30% of their Covid-19 beds for Haryana residents. They have also been asked to increase their Covid bed capacity, from the current 25% to 30%. A meeting in this regard was held on Tuesday between health officials and representatives of private hospitals. The city has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases in the past one month and the state’s overall numbers have also been showing an upward trend, with nearly 1,500 cases being added daily. This has led to some concern among authorities about the availability of hospital beds. “We are getting more than 100 cases daily in Gurugram and overall cases in Haryana are also rising. We need to be prepared for any crisis situation,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. Health department officials, however, assured no one will be denied admission or treatment at any of the hospitals in Gurugram. “Documents such as a rent agreement or voter ID card will be considered as proof of residence in Haryana. I would like to clarify that no hospital can deny treatment to any Covid-19 patients in the state. If required, we will increase the number of beds allotted for Covid patients and also reserve adequate beds for Haryana residents across the state,” said a senior health department official. Rajeev Arora, ACS (health), also told TOI that the number of Covid beds in the state could go up. The pressure on the city’s hospitals has been building up. The 46 private hospitals have a total of 4,758 beds, including 679 ICU beds and 327 with ventilators. Of these, 1,511 beds, including 197 ICU beds and 94 with ventilators, are earmarked for Covid patients. On July 1, 313 patients were admitted in hospitals, of which 19 were on ventilators and 80 were in ICUs. On August 1, the numbers were similar. Of the 350 patients in hospitals, 16 were on ventilators and 78 were in ICUs. However, as of September 1, 500 patients are admitted to hospitals, out of which 39 are on ventilators and 114 are in ICUs. Thus, 33% of Covid beds in the city are currently occupied. Of the 500 patients, 151 patients are from Gurugram, 70 from other parts of Haryana, 42 from Delhi, 132 from UP and the remaining 105 from other states. With a view to reduce the strain on hospitals, health officials have asked them to only admit patients who are critical and cannot stay under home isolation. “We have divided all hospitals into five zones -- four are municipal zones and the fifth one is a rural one. Hospitals will be provided with a password for each zone and can conduct antigen and antibody tests. They have been instructed to update the Covid bed status twice a day on the portal, which will help us to understand how each hospital is dealing with patients,” said Yadav. Talking to TOI about the surge in Covid cases, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana and the head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS Rohtak, said, “The numbers are rising because migrant workers are returning and more people are stepping out, but hardly following social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/reserve-30-of-covid-19-beds-for-hry-residents-city-hospitals-told/articleshow/77880084.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG wasting crores on unnecessary projects, councillors claim||GURUGRAM: With the finance and contracts committee of MCG still not formed, councillors have alleged that inappropriate methods adopted by the municipal body have led to serious financial lapses. Some of them have questioned the additional requirement of huge quantities of chlorine costing more than Rs 4.63 crores, when chlorination is already being done at two locations — Basai water works and Sector 16 boosting station. They have alleged that this amount has been split into two parts of Rs. 2.49 crore and 2.13 crore on purpose, in order to avoid sending it for approval to the state government. RS Rathee, councillor of ward 34 said replacing existing pipelines in Sectors 9 and 9A, which are only a few years old, is waste of funds. "Such pipes last 50 years, and are repaired as per need. Again, the expenditure of over Rs 3.86 crore has been split into two parts to avoid government approval. Moreover, this amount covers only labour cost. The cost of materials would be in addition to this," he said. The councillors have already written several letters to MCG highlighting the lack of transparency. "No cognizance has been taken of the letters, nor has any remedial action been taken. In addition, tenders are being invited and allotments are being done before taking approval in House meetings," added Rathee. The councillors also requested that all technical and financial approvals be given only through the works management system (WMS) — the newly launched web portal. Kuldeep Bohra, councillor of ward 31, questioned the need for installation of electromagnetic flow meters at various boosting stations when the citizens are being charged flat rates for water, and also when there are inlet and outlet meters at the plant and boosting station respectively. Apart from this, they pointed out that MCG has disbursed Rs 500 crore for some development works which the GMDA is supposed to carry out. One councillor also noted that a private organisation has shown interest in developing the water bodies in Dhanwapur, Sarai Allawardi & Tigra with their CSR fund. Since this was already in the corporation’s agenda, if MCG gives NOC to the company, corporation funds can be saved, said ward 30 councillor, Mahesh Dayma. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh could not be reached for comments. Ever since formation of House in October 2017, the councillors have been alleging that MCG has been giving approval of the contracts and purchases without constituting a finance committee as mandated by Section 40(3) of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Ac, 1994. A councillor alleged that without any approval from councillors, the corporation gave administrative approval for projects worth crores of rupees. "There is no accountability or control over the purchases and works being awarded," he said, adding that the concerned engineer never visits the site to verify the job, quantum of the work. As per Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994, “There shall be a Finance and Contracts Committee of the Corporation comprising the mayor, the two deputy mayors, two councillors as members and the Commissioner, and the aforesaid Committee shall exercise all the powers of the Corporation in relation to contracts to be entered into for and on its behalf and the purchases to be made by it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-wasting-crores-on-unnecessary-projects-councillors-claim/articleshow/77879962.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
September 2, 2020||Srinagar||From Bengaluru to Srinagar, plasma flown for positive woman||BENGALURU: Help and hope arrived for a 60-year-old Covid-infected woman in Srinagar on Tuesday morning, from 3,000km down south, in a special flight operation. Within hours of an SOS call from the patient’s family, plasma from a recovered Bengaluru patient was organised and despatched on connecting flights, via Delhi. The Bengaluru patient, who wished to remain unidentified, came forward to donate plasma on hearing of the elderly woman’s worsening condition. The entire airlifting of the plasma units was coordinated by a team of doctors from HCG Cancer Hospital, Bengaluru. The team received a call from a relative of the Srinagar patient late Monday evening. “We were able to quickly arrange for the plasma with the help of a matching donor who had recovered from Covid recently. We reached out to the IndiGo team where Captain Rahul Srivatasava came forward to assist us in flying the plasma effectively and safely to Srinagar with help of the IndiGo cargo team,” said Dr US Vishal Rao, associate dean of HCG Cancer Hospital. The two units of plasma required for the patient reached KIA late Monday night. The plasma units were transported on IndiGo CarGo from Bengaluru to Srinagar via connecting flights on Tuesday morning. “The plasma was first flown from Bengaluru to Delhi on 6E 363 followed by the connecting flight from Delhi to Srinagar 6E 2486. The plasma was in transit for over eight hours and delivered successfully at the government hospital in Srinagar on Tuesday,” IndiGo said in reply to a TOI query. Donor had adequate Covid antibodiesRao said the Herculean job could be carried out successfully only because of the assistance from Bangalore International Airport Limited, the operator of Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport, and IndiGo airlines. Convalescent plasma is collected from voluntary donors who have completely recovered from Covid-19, at least 40 days after they test negative for the virus. The donor in this case had adequate amounts of protective IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. The blood product was tested and ruled out for HIV, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, malaria and syphilis. “With these factors taken care of, the units were safe to travel,” said Rao. “Recently, the US FDA has authorised the use of plasma therapy. Its use in moderate, severe and critical illness can yield results up to 100%, 80% and 60% respectively. Early intervention with plasma therapy in patients would be ideal to save more lives,” said Rao, who is conducting clinical trials in plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients, with due diligence approval from Drugs Controller General of India. Ronojoy Dutta, CEO and wholetime director of Indi-Go, said the company is always looking for opportunities to contribute to the nation’s fight against Covid-19. “The creation of the first air corridor in India to transport blood plasma can have a huge positive impact on the treatment of Covid-19 patients through plasma therapy. I would like to congratulate the IndiGo CarGo team for making this possible and commencing a new chapter in the history of aviation in India,” he said. Watch Covid-19: Plasma flown from Bengaluru to Srinagar for treatment of positive woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/from-bengaluru-to-srinagar-plasma-flown-for-positive-woman/articleshow/77881839.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 2, 2020||Bengaluru||From Bengaluru to Srinagar, plasma flown for positive woman||BENGALURU: Help and hope arrived for a 60-year-old Covid-infected woman in Srinagar on Tuesday morning, from 3,000km down south, in a special flight operation. Within hours of an SOS call from the patient’s family, plasma from a recovered Bengaluru patient was organised and despatched on connecting flights, via Delhi. The Bengaluru patient, who wished to remain unidentified, came forward to donate plasma on hearing of the elderly woman’s worsening condition. The entire airlifting of the plasma units was coordinated by a team of doctors from HCG Cancer Hospital, Bengaluru. The team received a call from a relative of the Srinagar patient late Monday evening. “We were able to quickly arrange for the plasma with the help of a matching donor who had recovered from Covid recently. We reached out to the IndiGo team where Captain Rahul Srivatasava came forward to assist us in flying the plasma effectively and safely to Srinagar with help of the IndiGo cargo team,” said Dr US Vishal Rao, associate dean of HCG Cancer Hospital. The two units of plasma required for the patient reached KIA late Monday night. The plasma units were transported on IndiGo CarGo from Bengaluru to Srinagar via connecting flights on Tuesday morning. “The plasma was first flown from Bengaluru to Delhi on 6E 363 followed by the connecting flight from Delhi to Srinagar 6E 2486. The plasma was in transit for over eight hours and delivered successfully at the government hospital in Srinagar on Tuesday,” IndiGo said in reply to a TOI query. Donor had adequate Covid antibodiesRao said the Herculean job could be carried out successfully only because of the assistance from Bangalore International Airport Limited, the operator of Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport, and IndiGo airlines. Convalescent plasma is collected from voluntary donors who have completely recovered from Covid-19, at least 40 days after they test negative for the virus. The donor in this case had adequate amounts of protective IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. The blood product was tested and ruled out for HIV, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, malaria and syphilis. “With these factors taken care of, the units were safe to travel,” said Rao. “Recently, the US FDA has authorised the use of plasma therapy. Its use in moderate, severe and critical illness can yield results up to 100%, 80% and 60% respectively. Early intervention with plasma therapy in patients would be ideal to save more lives,” said Rao, who is conducting clinical trials in plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients, with due diligence approval from Drugs Controller General of India. Ronojoy Dutta, CEO and wholetime director of Indi-Go, said the company is always looking for opportunities to contribute to the nation’s fight against Covid-19. “The creation of the first air corridor in India to transport blood plasma can have a huge positive impact on the treatment of Covid-19 patients through plasma therapy. I would like to congratulate the IndiGo CarGo team for making this possible and commencing a new chapter in the history of aviation in India,” he said. Watch Covid-19: Plasma flown from Bengaluru to Srinagar for treatment of positive woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-bengaluru-to-srinagar-plasma-flown-for-positive-woman/articleshow/77881834.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 2, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Illegal vendor collecting waste in Suncity’||GURUGRAM: Days after the MCG commissioner ordered action against garbage collectors illegally operating in Sushnat Lok-1, a similar complaint was reported from Suncity. Some residents on Tuesday wrote to the MCG commissioner claiming that an unauthorised vendor is collecting garbage in their society. “Garbage collectors from the agency come for two days and then disappear making way for illegal vendors,” claimed V K Singh, a resident. When contacted, senior sanitary inspector Rishi Malik said, “A team will visit Suncity on Wednesday and action will be taken accordingly.” “One RWA has signed an agreement and wants us to collect garbage from a single point, while the other wants us to do door-to-door collection,” an Ecogreen spokesperson said. “There is absolutely no illegal vendor here. There are elderly and the RWA ensures door-to-door collection and gives it to Ecogreen from a point,” said Kuldeep Rana, president of Suncity RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/illegal-vendor-collecting-waste-in-suncity/articleshow/77880162.cms||Vishakha Chaman
September 2, 2020||Noida||Noida: After argument over cake, woman jumps from 10th floor on birthday; dies||NOIDA: A 23-year-old woman died after allegedly jumping from the balcony of a 10th-floor flat in Jaypee Kosmos society in Sector 134 following an argument over her birthday cake on Tuesday. The woman was preparing to take admission in a master’s course for hotel management, police said. Her elder sister and brother-in-law stay in the flat where the incident took place, while the woman, her parents and brother stay in a flat in another tower of the same society. They all arrived at the elder sister’s flat around 2pm for celebrating the woman’s birthday on Tuesday. “Since it was the woman’s birthday, her sister had asked her to come to her flat and celebrate it with them. All the family members gathered at the sister’s flat, but the celebrations ended when they had an argument over cutting of the cake,” a police officer from the Expressway police station told TOI. The woman had received a cake from someone, which led to an argument. In a fit of rage, the woman allegedly stormed out to the balcony and jumped while the family was inside the flat. Her body was found on the ground by some residents. She was rushed to hospital, where she died soon after. “We received information from Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128 that the woman jumped out of the 10th-floor balcony in a fit of rage,” additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said. Watch Noida: After argument over cake, woman jumps off building on her birthday; dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-argument-over-cake-woman-jumps-from-10th-floor-on-birthday-dies/articleshow/77880951.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali court rejects Sumedh Singh Saini’s plea for bail||MOHALI: A Mohali court on Tuesday dismissed former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s plea for prearrest in a case related to the disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer posted with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, in 1991. The court order of additional district and sessions judge Rajnish Garg reads: “The applicant-accused, Sumedh Singh Saini, is guilty of a heinous crime and does not deserve extraordinary relief of anticipatory bail. His custodial interrogation is necessary to further investigate the matter. Therefore, without commenting upon other merits of the case, I hereby dismiss this bail application.” Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said, “The testimony of three approvers (in the case) nailed the former DGP and the court dismissed his anticipatory bail application after the special investigation team added murder charges against Saini.” Former UT police officers and co-accused in the case, then inspector Jagir Singh and assistant sub inspector Kuldeep Singh had turned approvers last month and were granted pardon by the court. The third approver in the case was an eyewitness Rajesh Raja, who was in the lockup in Sector 17 police station “where Multani was subjected to inhumane torture”. SIT found Saini absconding during raids at 4 placesSaini had filed an application for anticipatory bail on August 24, after Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code was included in FIR registered against him and others at Mataur police station on August 21. The state had opposed the application, saying he misused the bail granted to him by violating the conditions laid out in the May 11, 2020, court order by trying to stall the case investigation. The special investigation team had recently conducted raids in Chandigarh, Delhi, Mohali and Himachal Pradesh and found Saini absconding. The officials pointed out that Saini was to confine himself to his house during the Covid-19 lockdown period and not leave it except in case of medical emergency and whenever called to join investigation. The court was told that even though there is lockdown in Chandigarh, the accused applicant remained out of his house for two consecutive days — August 21 and 22 — because of which the summons could not be served to him and had to be handed over to the guard outside his house. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them in May this year under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Mataur police station in Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-court-rejects-sumedh-singh-sainis-plea-for-bail/articleshow/77881935.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
