September 3, 2020||World||Kenosha officer should face charges, says Joe Biden||WASHINGTON: Joe Biden says the police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, who shot Jacob Blake in the back on Aug. 23, leaving the 29—year-old Black man paralyzed, “needs to be charged.” The comment by the Democratic presidential nominee came after he was asked about remarks by his running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, that the officer should face charges. Biden also says officers should be charged in the shooting death of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Biden plans a visit Thursday to Kenosha, where there have been multiple nights of unrest following Blake's shooting. Biden says there have been “overwhelming requests” that he come to the city. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says the issue of safely reopening America's schools is a “national emergency.” He says that if he were president, he'd have the Federal Emergency Management Agency guarantee access to disaster relief for K-12 schools. Biden says during a campaign event in Wilmington, Delaware, that President Donald Trump “still doesn't have a real plan” to handle the coronavirus pandemic. The Democrat says "this is an emergency and Donald Trump and his FEMA should treat it as one.” FEMA officials said this week that the agency would no longer pay for cloth face masks and disinfectant in schools. Biden says that as president, he'd declare the issue of school reopening a national emergency and direct FEMA to authorize access to emergency assistance for K-12 schools. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he'll mark the 19th anniversary of the the Sept. 11 attacks by visiting Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where one of the hijacked planes crashed into a field, killing all passengers and crew onboard. The White House hasn't announced President Donald Trump's plans for Sept. 11. He visited the Shanksville memorial for a commemoration in 2018. A 2,200-acre memorial marks the spot in rural Pennsylvania where Flight 93 went down on Sept. 11, 2001. Three other planes hijacked that day were crashed into the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon. Nearly 3,000 people died in the attacks. The nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates has announced the moderators for the upcoming debates between President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Chris Wallace of Fox News will moderate the first debate on Sept. 29 in Cleveland. Steve Scully of C-SPAN will moderate the “town meeting” debate on Oct. 15 in Miami. NBC's Kristen Welker will moderate the final debate on Oct. 22 in Nashville, Tennessee. The commission also says USA Today's Susan Page will moderate the vice presidential debate on Oct. 7 in Salt Lake City with Vice President Mike Pence and Democrat Kamala Harris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/kenosha-officer-should-face-charges-says-joe-biden/articleshow/77898872.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Business||How Kotlin won the language war in Android app development||For a project that is less than a decade old, with the first stable version being released just four years ago, the growth of the programming language Kotlin has been exponential. Google helped in this, by announcing its support for use of Kotlin on Android in 2017, and by anointing it as the preferred programming language for Android in 2019. A July update on the Android Developers Blog says that 70% of the top 1,000 apps in the Play Store use Kotlin. Pinterest, Uber, Evernote, Square, Postmates are among those who have moved to Kotlin. As larger and more visible companies adopt Kotlin, it will become more attractive for other businesses to consider using it. We want to continue to provide a top-class language with good toolingHadi Hariri, Kotlin developer advocate, JetBrains, creator of Kotlin“Kotlin has become quite popular, especially since it’s been made the language of choice for Android development,” says Hadi Hariri, Kotlin developer advocate at JetBrains. JetBrains is Kotlin’s parent and it is trying to fit Kotlin into the existing multiverse of technologies – data science, web frontend, server-side, native, multiplatform and Android. Hariri describes Kotlin as a “multipurpose industrial language.” But it is Kotlin for Android development that is most popular globally, and especially in India. “In a country like India, where all applications are built mobile-first, with a 90% market share of Android, it’s a no brainer that everybody is writing applications for Android,” says Maneesh Sharma, country manager of software development platform GitHub. With everybody starting to participate in the code economy, having simple languages really help. That’s why languages like Kotlin, Python and others are simplifying the syntax, making it easy to write code.Maneesh Sharma, country manager, GitHubKotlin was originally conceived as a project to cover the ground that Java could not. Its design ensures ease of use – syntaxes are simpler when compared to Java, yet core functionalities remain intact. Some estimates find it reduces the number of lines of code by 40% compared to Java because you can express more concisely what you want the machine to do. One big advantage is it takes care of what are called null pointer exceptions, which can potentially crash applications and which is an issue in Java programming. Null pointer exceptions happen during the runtime of the code when variables are assigned no (null) value. “Kotlin is designed in such a way that you can’t write a lot of code that can generate null pointer exceptions,” says Arnav Gupta, cofounder of programming training platform Coding Blocks. The 100% interoperability with Java code is what gave Kotlin the initial momentum. “Existing Java code can be called from Kotlin in a natural way, and Kotlin code can be used from Java rather smoothly as well,” says kotlinlang.org. When you use Kotlin without Java, it’s faster. But getting there will take time. JetBrains and the entire Kotlin ecosystem are pushing towards building more Kotlin libraries, rather than having to use Java librariesArnav Gupta, cofounder, Coding BlocksThe interoperability, added with code features that Java developers always longed for, made some coders dub Kotlin as ‘better Java’, says Gupta. For those using Java for Android, the interoperability meant a smoother migration. The entire Kotlin ecosystem, Gupta says, has grown using Java as a crutch. Most of the Kotlin developers are Android developers as well. “They never have to worry in particular about a Java line of code. Their solutions mixed with Java will work in Android,” adds Gupta. But this version of Kotlin works with Android Runtime (ART), a virtual environment that allows the same code to run on varied platforms. That works beautifully in an Android world where smartphones come in numerous platforms. One of the main advantages of using Kotlin is the ability to use it along with Java while writing code for an Android app. Developers can write some parts of the code in Java, other parts in KotlinSampathkumar Kuppusamy, Lead - Mobile CoE Practice, UST GlobalBut iOS and embedded devices require a different approach. That’s where Kotlin/Native comes in. It uses what is called LLVM (low level virtual machine, which is a set of compiler and toolchain technologies) to compile Kotlin code directly into machine readable code. LLVM compilation makes Kotlin/Native faster, but the code cannot have any Java dependencies. “If you want your code to be native for any hardware system, like an IoT device or an Android TV, you will use LLVM. So far, I haven’t seen many developers in India do that,” says SiddheshPatil, mobile developer at Paytm Insider and organiser of the user group Kotlin Mumbai. Gupta agrees. “There is a lot of learning gap when we talk about Kotlin/Native,” he says. Kotlin also saves a lot of development time because it allows for substantial code reuse through Kotlin Multiplatform Mobile (KMM). Code written in common Kotlin (be it business logic, infrastructure code, and other functionalities like core libraries, and basic tools) works everywhere. If developers are making something new, they now do it in Kotlin. If there is legacy code that is in Java, that is being made interoperable with Kotlin. All developers understand that Kotlin is the way to goSiddhesh Patil, mobile developer at Paytm Insider and Kotlin Mumbai organiser“KMM helps to share common code across an application that can target multiple mobile platforms (iOS and Android). An application would usually consist of this common code, and then platform specific code which deals with the user interface (UI). By using this approach, we can make sure that applications feel native to the platform, yet at the same time we reuse as much code as possible,” says Hariri. KMM also targets native desktop, JavaScript, and other platforms. Close to 10% of requirements from companies have been in mobile development, which has been for iOS or Kotlin for Android. We don’t see any demand for Java for mobile app developmentNarayan Mahadevan, founder, BridgelabzKotlin is seeing significant action on the server-side too. Hariri says among attendees at the KotlinConf events in recent times, around 40% are server-side developers. “In the case of the JVM (Java Virtual Machine), you can use a wide variety of server-side technologies and frameworks such as Spring, Micronaut, Quarkus, and even Kotlin-specific frameworks such as Ktor, which is a great solution for building connected systems and microservices,” Hariri says. Only time will tell if Kotlin becomes this overarching language that’s used everywhere, much like Java. Or it remains primarily in mobile app development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-kotlin-won-the-language-war-in-android-app-development/articleshow/77900059.cms||Habeeba Salim
September 3, 2020||India||Indian side violated bilateral agreements, important consensus, claims China||BEIJING: Amid the border tensions in Eastern Ladakh, China on Wednesday claimed that Indian side has violated "bilateral agreements and important consensus." "The Indian side claims it 'pre-empted' Chinese military activity. India's statements reveal the fact that the Indian troops were the first to have illegally crossed the LAC, changed the status quo in the border areas, and violated bilateral agreements and important consensus," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said. "We urge the Indian side to strictly discipline its border troops, stop all provocations, immediately withdraw all personnel who illegally trespassed across the LAC, and stop taking any actions that may escalate tensions or complicate matters," the spokesperson said. India had said on Tuesday that it has taken up the matter of "recent provocative and aggressive actions" with the Chinese side and has urged them to control their frontline troops. "We have taken up the matter of recent provocative and aggressive actions with the Chinese side through both diplomatic and military channels and have urged them to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions," Ministry of External Affairs had said in a statement. The ministry said Indian side is firmly committed to resolve all outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector through peaceful dialogue. The Indian Army thwarted Chinese Army's attempt on the night of August 29 and 30 to transgress into areas near the southern bank of Pangong Tso. Indian Army spokesperson had said on Monday that on the night of August 29/30, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo. The Indian Army took measures to strengthen its position and "and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on the ground". The spokesperson also said that the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity. India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese Army in multiple areas including Finger area, Galwan valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala. The talks between the two sides have been going on for the last few months including five Lieutenant general-level talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-side-violated-bilateral-agreements-important-consensus-claims-china/articleshow/77899002.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Mission Karmayogi to upskill government officials, benefit 46 lakh staffers||NEW DELHI: In a key reform that seeks to bring a paradigm shift in human resource management of the civil services, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared ‘Mission Karmayogi’ that will upgrade the knowledge and skills of civil servants on a continuous basis with the aid of modern technology and ensure that the right man with the right competencies is in the right position in government. Hailing the National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (NPCSCB) or “Mission Karmayogi”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it will radically improve human resource management practices in the government whereas home minister Amit Shah said it will bring transformational changes in civil services. Stating the NPCSCB will use state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of civil servants, PM tweeted: "The iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management and continuous learning. Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare civil servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive & innovative through transparency and technology." Shah, while hailing the “visionary" and "landmark" reform, said it “will end the culture of working in silos and bring out new work culture.” “The holistic and comprehensive scheme will focus on individual as well as institutional capacity building," he tweeted. Under 'Mission Karmayogi’, the capacity building will be through shared content to be made available to civil servants on integrated government online training (iGOT) platform, for a nominal subscription fee of Rs 431 payable to the special purpose vehicle (SPV) managing the platform. The initiative will benefit around 46 lakh Central government employees, by offering them access to shared, world-class learning content developed in partnership with premier world institutions like Harvard University, UC Berkeley and London School of Economics etc, via iGOT platform. This shared learning content may be made available to the state civil servants as well, in the future. NPCSCB, on which Rs 510 crore will be spent over 5 years, will be monitored and rolled out by a three-tier institutional structure: the Prime minister-led Human Resources Council that will provide strategic direction to civil services reform and approve capacity building plans, and the Cabinet secretary-led coordination unit; Capacity Building Commission that will standardise and harmonise the entire capacity building eco-system; and a 100% government-owned SPV that will manage and maintain the iGOT Karmayogi digital platform. Multilateral agencies like World Bank and Asian Development Bank will pitch in with assistance to the tune of USD 50 million. Mission Karmayogi will calibrate all civil service positions to a framework of roles, activities and competencies (FRACs) approach and create and deliver learning content relevant to the identified FRACs in each government entity. This content on iGoT platform will be in line with skills, knowledge and competencies required for each employee to chart a guided path as well as desirable path. Guided path will seek to familiarise each civil servant with knowledge and skills needed for roles and functions associated with a job assigned to him. This capacity building will be mandatory and a record of his successful completion of online training will be maintained. The civil servant can also familiarise him with issues concerning other departments. “This will help break the current practice of departments working in silos,” said an officer. “The government will, over time, have a ready database of competencies of each civil servant and can use this to post the most qualified and competent person in a given position. This will promote domain expertise in the government,” he added. ‘Mission Karamyogi’ will also promote “desirable” capacity building. This means that any civil servant can acquire specialised skills or domain expertise by undergoing courses developed in partnership with premier international institutions. “Any civil servant, irrespective of cadre and geography, who desires to do specialised courses to build his career path can do so now. Government will reimburse the course fee upon successful completion of the course,” said an officer. Incidentally, a source indicated that the existing foreign training programmes for All India Services officers may be made more selective, with emphasis to be laid on online and on-site learning rather than encouraging long study leaves. “An undertaking may be taken that any skills acquired in foreign training shall be put to good use in future postings”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mission-karmayogi-to-upskill-government-officials-benefit-46-lakh-staffers/articleshow/77899952.cms||Bharti Jain
September 3, 2020||World||China now has world’s largest navy, eyes Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar bases||NEW DELHI: China now has the largest Navy in the world and is aggressively looking to set up logistical bases in the Indo-Pacific region to enhance its strategic reach, while also working assiduously towards at least doubling the number of its nuclear warheads over the next decade. This is the latest assessment of China’s expanding military might, ranging from long-range missiles and nuclear submarines to integrated air defence, space and electronic warfare capabilities, by the Pentagon in its detailed report presented to the US Congress on Tuesday. India needs to take serious note of the Pentagon report in the backdrop of the expanding Chinese naval footprint in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), which has been further consolidated after Beijing established its first overseas base at Djibouti on the Horn of Africa in August 2017, while also enjoying unfettered access to the Karachi and Gwadar ports in Pakistan. The Pentagon report said China is actively looking at setting up military logistics facilities in Myanmar, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, UAE, Kenya, Seychelles, Tanzania, Angola and Tajikistan. With an overall force of around 350 warships and submarines, including over 130 “major surface combatants”, China has overtaken even the US Navy’s force-level of 293 warships, said the report. The US Navy, of course, is much more technologically advanced, with as many as 11 “super” 100,000-tonne aircraft carriers (each can carry 80-90 fighters) as compared as to the two of China. But China is building two more aircraft carriers, with the eventual aim of having 10, as per Indian officials. India also needs to worry about the fast-emerging collusive China-Pakistan threat in the IOR, with Beijing set to supply eight Yuan-class diesel-electric submarines, four Type-054A multi-role stealth frigates and other naval platforms and weapons, as was reported by TOI earlier. For now, India has a huge advantage in the IOR due to the tyranny of logistics faced by China, and can if required exploit its “Malacca Dilemma”. But Indian Navy has a force-level of only one aircraft carrier, 10 destroyers, 14 frigates, 11 corvettes as well as 15 diesel-electric and two nuclear-powered submarines in terms of major combatants at present. While the commissioning of the long-delayed second aircraft carrier (INS Vikrant) will only take place in September 2021, the government is yet to even approve the initial case to build a third carrier. The Chinese Navy is “an increasingly modern and flexible force that has focused on replacing previous generations of platforms with limited capabilities in favour of larger, modern multi-role combatants”, said the Pentagon report. Taking note of the way Beijing was pursuing a “nuclear-triad”, the report said, “China’s nuclear forces will significantly evolve over the next decade as it modernizes, diversifies, and increases the number of its land, sea, and air-based nuclear delivery platforms.” Watch China now has world’s largest navy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-now-has-worlds-largest-navy-eyes-pakistan-sri-lanka-myanmar-bases/articleshow/77900396.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 3, 2020||India||Facebook India head faces volley of 'uncomfortable' questions from MPs||NEW DELHI: The Facebook brass in India faced several “uncomfortable” questions from both opposition and ruling party members over alleged political bias, with the social media firm’s India head Ajit Mohan Prasad being asked by BJP MPs about his association with Congress and quizzed by the opposition whether more Congress than BJP pages were deleted. The questioning was intense at the three-and-half-hour meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, on Wednesday. BJP members asked several questions about biases of FB employees, with Godda MP Nishikant Dubey pointing to the past political affiliations of many of them. In response to questions, Prasad is learnt to have distanced himself from write-ups he had penned several years ago which were critical of BJP. He said no senior member of the India team was politically biased though there were employees who had previously worked with political parties or leaders. Tharoor’s announcement that the panel would like to hear from Facebook about a report published in the Wall Street Journal claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules to BJP politicians, had evoked a strong reaction from BJP members, setting the stage for an intense round of questioning by BJP and opposition MPs at Wednesday’s meeting. Though Facebook officials had a long deposition, Tharoor later said in a tweet, that discussions remained inconclusive and the committee will re-congregate at a later date, likely to be announced after September 12, when the one-year tenure of the panel ends. “In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology that just adjourned, this is all I can say: we met for some three & a half hours & unanimously agreed to resume the discussion later, incl w/ reps of @Facebook," he said on Twitter. In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the ParliamentaryStandingCommittee on InformationTechn… https://t.co/IvU1akXHeX— Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) 1599056985000After the meeting, a BJP MP said the FB brass was closely questioned over allegation that reports of the social media firm going soft on the saffron party was the handiwork of employees, who were active members of the Congress and Left parties. There were questions over the FB management’s hiring of its “fact-check” team and what is the process of outsourcing the work to other agencies. It was learnt that the committee will take up the issue once again in future. “There will be a new committee soon, which will look into the issues once again,” a member said. The committee, headed by Tharoor, had called representatives of Facebook to hear their views on the subject of ‘safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space’. Dubey had alleged that the Congress leader has been using the panel’s platform to further his and his party's political agenda and even demanded his removal as chairman. Watch TMC MP Derek O’Brien writes to Facebook CEO, raises issue of alleged bias of towards BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/facebook-india-head-faces-volley-of-uncomfortable-questions-from-mps/articleshow/77900656.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Government scraps question hour during monsoon session, draws opposition ire||NEW DELHI: Opposition parties cried foul over the Modi government’s decision to ‘scrap’ question hour during the monsoon session and many referred to it as a ‘death blow’ to democracy, though the government has agreed to the zero hour that usually allows parties to vent their views on current political events and also sees submission of adjournment notices. The government also clarified that unstarred questions – written questions – will be submitted to members. No “starred” questions – oral questions as follow-ups to the written queries – will be permitted during the question hour, said sources in the speaker’s office. Typically, ministers concerned respond to oral questions on the floor of the House. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the decision to scrap the question hour during the coming session was taken after most opposition parties gave their consent. The government argued that accommodating question hour would require the presence of a large number of officials, which would make it difficult to observe social distancing protocols in the officials’ gallery. “Opposition parties are raising questions regarding question hour and zero hour. Arjun Ram Meghwal, V Muraleedharan and I had spoken to every party regarding this and except for TMC’s Derek O’Brien, everyone agreed to scrap question hour,” Joshi said. The minister added that he has now suggested to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to limit zero hour to 30 minutes. “They will take the final decision. We have also requested the speaker to take unstarred questions,” he added. The move to drop the question hour in the already-curtailed monsoon session of Parliament had triggered a row with opposition leaders referring to it an assault on democracy. While Congress’s leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had written to Birla opposing the move, Rajya Sabha LoP Ghulam Nabi Azad had agreed that it would be difficult to accommodate the question hour since the House would sit for only four hours a day. Congress’s Anand Sharma, however, had tweeted his reservations, calling the decision “arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic”. “Parliament sessions are not meant only for government business but also scrutiny and accountability of government,” he said on Twitter. The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin on September 14 and continue till October 1. While Lok Sabha will sit from 9am on the opening day, it will convene from 3pm to 7 pm for all subsequent sittings. Opposition MPs had contended that with the question hour scrapped and the zero hour curtailed to 30 minutes, they would have little or no opportunity to raise and discuss matters important to their constituencies and the country. O’Brien, among the most vocal of the lot, accused the government of “murdering democracy” in the name of coronavirus. Watch Opposition parties cried foul as Government scraps question hour during monsoon session||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-scraps-question-hour-during-monsoon-session-draws-opposition-ire/articleshow/77900762.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||If not for judiciary, I’d have been eliminated, says Dr Kafeel Khan||AGRA: It was a bittersweet homecoming for Dr Kafeel Khan on Wednesday. Moments after walking out of Mathura jail, over 12 hours after the Allahabad high court had ordered his release, he said he had begun to worry during his seven-month-long incarceration that he would not make it. So instead of going home to Gorakhpur, he told TOI at 2am, he was crossing UP’s border. “What a relief,” he said. “I have only the judiciary to thank for this. I could have been eliminated.” The paediatrician has been in the crosshairs of the state government since the death of more than 60 children at BRD Hospital in Gorakhpur, where he worked, because of oxygen shortage in 2017. “I am being victimised because I questioned the government about the real culprits of the children’s deaths,” he said. He remains suspended from his medical duties though the case of negligence against him was not proven. On Tuesday, the Allahabad High Court set aside his detention under the stringent National Security Act (NSA). He had been arrested on January 29 for a speech he delivered at Aligarh Muslim University gate during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Thanking the judiciary for the “brilliant” order that showed the state government’s case against him was “false, baseless and fictitious”, he said, “I also thank the STF (Special Task Force) for sparing my life when they brought me from Mumbai to UP after arrest.” When he had been arrested, he said the STF had interrogated him for 48 hours with “absurd” questions. “I was accused of trying to topple the state government and that I had some kind of powder to kill people, had visited Japan, and so on.” In the course of conversation, he crossed the state borders safely. “I am taking my family with me and will spend some time with them,” he said. “I missed them a lot. My son, Oliver, was 11 months when I was jailed. Now, he has started saying ‘papa’.” His wife Shabista and brother Adeel, who had been trying to get him out all this while, met him at a predetermined spot. When he was sent to prison, he continued that he was not given food or water for five days. “I was not allowed to talk about the Gorakhpur hospital case in prison.” Prison conditions were also “pathetic”, he said. “One toilet. Some 1,600 prisoners. And a capacity of 530. It was horrible.” He had started writing a book on the Gorakhpur tragedy while in prison. He said he will now try and finish it. It has been a long time since he practised medicine, but he wants to help. “I want to do something for people in flood-affected states by organising medical camps. Floods increase risk of communicable diseases like cholera, malaria and dengue. Maybe some research on Covid-19. I had worked intensively on encephalitis earlier.” But he is not headed to his hometown anytime soon. “I’ll be staying away from UP for a while.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/if-not-for-judiciary-id-have-been-eliminated-says-dr-kafeel-khan/articleshow/77900974.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 3, 2020||India||A fractious farewell for Justice Mishra||NEW DELHI: Evoking controversies in the bar and solving many a problem for judges characterised his over six-year tenure in the Supreme Court but Justice Arun Mishra's wish for a quiet send off on his last day as SC judge was belied by attorney general K K Venugopal and bar association president Dushyant Dave. As per tradition, he shared the dais with CJI S A Bobde on Wednesday after a tiring few months of writing voluminous judgments on weighty issues — daughters having equal coparcenary right in ancestral property, Amrapali case, punishing advocate Prashant Bhushan for contempt and settling complex payment issues relating to AGR dues of telecom companies. Ironically, this was the first and last time Justice Mishra and Justice Bobde were on the same bench. As soon as the bench finished its judicial business, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and solicitor general Tushar Mehta wished Justice Mishra a happy retired life. But Venugopal began from where he left his arguments in the Bhushan case. "I would have been happy if no punishment was given. But the judgment of the bench headed by Justice Mishra elaborately laid down the law on contempt of court and it will be debated for a long time," the AG said. When his turn to speak came last, Justice Mishra sought pardon from all advocates if he had hurt them in any manner. He said his judgments were always dictated by his conscience. "I have always tried to do what is correct and best. I have not decided a single case keeping my conscience locked up. You can criticise my judgments but do not attribute a motive," he said. He had just begun to respond to the AG on the Bhushan judgment when CJI Bobde stopped him by saying, "zyada mat bolo ab (don't get into it now)”. The AG said he had excellent personal relations with this "extremely hardworking judge" who was “firm and unshakable", deserving the epithet "iron judge". Dave was seen on the screen during the virtual farewell but could not be heard. He later complained that he was deliberately muted in the video-conferencing by the registry. In a letter to the CJI, he called this a "game plan" to prevent him from speaking on the occasion "fearing that I might say something unpleasant", even though he never had any such intention. Dave said, "I must confess, the SC has come to such a level where judges are afraid of the bar. Please remember, judges come and go but we the bar remain constant." Saddened by the events, he said, "I will never again participate in any function organised by the Supreme Court till my term (as president of SCBA) is over in December." CJI Bobde paid glowing accolades to Justice Mishra by referring to him as a "beacon of life, courage and fortitude in the face of adversity". He said Justice Mishra had bravely fought many difficult situations, both as a judge and in his personal life with “many health issues”. "I don't know of anyone who faced so much adversity and yet carried on so bravely. You will leave behind a legacy of hard work, erudition, fortitude and excellent relations you shared with all colleagues. You have so many firsts and given so many important judgments," he added. Justice Mishra was the go to man for judges when they were in trouble with colleagues. At one point, then CJI J S Khehar had bypassed Justice J Chelameswar and extended the five-member collegium to the sixth most senior judge. Justice Chelameswar sought the good offices of Justice Mishra to get back into the collegium. Strangely, it was Justice Chelameswar who led a rebellion of four seniormost judges against then CJI Dipak Misra for allocation of the petition on judicial officer B H Loya's death to a bench headed by Justice Mishra and who recused from the case. Again, it was Justice Mishra who played a key role in restoring normalcy behind the courtrooms among colleagues. When then CJI Ranjan Gogoi faced sexual harassment charges, it was Justice Mishra who presided over the bench after CJI Gogoi gave vent to his anguish over the manner in which a “lobby” was using a court assistant to defame him and destabilise the judiciary. SC judges will lose a colleague who stood by them through thick and thin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-fractious-farewell-for-justice-mishra/articleshow/77901103.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 3, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: Indian Army occupies heights, wrests upper hand at Pangong Tso||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army has quietly wrested the advantage in the Pangong Tso area — a sector witnessing heightened India-China military tensions — with the occupation of heights on the south bank of the lake and repositioning of forces on ridgelines in the fingers or spurs on the north bank. Indian forces had been placed in a difficult position after Chinese troops established a heavy presence on the ridges or the Finger 4-8 area earlier in the year. Despite a small pullback, they had retained what was seen as a tactical edge on the ridgelines. With neither military-to-military talks nor high-level diplomatic discussions yielding results and China’s pro-fessed commitment to dialogue failing to translate into tangible action, the Indian forces began to plan a response aimed at restoring parity that would neutralise the upper hand held by the intruding PLA troops. LAC stand-off: Live updatesSources said the plan to “occupy” the heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso had been in the works and would have been operationalised irrespective of the attempted advance of Chinese troops in the area on the night of August 29. While it was imperative to prevent the PLA contingent from ascending, the Army used the provocation to put its plan into action as well. Along with the south bank manoeuvre, a repositioning of Indian forces in the finger area on the north bank of the lake has completed the operation to snatch the advantage held by PLA since the military tensions erupted in early May. Though India has not provided much details about the developments, sources said the balance at Pangong Tso stood drastically altered. The steady stream of angry commentary in Chinese “official” media and foreign ministry statements accusing India of “violating consensus” and urging that it immediately discipline frontline troops is evidence of Beijing’s discomfiture. Read AlsoChina's latest incursion bid was deliberate move to provoke India: US intelligenceChina's transgression attempt near the southern bank of Pangong lake, which was thwarted by the Indian Army, was a deliberate move to provoke India, according to American intelligence assessment. Beijing is infuriated with its local commander withdrawing forces when a physical conflict appeared The view in Delhi is that the previous sweet talk about the need to see differences in the broader perspective of shared goals was simply aimed at fobbing off India and consolidating a changed status quo. Watch LAC row: India bolsters presence at strategic heights of Pangong lake area; military talks inconclusive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-indian-army-occupies-heights-wrests-upper-hand-at-pangong-tso/articleshow/77901147.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
September 3, 2020||India||Meet ‘Establishment 22’, a special frontier force||NEW DELHI: Saturday night’s operation on the south bank of Pangong Tso has brought into limelight the possible role of ‘Establishment 22’, a secret force also known as the Special Frontier Force (SFF) under the administrative control of the Cabinet secretariat and the PMO. Senior Army officials acknowledged the presence of an SFF unit in eastern Ladakh but its interaction with the Army is minimal. Raised towards the end of the 1962 war, SFF’s commandos are drawn from Tibetan refugees settled in India. They were initially trained by the Intelligence Bureau, RAW and CIA for covert operations behind enemy lines. In the first few decades after it was raised, the force was used to keep an eye on Chinese plans to deploy nuclear warheads. Read AlsoArmy strengthens its positions, from east Ladakh to ArunachalThe Army has further strengthened its positions in eastern Ladakh, as well as in other sectors right till Arunachal Pradesh, with an angry China pushing hard for Indian troops to vacate the heights they proactively occupied in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area over the weekend. The military consolidationThe SFF gained its nickname ‘Establishment 22’ after its founder chief Sujan Singh Uban, who commanded the 22nd Mountain Regiment in the British Indian Army during World War II in Europe. Headquartered in Chakrata (Uttarakhand), it comprises at least five battalions or about 5,000 commandos who are elite paratroopers trained in mountain warfare. No serving or retired Army officer would acknowledge the role of SFF in Saturday night’s operation but they all acknowledge the presence of SFF battalions in Ladakh and other places along the frontier. Lt Gen Syed Ata Hasnain (retired), former GOC of 15 Corps, said, “I have had ‘Vikas’ units alongside me while serving in Ladakh. Seen them play volleyball in vests at 16,000 feet. Their natural affinity for the ground too is very high, giving them a major advantage in operations.” Read AlsoChina taking advantage of Covid-19 outbreak, India one such example: US DiplomatIndia is among the countries that China has taken advantage of since the outbreak of the Covid-19 from Wuhan, US diplomat David Stilwell said on Wednesday. "What we have seen since the corona outbreak from Wuhan is it seems the PRC is trying to take advantage of the situation, and India, I think, isOthers were less forthcoming and spoke on the condition of anonymity. “We know about them... But their existence has been off the books. The few of us who get to serve with them are under oath,” a retired lieutenant general said. Lt Gen D S Hooda (retired), who headed the all-important Northern Command during the surgical strikes across the LoC, told TOI that it was time for India to give a strong message economically, diplomatically and, if required, militarily, given the stubborn position adopted by China. “The ball is now in China’s court,” he said, adding that the Indian military was in a very strong position to take on any challenge. Watch Establishment 22: A special frontier force trained in mountain warfare||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/meet-establishment-22-a-special-frontier-force/articleshow/77901301.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 3, 2020||India||SOPs out for conducting exams amid pandemic||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Wednesday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed while conducting examinations to avoid risk of spread of Covid-19 infection. As per the latest guidelines, only those examination centres which are outside the containment zone shall be allowed to function. Besides, staff and examinees from containment zones will not be allowed at the centres. Educational institutions will have to make separate arrangements for them at a later date and via other means. Only asymptomatic students and staff will be allowed inside an examination centre. Any symptomatic student will be referred to the nearest health centre and the institution shall arrange for arranging the candidate’s exam at a later date when the person is declared physically fit. The ministry also said if a student is found to be symptomatic and insists on writing an examination, the candidate may be allowed to do so in a separate isolation room with due permission from authorities conducting the examination. It also advised all centres to ensure masks, sanitisers and hygiene inside premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sops-out-for-conducting-exams-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77901328.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: Sudden deaths prompt government to issue dos and don’ts for doctors||NEW DELHI: Sudden deaths of Covid-19 patients, both on arrival at the emergency department as well as those admitted to hospital, have prompted the health ministry to ask doctors to strictly monitor patients with risk factors or with prior co-morbid conditions such as chronic lung disease. “Reasons that have been proposed include a sudden cardiac event, preceding silent hypoxia that went unnoticed or due to a thrombotic complication such as pulmonary thromboembolism,” says a document released by the health ministry on clinical management of Covid-19 patients in ICUs. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “They should not be allowed to move unattended. Anticoagulant should be used in all at-risk patients who do not have any risk factors of bleeding,” it added. The document, drafted by AIIMS-Delhi, comes in the wake of rapidly increasing number of deaths of Covid-19 patients. It also aims to check arbitrary practices by doctors treating Covid patients across India by detailing whether certain drugs should be used in such patients. The document, called FAQs on Covid-19, asked doctors not to use antifibrotics like pirfenidone (to prevent lung fibrosis) and methylene blue, an oxidation-reduction agent. It also does not include some of the drugs that have been approved by the drug regulator under emergency authorisation. The document also says that either tocilizumab or remdisivir should not be given to suspects who aren’t confirmed patients of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-sudden-deaths-prompt-government-to-issue-dos-and-donts-for-doctors/articleshow/77901382.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala model put to test as August active cases up 116%||KOCHI: It is testing times for Kerala and its once-lauded model of Covid control, with the state witnessing a 116% jump in active cases in August. Its 30-day moving growth rate (MGR) for positivity is twice the national average while for active cases and mortality it is four times the national average. The number of active cases in the state has gone up from 10,862 on August 1 to 23,488 on August 31, the biggest spike in 30 days since the first confirmed case on January 30. The 30-day MGR for positivity in Kerala is just a tad behind Punjab which has the highest MGR of 122%. The 30-day MGR for positivity in India was 64% in August. Click here for all the latest updates on CoronavirusKerala had the highest 30-day MGR in mortality in August at 163% compared to 39% in Maharashtra, 48% in Tamil Nadu and 77% in Karnataka. The 30-day MGR in mortality in India is 46%. Read AlsoCovid-19: Maharashtra’s 8 lakh+ count beats 5th worst-hit countryMaharashtra reported its biggest single-day spike of 17,433 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its total to 8,25,739. On Tuesday, the state had added 15,765 fresh cases and 320 deaths, taking its tally to 8,08,306. The state took seven days to go from 7 lakh to 8 lakh cases.“The 30-day MGR of Kerala in terms of positivity, active cases and mortality have shot up, indicating that the strategy adopted by the state government has had limited impact. It calls for immediate action. Unless Kerala puts its act together, there is a likelihood of it becoming the worst-affected state, just behind Maharashtra,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative. There is a growing consensus amongst medical practitioners that it is time to increase random testing to identify positive cases in community and not just clusters. Read AlsoSalary cut, 900 Kerala Covid doctors resignTHIRUVANATHAPURAM: Nearly 870 doctors appointed to Covid first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) across Kerala have tendered their resignation over deductions in their salary. They were among the 1,080 MBBS graduates who passed out of government medical colleges this year and appointed on Covid duty on“The focus of the health department is on controlling mortality and morbidity. Though the death rate has increased. Till now, it has only been a proportional increase and not a worry at present. But a huge increase in active cases with shorter doubling periods mean that our healthcare machinery and already exhausted healthcare workers will be overwhelmed soon. This will prove catastrophic,” said Dr Gopikumar P, secretary, IMA, Kerala chapter. Senior health officials, however, said the cases were peaking in Kerala only now, and when compared to other states in India -- many of which saw its Covid peak early -- Kerala is doing well with less than 1% Covid patients needing ICU or ventilator care and a total case fatality rate of 0.4%. “There is a curious phenomenon in Kerala when compared to other states. Though our cases are increasing, our mortality and people needing critical care are low. This is mainly due to early intervention and successful reverse quarantine policy in the state,” said Dr Santosh Kumar, deputy medical superintendent, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. Watch Covid-19: Kerala reports 116% surge in active cases in August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-kerala-model-put-to-test-as-august-active-cases-up-116/articleshow/77901424.cms||Preetu Nair
September 3, 2020||India||‘Rich’ asymptomatic patients in Maharashtra blocking ICU beds, says minister||MUMBAI: Public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that “rich people” who have tested positive for Covid-19 and are asymptomatic were occupying ICU beds, making it hard for critical patients to find one when they need it. “Sometimes, asymptomatic patients who can afford facilities get admitted to the ICU when they don’t even require it,” said Tope. The minister said this had to stop as it was leading to a shortage of ICU beds. Tope make the remarks while answering questions about the death of a journalist due to Covid-19 in Pune on Wednesday. The 42-year-old did not get an ambulance in time, kin alleged. Officials said the state had always discouraged asymptomatic patients from occupying ICU beds. Tope also said that the infection’s rapid spread in rural parts of the state was worrisome and awareness about the infection was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rich-asymptomatic-patients-in-maharashtra-blocking-icu-beds-says-minister/articleshow/77901437.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 3, 2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Charges framed against ex-secy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala government has initiated proceedings for disciplinary action against IAS officer M Sivasankar, currently suspended for alleged links with the key accused in a case involving smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels. The government has framed the article of charges and served it to Sivasankar. According to sources, the charges against the officer say that he misused his official position by providing reference to appoint a person, who was also working as secretary to the UAE consul general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-charges-framed-against-ex-secy/articleshow/77901439.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ex-MLA’s grandson held for Rs 26 lakh loot from staffer||PATNA: Former MLA Musafir Paswan’s grandson turned out to be the mastermind behind Rs26 lakh loot from his staffer at Raghopur Chowk under Ahiyapur police station area in Muzaffarpur on August 25. Paswan’s employee Mukesh Kumar Singh was robbed of the cash by bike-borne criminals when he was on way to Motihari on his bike to make payments to the workers. Ahiyapur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar on Wednesday said five persons, including Musafir’s grandson Ajay Paswan, were arrested from different locations on Monday and Tuesday for their involvement in the loot case. “Ajay (32) is the son of former MLA’s nephew Baldeo Paswan. The family lives near Musafir’s residence at Nazirpur under Ahiyapur police station area,” he said. Besides Ajay, Akhilesh Paswan (31), Chintu alias Jhamo (19), Amarjeet Sahni (22) and one Puja Devi (26) were arrested. He said Rs1.79 lakh of the looted money was recovered from Puja’s residence. “Chintu, Amarjeet and Puja were sent to jail on Wednesday. The other two were forwarded to jail on Tuesday,” the SHO said. The SHO said Ajay knew about cash transfer from Musafir’s residence. “He roped in the other criminals and planned the loot,” the SHO said. He said Puja is the wife of one Sunil Mahto, who was also involved in the loot. “At least seven more criminals were yet to be arrested. Raids were on to nab them and recover the rest of the looted money,” he said. He said Chintu is already accused in three loot cases lodged with Ahiyapur police station. The others evading arrest also have criminal background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-mlas-grandson-held-for-rs-26-lakh-loot-from-staffer/articleshow/77897333.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Kidnapped boy rescued, 13 arrested||PATNA: The 11-year-old boy kidnapped for Rs1 crore ransom was recovered from Pachra Laxmipur Tariyani in Sheohar district on Wednesday. Police arrested 13 people, including the minor’s maternal cousin and son of a bank manager, for their alleged involvement in the case. The boy, Chahat Kumar, was kidnapped from Jirati Tola under Sahebganj police station area in Muzaffarpur on Sunday while he was playing outside his residence. Kidnappers had made a ransom call of Rs1 crore to the family members the same day. Chahat’s mother Chinta Devi had lodged an FIR with Sahebganj police station on Monday. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said Chahat’s cousin Rohit Kumar had planned the kidnapping in connivance with the criminals. “One Abhinav Kumar was also involved in the kidnapping. He is the son of a manager of the Punjab National Bank branch at Paroo in Muzaffarpur,” he said. The SSP said Manish Kumar, Guddu Kumar, Kavindra Kumar, Chotu Kumar, Rani alias Sanju Devi, Vilash Ram, Amlesh Kumar, Surnar Rai, Munnilal Rai, Rahul Kumar, Rohit and Abhinav were arrested. “The boy was kept hostage in the house of one Kavindra Kumar at village Pachra Laxmipur in Sheohar,” he said. Jayant said the kidnappers had planned to kill the boy after getting the ransom money. Rohit, Abhinav and Manish were first detained. They revealed the story. Later, Dilip and Guddu were arrested with a bike and a pistol when they had gone near the boy’s residence. Afterwards, the other criminals were arrested, he said. Two countrymade pistols, two live cartridges, one bike and nine cellphones were recovered from their possessions. The SSP said it was Avinash who had made the ransom call to Chahat’s family. The sim card along with the cellphone used in making the call had also been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-boy-rescued-13-arrested/articleshow/77897408.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 3, 2020||Patna||ECR to run 8 more pairs of intercity trains from September 4||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to run eight pairs of intercity trains from September 4 to 15 in the state to help the candidates of JEE, NEET and NDA reach their destinations easily. Apart from these, 20 pairs of DEMU/MEMU trains began running on different routes under the jurisdiction of the ECR from Wednesday. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper, “The Saharsa-Patna Intercity (02567/02568) will begin its journey from Saharsa on September 4 and reach Patna the next morning. It will stop at Simri-Bakhtiarpur, Mansi, Khagaria, Begusarai, Mokama and Bakhtiarpur on its way to Patna.” The Danapur-Rajgir Intercity (03234/03233) will also run with reserved coaches from September 4 and stop at the Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Gulzarbagh, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Harnaut, Biharsharif, Pawapuri Road and Nalanda. The Katihar-Patna Intercity (05713/05714), on the other hand, will have stoppages at Semapur, Karagola, Kursela, Naugachia, Thana Bihpur, Maheshkhunt, Mansi, Khagaria, Lakhminia, Begusarai, Barauni, Mokama, Barh, Bakhtiarpur and Patna Sahib. “The Patna-Bhabua Intercity (03249/03250) will run via Ara and stop at Danapur, Bihta, Ara, Piro, Bikramganj, Sasaram and Kudra. Another intercity (03243/03244), which will run via Gaya, will stop at Punpun, Taregna, Jehanabad, Makhdumpur, Gaya, Rafiganj, Anugrah Narayan Road, Son Nagar, Dehri-on-Sone, Sasaram and Kudra,” the CPRO said. He added, “The Jaynagar-Patna Intercity (05549/05550), which will run with reserved coaches, will stop at Madhubani, Sakri, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Bhagwanpur, Hajipur, Sonepur and Patliputra Junction. The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Jaynagar Intercity will have stoppages at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Bachhwara, Dalsinghsarai, Samastipur, Laheriasarai, Darbhanga, Sakri, Madhubani and Rajnagar. Similarly, the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Saharsa Intercity (03227/03228) will stop at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Begusarai, Sahebpur Kamal, Khagaria, Mansi and Simri-Bakhtiarpur. The Saharsa-Patliputra Junction Intercity (03205/03206) will stop at Simri-Bakhtiarpur, Mansi, Khagaria, Begusarai, Barauni, Mehnar Road and Hajipur.” Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association general secretary Shoaib Quraishi welcomed the move of the railways and urged the officials concerned to “resume the services of all local trains to help people reach their offices on time”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-8-more-pairs-of-intercity-trains-from-sept-4/articleshow/77897464.cms||Kumod Verma
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Vendors selling 'puja' offerings hit hard||PATNA: With the ban on temples and gurdwaras continuing in the state capital due to Covid pandemic, hawkers and street vendors selling religious offerings such as garlands, sweets and ‘puja samagri’ have been hit hard financially. The Harmandir Ji Gali situated next to Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji (Patna Sahib) wears a deserted look as shops selling turbans, holy scriptures and gurdwara offerings await the arrival of devotees. Gurjeet Singh, who runs a 70-year-old turban shop there, said he has never seen the lane so empty. “My shop was started by my grandfather in 1950. Since birth, I have always seen the lane with tourists and local devotees. But because of Covid-19, they are missing. We have no business,” he said. A little ahead in the lane sits Mandeep Puri, who sells holy scriptures and puja offerings such as ‘pinni prasad’ to the devotees. “About 50% of my customers were tourists, mostly from Punjab. But because of travel restrictions, I hardly get any customer. There are days when I make no money at all. I am waiting for the gurdwara to open for visitors,” said Mandeep. Florists in the city have also been hit by the lockdown and floods in north Bihar. “I used to purchase flowers from Hajipur. But because of incessant rain and floods, many of my suppliers have incurred huge losses. Hence, the cost of flowers has also gone up,” said Chandan Kumar, who sells garlands near the Mahavir Mandir. “With high cost of purchase and no customers in sight, I am finding it difficult to do business,” he added. Kamlesh Kumar, who also sells garlands outside the Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction, said even after wandering on the streets for 12 hours today, he could not sell a single piece. “Before the pandemic, I used to sell more than 500 marigold garlands on Tuesdays and Saturdays. But after Covid-19, I haven’t sold that many flowers in the last two months,” he said. While some hawkers have lost hope, others have started exploring new ways to earn their livelihood. Rani Devi, who was selling ‘mata ka shringar’ items near the Hanuman temple at Anisabad, said, “We weren’t making any money while waiting for customers. So I asked my son to visit the houses and sell some ‘puja samagri’. There is no other way to survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vendors-selling-religious-offerings-hit/articleshow/77897097.cms||Arunima Lal
September 3, 2020||Patna||Gaya temple wears deserted look||GAYA: As the state government has officially cancelled the Pitrapaksh Mela on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, Vishnupad Temple, the most important ‘Pindadaan Vedi’ wore a deserted look on the first day of the fortnight during which pilgrims visit the place for performing the rituals for salvation of ancestors. Falgu river bank and Akshay Vat are the two other most important ‘vedis’ for such rituals. Never before in recorded history, the event was cancelled, said Mahesh Guput Pitalkewadwale, a member of the Vishnupad management committee. Policemen have been deployed at all the entry points of the district to prevent the entry of pilgrims, said Guput. The district administration on its official website has notified the cancellation of the event. Anyone found violating the provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act would be punished. Panda leaders have all along been demanding an abridged version of the event by making social distancing norms mandatory and following the Covid protocol. The blanket ban is unwarranted, said Mahesh Guput. If Deoghar, Kashi and Vrindavan shrines can be opened, why this ban on Pitrapaksh, he asked. Gaya IMA chief Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh said heavens would not have fallen if limited pindadaan with social distancing was permitted. Supporting the cancellation of the event, Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce president Sanjay Bhardwaj said life was paramount. The business community would suffer a loss of Rs50-60 crore. Apart from pandas, who live on Pitrapaksh earnings for the rest of the year, the business community was the biggest loser. Still he favoured the event cancellation, said Bhardwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-temple-wears-deserted-look/articleshow/77897166.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 3, 2020||Business||Abu Dhabi-backed Alpha Wave invests in five startups||BENGALURU: Alpha Wave Incubation, the $300-million fund started by New York-based investment firm Falcon Edge along with Abu Dhabi’s state owned ADQ, has backed five startups areas like fintech, AI and software services. The fund has backed video personalisation and distribution platform Hippo, software company focused on solar space SenseHawk, AI platform Entropik, customer support automation platform Verloop and Ola-backed digital lending platform Avail Finance, said two sources briefed on the matter. Alpha Wave Incubation, which was set up in May this year with ADQ as its sole investor, has emerged one of the most active backer of early stage startups with five more deals in the pipeline in areas like edtech, consumer brand and social commerce. The firm is also setting up a team of 10-12 members, and has hired Anirudh Singh, who worked at Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin’s B Capital, to lead the programme. Besides backing startups, Alpha Wave Incubation has also come up with a model of incentivising startups move part of their teams to Abu Dhabi as the country looks to emerge as a technology hub and reduce dependence on oil. “The incentives are in addition to the capital invested and part of the teams can relocate to Abu Dhabi to build regional businesses, which is also a natural business expansion opportunity,” said the source mentioned above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/abu-dhabi-backed-alpha-wave-invests-in-five-startups/articleshow/77898521.cms||Madhav Chanchani
September 3, 2020||Business||Unacademy bags $1.5 billion valuation in $150 million round||BENGALURU: SoftBank Vision Fund has led a $150-million round in edtech startup Unacademy at a valuation of about $1.45 billion as it is sees increasing adoption among users due to schools remaining shut and online learning going mainstream. The deal will see valuation of the five-year-old startup triple in less than six months, as it was valued at about $500 million when it raised funding from social networking giant Facebook earlier this year. TOI reported the deal on August 15. This will be SoftBank’s first edtech investment in India. tnnThe round will also see participation of Unacademy’s existing backers like Sequoia Capital India, Blume Ventures, General Atlantic and Nexus Venture Partners besides Facebook. Some of Unacademy’s angel investors, who invested in the company when it was valued at about $5 million, will make a partial exit. Unacademy co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal declined to disclose details. Unacademy, which recently became one of the sponsors for IPL, has seen its annualised revenue run rate increase four times since February, from $30 million to $120 million now. The startup, which has primarily focused on test preparation for exams like UPSC (civil services), IIT-JEE, and medical colleges, now plans to expand into several new areas as well. “We want to launch in multiple categories, even non-test preparation. We will enter K-12 and other ‘goals’ (segments). For example, in two weeks we are launching competitive programming, which helps engineering students become better programmers and eventually get better jobs,” said Munjal. Essentially, on one end there will be a career segment and then on the other end there will be K-12, he added. Started in 2015, Unacademy, which links educators giving lessons to students through online videos for competitive exams like bank probationary officers. It recently acquired Prep Ladder, an online platform to prepare for medical entrance exams, for $50 million and invested $5 million in another startup Mastree, which provides classes from grade 5 to 8. It has 18,000 educators and over 3.5 lakh subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unacademy-bags-1-5bn-valuation/articleshow/77898377.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||Now, take a virtual tour of Mysuru Railway Museum||Mysuru: Given the fear that venturing physically into spaces such as museums entail, South Western Railway (SWR), Mysuru division, has launched a service where people can enjoy a virtual tour of the recently refurbished Railway Museum in the city. The virtual tour service of the museum was flagged off by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on the website, www.mysururailmuseum.com, on Wednesday. Visitors can enjoy a 360-degree view of the museum on the virtual tour. Simha said that the museum would soon be counted among one of the leading tourist destinations in the city, along with Mysore Palace and the Sri Chamundeshwari temple. Simha was effusive in his praise of SWR, Mysuru division for taking the initiative to come up with projects that will turn the museum into a prominent tourist destination. Furthermore, ‘Click-a-Selfie' contest has been launched, wherein selfies clicked at the museum and uploaded on the social media pages – Facebook, Twitter and Instagram – will be adjudged based on likes, shares and comments. The best among the photographs will be given a prize. The contest kicked off on Tuesday and will end on September 30. ‘BSY will decide on Dasara celebrations’ Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said that members of the Dasara high-powered committee would meet in Mysuru soon to decide on how to go about the Naada Habba celebrations. “We will collect inputs from the former deputy commissioner and the new DC on organising the event. We are ready for the Dasara celebrations. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will take the final call on the event,” he said. Declining to respond to allegations levelled against him by Congress members, Simha asked them to produce documents to substantiate their allegations. “I will respond to their allegations then,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/now-take-a-virtual-tour-of-mysuru-railway-museum/articleshow/77896605.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur police set to book criminals under CCA||BHAGALPUR: As part of measures to ensure security during the upcoming assembly polls, the Bhagalpur police are set to book about 250 notorious criminals under the Crime Control Act (CCA). The police also wants them externed from the state, and have approached the district magistrate for the same. Almost every police station in the district has identified criminals or anti-social elements for externment . Already names of 46 criminals have been recommended under Section III of CCA, while another 200 have been identified, against whom action will be taken. Steps like externment from the place of residence at the police station level or district-level or ‘zila badar’ in common parlance, will be taken against those who are potential threats or could disrupt peace, said SSP Ashish Bharti on Wednesday. Maximum number of criminals whose names have been sent for invoking CCA, belong to Lodipur police station area. “The entire exercise is being done in view of the forthcoming elections in the state besides impending festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali, Chath etc in which peace, social harmony and sanctity is required,” the SSP added. “The Crime Control Act (CCA), which came into existence on 12.8.1981, intends to suppress criminals and anti-social elements with a view to maintaining public order,” said a senior advocate associated with the Bhagalpur District Bar Association (BDBA), Rajesh Chandra Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-police-set-to-book-criminals-under-cca/articleshow/77896949.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 3, 2020||Business||3one4 Capital launches $100m fund to back startups||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Early stage venture capital firm 3one4 Capital has launched a $100-million fund to take bigger bets on more startups. Started by Siddarth Pai and Pranav Pai, sons of former Infosys CFO T V Mohandas Pai, it has already made the first close of the fund at $40 million from existing and new limited partners, or LPs (who put capital in the funds). 3one4 Capital, which has backed startups like meat delivery firm Licious and fintech firm Open, said most of the capital would be from Indian investors with some joining from the US and Japan. Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries has been one of its LPs investing in its previous funds, though Pai declined to comment if it has invested in the new fund. This is the third fund focused on early stage investments, while it has two other funds that focus on seed-stage investment and follow-on investments in its existing portfolio. The follow-on investment fund of $55 million, named Opportunity, was closed in December 2019. “We have already started deploying from the new fund. We will do three things differently. We will do a few more companies compared to Fund II, which had 20 companies. We may do 25 this time. Then, we primarily will take larger ownership up front (over 20%) and will be able to follow our winners for much deeper and longer,” said Pranav Pai, founding partner and CIO, 3one4 Capital. The firm primarily focuses on the consumer sector, enterprise software, fintech, media content and deep tech. But the pandemic has made some new sectors investable sooner than expected. “What we have seen is that the pandemic hasn’t necessarily changed how we will invest but it has made some ideas more urgent. For example, if we had waited for three years to build something in the medical devices space, for the market to mature, Covid-19 has made it much more urgent. So, this became an investable opportunity for us,” Pranav said, indicating it is in the process of investing in the space. 3one4 Capital’s fund launch comes when recovery of funding activity is being closely tracked in the industry. According to Pranav, early stage deal flow is rapidly recovering but mid-stage activity hasn’t shown a similar recovery, except instances where startups like Byju’s, Unacademy have completed their fund-raise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/3one4-capital-launches-100m-fund-to-back-startups/articleshow/77898480.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 3, 2020||Pune||3 abuse traffic cop, arrested||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Tuesday arrested an autorickshaw driver and his two friends after a traffic policeman lodged an FIR accusing them of abusing and charging at him following a dispute regarding presenting of documentation after the autorickshaw driver overtook a police vehicle at Kausarbaugh without giving any signal. The arrested were identified as Naresh Wathade (22), Akash Kshirsat (20) and Mahadev Ghadge (25). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-abuse-traffic-cop-arrested/articleshow/77899679.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||7 cuffed for robbing steel||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested seven men within 12 hours of them robbing a truck carrying 32 tonne steel bars worth Rs12 lakh, in the early hours of Tuesday on the Talegaon-Shikrapur Road. A police team led by inspector Uttam Tangade recovered the steel and seized the truck, a car and autorickshaw — all collectively worth Rs28 lakh. “The gang’s kingpin is based in Beed district. The gang was in contact with him during the robbery,” Tangade said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-cuffed-for-robbing-steel/articleshow/77899677.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Business||Realty investor platform Strata raises Rs 140cr||Mumbai: Tech-enabled real estate investment platform Strata has raised Rs 140 crore for investments in its warehouses amid the lockdown. The fund-raise saw participation from more than 500 investors across HNIs, family offices, senior management from fortune 500 companies, retail and institutional categories. The fund-raise was for an investment in a consortium of three grade-A warehousing assets already leased out. Strata Avigna Warehousing I & II situated in Hosur received full commitment from investors within 42 days of its launch, while the pharma warehouse in Bengaluru was closed within seven days, a statement issued by the company said. The consortium of assets were collectively computed for a total of 7 lakh sqft of warehousing space. According to Strata, the high-end warehouses offer rental yields of up to 9.5-10%. Although the investors get fractional ownership, they can sell their stakes in the open market. With the assets offered by Strata being pre-leased properties, the investors can start receiving rentals from the first month of the investment itself. The minimum investment for the assets listed begins from Rs 25-50 lakh. “With global supply chains diversifying away from China to India, greater penetration of e-commerce, faster shift to third-party logistics, and companies eyeing higher inventory levels, we foresee an approximately 30% growth in warehousing facilities in the coming years,” said Strata founder Sudarshan Lodha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realty-investor-platform-strata-raises-rs-140cr/articleshow/77898721.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Active clusters in district rose by 6 times in less than 2 months||KOCHI: Ernakulam, which has been witnessing an increase in Covid-19 positive cases, has more than 25 active clusters. As per a report released by the state government on Covid clusters in July, there were only four clusters in the district till the first week of July. It rose to a total of 16 clusters, including 14 active ones, by the last week of July, as per the second report released in early August. It further increased to 25 by the end of August, said district health officials. With relaxations in movement restrictions, cases and clusters too increased. Chellanam, Aluva and local bodies near Aluva, which were the oldest active clusters in Ernakulam, still continue to report positive cases. Chellanam, Aluva market, Keezhmadu, Alangad, Kadungallor, Karumalloor, Choornikkara, Chengamanad, West Kochi, Edathala, Kalady, Nellikuzhy, Kottuvally, Thrikkakara, Vengola, Kottapady, Ayavana, Vazhakulam, Kothamangalam, Kalamassery, Tripunithura, Kunnathunad, Don Bosco Boys home in Palluruthy, Cheranelloor and Kumbalangi are the active clusters. There are seven inactive clusters in Ernakulam. Munambam, SD convents in three places, grand mall, Ernakulam market and a private institution are the seven inactive clusters in the district. Ernakulam market was the first cluster to emerge in the district. Chellanam, one of the oldest clusters which reported the highest number of positive cases before the emergence of West Kochi, still reports cases but is on a declining trend. Situation is similar in Aluva, Keezhmad and its nearby clusters. Though most of the active clusters are situated in rural areas, cases are more in clusters in city limits due to high population density. However, district health officials are now concentrating more on identifying cases and testing symptomatic people in addition to studying and preparing the emergence and nature of clusters in the district. “We don’t have sufficient support system in place, without which we cannot move forward with both testing and preparing reports. We are planning to gradually withdraw from preparing cluster reports. We need to strengthen the infrastructure to treat critically ill patients when more cases get reported,” said a district health official. In Keezhmad, where clusters emerged from two different sources, reported 177 cases till August 7. However, no cases were reported for the next 15 days. A new case, associated with a private hospital nearby, emerged on August 22. “Many staff of the private hospital are staying in rented buildings situated in the panchayat limit. Currently, 11 cases associated with this hospital are under treatment,” said panchayat health standing committee chairman Abilash Asokan. Meanwhile, a company in Payipra near Muvattupuzha has also emerged as a cluster with more than 90 cases reported from there in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/active-clusters-in-dist-rose-by-6-times-in-less-than-2-months/articleshow/77898266.cms||T C Sreemol
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Class XII students find selves in a virtual mess||NEW DELHI: Paridhi Sharma, a Class XII humanities student at Delhi Public School, is worried about her pre-boards examinations scheduled in less than three months. An online periodic test, held recently, had only multiple-choice questions while the Board examinations in February-March will be a full-fledged, three-hour paper. Now, for half-yearly exams next week, teachers have sought students’ opinion on whether they want an online exam or a system that enables them to write, scan and upload answer sheets. Esha Sajanhar, a science student at Genesis Global School, is clueless about practical tests during the Boards. With classes being held online due to Covid-19, students are just watching practical classes virtually. With schools shut at least till September 30, most students appearing for the classes X and XII final examinations feel online classes cannot compensate for classroom interaction, where they learn a lot through their peers and “collaboratively”. “Online teaching can never be like classroom teaching. Notes are sent to us on Google Classroom. While schools offer six hours of studies every day, online classes last around four hours,” Sharma said. Her father, Manoj Sharma, is not sure how confident these students will be for the Boards. “CBSE has pruned the syllabus for these students. But there’s still no detail on how the marks will be divided for other topics,” he said. As students’ answer copies are not being checked, they are not getting any guidance to improve their writing, he added. To overcome this gap, The Indian School is giving students assignments to write between classes. “During English classes, we are making them write compositions just to ensure that they maintain the speed,” said principal Tania Joshi. Most schools are allowing students to submit typed assignments. Prateek Sharma, the academic coordinator at Genesis Global School Noida, has been planning a system that permits students to write, scan and upload answers. “Our students under International Baccalaureate use a tool called Exam.net in which they follow this pattern. We are planning to introduce the same system for CBSE students in the next exam,” he said. To check unfair means, the computer or phone screen will get locked once a student is on the exam page, the coordinator added. Sajanhar, however, alleged that there was no clarity about the nature of the Boards. “Our half-yearly exams have been curtailed to two hours, thinking three-hour online exams will be too much. But the Board papers are supposed to be of three hours.” Due to this confusion, some institutes like The Indian School have not conducted any assessment so far. The parents of Class X students are especially worried as this exam will be their children’s first public exam. Ashish Gupta, whose daughter is at Frank Anthony School, said, “My kid spends so much time in front of the screen that I am more worried about her health. I have no clue how online learning will be sufficient for the final exams.” In countries like Germany, high school students have been called to prepare for final exams. In India, the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Centre suggest allowing senior school students at school from September 21. While many parents are against the idea, a parent of a government school has urged education minister Manish Sisodia to call back classes X and XII students. In government schools, online classes are being run for Class XII, while Class X students are getting worksheets that they are required to submit every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/class-xii-students-find-selves-in-a-virtual-mess/articleshow/77899711.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Only in-house guests of hotels can eat at restaurants’||MUMBAI: The state government clarified on Wednesday evening that only in-house guests could eat at restaurants of hotels with room facilities, as all restaurants and bars were yet to be opened in the state. Hotel industry members had written to the government seeking clarity on the issue and sought subsidies on the lines of UK, where 50% of the food bill is being borne by government. “As part of Mission Begin Again, Maharashtra government had issued an order on August 31 in which restaurants do not feature on a list of prohibited activities. But the order states that hotels and lodges can operate at 100% capacity. As restaurants do not feature in prohibited activities for Maharashtra, we presume they are allowed to reopen with dine-in services from September 1. We request immediate clarity as most members are anxious,” the letter by Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president of Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India, to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated. “The ‘Eat out to help out’ recovery measure by UK government to support 72,000 restaurants and pubs following the lockdown is helping save jobs of 1.8 million chefs. Why can’t we take up such innovative assistance to encourage the industry and promote healthy eating practices the industry has committed to?” Kamlesh Barot, former president of FHRAI, told TOI. Takeaways and deliveries are allowed at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-clarifies-only-in-house-guests-of-hotels-can-eat-at-restaurants/articleshow/77899770.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Former Doon mayor, 38 locals of a village test Covid-19 positive||DEHRADUN: The cases of Covid-19 continued to rise in Uttarakhand on Wednesday as 38 locals of Jaimandi village in Rudraprayag, tested positive for the virus. Also, Vinod Chamoli, former Dehradun mayor who is currently the Dharampur MLA, was tested positive for Covid-19 on the day. Also, the entry of mediapersons and local complainants was banned at the secretariat after an additional secretary and OSD to the chief minister tested positive on Tuesday. Darshan Rawat, another officer on special duty (OSD) to chief minister, confirmed to TOI that MLA Vinod Chamoli tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to Jolly Grant Hospital. He further informed that the CM went under self-isolation after another of his OSDs, Abay Rawat, tested positive on the day. Besides, an additional secretary in the power department also tested positive for the virus along with three other staffers. Over a dozen people in the secretariat have been found infected in the last fortnight. Meanwhile, Dr BS Shukla, chief medical officer (CMO) of Rudraprayag, said that the health department has collected 90 samples from Jaimandi. “The first positive case was reported here on August 29. Subsequently, we collected samples of 90 people and among those, 38 tested positive in the last 24 hours. We have come to know that ‘Ghadiyala’, a local fair-cum-festival was organised in the village in the last week of August. In view of this, we will be taking samples of the entire village,” said the CMO, while adding that the population of Jaimandi is around 500 and people from nearby areas had also participated in the fair. In Tehri, the local traders decided to close the market for the next two days after a surge was recorded in the number of cases. The administration has also decided to organise a massive sanitisation drive in several areas. Tehri has the highest number of Covid-19 infections among the hill districts with 1,233 cases. In some good news for the state, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh started the antibody test for Covid-19 from Wednesday. The test is being done to identify if a person was suffering from coronavirus or not. It elaborates if one is immune to coronavirus or if one can or cannot spread the virus to other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-doon-mayor-38-locals-of-a-village-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77896595.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 3, 2020||Business||India now in top 50 on global innovation list||MUMBAI: India has been ranked 48th on the Global Innovation Index (GII) 2020 among 131 economies, breaking into the top 50 countries for the first time. Moving up four positions from last year, three ‘clusters’ — Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai — feature in the top 100 science & technology hotspots, further endorsing India’s presence in the global innovation economy. High-income countries Switzerland, Sweden, the US, the UK and the Netherlands lead the innovation ranking, with a second Asian economy — South Korea — joining the top 10 for the first time. Singapore is ranked at the eighth position. The GII by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) ranks global economies according to their innovation capabilities, including roughly 80 indicators, grouped into innovation inputs and outputs. Together with three other economies — China, Vietnam and the Philippines — India has made the most significant progress in the GII innovation ranking over time, it said. The Covid-19 pandemic is severely pressuring a long-building rise in worldwide innovation, likely hindering some innovative activities while catalysing ingenuity elsewhere, notably in the health sector, according to the GII 2020. WIPO director-general Francis Gurry said, “Even as we all grapple with the immediate human and economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, governments need to ensure that rescue packages are future-oriented and support individuals, research institutes, companies and others with innovative and collaborative new ideas for the post-Covid era. Innovations equal solutions.” WIPO statement said India, on its part, has consistently outperformed on innovation relative to its level of development for 10 years in a row, a record only matched by three other countries. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said, “To promote innovation and its culture in India, the government is formulating the new education policy 2020, which we are sure will be in the long term, as we shift gears and accelerate our efforts towards a mindset of innovation, towards the spirit of inquiry among our youngsters right from a very young age. The National Innovation Council, which promotes innovation in our micro, small and medium enterprises, is also working in a variety of ways, particularly through the India Inclusive Innovation Fund, to support activities around innovation. They are voting very strongly to promote ‘Make in India’ products being made in India, to develop a self-reliant India, but also become a trusted partner of global value chains.” India excels in the innovation outcomes it produces, and also in relation to its innovation efforts and investments. India’s role in the global ICT (information & communication technology) services industry is reflected in it being ranked first in the sector’s exports. It also stands out for its rate of productivity growth, for which it ranks ninth globally. Significantly, India also outperforms in a new GII indicator — global brand value, producing more valuable brands than could be predicted from its income level. It ranks 31st in this indicator. It hosts 164 of the world’s top 5,000 brands, including top brands Tata Group, LIC (insurance) and Infosys. The top-performing economies in the GII are still almost exclusively from the high-income group, with China (14th) remaining the only middle-income economy in the GII top 30, and Malaysia at the 33rd position. The data shows a gradual eastward shift in the locus of innovation as a group of Asian economies — notably China, India, the Philippines and Vietnam — have advanced considerably in the innovation ranking over the years. Watch GII 2020: India breaks into top 50 countries on global innovation list||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-now-in-top-50-on-global-innovation-list/articleshow/77898413.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Not possible to hold final year exam this month, NU tells government||NAGPUR: As confusion continued on how final year examinations would be conducted in Maharashtra, Nagpur University made it clear to the State Department of Higher and Technical Education it wouldn’t be possible for it to hold exams in September following a big surge in Covid-19 cases in all four districts under its jurisdiction. The clarification from NU’s Exam Section came after the government had asked all state universities to convey their position on holding exams following the Supreme Court’s green signal last week. “Since coronavirus cases and deaths are surging daily, we have conveyed to the education department about risks involved in conducting papers this month. By next month, we hope situation would improve and we would be in position to hold exams with proper precautions,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. According to him, NU was fully prepared for holding the exams in traditional pen-paper format. “We have already dispatched answer books to all centres and our question paper sets are also ready. We only need to publish a timetable. However, if the government asks to conduct objective type, open book or assignments-based exams, it would further delay the exams, as we need to change the system of evaluation. It would be a big challenge for all universities,” he said. From Wednesday, the university started declaration of much-awaited results of students from first to fifth semesters, who are promoted without exams, with home science faculty. The engineering results would start coming from Thursday. “We have started with results where the number of students is less with a view to improve on problems faced with the new system. NU perhaps is only one that has come out with a proper Direction (No 12/2020) for declaration of results of students based on their past performance, as per UGC guidelines,” Sable said adding that they would declare most results by September 10. As per direction, students would be awarded 50% marks based on their internal performance of current year, while the remaining would be calculated from previous years’ performance. ”We are taking full care the mark-sheet should reflect that it was awarded due to Covid-19 pandemic. It would be normal with proper calculation of marks. All mark-sheets would be 100% scrutinized to minimize errors,” Sable said. About 50 employees from the Exam Section were deployed for conducting a survey for Covid-19, which adversely affected section’s working. Three employees contracted the virus and one succumbed to it recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-possible-to-hold-final-yr-exam-this-month-nu-tells-govt/articleshow/77899678.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 3, 2020||Patna||Street hawkers at ‘receiving end’ amid pandemic||PATNA: With the gradual easing of Covid-19 curbs, street hawkers have returned to their vending spots, but are struggling to make ends meet due to poor footfalls and the fear of getting infected. The owner of a fast food truck at Maurya Lok Complex, Om Prakash Singh, claimed that he had never witnessed a “lull scenario like this” in the last 35 years. “Despite taking all the precautionary measures, the demand for fast food has fallen considerably. I has to dismiss 75% of my staff as I was unable to pay them,” he told this newspaper. Kundan Yadav, whose food van attracted a large number of youngsters before the pandemic, is experiencing a rough time too. He said, “My chicken momos were quite popular earlier. However, after Covid spread its tentacles, my regular customers seem to have vanished into thin air.” Given the fact that many street vendors lead a tough life and earn a meagre income, the Covid-19 pandemic has aggravated their problems. Mukesh Kumar, who sells bamboo furniture on the footpath near Golghar, pointed out, “Earlier, I was troubled by police, civic body officials and local musclemen, and now by Covid. I have not earned a single penny since last month. We are always at the receiving end as there is no one to look after us.” Another vendor, Ravi Kumar, who sells mobile accessories at a stall near Dak Bungalow area, rued, “Many others like me are bearing the brunt of the pandemic. Our livelihoods lie in tatters.” Poonam Devi, who displays pottery items for sale on Anisabad Mor, blamed the mindset of the people for a fall in demand. “I see a lot of delivery boys in this locality. If they can order food and other essentials online, why can’t they purchase anything from us?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/street-hawkers-at-receiving-end-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77897135.cms||Arunima Lal
September 3, 2020||Patna||Obese patients take longer to recover from Covid-19, caution health experts||PATNA: Obese people take more time to recover from Covid-19 infection compared to those on the right side of the weighing scale. According to a US-based study, obese people infected with the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ((SARS-CoV-2) are more likely to be hospitalised and most need ICU care. The study conducted by the University of Carolina at Chapel Hill published last month found that those with obesity (BMI over 30) had 113% higher risk of hospitalization compared to those whose weight was under control. Also, such people were more likely to be admitted in the ICU (74%) and also had more chances of fatality (48%). Researchers did a systematic search of Chinese and English literature and used 75 different studies, which involved around four lakh patients. The pooled analysis also showed that more than 46% of obese people were at the risk of being Covid-19 positive. Doctors involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Patna also admitted that obese people faced more complications and took longer to recover. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, D Sanjeev Kumar, said while it takes an average of 10 days for people with the right weight to recover, obese people take around 20 to 30 days to recover. “Such people have problems in recovery. They have more chances of venous thrombosis, which enters their lungs. Also, they can’t do lung exercise properly,” said Dr Sanjeev. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said his hospital has also witnessed that obese people were taking longer duration to recover and needed ICU and ventilator support. Dr Binod said, “Such people need more calories for any work and their lungs have to work more. Since they have less chest movement, the problem aggravates in case of Covid-19. Also, obesity leads to hypertension and diabetes and comorbidity in Covid-19 leads to more fatality.” Managing director of a noted private hospital in Pataliputra, which is treating Covid-19 patients, Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh said this virus mainly impacts lungs and blocks oxygen entry. “In obese people, breathing becomes shallow. Also because of weight, diaphragm movement is compromised and in the case of Covoid-19, if breathing is not well there are more complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/obese-patients-take-longer-to-recover-from-covid-19-caution-health-experts/articleshow/77897056.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 3, 2020||Patna||Purnea University VC resigns||PATNA: Purnea University vice-chancellor (VC) Rajesh Singh resigned from his post on Wednesday after his appointment as the VC of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University. He was also the officiating VC of Lalit Narayan Mithila University and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU). With Singh’s resignation, the number of universities running without a full-time VC has increased to seven. Besides, there are no pro-VCs in eight universities. According to sources, the appointment of new VCs and pro-VCs against vacant posts is likely to be finalized by the Raj Bhavan in the second week of September. The search committees, constituted by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan, are likely to start interaction with the shortlisted candidates at the Raj Bhavan from Thursday. A panel, headed by Mahatma Gandhi Gramodaya Vishwavidyalaya VC Naresh Chandra Gauta and consisting of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Law University VC Dev Swarup and Patna University retired Hindi teacher Ram Bachan Roy, will interact with the candidates for the appointment of pro-VCs of Jai Prakash University (JPU), KSDSU and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University on Thursday. The same committee will interact with candidates for the appointment of the VC and the pro-VC of Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University and the VC of KSDSU on Friday. Another committee, headed by Dr A P J Abdul Kalam Technical University VC Vinay Kumar Pathak, will interact with candidates for the appointment of the VC and the pro-VC of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University on September 8. The panel will also interact with candidates for the selection of the VC and the pro-VC of JPU on September 9. The same day candidates for selection of the VC and the pro-VC of Patna University will also be interviewed. The committees will submit to the chancellor a panel of names recommended by them for the posts of VCs and pro-VCs of different universities on the day of interaction. It is expected that the chancellor will make the appointments in consultation with chief minister Nitish Kumar shortly after the interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/purnea-university-vc-resigns/articleshow/77897508.cms||B K Mishra
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||SIT to probe lapses in construction of Lucknow, Ghaziabad Haj House||LUCKNOW: In a development which may ruffle many a feathers, the home department has ordered an SIT probe into the construction of Ala Hazrat Haj House in Ghaziabad and Maulana Ali Mian Memorial Haj House in Sarojininagar area of Lucknow. The two buildings are being constructed by Construction & Design Services (C&DS) of UP Jal Nigam. The home department, in its order issued to UP director general of police HC Awasthy on August 31, said the special investigation team (SIT) should submit its probe report within two months. The order cited a communique by secretary and executive officer, UP State Haj Committee, Rahul Gupta (dated June 11), which said gross anomalies were detected in the construction of Haj House in Ghaziabad. “Despite spending huge funds for the construction of Haj House in Ghaziabad, there have been no attempt to rectify the shortcomings and make the establishment ready for public use,” Gupta said. According to home department, Gupta also pointed out that C&DS did not provide the details of expenditure and did not transfer the buildings to the Haj Committee, which was reflective of gross financial anomalies conducted in the construction of the building. Similarly, financial irregularities have also been detected in the construction of Ali Mian Memorial Haj house in Sarojininagar area of Lucknow. The order said that besides poor quality of construction, irregularities were detected in the construction of basement. The UP government has been planning to convert the Ala Hazrat Haj House in Ghaziabad’s Arthala into a 500-bed isolation centre. It was built at the cost of Rs 51 crore to provide assistance to Muslims on pilgrimage to Mecca. The complex, spread over an area of 4.3 acres, has ground plus six floors and includes 47 dormitory halls and 36 VIP rooms, and can accommodate 1,886 people. The Haj House was inaugurated by then UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in September 2016. The state government has been planning to rename Lucknow’s Haj House after former President of India APJ Abdul Kalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-to-probe-lapses-in-construction-of-lucknow-ghaziabad-haj-house/articleshow/77899889.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hubballi||Canine institute keen to get Mudhol Hounds into police dept||Hubballi: The Canine (Mudhol breed) Research and Information Centre, (CRIC) Timmapur, Bagalkot district, is keen to donate Mudhol hounds to serve in the state’s police department. In his Mann ki Baat address on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a pitch for Indian breed dogs. He praised Indian Army dogs Sophie and Vidafor their exploits, and urged people to adopt Indian breed of dogs. Encouraged by the praises heaped on Mudhol dogs, CRIC, which is breeding these hounds for the next generation, is planning to donate some Mudhol hounds to the police department. CRIC comes under the ambit of Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFSU) Bidar. Mahesh Akashi, head of CRIC, Timmapur, told TOI that appreciation from the PM has given this indigenous breed the much-needed boost it deserved. “Mudhol hounds are now serving in the Indian Army and now we want to see these hounds in the police department to help our state police to solve crimes,” he added. “We will soon send a proposal to KVAFSU, Bidar, which will take further action on prevailing upon the government to use the services of Mudhol hounds in the police department. We also want the Central government to allow this particular breed to participate in the International Dog shows,” he added. B V Shivaprakash, director of Research Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Bidar, said after the PM praised the service of Mudhol hounds, they received several calls from people evincing interest in keeping these dogs. “We have already donated 30 hounds to the Army and eight hounds to BSF, Punjab regiment, and also given to other breeders and organisations. If CRIC wants to introduce Mudhol dogs in the police department, we will definitely forward the proposal to the government,” explained Shivaprakash. Presently, the police department uses labradors, German shepherds and dobermans. The Mudhol hounds are popoular with farmers who use them as guard dogs.. BOX The Sentinels Mudhol hounds ancestry can be traced to the Saluki foreign breed from the Middle East region. Maharaja of Mudhol Sri Malojirao Ghorpade of Ghorpade dynasty of Mudhol state are credited with reviving the Mudhol hounds and ensuring its continuity for generations. The breed was popular with Indian kings who inducted then into their armies to hunt down their enemies. Compared to other Indian dogs, Mudhol hounds are the tallest dogs. A sighthound which primarily hunt by speed and sight rather than scent, these dogs grow up to 3.8 to 4 ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/canine-institute-keen-to-get-mudhol-hounds-into-police-dept/articleshow/77898007.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Cantt board slashes garbage fee slashed for shops||Nashik: Following the recent protest against the hike in garbage-lifting tax by the traders in the Deolali Camp area, the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has reduced the charges for commercial establishments. However, the charges for residential properties stay. A release issued by the CBD said the board has decided to continue with the increase in garbage charges from Rs 200 to Rs 400 for domestic-use properties in view of the poor financial condition of the board. The board incurs a cost of more than Rs 1.65 crore in garbage collection per year. However, despite the increased rate, the board would recover only Rs 60 lakh. The board officials pointed out that the garbage charges had been hiked after five years. Nonetheless, the board has decided that the garbage charges will be capped at 1,200 for commercial properties in cases where the fee had fixed at Rs 1,500. The release said that the garbage charges can be paid in two equal instalments for 2020-21. Meanwhile, citizens are informed that the time for payment of property/house tax without payment of late fee has been extended by three weeks up to September 21. Moreover, the board said that all vegetable vendors on Lam Road will be shifted back to the Sunday market premises and the market timings will be 6 am to 9 am in the morning and 4 pm to 6 pm in the evening. Only fruit and vegetable sellers will be allowed on the premises. The weekly Sunday market will be closed until further decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-board-slashes-garbage-fee-slashed-for-shops/articleshow/77899680.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||Govt sanctions Rs 122.3cr for expenses on CAPF||PATNA: The state government has made budgetary provision of Rs 122.37 crore to meet the expenses on deployment of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) for the upcoming assembly polls due in October-November this year. This is in addition to the expenses to be incurred on deployment of state police force to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls. Authoritative sources said that a sum of Rs 51 crore was released to the districts by the state election department as advance on Tuesday. A letter issued by Alok Kumar, deputy secretary, state election department, states that a sum of Rs.122.37 crore would be spent on transportation, food and lodging, maintenance of vehicles and payment of personnel hired on contract for election purposes. Kumar said that an initial amount of Rs 51 crore has been transferred to the districts concerned through a comprehensive financial management system (CFMS) to develop infrastructure and meet other related expenses on CAPF for the state assembly polls. According to the official data, out of Rs 51 crore, Patna, has been allocated the highest Rs.3.3 crore. Muzaffarpur, Araria, Saran, Gaya, East Champaran, Darbhanga and Samastipur districts received a little over Rs 2 crore each. The remaining districts have been allocated over 1 crore each. Meanwhile, the state chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa assessed the preparations for the election at a meeting with the district-level officers for two consecutive days and issued necessary directives to ensure safety of voters at all polling booths. He also took feedback about preparations from the ground-level personnel. The police headquarters has also sought a list of personnel transferred in the wake of upcoming assembly polls and vacancies in respective districts. “The list of personnel who have been transferred after completing three years in a particular district has to be submitted to the headquarters by September 5,” sources in the police headquarters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-sanctions-rs-122-3cr-for-expenses-on-capf/articleshow/77896927.cms||Ramashankar
September 3, 2020||Business||Tube Investments puts additional Rs 100cr in CG Power||Chennai: Tube Investments of India (TII) has announced an additional investment of Rs 100 crore in CG Power and Industrial Solutions. This is over and above Rs 700 crore TII agreed to invest earlier in August to acquire 56.6% stake in CG Power earlier in August. “The board of directors of the company at the meeting held today (September 2), approved an additional investment in 68.7 million equity shares of CG Power to be issued to TII at Rs 14.55 per equity share on a preferential issue,” TII said in an exchange filing. The added investment is being proposed to meet the additional funding requirements of CG Power, TII added. CG Power was hit by fraud last year when its board discovered large accounting irregularities. TII was declared as the successful bidder to acquire a majority stake in CG Power earlier last week. The acquisition is subject to the approval of the CCI and satisfying other conditions. CG Power’s shares were up almost 5% to end the trading day on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tube-investments-puts-additional-rs-100cr-in-cg-power/articleshow/77896953.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 3, 2020||Business||BharatPe displays 'Indian' tag, dares Paytm, PhonePe||BENGALURU: There is a full-blown fight among India’s leading digital payments firms over which is a more “Indian” product, with the matter now reaching the RBI. BharatPe, a merchant payments startup, has been distributing flyers and pamphlets showing Paytm with Chinese flags and PhonePe with US flags, implying it’s the only ‘Bharatiya’ or ‘Indian’ company. There is a similar messaging around Amazon Pay and Google Pay too as they are owned by US-headquartered multinational giants. In fact, images on its app, reviewed by TOI, show BharatPe indirectly implying that Paytm is a Chinese company with the clarion call of ‘Swadeshi Apnao, Videshi Hatao’. The move comes at a time when anti-China sentiments are again on the rise amid the recent border conflict. In fact, the Indian government banned another 118 Chinese apps on Wednesday, including popular game PUBG. BharatPe’s action has incensed rivals, especially Paytm and PhonePe, as they compete more directly than others like Amazon and Google Pay. Sources confirmed one of the companies has sent a complaint against BharatPe to the RBI over the issue. BharatPe co-founder and CEO Ashneer Grover told TOI why shouldn’t he showcase the “Indian identity” and that BharatPe’s comments in its campaign on others are based on the “large strategic shareholding” of the rest of the players. BharatPe founders hold over 30% stake in the firm, including staff shares. The direct swipe at “strategic shareholding” is aimed at Paytm, where China’s Alibaba Group along with affiliate Ant Group hold about 40% stake. For PhonePe, it’s being called American in BharatPe campaigns due to its parent firm Flipkart being majority owned by US-based Walmart. Both Paytm and PhonPe are run by Indian founders Vijay Shekhar Sharma and Sameer Nigam, respectively. “At a time when the government is calling out for Indian innovation and apps, why shouldn’t we showcase our ‘Indian’ identity? And through our campaign we aim to achieve just that. Our aim is to portray BharatPe as an Indian company and what we have mentioned in the pamphlets is just that on the basis of our understanding of the largest strategic shareholding of all the companies,” Grover told TOI.He added the Sequoia Capital-backed startup takes pride in its Indianness and that it also redesigned its QR code to add the Indian tricolour. Paytm and PhonePe declined to comment, while an email sent to the RBI did not elicit any response. “They have reported the matter to the RBI. This has caught the attention of the rivals over the last one week and may damage perception among merchants, when all firms are expanding to on-board them,” a person aware of the matter said. PhonePe has announced it aims to more than double its merchant base to 25 million in the next 12 months. “Other players are also free to run campaigns to showcase their Indian heritage,” added Grover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharatpe-displays-indian-tag-dares-paytm-phonepe/articleshow/77898318.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie pays homage to its activists||MUSSOORIE: Residents of Mussoorie, along with a number of political leaders, paid homage to Uttarakhand statehood activists who had lost their lives in police firing here in 1994. Family members of the activists that fell to police bullets paid a tearful homage to their kin. Former chief minister Harish Rawat, MP Ajay Bhatt, Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi as well as several Uttarakhand Kranti Dal leaders also paid their respects at the Shaheed Sthal here. Speaking to mediapersons, Rawat said that the statehood activists had laid their lives to shape the formation of Uttarakhand. “The activists continue to inspire us to work for the development of our state and we pay our respects to them,” he added. Notably, on September 2, 1994, six Uttarakhand activists had lost their lives while several others had been seriously injured in a police firing in Mussoorie. The six activists — Babli Negi, Belmati Chauhan, Dhanpat Singh, Hansa Dhanai, Madan Singh Mamgain and Rai Singh Bangari — lost their lives when police fired on the agitators. On the same day, Umakant Tripathi, a senior police officer, was also killed in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-pays-homage-to-its-activists/articleshow/77896594.cms||Anmol Jain
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||HC forms panel to categorize Covid & non-Covid patients||NAGPUR: Stressing on the need to categorize Covid-19 and non-Covid patients, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday constituted a five-member committee that will examine all aspects related to bed shortage and suggest remedy. The committee is likely to comprise mayor, senior doctor, senior officer from administration, and a veteran social worker. While issuing notices to respondents, including Union ministry for health and family welfare, a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to explore utilizing the now-defunct Nagpur Nagarik Sahakri Rugnalaya near Alankar Threatre for accommodating Covid patients. “We think that a systematic and scientific management and administration of Covid-19 patients needs to be done. For that, patients need to be categorized into asymptomatic and symptomatic, keeping in view age factor. Obviously, we’re not experts in health care and, therefore, propose to appoint a committee,” said the bench. The bench was hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI report titled ‘Hard to get beds in DCH despite 46% occupancy’, where it had appointed Shreerang Bhandarkar as amicus curiae. Earlier, Bhandarkar assisted by Nidhi Dayani informed that all 19 private hospitals declared as Covid centres are running to full capacity and the ratio of Covid and non-Covid patients is 80:20. Pointing out that beds meant for Covid-19 patients in GMCH and IGGMCH are lying vacant, the duo said patients from middle and higher class are reluctant to get admitted there citing unhygienic conditions. “We would like to know from respondents whether beds meant for Covid patients in GMCH and IGGMCH are really vacant or the capacity remains underutilized. Also, how many beds are lying vacant there. We would like to know from NMC the number of hospitals declared as Covid centres along with their names and number of beds for such patients. If beds are lying vacant, such hospital-wise information should also be furnished,” said the judges before adjourning the hearing till September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-forms-panel-to-categorize-covid-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77899676.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Motion pictures body meets to plead for reopening of cinemas||KOLKATA: The appeal for reopening theatres grew louder on Wednesday when officials of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) met to lend their voices to the cause. Apart from helping cinema hall owners, their concern is also the plight of thousands of workers associated with the exhibition industry. EIMPA president Piya Sengupta said multiple letters have been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah requesting them to reopen theatres. “By shutting down theatres, is there any move to promote the trend of selling content to OTT platforms? Shooting for television is allowed and serials are being beamed. The television industry is not suffering. Shooting of films is allowed. S where will the films be shown if the halls are shut? Let the government give the permission and let owners decide whether they want to open,” she said. Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitors’ section of EIMPA, came down heavily against the government’s “step-motherly treatment” of hall owners. “Bars and malls are being allowed to reopen. Even political gatherings are being allowed. Gyms are inside closed spaces with air conditioners. Why should theatres then remain shut?” Saha asked. However, not everyone is on the same page. Arun Mehra, director of Bengal Properties Private Ltd that runs Paradise, is sceptical about getting good content. “A situation might come when some states or individual hall owners might not want to open theatres even if the central government grants permission. A producer requires four to six weeks to promote the films. No one can guarantee a big number of screens to producers for releasing big films. On what basis will a producer pump in money for promoting a big release if he isn’t sure of an all-India release in a large number of screens?” he asked. This would also lead to uncertainty among exhibitors. Besides, the cost of operations will increase due to the lockdown protocols but income will low since the capacity is expected to be reduced. “God forbid if word spreads that someone has gone for a movie at Paradise and was infected. I will be in trouble,” Mehra said. He is also not sure about the SOP and how hall owners will be able to implement them vis-a-vis cost and time. “If we are asked to spray the halls with disinfectant between two shows, how many shows will we be able to screen? If the SOP asks for reduction of capacity, it will mean renegotiation of terms. This will only work for hall owners who operate on a percentage basis with producers and distributors. The share of the producer or distributor will reduce, but the AC cost and workers cost will not. I will wait and watch,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/motion-pictures-body-meets-to-plead-for-reopening-of-cinemas/articleshow/77897937.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 3, 2020||Patna||85% students turn up for JEE in Bihar||PATNA: Nearly 85% of the registered candidates appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main in Bihar on the second day on Wednesday for admissions in BE and BTech at premier engineering institutes like IITs and NITs. The examinations were held at 43 centres across the state. As many as 8,267 students were registered for the examination in the state on Wednesday. Altogether 3,518 students appeared at 20 centres in Patna. According to the National Testing Agency conducting the exam, all the Covid-19 precautionary measures were taken at the centres. In Bihar, total 61,585 candidates have to appear in the examination, which will continue till September 6. Some of the candidates and their parents claimed that safety measures were taken only inside the exam centre. The photos and videos of a crowd gathered outside the Patliputra Colony’s exam centre surfaced on social media on Wednesday. One of candidates said, “It was difficult to get inside the exam centre’s gate without brushing anyone. There was no one to ensure social distancing. The situation was even grim when I left the exam centre for home.” Prashant Kumar, who completed Class XII from BD Public School, said, “There was gap of one computer system between two candidates. Throughout the exam, the invigilators asked the candidates to wear the face masks. However, there was no social distancing outside the premises.” Bhargavi Kiran, who appeared at Phulwarisharif centre, said social distancing norm was followed. “The overall paper was good. The physics section was lengthy for me while in chemistry most of the questions were asked from the organic chemistry,” said the girl, who has completed her Class XII from St Michael’s High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/85-students-turn-up-for-jee-in-bihar/articleshow/77897431.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 3, 2020||Patna||Arrears of revised pay elude university teachers||PATNA: The payment of arrears of revised pay and pension to the working and retired teachers of colleges and universities in Bihar still remains a distant dream. And, this despite the fact that the funds required for the purpose have been released to the universities nearly six months back. Surprisingly, even the assurance given by deputy chief minister and finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi of expediting the payment at least three months back proved elusive as the payment of arrears is yet to commence. Expressing serious concern over the inordinate delay in the payment of arrears of revised pay and pension from January 2016 to March 2019 to the teachers as well as pensioners, the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) blamed the mandarins in the state education department for creating roadblocks in payment of arrears. When the universities had just started making the payments in May and at least two universities, — BRA Bihar and BN Mandal universities — had already made the payments, the state government came out with a new circular regarding payment of arrears only after the verification of revised pay in the seventh scale by the Pay Verification Cell of the state education department, it said. FUTAB working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha pointed out that even though the state government had committed that the pay verification would be expedited very soon, it has not yet been completed. In Patna University, the pay verification of individual teachers in the revised scale has been almost been completed and the arrears’ claims of teachers were being examined by auditors. Payment of arrears to the teachers would be made within a fortnight, said PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra. Most other universities in the state have made the payment of arrears for the year 2019-20, but Magadh University is the only exception which is yet to pay even a single paisa to the pensioners till date. Magadh University Teachers’ Association’s former general secretary Satyadeo Narain Sharma pointed out that payment of some arrears to the teachers of Gaya-based colleges and postgraduate department has been made, but the pensioners of Patna-based institutions have been left in the lurch. “Most teachers have been waiting for their arrears for the last two years and some of them are at the fag end of their lives. Hence, the university must expedite the payment before it is too late,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/arrears-of-revised-pay-elude-university-teachers/articleshow/77897552.cms||B K Mishra
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||A year after subsidence, E-W renews flat contracts for Bowbazar evacuees||Kolkata: The East-West Metro authorities have started renewing the 11-month rental agreements for flats occupied by families displaced in the tunnelling accident in Bowbazar. A year after the disaster, the evacuees are now trying to settle into their new homes, lamenting the loss of their ancestral properties in Bowbazar. On August 31 last year, around 700 people had to be shifted out of their homes after the tunnel boring machine hit an aquifer, leading to large-scale subsidence and build-ings crumbling. At present, 332 of the Bowbazar residents are staying in 82 rented flats, most in east Kolkata. Among them is Jayanta Seal, whose house on 13A, Durga Pithuri Lane, was reduced to debris. “I don’t even want to be reminded of that afternoon. Our old home, with all its antique furniture, is gone. It is impossible to come to terms with the loss,” Seal said. The family now lives in a 2BHK flat in Phoolbagan. The rent is being paid by ITD ITD-Cementation, the company contracted to build the last leg of the underground tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah. Soumen Sengupta, assistant general manager, ITD ITD Cementation, said, “The rental leases for 11 months are ending one by one and we are renewing them for another 11 months. The dates of renewal are different since the families were shifted out of hotels between mid-September and end-December last year.” Ground Zero of the disaster, Durga Pithuri Lane, is now an open space. The 27 buildings there had either collapsed or were razed for safety. Now, a shaft for retrieving the two tunnel borers is being built there. Chandi, the TBM that was digging the west-bound tunnel, has been lying defunct around 12m below the ground after the accident. Both Chandi and its twin, Urvi, digging the east-bound tunnel to Sealdah, will be pulled out of the 22m-deep, 40m-long and 15m-wide retrieval shaft and Urvi will turn around to build the rest of the west-bound tunnel till Durga Pithuri Lane. All this should take six months or more and flats will be built for the 332 people currently housed in rented accommodations. After repairs, 372 people had been taken back to 26 houses in Bowbazar. “We are in touch with the families and will start visiting them once the pandemic ends,” Sengupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-year-after-subsidence-e-w-renews-flat-contracts-for-bowbazar-evacuees/articleshow/77898052.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid fear forces parents to enrol kids in govt schools closer home||Mangaluru: Parents concerned about the safety and academic uncertainty amid the pandemic are exploring a range of options for their children. In the coastal districts, several parent are enrolling their children in government schools close to home. As many as 349 government schools in Dakshina Kannada have witnessed a spurt in admission this pandemic season. According to officials in the department of public instruction, parents with children studying in state-run residential schools or travelling to distant schools, are taking admission in schools closer to their home. Giving out the data, DDPI Malleswamy said there are many factors for such transition — two major factors are to avoid transportation and hostel, where the virus is likely to spread. Others could be good performance of the school in SSLC, English medium in Kannada schools, improved infrastructure and also success of Vidyagama programme launched recently. Dakshina Kannada Government High School, Nelyadka under Perla cluster in Belthangady taluk has seen 100% increase of enrolment this academic year. Shambhu Shankar, coordinator, Block Resource Centre Co-ordinator (BRCC), Belthangady said that about 30 children, who earlier studied in Morarji Desai Residential School, Derlakatte, have enrolled in this school and the strength has now gone up from 32 to 62. A government high school in Mittabagilu, a remote village in Belthangady taluk too has seen 31 new admissions. According to officials, earlier, students from this village would go to far-off places for education as buses service was available. “Fearing that their children would lose a year, parents have enrolled them in school that are closer home. Parents also fear that travelling in public transport will be risky as there is a chance of virus spread,” pointed out another official. There is also a marginal number of parents who have migrated from private school to government school this academic year. This development, however, may only be temporary as parents feel it’s not worth paying hefty fees in private school since there are no classes held, said Malleswamy. In total, 349 government schools have seen as many as 2,160 new admissions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-fear-forces-parents-to-enrol-kids-in-govt-schools-closer-home/articleshow/77897200.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 3, 2020||Business||Desis most worried worldwide about returning to office: study||Chennai: Indian employees are among the most cautious globally about getting back to offices, but more open than global peers to share data with employers to help them in contact tracing initiatives at the workplace. Almost 72% of Indian employees currently working from home due to Covid-19 do not want to risk returning to offices primarily due to concerns around commuting, a global survey by Kronos Inc. has found. This is the highest proportion among all countries surveyed, and almost double the 37% global average that don’t want to return to work. Kronos surveyed nearly 4000 employees across India, Australia and New Zealand, Canada, China, France, Germany, Mexico, Netherlands, the UK, and the US. Indians are also more worried about safety and hygiene norms enforced by employers than global counterparts. 56% of Indians are concerned about overall sanitation and cleanliness at the office compared to 45% globally who cited the said factors as an issue in returning to work. Indian employees are also most wary about the accuracy of temperature checks at workplaces. 37% of the Indians doubted the screening process compared to 21% in the US, 26% in China and 22% global average. Globally, 3 in 4 employees (75%) said they trust their employer to create a safe and healthy work environment but in India, just more than half (55%) strongly agree with that sentiment. 58% of India’s employees also doubt their company’s ability to react quickly to any potential or confirmed Covid-19 cases in the workplace compared to 43% in the US, 40% in China, and 41% in the UK, among others. The nervousness associated with returning to office has resulted in safety concerns outweighing privacy, and the nation’s workforce is more open to cooperate with the employer. For instance, 68% will allow employers to use their work schedule records to check for potential exposures at work and prevent onward transmission, while the global average stands at 48%. Similarly, 33% of workers in India said they are “a great deal” comfortable with employers leveraging their mobile phone for organisational safety compared to 17% globally. “Earning the trust of employees that their health and safety is in good hands will be critical for organisations as the workforce starts getting back to the workplace,” Sumeet Doshi, country manager, India, Kronos, said. Employees need to feel that the right systems and processes are in place, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desis-most-worried-worldwide-about-returning-to-office-study/articleshow/77896991.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar on top in accidental deaths due to forces of nature||PATNA: Bihar was on the top among states and union territories in the country as far as accidental deaths due to forces of nature in 2019 were concerned, the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on accidental deaths and suicides in India revealed. The state contributed 18.7% in the accidental deaths due to forces of nature in the country. Out of the total 8,145 accidental deaths, Bihar reported 1,521 casualties (including 400 women) due to lightning, heatstroke, exposure to cold, floods, landslide or cyclone and other forces of nature. Bihar recorded highest number of 480 deaths due to floods in 2019, including 336 men. The state shared the first place with Madhya Pradesh regarding causalities reported due to lightning strikes and thunderstorm. Altogether 400 persons, including 132 women died by lightning strikes in 2019. The maximum deaths due to lightning and floods occurred in July and September, as per the state disaster management department. In the wake of frequent lightning strikes in previous years, lightning sensors have been installed at various locations where heavy loss of life and property had been reported. The department has also launched a mobile app, ‘Indravajra’, for the early warning system, which gives early alert in a radius of 20km and 40-45 minutes ahead of lightning strikes. The state also reported highest number of deaths (215) due to heatstroke. Despite several other states reeling from cold wave situation in 2019, Bihar with 131 deaths recorded the third highest number of casualties due to exposure to cold across the country. Uttar Pradesh topped with 190 deaths and Punjab had the second highest cases (141). Most heatstroke deaths in the state occurred in May and June. As per the state health society data, around 1,265 persons in Bihar were admitted to the hospitals due to heatstroke ailments and 108 of them died till June 20, 2019. The maximum number of deaths was recorded from Aurangabad. The NCRB reported 107 deaths in the state due to avalanches, 25 in landslides and 13 due to torrential rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-on-top-in-accidental-deaths-due-to-forces-of-nature/articleshow/77897304.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 cases continue upward surge in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Mangaluru/Udupi: Authorities confirmed 414 new coronavirus cases in Dakshina Kannada district on Wednesday. This is 34 fewer than the record single day hike of 448 cases reported on August 28. Neighbouring Udupi on the other hand reported 167 new cases. The latest surge in DK meant that the total positive cases reported in the district since March is 13,479 and 11,924 in Udupi. DK as on September 2 has 2,600 active cases and Udupi 2,221 cases. The discharge of 346 patients in DK district and 250 in Udupi during the day was a positive takeaway for health authorities. However, nine Covid-19 related deaths including six in DK were a constant reminder of the dangers that this pandemic poses to people with comorbidities. The latest reports of fatalities took the total death cases in DK rise to 381 while the three deaths in Udupi saw it cross the 100 mark to reach 102. A good 42% (174) cases reported in DK were categorised as people suffering from influenza like illness (ILI). Source of infection in 150 patients (36%) is under investigation, deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said, adding the disease was detected in 77 primary contacts, while 11 patients had severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and two cases were found in patients with domestic travel history. In all, 218 of the new cases were asymptomatic. In Udupi, 61 people with ILI tested positive; the source of infection in 56 patients is being investigated, 46 were primary contacts and one case each was detected in domestic and foreign travellers respectively. Unlike DK, 67% (112 cases) were symptomatic. Udupi taluk accounted for 92 of the new cases. The district health authorities thus far have tested 73,256 samples out of which 60,975 were negative. In all, 9,601 patients have been discharged as on date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-cases-continue-upward-surge-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/articleshow/77897074.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||BJP netas sing different tunes on Manjhi’s move||GAYA: Even before the formal entry of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi in the NDA, there are differences of opinion in Gaya BJP. Former Gaya MP Hari Manjhi said his entry will have no incremental value. “He (Jitan) has changed constituencies about half a dozen times on account of non-performance and resultant anti-incumbency. His political stature can be measured from the fact that an ordinary BJP worker like ‘me’ comprehensively humbled him in the Gaya parliamentary constituency in 2014 and he had nearly lost his security deposits,” Hari said. Hari had polled 3.25 lakh votes while Jitan got 1.31 lakh votes in 2014. “Consistency matters much in politics,” said Hari. However, Hari’s party colleague and agriculture minister Prem Kumar welcomed Jitan in the NDA fold. His entry will further strengthen an already strong NDA, said Kumar. On the political opportunism point, Prem said political dynamics sometimes necessitates rethink and there is nothing wrong in it. He hoped Jitan will show stability this time. ‘Good riddance’, says former Speaker Uday Narain Choudhary, who is Manjhi’s rival in Magadh politics. “He was a liability for the Mahagathbandhan,” Uday said. HAM (S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said the treatment meted out to Manjhi in the Mahagathbandhan left him with no alternative other than quitting the alliance. Tejashwi, and not Manjhi, is responsible for the break-up, said Rizwan. Meanwhile, with Jitan reportedly staking claim over nearly half of the 10 seats in Gaya district in the state assembly election, politics in the district has taken a new turn as two of the seats over which Jitan is reported to have staked claim are currently held by JD(U). The seats are Tekari and Sherghati. JD(U) does not have much of a problem in conceding Tekari as its MLA Abhay Kushwaha of JD(U) is concentrating exclusively on Belaganj and recently set up a party office there. The Sherghati seat, reportedly being eyed by HAM(S), is currently held by JD(U)’s two-term MLA and former minister Vinod Yadav. One of the five seats reportedly demanded by Manjhi is Imamganj, the seat presently held by him. The other two seats are held by RJD and both the MLAs are women. Atri seat is currently held by Kunti Devi while Samta Devi, daughter of Dalit leader Bhagwati Devi, is an MLA from Barachatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-netas-sing-different-tunes-on-manjhis-move/articleshow/77896893.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 recovery rate at 88%, but 13 more deaths||PATNA: Altogether 1,969 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,40,234 so far. However, 1,23,404 patients have recovered and 722 died due to the virus, leaving 16,106 active cases in the state. Officially, 13 deaths were reported on Wednesday, including six from Patna district. The state health department claimed that 1,27,404 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. So far 3,43,0124 samples have been tested in the state. Also, 1803 people recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours. State IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said the recovery rate in state had reached 88%. “It is one of the highest in the country,” he said. State health minister Mangal Pandey said, “State is witnessing an increase in the number of recoveries. Similarly, infection rate is also reducing and has reached to 1.5%.” Further appreciating the increase in testing capacity, Pandey added: “Even the target for testing samples has been increased from 3,700 to 5,500 in the state capital. Now people do not have to wait either for antigen, or RT-PCR test.” As per the information shared by the health department, Patna registered 225 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 21,574 in the district. However, with 19,206 recoveries and 172 deaths, there were 2,196 active cases in the district. Other districts with large number of fresh cases included Araria (176), Madhubani (116), Kishanganj (93), Purnea (91) and East Champaran (83). The department reported six deaths from Patna, followed by four from Siwan, two from Madhubani and one death from Samastipur. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said a 65-year-old man from BH Colony under Agamkuan police station and another sexagenarian from Fatuha died at the hospital while 18 patients were discharged and six new ones were admitted. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) administration reported the death of a 48-year-old woman from Hajipur. NMCH nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said seven patients were discharged and the same number of new patients were admitted on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-recovery-rate-at-88-but-13-more-deaths/articleshow/77897009.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 3, 2020||Patna||7% rise in road deaths in Bihar: NCRB report||PATNA: Altogether 7,205 people, including 1,181 women, were killed in road accidents across the state in 2019, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2019 released on August 31. During the same period (January-December) in 2018, the number of road fatalities was 6,729. The 2019 figure is a 7% rise over the previous year's road deaths. The number of road mishaps also went up by 4.2%. In terms of the total number of road accidents, Bihar recorded 10,007 cases in 2019 while the figure was 9,600 in 2018. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper on Wednesday that there has been a declining trend in the past four quarters from June 2019 to June 2020. “The growth rate in road fatalities, which was around 7% in 2019, was 20% in 2018. So, there is a positive side that the rate has declined. This year, we have seen a sharp decline and are expecting that the next year’s data would be encouraging,” Agarwal said. He added, “From January to June (2019), 5,482 accidents occurred and 3,997 people died while the declining trend started from July to December (2019), during which 4,497 accidents happened, and 3,158 people died." Agarwal said most road accidents involve two-wheelers, the overall average is the same in the country. “In other modes of transportation, like car, autos, bus and truck, people are covered, but in a motorbike, people have more chances of injuries which leads to death. Most people also don’t wear a helmet. Helmet coverage in Bihar is the major reason behind the decline in road accidents,” he said. “In Patna, we have achieved 98% helmet coverage from 70% about a year ago while in other districts, the helmet coverage is almost 70- 80% from 25%. In every district, we conduct helmet and seat-belt drives. The department also keeps a record of offenders and defaulters punished. It is also the reason for the decline in the number of road accidents and deaths in Bihar,” the transport secretary further said. According to the latest data of the state transport department, Bihar has seen a significant reduction in road fatalities in the first quarter in 2020. Altogether 1,777 deaths occurred in the state in 2,342 accidents whereas 1,836 fatalities and 2,563 accidents occurred last year. A total of 878 road accidents occurred in the state during the lockdown, in which 637 people died, and 674 suffered injuries whereas 2,062 accidents and 1,535 deaths occurred in the state between March 24 and May 31 in 2019. Agarwal said there is a total of 120 black spots in Bihar, with the help of road safety engineering, they are trying to reduce accidents and deaths. “Foot over-bridges and underpasses are being constructed on all national highways and state highways across the state. New roads already have underpasses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-rise-in-road-deaths-in-bihar-ncrb-report/articleshow/77897246.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Araria man kills daughter with learning difficulties||PATNA: A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his minor daughter with learning difficulties as he had got annoyed with her for frequently slipping out of the house at night. Mohammad Shahid, who worked as a daily wager in Araria, was sent to jail on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Husna Ara (14). Araria town police station SHO Sunil Kumar said the girl was actually killed on August 20 night. “But her decomposed body was recovered on August 25 from a septic tank of a residential building under construction at Mirzapur under Town police station area,” he said, adding the accused was arrested on Monday. He said Shahid, along with his family, lived in a house adjacent to the building under construction. “Shahid strangled the girl when everyone was asleep and dumped her body into the newly constructed septic tank,” he said. The SHO said when the neighbours started getting a foul smell on August 25, they started searching for its source and recovered the body. He said Shahid lived with his wife, two daughters and one son, all aged below eight years. His eldest daughter is married. “When his wife asked about their missing daughter, Shahid told her that she had gone missing. His wife got convinced as Husna had the tendency of slipping out of the residence at night,” the SHO said and added that Shahid had left home after the incident and his wife along with children also fled from the body was recovered. The SHO said Shahid confessed to his crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/araria-man-kills-daughter-with-learning-difficulties/articleshow/77897360.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Accused in killing of 85-year-old takes back plea for bail||NEW DELHI: A man facing prosecution for alleged murder of an 85-year-old woman during the northeast Delhi riots, withdrew his bail plea from Delhi High Court on Wednesday, after the court made it clear it is not inclined to grant relief. Arun Kumar, who is accused along with three others of torching the house of Akbari Begum leading to her death due to asphyxiation during the communal violence in February, was forced to withdraw the bail plea, after the court heard detailed arguments in the case. Justice Suresh Kait made it clear that police have placed video evidence of him being at the place of the crime and at this stage the court will dismiss the plea. The high court also took into account the eyewitness testimony cited by the prosecution. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad had opposed any relief, saying the trial court dismissed the bail plea of Kumar and others as evidence established their presence at the house where they committed robbery and then set it aflame. Advocate Mehmud Pracha appeared for the kin of the victim and alleged that police left out several key pieces of evidence, but the court refused to hear him at this stage, since the plea is being withdrawn. Earlier the sessions court had dismissed the bail applications of Kumar, Ravi, Prakash Chand and Suraj Singh in Begum’s case, saying witness statements “prima facie indicated that all the four accused persons were very well part of the unlawful assembly, which had put the house of complainant on fire after committing robbery therein.” It further said that if released on bail the accused can threaten the witnesses in the case since they were residents of the same locality as the four accused. According to the chargesheet, on February 25, when the mob torched Begum’s house, other members escaped to the roof but the octogenarian could not. She subsequently died due to asphyxia (suffocation due to inhalation of smoke) and her charred body was found on a folding bed, police had said. An FIR was registered on the complaint of her son Saeed Salmani who had a garment shop on the ground floor of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/accused-in-killing-of-85-yr-old-takes-back-plea-for-bail/articleshow/77899699.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Yellow bins push up Covid waste collection in Kolkata||KOLKATA: There has been a rise in Covid waste collected from households across the city over the past month, especially with streamlining of the waste collection system after installation of yellow bins. A spokesperson of a private agency responsible for collection of the city’s Covid waste from households in all 144 wards said, “Even a couple of months ago we would collect 500kg of Covid waste at the most. But now we need to collect 4 tonnes daily. Installation of yellow bins and an increase in the number of Covid-positive patients in home isolation are two reasons for the surge.” TimesViewGovernment agencies need to come up with more such ideas that help on the ground. And citizens need to make a few good practices a part of their daily life. A collaborative effort is needed to fight this virus.Sources in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) health department said the yellow bins were installed after the private agency engaged by the civic body complained of kitchen waste mixing with Covid waste from large households. “After we installed yellow bins — earmarked for Covid waste — in all KMC wards, the agency has witnessed a steep rise in deposition of such waste, particularly in the Covid-sensitive zones. We are in the process of installing similar bins in areas according to requirement,” said a KMC health department official. According to a civic health department official, the civic body was worried about Covid waste, like PPE, masks, gloves, medicine strips and adult diapers, on roads or waste compactor stations since that had the potential of being a health hazard. “Now, after installation of yellow bins exclusively meant for disposal of Covid waste, we don’t see discarded PPE, mask and other things littering the roads so much. This has brought some relief to our Covid-combat teams,” a KMC health official said. However, not everyone had been adhering to the rules in neighbourhoods where the density of Covid-positive patients in home isolation is high. “Initially, we were surprised to see kitchen waste and even construction waste being disposed of in the yellow bins. This mixture of wastes went on for a week and then we took up the matter with KMC ward coordinators and borough executive health officers,” said a spokesperson of Greentech, a private agency assigned by the KMC to collect Covid waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/yellow-bins-push-up-cov-waste-collection/articleshow/77897922.cms||Saikat Ray
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarati scientist finds ‘unique’ black hole 142 times sun’s mass||VADODARA: A Gujarati scientist’s discovery in space is set to change the way we understand the universe. A team led by Dr Karan Jani, an astrophysicist from Vadodara and now settled in the US, has discovered a huge ‘alien’ black hole. This six billion years old black hole challenges all the knowledge astronomists have about the formation of black holes and how the universe operates. Jani and his team announced the discovery on Wednesday evening (Indian time) “This discovery will not just change the way we study the universe but also understand its complexities further. In astronomy, it has always been believed that black holes are formed due to gravitational collapse of the stars. But the black hole we discovered wasn’t formed due to any star’s collapse or blast,” Jani, who works as a research professor in Vanderbilt University in the US. “This opens up exciting possibilities of how many black holes would have been formed. Our universe is making black holes in some different way and now we might be able to understand the missing cycles in a star’s life. It will have a impact on astronomy studies,” said Jani, who has worked with the LIGO scientists. Jani said he and his team were surprised by the discovery they made through LIGO and the Virgo gravitational wave detectors in May last year. They studied the black hole for a year and ascertained its details. “We always thought black holes are either less than 100 times the size of the sun or thousands of times bigger than it. This is the first black hole of intermediate size and it is 142 times bigger than the mass of the sun. In fact, it is older than the sun,” Jani told TOI over the phone from the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-scientist-finds-unique-black-hole-142-times-suns-mass/articleshow/77895836.cms||Tushar Tere
September 3, 2020||Business||Investors face stock settlement delays under new margin system||MUMBAI: Investors and brokers faced severe problems in the stock market for the second day in a row as software applications used to implement a new margin system slowed down settlements substantially. Given the troubles with the system, brokers and investors also fear heavy penalty under the new regime for no fault of theirs, market players said. Top broking house officials told TOI that on Tuesday, mainly due to the slow operation of the back-end applications, the whole settlement process was delayed. As a result, the pay-in — buyers send their money and sellers their stocks to the exchange’s clearing corporations — was completed at about 5pm, compared to the stipulated 10.30am deadline on regular days. Due to this, the payout by the exchanges — buyers getting the shares they bought and sellers getting the money for the stocks they sold — was also delayed severely. “The whole settlement system was delayed since the software applications are not yet ready,” a broker said. On Wednesday too, the pay-in was completed closer to 5pm and subsequently the payout was also delayed, the broker said. Tuesday was the first day of the new margin rule put in place by Sebi. It requires brokers to withdraw a large number of shares earlier pledged with them by their clients and re-pledge through the new system. An email sent to Sebi for its comments remained unanswered till late evening. Spokespersons for clearing corporations also didn’t comment on the issue. The new system increases the cost for investors to pledge shares for meeting margin obligations — a compulsory requirement for all market trades. The alternative is to pay cash as margin. Investors often prefer to pledge shares they hold as margins rather than arrange for extra cash, which has interest costs attached to it. In case investors do not meet their margin requirement, even partially, they need to pay a penalty of 1% of the shortfall. According to Rajesh Baheti, a director with brokers’ association ANMI, “The system is far from perfect and it could lead to unwarranted penalty for brokers and clients, which could be grossly unfair to them.” Other brokers also said that their clients told them that they would not like to pay any penalty for no fault of theirs. Since July this year, brokers had been making representations to Sebi to extend the date for implementation of the new system since the back-end applications were not ready, mainly due to issues related to Covid-19. Sebi had earlier extended the deadline from August 1 to September 1, but declined any subsequent delays. Brokers had also requested Sebi for waiver of penalty for margin shortfalls for one month, till the system is stabilised. Sebi is yet to give its opinion on this request. Office bearers from brokers’ associations, and officials from depositories and clearing corporations also had a meeting on Monday. After Sebi declined to extend the deadline by a month in that meeting, as was requested by the brokers, jittery Dalal Street investors resorted to strong selling, leading to a more than a 2% slide in the sensex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/investors-face-stock-settlement-delays-under-new-margin-system/articleshow/77898450.cms||Partha Sinha
September 3, 2020||Business||Livspace raises $90 million from Kharis Capital, Venturi||BENGALURU: Home interiors and renovations platform Livspace has raised $90 million in a round led by Switzerland-based Kharis Capital and Singapore-based Venturi Partners along with participation of Peugeot Group’s holding company FFP and Singapore’s EDBI. Its existing investors include furniture retailer Ikea owner Ingka besides private equity backers TPG Growth, Goldman Sachs, UC-RNT and Bessemer Ventures also participated in the round. The capital will be used for expanding into new markets, including Lucknow, Kolkata and Ahmedabad besides overseas markets like Australia, Malaysia and Indonesia. It will also be used to boost technology, expand supply chain and offer private labels. Founded in 2014 by former Google executive Anuj Srivastava and Myntra’s Ramakant Sharma, Livspace claims to have hit a gross revenue run rate of over $200 million in February 2020 and plans to reach $500 million in 24-30 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/livspace-raises-90m-from-kharis-capital-venturi/articleshow/77898658.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Business||NCLT clears IL&FS education business sale to JV partner Lexington||MUMBAI: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has approved the sale of Schoolnet India, a subsidiary of IL&FS, to an arm of Lexington Equity Holdings (LEHL), which is the beleaguered infrastructure group’s 26% joint venture partner in the education business. The tribunal also approved the sale of Schoolnet group companies IL&FS Cluster Development Initiative (ICDI) and Skill Training Assessment Management Partners (STAMP) on a slump sale basis to LEHL as part of the IL&FS debt resolution. Slump sale means transfer of a division of a company for a lump sum without assigning any values to individual assets and liabilities of the entity. The sale will reduce the IL&FS group debt by Rs 600 crore. Earlier the board had decided to sell the company to Career Point Publications (CPPL), which was the only bidder to submit a binding bid in respect of the education assets. The financial proposal submitted by CPPL attributed an equity value of Rs 4.4 crore for 100% of equity shares of Schoolnet and lump sum consideration Rs 1 each for acquiring the business undertaking of ICDI and STAMP. However, the company failed to complete the purchase in time. Subsequently, LEHL’s arm Falafal Technologies agreed, under an unsolicited bid, to acquire 73.90% of the shares of Schoolnet held by IL&FS and others for Rs 7.4 crore and to acquire businesses of ICDI and STAMP on a slump sale basis. Following the deal, Schoolnet will also repay Rs 73 crore of promoter debt within a year. If LEHL sells its stake for more than Rs 171 crore, it will pay IL&FS 5% of such upside amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclt-clears-ilfs-edu-biz-sale-to-jv-partner-lexington/articleshow/77898619.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for rape bid||HARIDWAR: Police have arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly trying to rape a nine-year-old girl by luring her to a nearby forest here on Tuesday. Police said that the girl had gone to fetch water from a public tap when the accused Nihal, a resident of Jogial Mandi, tried to rape her at a secluded spot nearby. The girl, however, managed to escape and informed her parents who later lodged a police complaint. A case was registered against Nihal under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC and the relevant sections of Pocso Act. SHO (city) Amarjeet Singh said, “The accused molested the girl and tried to rape her. She somehow managed to escape. Based on a complaint, we registered a case and arrested the accused. The girl has been sent for medical examination and further inquiry is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-rape-bid/articleshow/77896652.cms||MS Nawaz
September 3, 2020||Delhi||AAP, Congress extend support to protesting corporation staff||NEW DELHI: On Thursday Aam Aadmi Party and Congress councillors in North Delhi Municipal Corporation extended support to the ongoing protest by civic employees for non-payment of salaries and pensions and blamed BJP for the existing crisis. AAP has announced a sit-in protest from Monday at the Civic Centre to show solidarity with the workers of BJP-led municipal corporation. Senior member of AAP Durgesh Pathak said BJP should immediately release the salaries of the employees or else its corporation officials should immediately resign. “In the time of Covid-19, the civic bodies are not giving salary to their employees for the last few months. Such an act is really inhuman and completely unacceptable. The workers are protesting against the non-payment of their salary at the civic centre of Delhi and we stand shoulder to shoulder with them because the fund for salaries was used in corruption,” Pathak said. Meanwhile, senior Congress councillor in north corporation Mukesh Goyal said both BJP and AAP are responsible for the salary crisis in the three civic bodies. “Their focus is not on solving problems but on doing politics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-congress-extend-support-to-protesting-corpn-staff/articleshow/77919206.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Man dies after falling into deep gorge||MUSSOORIE: A 32-year-old man died after falling down a deep gorge near Kimadi village near Mussoorie. According to police, the victim and his friend, both residents of Dehradun, had come to the hill town for sightseeing on a two-wheeler. “According to his friend, the victim had got off the vehicle to attend nature’s call on their way back to Dehradun. However, he fell down the gorge,” said a police official. The police have detained the friend for questioning while the body has been sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-dies-after-falling-into-deep-gorge/articleshow/77896659.cms||Anmol Jain
September 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 600 acres of Aarey will be declared as ‘reserved forest’||MUMBAI: The city’s unique urban forest is set to grow bigger as 600 acres of Aarey Milk Colony will be declared as a ‘reserved forest’. The decision, taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, comes as a clear victory for Mumbai’s citizens who had refused to give up and fought hard to save the green area. The moves comes days after the CM directed government departments to look for an alternative to the Line 3 Metro car shed in Aarey, either in Pahadi-Goregaon or Kanjurmarg. In a tweet, the CMO Maharashtra said, “600 acres of Aarey land near Sanjay Gandhi National Park will be reserved as forests. This will be the first instance of an extensive forest blossoming within the limits of a metropolis anywhere in the world.” Revenue and forest principal secretary Milind Mhaiskar said, “It is a bold decision and shows sensitivity to the environment.” He said Aarey Colony land starting near the northern boundary of Sanjay Gandhi National Park to the proposed 90-acre zoo and going further south will be declared as a forest. “This land is clear of all infrastructure projects and only has some Adivasi padas. The government may propose eco-tourism, night safari or may simply let it stay as a core forest area. It includes the land around the New Zealand hostel but excludes slum encroachments, Film City, electric sub-stations and other infrastructure,” Mhaiskar said. The meeting at which the decision was taken was held at Varsha, the chief minister’s official bungalow, and was attended by dairy development minister Sunil Kedar and environment minister Aditya Thackeray. The Manoj Saunik committee that had strongly recommended that the car shed remain at Aarey had also suggested that parts of Aarey have the characteristics of a forest and should be declared as such. In a press release, the chief minister’s office said tribal rights will be protected and slum redevelopment expedited. Mhaiskar said once a proposal is received from the dairy development department and the collector’s office to declare the 600 acres as forest, the revenue and forest department will issue a notice under Section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, invite objections and suggestions, hold hearings and then declare it as a forest. Thackeray Jr, in a tweet, said 600 acres would be declared as reserved forest in Phase 1. “Phase 2 survey for additional open/forest land in Aarey post phase I will begin soon. This would help the state protect the flora & fauna existent in SGNP and Aarey.” D Stalin of NGO Vanashakti that led the Save Aarey Movement, filing petitions before the National Green Tribunal, Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court, welcomed the move, saying the Thackeray government is sincere in its commitment. “Finally we have an honest admission about Aarey being a forest. When the forest gets recognised, tribal rights are protected and slum dwellers get a fair deal I think it’s a win-win situation for Aarey’s long- term conservation.” Amrita Bhattacharjee of the Aarey Conservation Group said it is a good initiative. “Aarey is the catchment for Mithi and Oshiwara river and hence we would request the government to declare the entire Aarey Colony as a reserved forest or natural area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/600-acres-of-aarey-will-be-declared-as-reserved-forest/articleshow/77900771.cms||Clara Lewis
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Crime Branch quizzes Umar Khalid for 5 hours||NEW DELHI: Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid was on Wednesday questioned by Crime Branch officials at their office in South Delhi in connection with the North-East Delhi riots, which broke out in February. Khalid was questioned for around five hours at the office in Sunlight Colony. Investigating officials revealed that Khalid was asked around 40 questions but he gave evasive replies and would be called for questioning again. Sources revealed that Khalid had met former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and United Against Hate activist Khalid Saifi on January 7 in North-East Delhi where the planning of the riots took place. “During the meeting, it was decided that protests would be held in 15 different areas in North-East. Khalid during the protest also gave a provocative speech and asked the citizens to do something big since the US President was visiting the capital. It was Saifi who had introduced Khalid to Hussain,” the source said. Hussain is in jail for his involvement in the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma. Saifi is in the jail too for his alleged involvement in the riots. Khalid has, meanwhile, written a letter to Commissioner of Delhi Police alleging that people known to him were being asked to sign statements forcibly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-crime-branch-quizzes-khalid-for-5-hours/articleshow/77899748.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Following surge in cases of Covid-19, entry of outsiders and journalists banned in secretariat||DEHRADUN: Following a surge in the cases of Covid-19 within the secretariat, the Uttarakhand government has decided to ban the entry of outsiders and media persons in the premises. An order in this regard was issued by the secretariatadministration on Wednesday. The order read out that under the present scenario, the entry of others would remain banned within the secretariat premises. The order, however, excludes Members of Parliament, Union and state ministers, MLAs and employees and officials. While the entry of print and electronic media journalists will be completely banned inside the secretariat premises, they would be allowed to collect information from the media centre from 3 pm to 5 pm on working days. Notably, the media centre has a separate entry. Meanwhile, outsiders who wish to hand over an application to the secretariat staff have been allowed to drop their applications at the entrance office. Senior officers of the department will depute staff to bring the applications after proper sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/following-surge-in-cases-of-covid-19-entry-of-outsiders-and-journalists-banned-in-secretariat/articleshow/77896629.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 3, 2020||Pune||Frauds dupe man of Rs 24k||Pune: The Pune rural police on Tuesday arrested a gang of four conmen, who duped a Narayangaon resident of Rs24,000 under the pretext of doubling the money. The suspects gave him fake currency notes and fled. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch of the Pune rural police said, “On Tuesday afternoon, the complainant met the suspect at Narayangaon and gave him Rs25,000,” Ghanwat said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frauds-dupe-man-of-rs-24k/articleshow/77899693.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Goa ranks fifth in country for accidental deaths: Report||PANAJI: Goa ranks fifth among states and Union territories in the country that have reported high rates of accidental deaths in 2019, states a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Of 36 states/UTs, 19 have reported higher rates of accidental deaths as compared to the all India average of 31.5 deaths per one lakh of population. According to NCRB, the highest rate of accidental deaths was reported from Puducherry (72.8). This was followed by Chhattisgarh (68.6), Maharashtra (57.4), Haryana (54.3), Goa (51.5) and Madhya Pradesh (51.4). NCRB released the sixth edition of the report after the comprehensive revision of the proforma for data collection of ‘Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India’ was undertaken in 2014 in consultation with states/UTs police and other stakeholders. “The rate of accidental deaths has slightly increased in 2019 as compared to 2018. The total number of accidental deaths in 2019 stood at 4,21,104,” NCRB stated in its report. The number of accidental deaths has increased by 2.3% at the national level during 2019 as compared to 2018. The number of accidental deaths due to forces of nature has increased by 18.2%, and deaths due to other causes have increased by 2% during 2019 over the year 2018. NCRB has stated that the gender-wise analysis reveals that females and males constitute 19.2% and 80.8% of the total victims respectively. The age group of majority of the victims was between 30 and 45 years. This group of people has accounted for 30.9% of all persons killed in accidents in the country during the year 2019. A total of 46,697 senior citizens (60 years & above of age) have also got killed in various accidents during 2019 comprising 11.1%. Accidental deaths have been grouped into two broad categories - ‘Deaths due to Forces of Nature and ‘Deaths due to Other Causes’. Classification of types and causes of accidental deaths has been done for statistical purpose only. Under causes attributable to forces of nature, deaths due to avalanche, exposure to cold, earthquake, epidemic, flood, heat/sun stroke and lightning have increased during the year 2019 over the previous year, whereas deaths due to inter alia cyclone, tornado, landslide, torrential rain and forest fire have decreased in 2019 over 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-ranks-fifth-in-country-for-accidental-deaths-report/articleshow/77900459.cms||Murari Shetye
September 3, 2020||Goa||Goa GST haul for August 34% less than last year||PANAJI: Despite steps to revive the economy, Goa’s GST revenues remain sharply down, with the state accounting for just Rs 213 crore in August against the Rs 325 crore earned a year ago during the same period. While Goa witnessed a 34% shortfall in GST collections, the national decline in GST revenues stood at 8% for August. Of the Rs 213 crore collected in Goa as GST in August, less than half will go to the state, while the rest goes into the CGST and IGST kitty. The state opened for tourism two months ago, and this week permitted bars and restaurants to serve alcohol. Since the closure of mining, tourism has proved to be the mainstay for the state’s economy. With Covid-19 disrupting all economic activity, Goa’s finance department expects the state’s annual GST shortfall to hover around 50%. But though GST collections remain far below normal, GST figures for the last three months show recovery, said finance department officials. “The revenue during the financial year has been impacted due to Covid-19, firstly due to the economic impact of the pandemic and secondly due to the relaxations given by the government in filing of returns and payment of taxes due to the pandemic,” said the official. In June, Rs 324 crore was collected as GST in Goa, while figures for July have not been released. “It may also be noted that taxpayers with turnover of less than Rs 5 crore continue to enjoy relaxation in filing of returns till September,” said an official. With the Centre yet to compensate Goa Rs 1,018 crore for the GST shortfall since April, the shortfall in GST in August will only add to the state’s financial burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gst-revenue-for-aug-34-less-than-prev-yr/articleshow/77900363.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Man succumbs to burns from sanitiser bottle blast||Nashik: A 55-year-old man on Tuesday succumbed to the burns he had sustained after a sanitiser bottle he was filling near a lit gas stove at his residence caught fire three days ago. The victim has been identified as Anil Jayantilal Suchak (56), a resident of Navkar Society at Upnagar. According to police, . Suchak was filling a bottle with sanitiser from a drum in the kitchen basin close to a gas stove, which was on, on August 30. The sanitiser bottle immediately caught fire and exploded, leaving Suchak with burns on the chest and thigh. Suchak, who suffered 68% burns, was immediately taken to the Nashik civil hospital, where he died during treatment, said police. On July 20, a 24-year-old woman from Mehboob Nagar had succumbed to the burn injuries in a similar incident. The woman was spraying the sanitizer in her house when a lit candle fell on the sanitizer bottle the woman was holding. The sanitizer bottle caught fire and the woman suffered 90 percent burn injuries. She succumbed to the burn injuries during treatment at Nashik civil hospital. Box : Infant’s body found in canal Nashik: The body of a six-month-old baby boy was found floating in Kadwa canal by the inhabitants of Chandgiri village around 9.30am on Wednesday. Soon after the news spread, police patil of the village, Lakhan Punja Katale, passed informed police. Senior police inspector Suraj Kumar Bijli said that they had appealed to citizens in the Chandgiri area to provide information about the child. “The child’s father arrived at the police station late on Wednesday evening and claimed that the canal is less than 30 feet away from his house in Shinde village and that the baby may have gone there crawling. The officer said that police are verifying the claims of man and refused to divulge his identity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-succumbs-to-burns-from-sanitiser-bottle-blast/articleshow/77899724.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Northeast to down south: Delhi University finds more takers||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro, backbone of public transport in the capital, will resume operations after more than five months on September 7. Services, however, will resume in phases with the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), connecting north Delhi to Gurugram, opening first and the Airport Express Line the last on September 12. Times ViewThe Metro is the city’s beating heart and its absence post-lockdown has been nightmarish for many daily commuters. The graded resumption of services will bring partial relief to them. But at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising again, every move towards restoring normalcy has to be watchful. Citizens must always wear masks. Only a balance between opening up and precautions will help us move forward.When commuters return to Metro stations on Monday — the 170th day since the trains stopped running — they will find new protocols. Entry through one gate and crowd control at the entrance to ensure social distancing inside will be the first step. Only asymptomatic people will gain entry, and then they will be under a hawk-eyed vigil on wearing masks and keeping distance. No tokens will be issued and only smart cards will work. Inside coaches, too, strict social distancing will apply and masks need to be in place. Up to 7 minutes of wait for next MetroAt any sign of trouble, trains will skip stations or troublesome passengers will be asked to disembark. The reopening will happen in three different stages with gradually increasing operational hours and addition of more corridors. In the first stage, trains will operate from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm, said Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) chief Mangu Singh after Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced the common standard operating procedure for all Metro corporations on Wednesday. “This will meet the requirement during peak hours,” Puri said, adding that full resumption of services will bring people back to public transport. Resuming Delhi Metro operations is most critical since out of a total of 700km of operational Metro lines across the country, Delhi has the largest share of nearly 400 km. “This is the most complex case and has the maximum number of corridors,” said Puri. Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra said initially the frequency of Metro trains would be around 5-7 minutes compared with 2.5 minutes earlier since every train has to be sanitised after each trip. The DMRC chief said on September 9, Delhi Metro’s busiest corridors — Blue Line (Dwarka-Noida/Vaishali) and Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) — would be thrown open, followed by the other corridors on subsequent days. From September 11, the operational time will increase to 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm, and from September 12, the usual time of 6am to 11pm will be restored. DMRC, however, will review the situation regularly and might change the schedule, if needed. “Train services will commence with adequate frequency — as they were before March 22, 2020 — which may be increased or decreased depending on requirement. However, due to increase in dwelling time of trains at stations, there will be a minor increase in the time required for a trip,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Puri said trains won’t stop at stations falling in containment zones with these stations remaining closed to public. Some stations may be skipped if social distancing is not maintained by passengers. DMRC sources said in case social distancing norms are violated inside a train, the train could be stopped and passengers asked to step out. Asked how DMRC was preparing to handle the huge crowds that may turn up at stations, Mangu Singh said, "We don’t anticipate huge crowds at stations considering that schools and colleges are closed and a large number of people are working from home." He added that DMRC will issue dos and don’ts at stations and these measures will also be announced inside the trains. Social distancing will be the prime focus of DMRC and a distance of one metre between commuters will be ensured at the stations and inside trains. Wearing face masks will be mandatory for both commuters and the staff. Masks will be arranged on payment at stations for those who are found not to be wearing one. At most stations, only one gate will be kept open for entry. There will be markers for social distancing at stations. Commuters will sit on alternate seats and maintain a one-metre gap while standing. This will mean that each coach will not carry more than 50-60 commuters, compared with 300-350 during peak hours earlier. Instead of 10 to 20 seconds, trains will now stop for 30 to 40 seconds at the stations and 60 seconds at interchange stations to ensure commuters board or de-board while maintaining social distancing. As the trains will be thoroughly sanitised after each trip, the turnaround time at the terminal stations will also go up. DMRC has deputed 487 officers on special duty on two shifts at all stations just to keep a check on social distancing, but in case of major defiance of norms, entry to stations will be closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-to-down-south-du-finds-more-takers/articleshow/77899785.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Joggers seek protection after morning horror||KOCHI: Tension prevailed at Marine Drive walkway on Wednesday morning stressing the need for an increased police presence in the area after four people allegedly roughed up a Customs official and snatched his mobile phone at the walkway. In another incident, a man with ‘learning disability’ went on an attack spree on the same morning, injuring at least two joggers. Mathew B Kurian, a senior advocate who was jogging at the walkway, was hit on his head with a piece of concrete tile. “I was jogging towards the Prestige apartment when a young man in front suddenly turned around and attacked me with a piece of tile,” he said, adding that before he could move away, the man threw another tile at him from behind which fortunately didn’t hit me. Central police said the attacker was taken to general hospital as he didn’t look stable. Meanwhile, all the four persons who attacked the Customs official have been taken into custody. “The youths alleged that the official clicked their pictures while they were smoking. They asked him to delete the photos and assaulted him. However, the official said he was merely clicking a selfie,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, Kurian filed a petition before the central police requesting them to deploy sufficient police force in public places during morning hours to ensure anti-social elements are prevented from committing illegal acts. He added that while he was running away, he could hear people screaming and telling from the far end of the driveway not to go near that person who attacked as he had already attacked and injured another morning walker just then. K G Narendran, who stays in an apartment near the walkway, said the man has been terrorising people for a while. “Earlier, the man had attacked another man and he was badly bruised on his leg. That person was a senior citizen who was jogging for medical reasons. Later, the man threatened a foreigner. He was throwing stones at random people as well,” said Narendran. Residents and activists who work towards the betterment of the walkway say there is very little police presence in the area. “The question is not about the attacker but the fact that there were no policemen to protect the people,” said Ranjit G Thampy, an activist who has filed several petitions before courts for the betterment of the walkway. Police, however, said policemen can be deployed on day duty and not during nights due to Covid situation, but residents wondered why weren’t there any cops when the attack happened in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/joggers-seek-protection-after-morning-horror/articleshow/77898298.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Centenarian Lingayat seer dies after found positive for Covid||Aurangabad: Shivlinga Shivacharya Maharaj, a prominent Lingayat seer with a huge following, succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. The last rites were performed on the seer with full state honours at Ahmedpur on Tuesday night. The 103-year-old seer was admitted to a private hospital in Nanded after testing positive for the contagion. Nanded civil surgeon Nilkanth Bhosikar confirmed that the religious leader had contracted the viral disease. Born on February 25, 1917, Shivlinga Shivacharya completed his graduation in health sciences from Lahore, Pakistan. He later took plunge into the religious and spiritual work and chose Ahmedpur in Latur district as his base. Earlier, controversy erupted when the seer was hospitalized as a section of followers declared that he will take ‘Sanjeevan Samadhi’ by burying himself alive. The controversy spread like wildfire on social media attracting a large number of his followers to Latur district, putting government machinery on its toes. The speculation was denied by the seer himself later by sending a recorded video message from the hospital following intervention from district administrations of Nanded and Latur amid building tension among devotees who were sensing some foul-play on the part of a section of close companions of the religious leader. A group of his followers had also lodged a complaint with local police stating that Shivlinga Shivacharya was having a threat to his life from close associates who allegedly have an eye or his property and position.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centenarian-lingayat-seer-dies-after-found-positive-for-covid/articleshow/77899739.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM for kick-starting infrastructure projects stuck in pandemic||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday pitched for expediting ongoing infrastructure projects and kick-starting those gridlocked by the pandemic at a key meeting of Team-11. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, said, the CM decided to hold division-wise review meetings online and began with Saharanpur. On Thursday, he would hold a review meeting of Ayodhya division to assess progress of infrastructural projects. Awasthi said, divisional commissioners have been asked to come up with a detailed plan for projects of more than Rs 50 crore. “Likewise, district magistrates would give a presentation of infrastructural projects carried out in their states,” he said. Yogi also sought swift implementation of projects under smart city mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation of Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme and water in irrigation canals as per roster. “The agriculture department is receiving rakes of fertilisers. There should be no discrepancy or callousness in supply to farmers,” Awasthi said. The CM also ordered survey of crop damages incurred because of floods. “If loss is more than the set standard, farmers would be compensated through crop insurance,” said Awasthi. Yogi also pressed for ensuring adequate presence of employees in government offices. For this, additional chief secretaries and principal secretary would verify presence of staff and act against those found absent. Last week, the chief secretary conducted a surprise inspection of the cooperative department and found 90% employees missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-kick-starting-infra-projects-stuck-in-pandemic/articleshow/77899925.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 3, 2020||Delhi||House help nabbed for Delhi's Greater Kailash-I robbery||NEW DELHI: A 26-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing diamond and gold jewellery from his employer’s house in Greater Kailash-I. The victim, an octogenarian woman, is the sister-in-law of a former MP and the daughter-in-law of a former defence minister. The man had fled to Jharkhand after committing the crime. He was caught following an investigation lasting over a fortnight. The arrest took time because the accused had been hired as a household worker without getting police verification done, said the investigators. The 80-year-old woman, Kamal Kumar, lives with her son. In her complaint to police, she said the domestic worker, Mantu Yadav, stole one pearl and six diamond rings along with a gold chain from her house on August 16. She had been looking for someone to help her with household chores when a man named Tilak came to her house on August 1 with Yadav. He claimed that Yadav was his brother-in-law. When the family asked him for his personal documents, he kept giving excuses and didn’t submit them. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said a case was registered at Greater Kailash police station.“Kumar told the investigators that Yadav avoided sharing his personal details for police verification. As she needed a helper urgently, she kept him on job,” he added. Police only had Yadav’s photo to start the probe. They came to know that he lived somewhere near Neem Chowk in Garhi. As the cops did not have an address, they began a local inquiry and questioned more than 100 people by showing them Yadav’s photo. They soon learnt that he had fled to Jharkhand. The team finally traced Yadav’s brother, Manoj, who also lived in the same area. “We reached out to Yadav with his brother’s help. On interrogation, he broke down and confessed to having stolen the jewellery. Three diamond rings have been recovered from him,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-help-nabbed-for-gk-i-robbery/articleshow/77899794.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||IMD records place Aug rain at 4th highest in 100 years||Panaji: Goa’s average rainfall in August was the fourth highest in the past 100 years. The state received a total of 1,164mm rainfall last month. Records shared by the India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, reveal that the highest rainfall in August prior to this was 1,330mm in 1983, 1,251mm in 1970 and 1,412mm in 1940. According to the IMD, the various weather systems that prevailed during the month were the reason for the intense rainfall. “At least four circulations and low pressure areas that formed in the northwest Bay of Bengal in August maintained the intensity and moved into the Indian land mass, passing over the Madhya Pradesh region,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. When these systems are near Madhya Pradesh, it makes the winds over Goa south westerly, thus enhancing monsoon activity and resulting in heavy rainfall, he said. In the first week of August, there were a number of systems besides the circulation in the Bay of Bengal. causing monsoon being at its peak state in the first week of August. “The surface winds also touched around 30kts occasionally in the first few days of August. This is something not so common and a striking difference comparing to August last year,” Rahul said. In August 2019, the state recorded a total of 1,159mm of rainfall. IMD stated that such weather systems were less in June and July. The extended range forecast shows that rainfall activity in south Konkan will increase from around the third week of September and the state can expect normal rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-records-place-aug-rain-at-4th-highest-in-100-years/articleshow/77900393.cms||Nida Sayed
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||36 schools in C’nagar to get a facelift||Mysuru: The Chamarajanagar district administration has decided to give a new look to 36 government schools in the district which are there for over a century. Funds for the project will be raised from donors, philanthropists, alumni, locals and the government. Under the scheme, each school will be sanctioned Rs 5 lakh for restoration and conservation work, said an official. Three among the selected schools that were given heritage tag by the department of public instruction (DPI) — Hangala Government Primary School (GHPS) in Gundlupet taluk, constructed in 1916; Ramapura GHPS constructed in 1900 in Hanur taluk and Madhuvanahalli GPHS constructed in 1909 — will be conserved and restored to regain their past glory, said the officials. The state government has already sanctioned Rs5 lakh for these three schools, and restoration works are being carried out in these heritage buildings. Chamarajanagar deputy director of public instruction Javaregowda said deputy commissioner M R Ravi has given directions to prepare a detailed project report for the restoration of the schools, besides documenting selected schools across the district. A district-level school development committee will be formed as per his directions, before taking up the development work, he added. Apart from forming a district-level committee, a student alumni association will also be formed, while a list of alumni, student achievers and historical significance of each school will be documented during the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/36-schools-in-cnagar-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/77896692.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||JUTA writes to Mamata||Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (JUTA) on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee: “If there is more delay in publishing results, students will lose opportunities to study in higher education institutes within India and abroad, as well as lose the job offers... Steps should be taken so that their terminal semester/year exams are conducted and the results published as early as possible,” stated the letter from JUTA. It requested the CM to let the universities fix respective assessment dates. JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Ray said the Puja would make it almost impossible to publish results by October 31 if the tests are not held earlier. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/juta-writes-to-mamata/articleshow/77898261.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Govt nod for field trials of two indigenous types of genetically modified brinjal||NEW DELHI: Ten years after imposing a moratorium on commercial release of genetically modified Bt Brinjal, the Centre has now allowed biosafety research field trials of two new transgenic varieties of indigenously developed Bt Brinjal in eight states during 2020-23. These states are Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and West Bengal. Biosafety safety report of GM crops’ field trials is a mandatory requirement for applying for commercial release in future. The Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC)— a central regulator which allowed confined field trials of new varieties of Bt Brinjal— has, however, asked the applicant to begin it only after taking no-objection certificate (NOC) from states concerned and confirmation of availability of isolated stretch of land for this purpose. These indigenous transgenic varieties of brinjal hybrids - namely Janak and BSS-793, containing Bt Cry1Fa1 gene (Event 142) - are developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s (ICAR) National Research Centre on Plant Biotechnology (NRCPB). After taking permission from the states, the applicant - Beejsheetal Research Private Limited, Jalna – will have to provide the name of the lead scientist responsible for each trial to the central regulator. “The findings of the results may also be shared with State Biodiversity Boards and local panchayat biodiversity management committees,” said the GEAC’s order. Opposing the GEAC’s order, the RSS-linked farmers’ body, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), has written to chief ministers of concerned states, requesting them not to give NOC for biosafety research field trials of two transgenic Bt Brinjal varieties. The BKS representatives, led by its general secretary Badri Narayan Chaudhary and organisational secretary Dinesh Kulkarni, have also met Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, requesting him to revoke the GEAC’s order. In its letter to Javadekar against the regulator’s order, the BKS even questioned the integrity of the GEAC and demanded that the committee “should be dissolved with immediate effect and a comprehensive alternative to be formed to deal with all the aspects in totality in a transparent and holistic way”. They argued that like any other GM crop, the new Bt Brinjal varieties too would be hazardous for soil and overall environment, and ultimately harm the farmers’ interests. The developer of the new transgenic varieties of Bt Brinjal, however, claimed it to be a safe alternative to manage pests in the crop. “Using biotechnological tools, the NRCPB has developed transgenic brinjal with a Bt gene (cry1Fa1), which is very effective against 'brinjal shoot and fruit borer',” it said on its website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-nod-for-field-trials-of-two-indigenous-types-of-genetically-modified-brinjal/articleshow/77901442.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Govt ready to meet spike in electricity demand: Minister||LUCKNOW: The demand for electricity is expected to increase by another 3000MW by the summers of 2021. The projection came forth during a review meeting presided over by energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday. According to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), the utility managed to meet the peak power demand of 23,419MW this year which is expected to touch 26,500MW-mark by next year. To meet the escalation in demand, UPPCL has decided to increase its import capacity from existing 12300MW to 14,000MW by next year. Likewise, the transmission capacity is proposed to be increased from existing 24,500MW to 28,000MW by next year. Sharma said the process of construction of 50 new transmission sub-stations was on which would get operational by June next year. The new sub-stations would address the problems of unregulated tripping and low voltage in at least 50 districts. “The state will be well equipped to provide uninterrupted power supply in most parts of the state,” the minister said. Sharma said the state government was working to set up transmission infrastructure to meet the demand of 31500MW which is expected by 2025. “The government will construct 198 transmission sub-stations to provide 34,000MW electricity,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-ready-to-meet-spike-in-electricity-demand-minister/articleshow/77899941.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Salary of MLAs, mins & staff to be cut for Covid fund||Jaipur: The cabinet on Wednesday decided to deduct one week’s gross salary of chief minister, ministers and two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund.While the MLAs will donate one day’s net salary, the employees of other departments, excluding high court and subordinate court, medical and health, medical education, and police constable from level I to IV, will also donate one-day’s salary to the relief fund.The cabinet has given the green signal for direct recruitment of assistant public relations officer by amending the Rajasthan Public Relations Subordinate Services (Amended) Rules 2019. With this amendment, all the posts of assistant public relations officer will be filled by direct recruitment. The provision of interview for this post has been done away with.The cabinet has given its approval to amend the Rajasthan Subordinate Engineering (Building and Road Branch) Services Rules, 1973 for direct recruitment for the post of laboratory promoter in the public works department.Similarly, the cabinet has approved amendment to Rajasthan Subordinate Service (Recruitment and Other Conditions of Service) Rules, 2001 for direct recruitment to 29 vacant posts of security guards in the secretariat.The cabinet has given its nod to notification of the Rajasthan Beggars or Poor Persons Rehabilitation Rules-2020. The objective is to bring them to the mainstream of the society by training and providing alternative employment and rehabilitation.The cabinet has given the green signal to the issuance of rules by the state government for the implementation of the Section 78 and Section 71 of the NDPS Act-1985. In compliance with the directions of the high court, rules will be made for operating de-addiction centres in addition to opening of appropriate such units in the stateThe cabinet has given approval to the proposal to transfer the administrative control, all assets and assets of Ambedkar Peeth at Mundla village in Jamwaramgarh tehsil, Jaipur to the higher education department for the operation of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Law University. The cabinet also approved the proposal to rename Government College Guda in Jhunjhunu as Seth Shri Kedarnath Modi Government College, Gudha, Jhunjhunu.The cabinet has decided to provide a one-year extension for Ambuja Cement Limited to set up a green field cement plant at Marwar Mundwa village in Nagaur district. The investment of about Rs 2,000 crore in the district would provide employment to 5,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/salary-of-mlas-mins-staff-to-be-cut-for-covid-fund/articleshow/77899791.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Man kills wife & child in Jalna district||Aurangabad: A 30-year-old man allegedly murdered his wife and their 7-year-old daughter in Akoli village of Ashti in Partur tehsil of Jalna district. The man suspected his wife’s character.  The incident took place on Wednesday, following which police have arrested the accused identified as Shahaji Deshmukh, a farmer.  Citing the preliminary probe, police said on Wednesday morning, after a heated argument between the accused and his wife Jyoti (27), the former attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon. Then the accused reportedly turned his attention towards their daughter Rutuja, killing both of them on spot.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-kills-wife-child-in-jalna-district/articleshow/77896734.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Excise seizes 35kg ganja, 3 nabbed in Ernakulam||KOCHI: In a major ganja seizure in Ernakulam excise division, 35kg of ganja worth Rs.12 lakh was seized by Aluva excise sleuths from a truck on Wednesday and three persons were arrested. The national permit truck that was used by the trio to smuggle the contraband from Andhra Pradesh was also taken into custody. They were nabbed by the excise officers during a vehicle check held as part of special Onam enforcement drive in Aluva town around 6.30am. The arrested were identified as Hakkim from Kozhikode and Ahammad Kabeer and Jaffer Ali from Pattambi. According to excise officers, the prime accused Shameer Babu of Thrissur, who operated the smuggling and helped procure the ganja, is on the run. “The accused had bought the ganja for Rs.1.5lakh and had planned to make a profit of Rs.10 lakh by selling it in small quantities in Ernakulam. They procured the ganja from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh and smuggled into Kerala via Karnataka and Tamil Nadu taking advantage of the dip in enforcement actions due to the pandemic. The ganja was well-packed in bundles of nearly 2kg each and wrapped with plastic cover. It is learned that all the arrested persons were expatriates who could not return due to the pandemic and they have ventured into ganja smuggling to earn money within a short time,” said T A Ashok Kumar, deputy excise commissioner, Ernakulam. Sojan Sebastian, excise circle inspector, Aluva, whose team made the seizure said the ganja was hidden beneath the bench placed behind the driver’s seat for the employees to rest. “The lorry was heading to Kochi city when we intercepted it. The ganja was to be delivered to a person, whom we are yet to identify,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-seizes-35kg-ganja-3-nabbed/articleshow/77898308.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University ad hoc teacher alleges caste bias||NEW DELHI: An ad hoc teacher of psychology at Daulat Ram College has alleged that she faced discrimination for being a Dalit and was not given the joining letter to teach this semester. She also alleged that the principal had issues with her activism, her stand against the governing political party and social media posts attacking the government. A complaint was also sent by the teacher, Ritu Singh, to National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), which sent a letter to the Delhi University vice-chancellor on August 28 asking him to respond to the allegations within 15 days. Former MP Udit Raj also came out in her support with a tweet. However, principal Savita Roy claimed that the action was taken after the college received several complaints from students regarding her teaching. “A written complaint was also received, after which I asked the psychology department to periodically review how the teachers imparted knowledge,” she added. Singh began teaching at Daulat Ram a year ago. Initially, the principal told her that the college didn’t have enough workload to hire ad hoc teachers. “Later, she told me that my services had been discontinued after feedback from students. At the end, she said she hated my social activism and speaking up for Dalit and marginal sections of the society. She felt that I was trying to vilify the college’s name due to my political stand,” she alleged. The teacher claimed that she was in touch with dozens of students and they were appreciative of her teaching. Roy said students also filed complaints against Singh during the lockdown period and many of them stopped attending online classes. “As a principal, I have to listen to the students and provide them a better teacher. I will replace her with another SC teacher to prove the claim of discrimination wrong. There is a professional code of conduct applicable for all teachers. No one can go against the establishment. She also runs a YouTube channel and never informed us about it,” she added. In a separate matter, NCSC has asked DU to respond to the delay in appointment of an ad hoc teacher at Dyal Singh (Evening) College. Principal Pawan Kumar Sharma said that he had come to know about the complaint, but had not received any communication from DU about it. A member of the college alleged, “The selection commission had chosen one SC and one ST ad hoc teacher for the English department in July-August 2019. But the governing body disapproved of their joining.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-ad-hoc-teacher-alleges-caste-bias/articleshow/77899813.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Barapullah back on track after delay||NEW DELHI: The construction of Phase III of the Barapullah elevated corridor project, connecting Mayur Vihar in east Delhi with Sarai Kale Khan and INA market in the south, has faced many hurdles. PWD officials now say they will start work again with the aim of completing the work before November. Optimism is high after PWD finally overcame the problem of land acquisition that had held up the project for four years and got possession of two plots, cumulatively 750 metres in length, owned by farmers of Nagli Razapur village near Sarai Kale Khan. The Phase III work on the elevated traffic corridor started in April 2015, but a fifth of its work remains to be finished since the deadline passed in 2017. The land acquisition was approved by the lieutenant governor in September last year. According to a PWD official, inhabitants of the 100 shanties or so on the plots have been relocated to another area. The official recalled the two problems that slowed the project work — the shifting of high tension electricity line and the reluctance of the owners of the two Yamuna plots to cede ownership to PWD. The ban on construction activities to check the intense pollution in late 2019 and the halt caused by the Covid-19 pandemic also hindered work on the project. “Had these two problems not arisen, we would have completed the construction activity by now,” the official said. “Now the latest of our problems has cropped up. There is a shortage of labour.” PWD officials disclosed that it was only after PWD started construction that it realised some portions of the land needed for the project was in private hands. The public works agency wrote to the government’s land and building department for acquisition of the two plots, one 250 metres in length and the other 500m, but nothing concrete was achieved. The Barapullah Phase III project envisages a 3.5-km elevated roadway across the Yamuna floodplain that will improve connectivity among east, south and New Delhi areas and decongest the Nizamuddin Bridge and NH-24 bypass near the Akshardham flyover, Bhairon Marg and Ashram Chowk at Ring Road. It was designed to reduce travel time between east and south Delhi from around an hour to about 20 minutes. In January 2019, the project segment at Mayur Vihar Phase I was thrown open to commuters. The 800m flyover, built parallel to the existing single carriageway facility, now provides signal-free movement between Noida and Akshardham. This flyover too exceeded its deadline by two years. The two loops from that flyover connect with the Barapullah Phase III flyover. These loops will prove beneficial for over 10,000 vehicles that daily drive some extra kilometres. The first of the loops, both 300-metres-long with five spans, starts from Mayur Vihar and rises to the new flyover before joining the lanes headed to Akshardham. The other will allow the traffic coming from Noida to descend below the flyover and drive on to Mayur Vihar Phase I. The first two phases of the elevated corridor project are operational. Phase I, measures 4km, connects Sarai Kale Khan with Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in south Delhi and was used to ferry athletes during the Commonwealth Games of 2010. The in-air roadway under Phase II was 2km in length and extended from Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to INA Market. As part of Phase IV, PWD plans to extend the flyover from INA to Indira Gandhi International Airport. These roads in the sky, once completed, will help people from Noida access the airport in just 25 minutes against the current time of over an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/barapullah-back-on-track-after-delay/articleshow/77899799.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM asks district officials to accord top priority to Covid management||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked district administration officials to give top priority to Covid management. Gehlot was reviewing corona control on Wednesday through video conferencing from the chief minister’s residence with divisional commissioner, IGP, district collectors, SPs, principals of medical colleges and officials of the medical department. He made an in-depth review of the condition of corona infection in districts, prevention, treatment, availability of medicines, status of Covid care centers, plasma therapy and awareness campaign. The chief minister said that along with the medical facilities at the district hospitals as well as CHCs and PHCs, they should ensure adequate availability of medicines. Gehlot said the treatment of patients admitted in Covid care centres and their related information could be easily made available to their families. Besides, the family should not have to wander about treatment and other arrangements. For this, there should be a help desk at every centre. The centres where such arrangements are already in place should be further strengthened. Gehlot said plasma therapy is helping to save the lives of serious patients. He asked medical staff to motivate healthy Covid patients to donate plasma. A campaign should be launched to promote plasma donation, he said. He said since the number of infected patients are on the rise, priority should be given to increase the number of oxygen beds and ICU beds with cooperation of private hospitals. He directed that the divisional commissioners, district collectors and the CMHO should regularly inspect the Covid care centres and other hospitals falling under their jurisdiction and remove the deficiencies found with immediate effect. The officials were also asked to ensure proper medical facilities for general treatment to surgery. Vaccination of pregnant women as well as infants should continue well, he said. Medical and health Minister Raghu Sharma said the Centre has given permission for plasma therapy in Ajmer and Bhilwara. Chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup said according to the guidelines of Unlock-4, it has been permitted to implement a containment zone in a limited area. DGP Bhupendra Singh asked the officials to strictly enforce Covid SOPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-asks-district-officials-to-accord-top-priority-to-covid-management/articleshow/77899800.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||3 drown during Ganesh idol immersion in Nagpur & Yavatmal||YAVATMAL/NAGPUR: Three persons drowned, two in a village in Yavatmal district and one in Nagpur, during Ganesh idol immersion. A 42-year-old man, identified as Gajanan Nimje, drowned in Vena river, said police on Tuesday. The incident took place on August 30 at around 11.30pm in Gumgaon village, said Hingna police. In another incident, two youths drowned during idol immersion in Arunavati river on Monday evening. The deceased have been identified as Shyam Nande (22) and Ravi Khokale, both residents of Sawanga (Khurd) in Digras tehsil of Yavatmal district.tnn The idol was installed in the house of one Tritik Taywade and the deceased were part of a group which had volunteered for the immersion. While taking the idol in deep waters, Shyam and Ravi lost balance and started drowning. The accompanying youths did not venture into water to help them as none could swim. The matter was reported to villagers and police. Soon, SDPO Udaysingh Chandel and PI Sonaji Aamle rushed to spot. Cops started search operations and found one body by Monday night. On Tuesday morning, body of the other youth was also found. The police handed over the bodies to relatives after post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-drown-during-ganesh-idol-immersion-in-nagpur-ytl/articleshow/77899741.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Apply online to set up cracker stalls||Coimbatore: Those who wish to set up temporary cracker outlets for the coming Diwali festival in rural areas can apply for licence online. A communication from Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said the applicants should provide a detailed plan of the space where they wish to set up the outlet. “The area of the space where they seek to set up the outlet should be between 9sqmt to 25sqmt. The application should have details of road facilities, surrounding area and the capacity of the shop. If the applicant is the owner of the space, documents pertaining to that must be submitted. Along with the fee of Rs 500, they have to apply at e-seva centres within October 10,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/apply-online-to-set-up-cracker-stalls/articleshow/77899802.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Goa took 55 days for first 100 deaths, just 19 to touch 200||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 tally rose by 636 and its death toll by 10 on Wednesday, both single-day highs, even as its post-Ganesh Chaturthi spike continued with the tally touching 4,000 new infections. While the state took 55 days to reach its first 100 deaths, its second hundred came in a mere 19 days as Goa’s toll on Wednesday stood at 204. The government has attributed the rise in deaths to patients coming late for treatment. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the government would come out with a “white paper” on the rising mortality rate. “We have taken a break-up of deaths,” he said. “Many people come to the hospital at the middle stage of the infection. Some come after five days, and some even ten days later, and after developing the symptoms.” He was replying to a query why deaths have not dropped even after Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, has started treating high-risk patients. In some cases, Rane said that patients were brought to hospital a few hours before their death. “These are challenging times,” he said. “We urge people to get tested immediately if Covid-19 symptoms are felt. Antigen testing facility has been made available at peripheral health centres.” To reduce the death rate, he said “treatment has also to start on time.” Of the ten fatalities, six men and two women died at GMC. While a 70-year-old man from Fatorda and a 76-year-old woman from Baina died on Monday, a 36-year-old man from Vasco and a 55-year-old from Mapusa succumbed on Tuesday. Three men — a 30-year-old from Sao Jose de Areal, a 65-year-old from Bicholim, and a 64-year-old from Sankhali — and a 53-year-old woman from Nerul, died on Wednesday. One death, that of a 45-year-old man from New Vaddem, was reported from the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. A 47-year-old man from Candolim who was brought dead at the primary health centre, Siolim, on Tuesday, tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-took-55-days-for-first-100-deaths-just-19-to-touch-200/articleshow/77900498.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 3, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid, to continue working from home||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19 and said via a tweet that since he was asymptomatic, he would opt for home isolation and asked all those “who have come in my close contact” to take necessary precautions. “I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home,” Sawant said even as he cancelled the cabinet meeting scheduled for Wednesday. Sawant will isolate himself at the CM’s official residence at Altinho in Panaji, as his father, a senior citizen, resides with him at his home in Sankhali, CM’s wife Sulakshana Sawant told TOI. “It would have been risky for him to stay at home,” she said. The chief minister’s office said after Sawant tested positive, all those officials in the CMO, who had come in close contact with him, have opted for home isolation and would be working from home. “People of Goa are informed that all regular operations of CMO shall continue unhindered. It may be noted that all the appointments and meetings scheduled stand suspended till further notice. Urgent and emergency grievances if any can be mailed to cm.goa@nic.in or sent on WhatsApp numbers 9822199979 & 7972962973 for the needful action,” the CMO said in a statement. “One of his drivers was feeling feverish and since marathon meetings were scheduled, including cabinet on Wednesday, the chief minister decided to go for testing as a precautionary measure at the primary health centre at Sankhali,” Sulakshana said. “One person who had come in contact with the driver had tested positive,” she said. “The rest of the family members have not gone for testing as they are asymptomatic,” the chief minister’s wife said. Sawant’s office said that whenever the chief minister suspected that he might have contracted Covid, he used to consult doctors, but this is the first time he opted for testing. Ayush minister Shripad Naik, MLAs Ramakrishna Dhavalikar, Churchill Alemao, Ravi Naik, Clafasio Dias and former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar have all contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-tests-positive-for-covid-to-continue-working-from-home/articleshow/77900377.cms||Murari Shetye
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Covid not only affect lungs, but takes toll on heart too: Experts||JAIPUR: The most common problem faced by recovered Covid-19 patients is induced lung fibrosis. But that’s not all. Worsening of co-morbidities of other organs especially the heart also continues to affect patients even after recovery. Covid experts say it is a multisystem involving the viral disease in which 84-85% cases show mild or asymptomatic course, 10-15% shows moderate disease which need hospitalisation only and 5% cases need ICU care and mortality is around 1 to 1.4%. “Out of moderate and severe patients, a lot of them show residual complications which we call post Covid-19 sequel. The patients show these complications as the virus affects lung parenchyma, heart muscle and vessels that supply blood to heart and other parts. In some of the cases, even after recovery from illness, a patient remains symptomatic for long,” said Dr RS Khedar, director- Internal Medicine and Critical Care, Medical Director, of a private hospital. Dr Khedar said heart vessels’ involvement lead to ischemic changes, general weakness and lassitude is also a feature of post Covid sequel. A large number of patients is re-visiting hospitals frequently due to post-Covid complications. While the brunt of Covid is borne by the lungs, doctors say heart damage occurs in up to 78% of patients. “Heart damage can happen in young and even asymptomatic patients and may be the cause for chest pain and short of breath even months after recovery from acute illness. The real danger is that of sudden death due to abnormal rhythm and heart failure,” said Dr Murtaza A Chishti, heart surgeon, who perfomed the first heart transplant of the state. He suggested all Covid patients should have heart enzyme test (Troponin I) and echocardiography. If any abnormality is found, they should be on long-term follow up of a heart specialist. Covid infection has spread widely in the state due to its high infective nature. It affects multiple organs of the body due to its deleterious effect on the inflammatory cascade through the cytokines release. “Major mortality and morbidity of the infection is also attributed to the cardiovascular affection in the form of significant pulmonary embolism and cardiac strokes. While giving Covid specific drugs to a patient, drug interaction with cardiac medicines like statins and ACE inhibitors have to be kept in mind,” said Dr Rajeev Bagarhatta, senior professor (cardiology), SMS Medical College. He said the treatment given for cardiac ailments usually has to be continued even if the patient gets Covid infection as some of these drugs, like statins, may be helpful in controlling the viral disease and it’s complications. Meanwhile, pulmonologists are finding the virus deadly for lungs in some cases. “As there is initial lung damage caused, it further leads to scarring of lungs due to continuous and ongoing inflammation. Which may lead to irreversible damage to lungs resulting in either non-recovery or prolonged oxygen requirement at home, impairing quality of life of those recovered,” said Dr K K Sharma, senior consultant and head - pulmonary medicine of a private hospital. He warned that the condition requires the support of home oxygenation even after discharge and recovery. “In some cases, lung fibrosis may also affect the heart and causing Cor Pulmonale which further leading to increasing breathless despite of proper therapies,” said Dr Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-not-only-affect-lungs-but-takes-toll-on-heart-too-experts/articleshow/77899812.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP tops in road fatalities due to drunken driving, stray menace||LUCKNOW: Despite recording a lesser number of accidents as compared to states like Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh tops the country in fatalities due to road crashes, stray animal menace and drunken driving, according to a report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on August 31. With an average of at least three deaths per hour in road accidents, UP registered 23,285 fatalities in 37,537 crashes in 2019. In comparison to UP, Tamil Nadu recorded 57,228 accidents with 10,525 deaths while MP reported 11,856 deaths in 51,641 accidents. Similarly, at least three deaths were recorded every day in UP due to drunken driving which was also the highest in the country. Total 849 people died in accidents due to consumption of drugs and liquor. The state also reported the highest 442 deaths due to stray animal menace. As compared to 2018, road accidents in UP went up by 4%. In 2018, total 40,783 accidents (including due to road crashes, stray menace, wrong overtaking and other reasons) were reported while 42,368 cases were reported in 2019. The state also recorded maximum fatalities on national highways with 7,187 deaths, while 6,385 deaths were reported on state highways and 761 on expressways. The rate of road accidents in 2020 has, however, reduced to a great extent due to coronavirus lockdown. According to doctors, the death rate in accidents is high in UP due to the poor medical care system. Dr Ajai Singh from KGMU’s orthopaedics and surgery department said there was no dedicated medical arrangement in place to attend people getting injured in road accidents. “Injured people must be provided medical aid during the golden hour (within an hour of the accident), but our state lacks a proper network of ambulances. Police also react late while primary health centres are ill-equipped to tackle such cases,” he said. Ashutosh Soti, founder of Lucknow-based NGO Shubham Soti Foundation, said awareness about road accidents and primary treatment to the injured should be made a part of school curriculum. Officials at UP 112 said passers-by ought to be made aware by police in running awareness campaigns. “Our response time has reduced and we also encourage passers-by to help injured people by making a call to UP 112 so that our nearest police response vehicle is alerted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tops-in-road-fatalities-due-to-drunken-driving-stray-menace/articleshow/77900039.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||More young lives lost in accidents in Gujarat||VADODARA: Gujarat witnessed a drop of 3.3% in accidental deaths in 2019 as compared to the previous year. The drop comes after a meagre increase of 0.7% in 2018. The latest report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on accidental deaths and suicides in India revealed that last year 23,910 died in accidental death while in 2018, the number was 24,714. Experts said that the major reason for the drop in the number of accidental deaths was the decrease in road accidents in the state. “We are working on a project to bring down the number of accidents to half of what these were in 2012 so there has been a consistent drop in road accidents,” said J J Chaudhari, deputy superintendent of police of state traffic branch. The biggest victim is the young population of the state. People in the age group of 18 years to 45 years are the largest contributors (57.6%) of accidental deaths. In terms of gender, men were the largest group of casualties as 19,717 died, while 4,191 women and two transgenders died in accidental deaths. The two transgender deaths were reported in Ahmedabad and Surat. “Infrastructure in terms of medical and protection gears particularly in industries have improved unlike in earlier times. There have been instances where industries have suffered a loss of crores of rupees due to an accident, but there would not be a single injury,” said M F Dastoor, director of Gujarat State Fire Service. He added, “Because the young population is also the working class so they are exposed the most to vulnerabilities as compared to elderlies or kids so their number of fatalities could be high.” Among the states, the largest drop in number of accidental deaths were reported in Nagaland (26.7%), followed by Arunachal Pradesh (18.9%) and Odisha (9.8%). Bigger states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh saw a hike in accidental deaths. In the entire country too, accidental deaths increased by 2.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-young-lives-lost-in-accidents-in-gujarat/articleshow/77896256.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority holds first virtual meet on master plan||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday held the first online meeting with RWAs, various associations and other stakeholders to discuss Master Plan of Delhi 2041, understand their issues and give possible solutions for improving the quality of life of those living in unauthorised colonies. Currently, DDA is busy preparing MPD 2041 in partnership with National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). The meeting was aimed at ensuring that the new plan was proactive and forward looking in nature. “The stakeholders included RWAs, market and traders’ associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children, youth, professional bodies, etc. Around 120 people and RWAs attended the meeting, which was chaired by senior officials from DDA and NIUA,” said a DDA official. The officials shared details of the PM-UDAY scheme and the application process to be followed for regularisation of properties in unauthorised colonies. “The participating residents raised concerns about lack of access to basic services of water and sanitation and other facilities in their locality. Likewise, legal status of properties, narrow roads, congestion, conflicts between commercial and residential uses and quality of drinking water were other points highlighted by them. A common concern was vulnerability and risks involved in case of disasters, such as fire and earthquake,” DDA mentioned in a statement. RWAs and citizens’ groups can register themselves for the next meeting by sending an email to mpd2041@gmail.com, after which a link with the time slot and reference material will be mailed to them. “Information about the weekly public consultations will be available on http://119.226.139.196/mpd2041/_layouts/Public_Suggestion_2041/LoginUser.aspx,” said a DDA spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-holds-first-virtual-meet-on-master-plan/articleshow/77899845.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Vendor to doctor, this teacher dons many roles||By: Godhooli SharmaLUCKNOW: A fruit vendor sporting a moustache and turban, a doctor wearing a stethoscope and a puppeteer presenting a live show. Enter the new-age virtual classroom of Sheeba Taquir, who has been wearing different hats to engage her tiny tots during the pandemic. With the move to virtual learning throwing up challenges, Taquir uses props to convert her house into a castle to make learning a fun activity. Employed at a private school here for the past 2.5 years, this 27-year-old is revered by her tiny tots as a teacher with multiple roles. She also lets her students enact the same roles so that they understand the concepts clearly. “Teaching virtually to kindergarten students is a Herculean task. To make them sit in front of a computer requires a special technique where they can enjoy as well as learn at the same time... In order to teach them names of vegetables and fruits, I first enact as a vendor. In this way, they easily grasp the names of vegetables, numbers, colours in one go. The next day, they become little grocers and vendors selling their items,” said the Vikasnagar resident. To make her students read poems and stories, Taquir uses props and craft items, converting her house into a castle or a jungle. She records videos in her voice and shows it to her students who watch it in awe. To explain the story of ‘A Thirsty Crow’, Taquir recently changed the setting of her verandah. She took a potted plant, arranged a bowl of water and stones on a table, made a sun and a crow with pieces of paper, and set it up, just the way it was shown in the storybook, and read out the story. “Students perceive images quickly. Sometimes after watching the video, they have a number of questions. For some stories, I perform puppet shows with sound effects,” said Taquir, adding that she conducted various activities in the form of role playing, using miniature books and learning from a few online videos. “Teaching online is not as lively an experience as in school. But, when you see bright faces every morning on your laptop screen, you are motivated to think of new ways of teaching,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vendor-to-doc-this-teacher-dons-many-roles/articleshow/77900145.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Raj govt inks MoU for textile, defence and aviation projects||Jaipur: The state government has entered into an understanding with SVP International Group for the development of facilities related to the aviation, defence and textile sectors that would require investments of Rs 4,000 crore.A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed on Wednesday between the state government and the private company. It is estimated that the projects would generate employment for over 4,000 people, a government release said.Earlier in the day, the company representatives made a presentation at a meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot wherein industries minister Prasadi Lal Meena, state minister for industries Arjun Singh Bamaniya, chief secretary, additional chief secretary finance, principal secretary industries, and other senior officials were present.During the presentation, the company proposed to develop a project for defence and aerospace, including aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities, an aviation academy and a textile unit. The projects are proposed to be developed at a mutually agreed location in the state.The state government directed to form a committee under the chairmanship of principal secretary industries for speedy implementation of the projects. The committee would have commissioner, investment and NRIs, as member secretary and will have MD RIICO, concerned district collectors and officials from the SVP group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-inks-mou-for-textile-defence-and-aviation-projects/articleshow/77899808.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 16 from dist die, 242 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Sixteen patients from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, when 242 persons from the district and 32 outsiders tested positive here. As per the local media bulletin, the district residents who died at various local hospitals included an 82-year-old man from Ludhiana with hypertension, lungs and kidney diseases, a 33-year-old man from Sector 32-A, Chandigarh Road, with liver disease and diabetes, a 48-year-old woman from Azad Nagar, Miller Ganj, with heart problem, a 66-year-old diabetic man of Rani Jhansi Road, a 26-year-old man from Shimlapuri with a fungal disease, a 65-year-old man from Jodhan with hypertension, a 70-year-old man from Sector 32-A, Chandigarh Road, with hypertension and diabetes, a 48-year-old woman of Prem Colony, Basti Jodhewal, with rheumatoid arthritis and hypothyroidism, a 35-year-old man from Krishna Colony in Basti Jodhewal with rheumatic heart disease, a 74-year-old man from Vikas Nagar on Pakhowal Road, a 66-year-old man from Samadhi Road, Khanna, with fungal sepsis, a 66-year-old diabetic man from Malikpur, a 70-year-old man from Ludhiana with chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes, a 70-year-old man from Latala, Ludhiana, with chronic kidney disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease, and a 74-year-old man from New Shakti Nagar with coronary artery disease. A 65-year-old diabetic man from Pavitter Nagar, Haibowal, died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.Besides, four outsiders succumbed here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 16 deaths from Ludhiana district, the toll tally has risen to 442 and 105 outsiders have died here so far. He said of the patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 84 were from the flu corner, 15 positive cases’ contacts, 45 from OPD, 13 healthcare workers, one pregnant woman, 35 from tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection patients and one pre-operative case.Local health department officials said Ludhiana case count has reached 10,632 and that of outsiders now stood at 1,119.The civil surgeon said so far, 8,608 patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 80.96% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,579 active patients in the district at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-16-from-dist-die-242-test-positive/articleshow/77896764.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Agri students go back to their roots, lend a hand||Coimbatore: Final year students of the School of Agriculture and Biosciences of Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences (Kits) here have been visiting farms and fields near their native places to engage in real-time farming practices. As many as 403 BSc (Hons.) Agriculture and BSc (Hons.) Horticulture students from Kits have been visiting fields in more than 50 districts across south India as part of mandatory learning internship ‘Rural Agricultural Work Experience’ (Rawe). While agriculture and horticulture students were sent in batches to villages for the purpose in the previous years, this year, as institutions are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) advised them to conduct Rawe by allotting students to villages near their native places. Associate professor K Natarajan said Kits’ first batch of final year students will apply what they learned in the three-year period of classroom pedagogy. “They will connect with farmers through local facilitators such as retired professors and also learn agriculture extension activities through Krishi Vigyan Kendras. They started visiting farms on August 3 and will continue till mid-December,” he said. The students found the experience not only informative but also inspiring. Vanessa Victor, a Trichy-based student, who has been visiting banana farms in Seerathoppu village in Trichy, said she saw farmers who were determined to hold on to their lands and practice agriculture despite several odds. “They take care of the plants like their children. It was very inspiring,” she told TOI. Pollachi resident W Robin has been visiting farms in Vettaikkaranpudur that cultivate coconut, nutmeg, groundnut and organic vegetables. “While I’m learning a lot from the farmers, I have also been giving them technical inputs that I learned such as setting up sticky traps to catch rugose whitefly that attack coconut trees and the most effective way of removing parthenium weed,” he said. The students are spread out in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. They are being monitored by zonal facilitators, who evaluate their daily reports on field experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-students-go-back-to-their-roots-lend-a-hand/articleshow/77899811.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||3 jail inmates lodged at Covid hosp flee; 2 nabbed||Aurangabad: Three jail inmates, admitted to the Parbhani civil hospital for Covid-19 treatment, managed to flee the health facility in the wee hours of Tuesday. However, timely action by police led to the arrest of two accused — from Hingoli and Nanded. The third accused is still at large. “As many as 84 jail inmates, lodged at the Parbhani-based sub-district prison, had tested positive for Covid-19 following which 16 of them were referred to the district civil hospital around nine days ago,” a police official said. “These inmates were supposed to be taken back to the prison, but the plan was temporarily postponed as the cops were busy with the security arrangement for visarjan (idol immersion). Sensing that they have just one day at the hospital, the suspects decided to flee. Accordingly, they went to the washroom and broke the grills of the window. A bedsheet was used to climb down. After learning about their escape, an offence against the three was registered with the Nanalpeth police station,” he added. Two of the suspects are accused of murders. They were in jail since November 2018 and December 2019, respectively. The third suspect is from Punjab and has been arrested under the (NDPS) Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and has been behind bars since January 2019. Local crime branch inspector Pravin More said: “Taking the assistance of Nanded police, we have arrested the accused who was behind bars under the NDPS Act, while Basamba police of Hingoli helped us in arresting one of the murder accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-jail-inmates-lodged-at-covid-hosp-flee-2-nabbed/articleshow/77896756.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five friends die in Warangal road mishap||WARANGAL: Five friends died in a road accident early on Wednesday near Warangal after the car they were travelling in crashed into a lorry. The men, all in their twenties, hailed from Pochamna maidan area and were going to drop one of their friends in Parkal town. Police said their car crashed into a lorry near Pasaragonda village under Damera Mandal in Warangal rural district after the driver at the wheel misjudged the gap between their car and the lorry. The impact was such that the car was stuck in the lorry. The deceased were identified as Mekala Praveen (25), Rakesh (22), Medi Pavan (25), Rohith (20) and Raheem (26). “We identified one of the victims from the Aadhaar card and later tracked them to Pochamma maidan in Warangal,” said Parkal assistant commissioner of police Srinivas. The bodies were sent to MGM hospital for autopsy and the family members were later informed by the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-friends-die-in-warangal-road-mishap/articleshow/77900773.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Most sarus cranes spotted were close to their nests||LUCKNOW: Most sarus cranes that were spotted on Wednesday during the census exercise were close to their nests. Since this is the breeding season, cranes are incubating the eggs. In Moradabad, a sarus family was found lined up near a wetland. Similar sights of the state bird were clicked at other places. The first of the three phases of sarus census was carried out on Wednesday in all districts to compile a GPS data of nesting, breeding and feeding sites of the bird. The data thus compiled would help in making the first sarus atlas of the state. “It will take some time before we get the final data from the field staff from all districts to arrive at a conclusion,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator of Institute of Wildlife Sciences which is conducting the census along with the forest department. In India, sarus is found in maximum number in UP. Etawah, Mainpuri and Shahjahanpur have most of them. It’s the tallest flying bird in the world. The non-migratory bird found in the Indian subcontinent, southeast Asia and Australia, it is territorial in nature and has two types of population: breeding and non-breeding. The breeding pairs mark their territory. KS Gopi Sundar, who is also an author of the IUCN Species Action Plan on sarus cranes for the crane specialist group, and has worked extensively in UP, said, “I have seen a sarus territory which was about half a hectare in Etawah.” There may be about 1,000 breeding pairs of the bird in the world which is categorised as ‘vulnerable’ by IUCN and is protected under Schedule IV of the Indian Wildlife Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/most-sarus-cranes-spotted-were-close-to-their-nests/articleshow/77900074.cms||Neha Shukla
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||SIT: Gangster Vikas Dubey did not have passport, land in NCR||LUCKNOW: The three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the government to probe into the crime history of gangster Vikas Dubey has not found any passport issued in his name which rules out the possibility of him visiting abroad. The team has traced only two passports of the family — one issued in the name of his wife Richa Dubey, and another of Shantanu, his son studying medicine in Russia. The SIT, which sought information from Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) and Greater Noida Authority, has not found any records of Dubey or his associates purchasing land in GB Nagar, Ghaziabad or any part of National Capital Region (NCR). An officer privy to the probe disclosed that that landed property in the name of Vikas Dubey and his brothers has been found but that is only limited to two villages — his own Bikru and neighbouring Shivli. The SIT has also called an SDM from Kanpur and three cops for recording their statements for being in touch with the ganglord. The team has also found call detail records of cops and also some lower-rung officials in other departments of the state. Sources privy to the probe said that as many as 15 officials -- including some cops -- are under the scanner of the SIT. As one of these officers tested positive for the Covid-19 recently, the SIT couldn't complete its investigation. UP government had set up a three-member SIT to probe the entire sequence of events linked to the ambush of eight policemen on July 2-3, the properties amassed by Dubey and his henchmen, and also how the gangster managed to pile up huge cache of arms and ammunition at his residence at Bikru village in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-gangster-dubey-did-not-have-passport-land-in-ncr/articleshow/77899964.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Group attacks woman, son when told to drive carefully||Times News Network Ludhiana: A group attacked a woman and her son when she asked them to drive carefully in Star Colony on Manakwal Road on Tuesday night. In his police complaint, Simranjit Singh, 30, a resident of Star Colony, said, “Around 10.30pm, my mother and I went out on hearing some noises. We saw a car had run over a puppy. My mother, Manjeet Kaur, asked the car occupants to drive slowly to avert such incidents. On this, they started abusing and fighting with my mother.” As heated arguments ensued, the accused called their accomplices and attacked Manjeet and Simranjit. Police have booked Chahat Puri of Bhola Colony, Manakwal Road, Babalu, Ravi, Harpreet Singh, Jimmy, Shenty, Mani of SBS Nagar, Raghuvir Singh and his wife Tamanna of SBS Nagar and their four unidentified accomplices under sections 452 (house trespassing), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every members of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC. ASI Ranjeet Singh said, “Raghuvir and his wife were in the car. They had an argument with Manjeet and Simranjit. Later, more accused reached there and attacked the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/group-attacks-woman-son-when-told-to-drive-carefully/articleshow/77896779.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana saw over 48% of all Covid cases in last 15 days of Aug||Ludhiana: Of the all the Covid-19 cases reported in Ludhiana district so far, nearly 48.5% surfaced in the second fortnight of August only, which is highest for any district in the state for the given period. The district also witnessed the highest number of fatalities in the last seven days.According to the state health department’s media bulletin released on Tuesday evening, Ludhiana recorded 5,300 new cases in the last fortnight. No other district witnessed such a high number of cases in that duration, with Patiala, Jalandhar and SAS Nagar recording 2,533, 2,372 and 2,125 cases, respectively. The data for the last two days — August 31 and September 1 — also suggested that the district saw the steepest spike in cases, adding 678 patients, whereas 379, 344 and 271 fresh Covid cases surfaced in SAS Nagar, Jalandhar and Patiala districts, respectively. The data for Ludhiana district for the last few months puts the count of cases during the August 3-16 fortnight at 4,482, while it was 2,239 in the July 20-August 3 period. Between July 6 and July 19, 939 cases emerged, while 540 were recorded in the fortnight of June 22-July 5. At 44, the number of such cases was lowest during the May 11-24 period.The latest bulletin also suggests that Ludhiana witnessed the highest number of fatalities in the last seven days, when as many as 91 patients succumbed to the virus infection, while 426 persons had lost the battle to Covid-19 in the district till Tuesday evening. Patiala, Amritsar and Jalandhar recorded 38, 36 and 27 deaths, respectively, during the same period.Given the high number of cases as well as deaths in the district recently, the health department officials said they are making all-out efforts to rein in both. Although the civil surgeon could not be contacted for his reaction on the recent data, preferring anonymity, a health department officer said the department has increased testing and doing extensive contact tracing of positive cases, apart from creating awareness among the residents to follow the Covid safety protocols, including wearing face masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene. One major reason for the high death count is that despite clear symptoms of coronavirus infection, people come to them late, he pointed out.BOXPROGRESSION OF CASESFortnight — Increase April 27 to May 10 — 117May 11 to May 24 — 44May 25 to June 7 — 86June 8 to June — 315June 22 to July 5 — 540July 6 to July 19 — 939July 20 to Aug 2 — 2,239Aug 3 to Aug 16 — 4,482Aug 17 to Aug 30 — 5,300||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-saw-over-48-of-all-covid-cases-in-last-15-days-of-aug/articleshow/77896792.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 3, 2020||Goa||As Goa fatalities cross 200, doctors call for death audit||PANAJI: Over a month after testing positive for Covid-19, a woman battling cancer and diabetes succumbed on Monday. Deprived of insulin and a proper diet, her health deteriorated and her family had to shift her to a private hospital. But the damage was already done. The death, relegated to another statistic, found no mention in the state government’s daily bulletin on Covid-19. But medical professionals say it presents yet another reason why the state government needs to conduct an authoritative and thorough audit of Goa’s Covid strategy and deaths. Perturbed over the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases and the deaths, now 204, doctors and researchers recommend the state government needs to assess and analyse the spread of the pandemic in the state and prepare a death audit. “Detailed data on deaths should be released, so that doctors and researchers can learn. It will also help other doctors treat patients and save further lives,” said pulmonologist and former president of the Indian Medical Association – Goa, Dr Anil Mehndiratta. As of now, the government dismisses most deaths as “comorbidities”. Doctors, both from the public and private sector, said that a detailed audit can identify gaps in treatment strategies for different comorbidities, and help improve the directorate of health service’s protocol for treatment of Covid-19 patients. An audit will also assist policymakers in managing the pandemic, which has already infected 1% of the state’s population. IMA-Goa is currently assisting the state government by monitoring and treating asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who have opted for home isolation. Assisted by the Indian Dental Association, doctors call patients twice a day and use tele-medicine to track the patients for 10 days. “Because of Goa’s sedentary lifestyle, our eating habits, Goans are more prone to lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, and cancer, which in turn lead to low immunity,” said IMA-Goa president Dr Samuel Arawattigi. Doctors, speaking on condition of anonymity, questioned why the government is being secretive about the pandemic. The way a healthy person reacts to Covid-19 drugs such as Remdesivir, FabiFlu or steroids is significantly different from the way a diabetic patient or someone with hypertension will react to the same drugs, and this information can help the medical fraternity, they say. “I agree that there is a need for a study. I think a lot of the issues surrounding Covid cases and awareness can be resolved through a study,” said former dean of Goa Medical College (GMC), Dr Vinay Jindal. Sources also pointed out that quite a few healthcare professionals have tested positive for Covid-19, which is a cause of worry. The state government and the daily bulletin are silent about this figure. “It is very important to find out why healthcare workers are testing positive,” a senior doctor said. “Is it that the PPE is of bad quality, are they not being used, or are the protocols for donning and doffing improper?” A few days earlier, the Kerala government released its death audit report that identified early symptoms of Covid-19 and also highlighted the role of hospital-acquired infections. Kerala’s Covid death report also suggested that proper awareness about early indicators of the infection can help patients seek treatment in time. GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar has confirmed that quite a few of the patients who lost their lives to the pandemic were brought to the hospital at least 10 days after they contracted the virus. Goa’s case fatality ratio for Covid-19 has touched 1.1%, with the state witnessing a spurt in deaths over the past two weeks. Data from asymptomatic cases, said epidemiologists and researchers, needs to be studied along with the treatment given to moderate to severe cases, so that a focused approach among people with comorbidities could be developed. “A death audit that brings out how and why people died, the co-morbidities that they had, and the treatment that was given, can help improve the way we handle cases. The way the daily Covid bulletin is prepared, it does not give a proper picture,” a DHS doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-fatalities-touch/cross-200-docs-call-for-death-audit/articleshow/77900386.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Board of doctors will declare Covid patients fit||Jaipur: Adding another facility for Covid-19 patients, the state government will provide transportation for patients who were admitted to RUHS hospital in critical condition and are now having mild to moderate symptoms after treatment.The decision has been taken to create more space in RUHS, which is not only catering to patients from Jaipur, but also from other parts of the state.A board of two doctors will declare a critical patient whose condition has improved and he can take rest of the treatment at home or at any Covid care centre. The patients will be provided with free transportation from hospital to home or care centre.“Chief medical health officier (CMHO) Jaipur-I will be responsible for providing transportation to such patients declared fit for discharge by the board of doctors. They will inform the CMHO, a day before the patient is scheduled to be shifted so that the CMHO will have time to arrange the transportation,” said a health department official.The board will have two doctors who will be nominated by the principals of SMS Medical College and RUHS Medical College.If such patients are not fit for home quarantine, they will be shifted to Covid care centre at RUHS or any other quarantine centre.Besides this, the same transportation arrangement will be implemented for patients admitted in divisional medical colleges in case of improvement.Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora issued detailed guidelines in this regard. He also issued another circular on effective strategy for prevention of Covid-19 infection in villages and towns in the state. According to these guidelines, directions have been issued to ensure separate OPD facilities for probable Covid-19 patients at the block-level Community Health Centres along with the facility of testing, referral transport for critical patients and arrangement of oxygen for the patients. He has directed the deployment of trained medical officer and paramedical staff at the Covid-19 OPD.After screening suspected Covid-19 patients by using pulse oximeter and thermal scanner, action will be taken as per need for home isolation or institutional quarantine. Directions have been issued to make necessary arrangements for availability of oxygen and medical mobile unit or 10 ambulances for referral while transporting patients with respiratory problems to the nearby Covid care hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/board-of-doctors-will-declare-covid-patients-fit/articleshow/77899837.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Compensate for lockdown,liquor sellersrequest govt||Lucknow: Citing loss in revenue due to the Covid-19 lockdown since March, the Liquor Sellers' Welfare Association of Uttar Pradesh has appealed to the government to either refund their licence fee for the affected period or to extend the policy year by the number of days the lockdown was in force. In a letter submitted to excise minister Ram Naresh Agnihotri on Wednesday, the association said that despite assurances by the government, there has been no decision on the licence fees paid by them for 45 days during which no sales were possible due to the lockdown. “There were multiple mini and full lockdowns during this period. In July, there was a mini lockdown in place for eight days and another 10 days in August. Even when shops were allowed to open, people were advised to not step out of their homes, offices and markets were shut and therefore, there was a huge drop in sales,” the letter says. SP Singh, president of the association, said since the current financial year could not start from April 1, 2020, due to the lockdown, they had been requesting for licence fee for the duration to be returned, but there had been no response from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/compensate-for-lockdownliquor-sellersrequest-govt/articleshow/77900058.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Five more MLAs test positive||JAIPUR: The state assembly seems to have been hit hard by Covid-19. The first to get infected was Phalodi BJP MLA Pabbaram Vishnoi. Soon after, Congress MLA from Deeg-Kumher Vishvendra Singh tested positive. Singh had attended the assembly session that concluded on August 24. Now, Congress MLAs Ramlal Jat, Rafeek Khan and BJP MLAs Rajendra Rathore, Ashok Lahoty and Arjun Lal Jeengar have tested positive. State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas is also admitted to RUHS Hospital after he was infected. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed concern on the MLAs and wished for their speedy recovery. “I have come to know Congress MLAs Ramlal Jat ji and Rafeek Khan ji, BJP MLAs Rajendra Rathore ji, Ashok Lahoty ji and Arjun Lal Jeengar ji have tested positive for Covid-19. I wish them a speedy recovery,” Gehlot tweeted. Churu MLA Rathore also appealed to people who came in contact with him in the recent past to get tested for Covid. Rathore tweeted, “Today, I have tested positive for Covid-19. I got myself tested for 4-5 times. During Vidhan Sabha session, I got myself tested for Covid-19 and always, I was tested negative for Covid-19. In the past few days, whoever had come in contact with me, should take care of themselves and get tested for Covid-19.” MLA from Adarsh Nagar, Rafeek Khan, was admitted to RUHS after being tested positive. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. I have gotten admitted to RUHS Hospital. Before that, I got myself tested for Covid-19 but on both occasions, I tested negative. Thanks to all wellwishers. During this period, the infection is spreading fast, take all precautions, wear mask and maintain social distancing,” Khan tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-more-mlas-test-positive/articleshow/77899823.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Automatically renew nursing home licences’||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed the health department to pass orders to automatically renew nursing home licences till March 31, 2021. On Wednesday, nursing home owners of Delhi, along with senior members of Delhi Medical Council (DMC) and Delhi Medical Association (DMA), met Kejriwal and flagged the renewal of licences as a very significant issue, a statement from Delhi government said. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was also present at the meeting during which owners of the nursing homes said that every year there is a need to renew the licence to run these nursing homes. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic some of the nursing homes could not renew their licences after March, which is creating issues in the operations of these nursing homes. “This will provide immediate relief to the nursing home owners,” said Dr Arun Gupta, president of DMC. Dr RK Gupta, former president of Delhi Medical Association, said, “Delhi government has taken commendable measures during the time of corona, and have honoured private and government hospital and health care workers. The meeting with the nursing home owners was successful. We are very happy with the decision of the chief minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/automatically-renew-nursing-home-licences/articleshow/77899865.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Plan to promote pulpwood-based agroforestry||Coimbatore: The Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has signed a memorandum of agreement with the Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited to promote pulpwood-based agroforestry.According to TNAU, the demand for pulp and paper is increasing at an alarming rate and in Tamil Nadu alone, it is estimated that over 12 lakh tonnes of pulpwood is needed annually to meet raw material requirement. From 2021 onwards, the demand my reach 17 lakh tonnes per annum due to mill expansion programme and subsequent increase in paper production.However, restricted wood supply from forests coupled with increasing raw material demand for paper industries have necessitated intensive promotion of pulpwood-based agroforestry. The agreement aimed at systematic research to augment farm productivity as well as profitability of farmers.The agreement signed by TNAU registrar A S Krishnamoorthy and TNPL general manager R Seenivasan in the presence of TNAU vice-chancellor N Kumar marked the launch of TNPL-funded research project titled ‘Improvement, wood quality characterization and utilization of pulpwood genetic resources amenable for agroforestry’ with a budget of Rs 60 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plan-to-promote-pulpwood-based-agroforestry/articleshow/77898334.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT raps Telangana, seeks action plan to save polluted Hussainsagar||HYDERABAD: A National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed joint action committee (JAC) has rapped the Telangana government for its failure in stopping pollution and encroachment of Hussainsagar. The JAC has said that even now nearly 50% untreated waste water was entering the water body. Citing the report of the expert panel, NGT southern bench (Chennai) on August 27 said authorities did “nothing fruitful to protect Hussainsagar”. The NGT bench, headed by Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta, said that even when reduction in lake area due to encroachments was observed, no steps were taken to identify and remove encroachers and maintain water-storing capacity of the lake. “Only temporary measures are being taken by authorities. There is no holistic integrated long-term plan for improving the situation taking into account possible generation of sewage water and also other sources of pollution. There is no lake protection committee, as required under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Act,” NGT said in its order. “If this water body is not properly maintained and, as surplus water reaches river Musi, then that river will get polluted further. Telangana shall come up with a concrete action plan,” the NGT directed The JAC report said its inspection revealed that about 40-50% of untreated waste water, comprising untreated sewage and industrial effluents from Kukatpally nala, was directly entering Hussainsagar, overflowing barriers constructed just before entry into the lake. The JAC said: “Coloured stream has been observed in the Kukatpally nala, which may be contributed from the seepage/illegal discharge from industries.” It said that HMDA failed to submit technical documents related to the proposed Rs 152 crore project for improving water quality of the lake to the team. Hussainsagar has two outlets— one near Viceroy Hotel and another at GHMC headquarters, Lower Tank Bund. During the committee`s visit, they noticed there was discharge from the outlet located at Viceroy Hotel into the surplus channel and water reached Golnaka, where 80 MLD of untreated water was diverted through intervention and diversion (I&D) structure to Amberpet STP and the remaining was let off into the Musi. “River Musi is supposed to be a fresh water body, but as on date it looks like a big drain carrying sewage,” the committee said. The committee said that Telangana should take the help of organisations such as NEERI for an in-depth study of Musi from its origin to its confluence point with river Krishna at Vadapalli to know whether any damage has occurred to the ecology due to continuous discharge of untreated industrial effluents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-raps-t-seeks-action-plan-to-save-polluted-hussainsagar/articleshow/77900814.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||4,391 active cases, 18,596 recover in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: A total of 18,596 Covid patients have recovered from the contagion so far, while 4,391 patients are undergoing treatment at various facilities across the district. The district reported 334 fresh cases till Tuesday night, including 85 from the rural parts, 49 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limits and 38 detected at the city’s entry point, taking the total number of patients to 23,694. The death toll rose to 707 in the district, including 12 Covid deaths reported in the last 24 hours ending in the early hours of Wednesday. The GMCH authorities said currently 288 patients were admitted at the dedicated Covid care centre on the hospital premises, of which the condition of 157 was critical. The death toll at the GMCH rose to 538, said the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4391-active-cases-18596-recover-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/77896808.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||BJP fields two candidates for Rajya Sabha seat in UP||LUCKNOW: The nomination papers of two BJP candidates – Zafar Islam and Govind Narayan Shukla – for the Rajya Sabha seat from UP were found valid during the scrutiny on Wednesday. Both candidates have filed the papers for the RS seat which got vacated after the death of former SP leader Amar Singh. Shukla has been brought in the fray since Islam has contracted Covid infection. BJP will finalise the nomination of one of them on Friday. Shukla’s nomination has sparked speculation of BJP changing its candidate. The party leadership, however, said that Shukla’s nomination, who is also state general secretary and a key member of party’s election team, was done as a backup in case Islam is unable to contest on account of his illness. Islam is the first Sunni Muslim candidate fielded by BJP for the upper house. Meanwhile, the nomination papers of independent candidate Mahesh Kumar for the seat were found invalid, said election officer Brij Bhushan Dubey. The election of Islam or Shukla is certain since Opposition has not fielded any candidate and BJP has the required numbers in the UP Assembly to win. The election, if required, will be held on September 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-fields-two-candidates-for-rajya-sabha-seat-in-up/articleshow/77900078.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Centenarian Lingayat seer dies in Nanded after testing Covid positive||Aurangabad: Shivlinga Shivacharya Maharaj, a prominent Lingayat seer with a huge following, succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. The last rites were performed with full state honours at Ahmedpur on Tuesday night. The 103-year-old seer was admitted to a private hospital in Nanded after testing positive for the contagion. Nanded civil surgeon Nilkanth Bhosikar confirmed that the religious leader had contracted the viral disease.Born on February 25, 1917, Shivlinga Shivacharya completed his graduation in health sciences from Lahore, Pakistan. He later took the plunge into the religious and spiritual work and chose Ahmedpur in Latur district as his base. Earlier, controversy erupted when the seer was hospitalized as a section of followers declared that he will take ‘Sanjeevan Samadhi’ by burying himself alive. The “news” spread like wildfire on social media attracting a large number of his followers to Latur district, putting government machinery on its toes. The speculation was denied by the seer himself later by sending a recorded video message from the hospital following intervention from district administrations of Nanded and Latur amid rising tension among devotees who were sensing some foul-play on the part of a section of close companions of the religious leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centenarian-lingayat-seer-dies-in-nanded-after-testing-covid-positive/articleshow/77896834.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Moderate difficulty level could mean higher cut-off||KOCHI: As the Joint Entrance Examination – Main (JEE Main) for BE/BTech admissions started on Wednesday, students who appeared for the exam in Ernakulam said that the questions were of moderate difficulty and most of them could do well as they got additional time for preparation due to the postponement of the exam following the pandemic. While the questions from mathematics and physics maintained the same moderate-difficulty level as of the JEE-Main conducted in January, questions from chemistry were easier. Entrance coaching experts are of the opinion that there will be a tight competition this year for JEE-Main with a higher cut-off as even those students, who usually perform in the average and below-average levels, have prepared well for the exam by making use of the time given by the pandemic. They said that the trend is likely to be the same for upcoming National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) too. “Usually students appear for these entrance tests under too much pressure as they are conducted without much delay after the Class XII exams. But this time, all students got more than three months due to the pandemic and there was enough time after the conclusion of coaching classes in April. All centres have been offering online practice tests. Hence, good marks could be secured by most students making the competition tougher,” said Arun Viswanath, branch head, Akash Institute, Ravipuram. However, some are of the opinion that the risk of brilliant students performing lesser than expected could be higher this year as the multiple postponement and uncertainty over the conduct of exam have caused frustration among students. “Model exams conducted by many centres showed that many brilliant students have distracted from the studies. Even parents were complaining that the uncertainty of the exam was stressful for students as they have to prepare for hours each day to focus on the syllabus. Usually all these exams get over easily and students could relax. But this time, it took much longer,” said a teacher at Radiant Entrance Coaching Centre, Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moderate-difficulty-level-could-mean-higher-cut-off/articleshow/77898336.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Hindi, Kashmiri and Dogri to be added to J&K official languages list||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a bill that seeks to make Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, the official languages of Jammu & Kashmir. This is in line with the long-pending demand of the people of J&K, the government said. Announcing the decision at a press briefing, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, shall be introduced in Parliament in the upcoming monsoon session. He did not divulge in further details saying the bill will be debated in Parliament soon. Union minister of state for PMO and personnel Jitendra Singh said the government has accepted the long-pending demand of the region for the inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri as official languages in J&K. “It is not only a fulfilment of a long-pending public demand of the region but also in keeping with the spirit of equality which was ushered in after August 5 last year,” he told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hindi-kashmiri-and-dogri-to-be-added-to-jk-official-languages-list/articleshow/77901448.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||High-profile IFS official at PMO, who wasn’t — finally, in the net||NEW DELHI: All eyes at a five-star hotel in Lutyens’ Delhi would turn whenever Piyush Bandopadhyay arrived in a high-end sedan with a beacon atop and a fancy number plate ending with 0003. Most of the people knew him as an Indian Foreign Service officer posted at the Prime Minister’s office. Afterall, his visiting card said so too. And to boot, there was his personal security officer constantly at his side. Nobody had even an inkling that the man was actually a crook on the lookout for gullible industrialists and businesspeople. Bandopadhyay would come to the hotel for meetings with prospective victims allegedly arranged by his female accomplice, who posed as the India head of Intellectual Innovation Think Tank (IITT). Recently, the duo duped a Gujarat-based businessman of Rs 36 crore, Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing said on Wednesday after arresting Bandopadhyay. O P Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW), said an FIR was registered on the complaint of a firm named SRM Mahadeo Smart Bio Toilet Pvt Ltd. “The company officials alleged that they met a woman named Shweta Sprout, who introduced herself as the India head of IITT engaged in selling patent technology to government/non-government agencies across the world. She also claimed her company was involved in providing government/non-government contracts,” Mishra disclosed. Sprout allegedly told SRM Mahadeo that her husband, Bandopadhyay, was an IFS officer posted in the PMO and then arranged a meeting of the representatives of the firm with him. For his part, Bandopadhyay claimed to be handling important government projects related to Make-in-India and Smart City initiatives. He bragged that he could get any proposal of the company passed by the government. To convince the company, he showed forged documents issued by the government of India. “The firm convinced the directors of Mitsumi Distributors, an NRI company based in Dubai to purchase the patent technology from IITT. After mutual discussion, an initial amount of $3.1 million was transferred by Mitsumi Distributors through SRM Mahadeo Smart Bio Toilet to IITT’s account. More money was later transferred, taking the total transfers to Rs 36 crore,” Mishra added. Soon after the FIR was filed, EOW started tracking Bandopadhyay and nabbed him from a flat in Noida. His car illegally fitted with a beacon has been seized as have been papers of property bought with the proceeds of his fake transactions. While the exact number of incidents of fraud committed by him are yet to be ascertained, EOW has learnt that two more complaints of impersonation had also been filed with an investigation agency. The cops are now looking for Sprout, who Bandopadhyay claimed to the cops was his wife. The existence of a third female accomplice is also being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-profile-ifs-official-at-pmo-who-wasnt-finally-in-the-net/articleshow/77919402.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's AIIMS suspends all routine admissions for two weeks||NEW DELHI: All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday suspended routine admissions in its general and private wards for two weeks. Only emergency and semi-emergency cases will be accepted at the capital’s premier hospital for the time being, apart from OPD consultation. Sources said the decision was taken in view of the increasing number of non-Covid patients being admitted in the emergency department of AIIMS. “This is happening due to neglect of non-Covid illnesses, for example a heart ailment or neurological condition, during the lockdown,” said a doctor. In April, when the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown was in place, 1,288 patients were treated at the emergency ward at AIIMS. The number shot up to 2,726, 3,613 and 4,400 in May, June and July, respectively. In August, the number of patients crossed 4,500, sources claimed. Dr D K Sharma, medical superintendent at AIIMS, said in view of the need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill emergency/semi-emergency patients, it has been decided to temporarily stop routine OPD admissions to general wards as well as private wards in the hospital and all centres with immediate effect for a period of two weeks. “Emergency patients, who require inpatient hospitalisation in general wards or such patients who are advised private wards hospitalisation owing to emergency and semi-emergency conditions will continue to be admitted,” Dr Sharma stated in a circular issued on Tuesday. “Notwithstanding above, EHS (employee’s health scheme) patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted,” it added. The AIIMS medical superintendent claimed that there has been an almost two-fold increase in emergency admissions in the past few months. “AIIMS Trauma Centre has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. So, all emergency cases are being admitted at the main building,” said another senior doctor. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, meanwhile, has decided to start routine surgeries for non-Covid patients, in addition to emergency and semi-emergency surgeries, which were on hold since the lockdown was enforced. “All surgical departments will operate on 50% of their allocated operating time initially for routine surgeries,” an order issued by RML on Tuesday stated. Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital has also decided to restore its OPD services to normal timings. Earlier, the OPD wing was being run for limited duration, while elective surgeries were suspended in view of the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-suspends-all-routine-admissions-for-two-weeks/articleshow/77899905.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Flood mitigation project proves effective, says Cial||KOCHI: Flooding during the monsoon has been a severe problem for the Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) over the past two years as the airport had to remain closed for many days due to inundation of runway and other premises. In 2018 and 2019, Cial’s operations were affected due to the floods following which the authorities had appointed a state-owned consultancy Kitco, for preparing a comprehensive flood mitigation plan. Based on Kitco study, Cial has undertaken several works in and around the airport at a cost of Rs 129.3 crore and the project appears to be effective so far as the airport was not inundated during the monsoon in August. Cial management strongly believes that with the completion of the project, the airport and surrounding areas’ proneness to flooding would be reduced significantly. “As part of the project, Cial has completed 14 of the 26 works in four panchayats and one municipality located around the airport to mitigate issues related to flooding and to improve road infrastructure in nearby areas. This year’s monsoon had passed without leading to inundation of the airport and flight operations were not affected though the area witnessed heavy rainfall. The flood mitigation measures were proven effective and once the project is completed, it is expected to be a comprehensive solution in the future,” said Cial spokesperson. Cial officials said that deepening of Chengalthodu stream, which usually overflows during monsoon and floods the airport, has allowed free flow of water this year without causing flood in the area. All the canals in the area were de-silted by Cial to reduce the risk of flooding. The completed works include the first and second phase cleaning of Kaithakkattuchira, various civil works on diversion canal, including its deepening and widening, cleaning of drain around the airport and Chengalthodu, construction of an approach road for AP Varkey Bridge, Kalippadu lift irrigation project, construction of a drainage connecting Naval Enclave and Avanamcode. New drains were constructed inside the airport compound to ensure outflow of storm water. The bridge on AP Varkey Road was built at a cost of Rs 4.84 crore and the approach roads were constructed at a cost of Rs 8.48 crore. The cost for the bridge in Kuzhipallam is Rs 8.26 crore. As the bridge on AP Varkey Road is completed, residents of Thuravunkara can easily go to Chengal, Kalady and Angamaly. The Kuzhipallam bridge will enable easy access for residents staying in the southern parts of the airport to Nedumbasserry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flood-mitigation-project-proves-effective-cial/articleshow/77898417.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Temporary markets turn slushy after heavy rain||Coimbatore: The downpour almost made temporary markets on the Devanga Higher Secondary School and Government College of Technology (GCT) premises inaccessible for public on Wednesday, with rainwater stagnating in front of them and turning the grounds sludgy. K K Ayyappan, trustee, Kovai district flower merchant association, said there was waterlogging at the entrance of the market. “Most part of the ground is filled with sludge. Many shopkeepers have moved to elevated areas of the ground with less sludge. What better option do we have?”The flower market was moved to Devanga Higher Secondary School premises from Mettupalayam Road, where it was difficult for customers to maintain physical distancing, in June. More than 100 traders have put up stalls on the school ground.Vehicles waded through the stagnated water to enter the market, which lacked sufficient space to park them. This made the ground more slippery, Ayyappan said. “The business is already dull. Who would come to us if the market isn’t in a good condition?” Another trader said they were forced to deliver flowers to retail customers at their shops to avoid inconvenience.The situation was almost the same at the GCT, where vegetable traders have been doing business for the past few months. When contacted, a city corporation official said, “As soon as we received complaints from them, sanitary officials were deployed to drain the stagnant water and clean the premises.”In the case of flower market, the civic body is working on to accommodate all the vendors at the new market that is coming up just opposite the existing one on Mettupalayam Road.Meanwhile, rainwater also entered the temporary shelters that were set up by people who were vacated from the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board’s housing unit at CMC Colony. There are more than 300 makeshift shelters.Sathish Kumar, a resident, said, “We see waterlogging every time it rains, as there is no proper channel for rainwater to drain out. The ground remains sludgy for days together. Water has entered some houses in the heavy rainfall last night.”Pointing out that the city corporation had provided them only water connection, he requested the civic body to take necessary steps to construct temporary drains to address the issue of waterlogging in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/temporary-markets-turn-slushy-after-heavy-rain/articleshow/77898353.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Transsexual entrepreneurs have appetite for success||Coimbatore: Until a few months ago, Sobiya and Sangeetha were seeking alms on city roads. They thought begging was better than prostitution, says the transwomen, who are busy setting up Covai Trans Kitchen on the Venkataswamy Road.The 32-seater restaurant will be run by 10 transsexuals aged between 18 and 60 years, who will handle cooking, taking orders, serving and billing, among others. They were part of a team of 50 transgenders that underwent a 20-day training programme at Bishop Appasamy College’s Hotel Management department. “While we initially could cook only biryani, we were taught to make chicken side dishes, parotta, variety rice dishes and bakery products, so that we can run a full-fledged hotel,” says Rakshitha, an employee. “They also taught us how to manage a restaurant and get license certificate from the food safety department.”Covai Trans Kitchen will be the third food outlet in Coimbatore to be operated by transgenders, with the first two being at Ukkadam and Madukkarai.While the other two restaurants, which mainly served biryani, were closed due to lack of patronage, the new restaurant will serve breakfast, lunch and dinner. It will be primarily south Indian, with vegetarian and non-vegetarian options. The dinner menu will have some Indo-Chinese and north Indian dishes.The restaurant is expected to open for business by the end of this week. “We will keep providing financial, technical and marketing support,” says Priya Babu, regional coordinator for NGO Swati Health Catalyst.Depending on the success of the new venture, the Coimbatore District transgenders Association plans to open another outlet in Race Course and a mobile food truck. “They will probably be run by the next batch of transgenders,” says Jeyaganesh, state lead for the NGO, who arranged funds to set up the restaurant.While training was funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, which provided Rs 2.44 lakh, NGO United Way Chennai pitched in with Rs 7.75 lakh to set up the restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transsexual-entrepreneurs-have-appetite-for-success/articleshow/77898388.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Inebriate kills wife with scissors||Times News Network Ludhiana: A drunk man killed his wife at their house near Jalandhar Bypass early on Wednesday morning.Anand Kumar, 35, a native of Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, is on the run. He had tied the knot with Aarti Devi, also 35, about 16 years ago. The couple along with their two children — a daughter, 15, and a son, 13 —had been living in the city for the past several years. Police said the preliminary investigation suggested that Anand, a labourer, was a hard drinker. Every day, he would come home in an inebriated condition. Aarti would object to his drinking habit and this led to frequent set-tos between the two.Officiating assistant commissioner of police (north) Waryam Singh said, “On Tuesday night, too, Anand returned home from work drunk. Aarti and Anand again had a fight over the issue. But later, the family went to sleep. Around 4am, the couple’s daughter woke up on hearing her mother’s screams. She saw her father had stabbed her mother on nose with a scissor. The girl raised the alarm and tried to catch her father while he was trying to escape. But Anand pushed his daughter and made good his escape by bolting the main door from outside.” The girl kept knocking on the door, but there was nobody to hear her. “Both the children kept sitting by the side of their mother’s body for three hours. Around 7am, when the girl noticed that people had started coming out of their houses, she again shouted for help. She kept banging on the door till neighbours heard her. The neighbours opened the door and found Aarti dead,” the ACP added. They called up the police, who sent the body for post-mortem. The police have registered a case against Anand under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. “A manhunt has been launched. We have apprised the relatives of the family of the incident,” the ACP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inebriate-kills-wife-with-scissors/articleshow/77896823.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Man bludgeons friend to death, arrested||Coimbatore: A 53-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday morning for bludgeoning his friend to death with a stone behind a private hospital near the old bus stand area in Tirupur.The Tirupur police identified the accused as Sakthivel, a native of Dindugal district.A daily wage labourer, Sakthivel used to spend the night on a platform near the hospital, where he met Baskaran, a native of Trichy, and befriended him four months ago, said a police officer.“On Monday night, a dispute arose between them over a petty issue and in a fit of rage, Baskaran attacked Sakthivel with a stone, injuring his legs. Sakthivel waited patiently to take revenge on Baskaran and when everyone fell asleep on Tuesday night, he smashed the latter’s head with a stone,” the official said.Other labourers rushed the victim to the government hospital, where he died without responding to the treatment in the early hours of Wednesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-bludgeons-friend-to-death-arrested/articleshow/77898341.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Now, book tickets, pay bills at GPO||LUCKNOW: Apart from postal work, now you can avail a wide range of services at the General Post Office (GPO) of Lucknow and other adjoining districts. As man as 73 services of central and state government—from booking tickets for flight, train or bus to payment of electricity, telephone or water bill—are now available under one roof at GPO. You can also apply for Aadhaar card and passport or recharge FASTag and DTH service. The service has been extended to main post offices in Sitapur, Barabanki, Rae Bareli, Faizabad, and Akbarpur, said KK Yadav, director, postal services, through a press statement. The objective of the facility is to make it easy for the public to avail of common services without going from place to place during the pandemic. “Twelve services under Digital Seva Portal, seven under election services, three under labour services, two under pension, three employment services and 16 services of various state governments will be provided. The fee charged would be as per the directions of the government. Online training to staff to run these services is being imparted,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-book-tickets-pay-bills-at-gpo/articleshow/77900154.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Vidyasagar Univ cancels results||Vidyasagar University in Midnapore on Wednesday was among the first state universities to cancel the terminal semester results and tell students that the final year UG and PG exams will be held online in the first week of October. The university stated: “Eighty percent provisionally published result of final year/semester... now stand cancelled.” VC Ranjan Chakroborty said, “The exams will be held in accordance with the SC order. The 20% weightage given to online exams held last month will be valid. That will be added to the marks they score in the online exams to be held in the first week of October.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vidyasagar-univ-cancels-results/articleshow/77898328.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Ram temple blueprint gets official nod, dome height fixed at 49.24m||AYODHYA: The Ram temple blueprint and map of Ramjanmabhoomi premises received the official nod of the development authority on Wednesday in a rite of passage that opens doors to architects and engineers to kickstart construction. The Ramjanmabhoomi layout plan straddling 67acre mandated by the Supreme Court in its Ayodhya verdict encompasses 2.74 lakh sqm and maximum height of the temple domes was fixed at 49.24 metre in keeping with aviation norms as nearest airport at Faizabad is 6.5km away, said Ayodhya divisional commissioner M P Agrawal. The temple blueprint was passed by Ayodhya Development Authority at its 76th meeting and was chaired by Agarwal. The Ram Mandir Trust in the temple town deposited Rs 2.113 crore as development charges and Rs 15.4 lakh as labour cess. ‘Rs 2.11 crore transferred online’According to the Ramjanmbhoomi map, total covered area of the temple will be 12,879sqm with the ground floor spread over 2,628sqm area and the corridor occupying 7,343sqm. The first floor of the covered area would be 1,850sqm and second floor will be 1,056sqm. Dr Anil Mishra, member of Ram Mandir Trust, who attended the meeting, said, the development charges of Rs 2.11crore was transferred online to the Ayodhya Development Authority’s PNB account. To widen the road to the Ramjanmabhoomi, the development authority decided to demolish 400 shops at Naya Ghat on the Saryu banks. Displaced shop owners will be rehabilitated 3km away in Tehri Bazar area of town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-blueprint-gets-official-nod-dome-height-fixed-at-49-24m/articleshow/77900126.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Daily wage worker found murdered in Moodbidri||Mangaluru: A daily wage worker was found murdered in Aremajalu Palke, Badagamijaru, Moodbidri taluk, on Wednesday. Police have identified the victim as Umesh Gowda, 35, a resident of Aremajalu Palke. The incident took place on Tuesday night, but came to light only on the next day at noon. Police suspect that the crime was committed by a person known to the victim. Police added that the victim was murdered by using a knife. A case has been registered at the Moodbidri police station and an investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/daily-wage-worker-found-murdered-in-moodbidri/articleshow/77896866.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||No leopard in Madukkarai||Coimbatore: While pictures of a leopard trap placed at Madukkarai are circulating on social media, the forest department ruled out presence of a big cat in the area.The cage, brought to capture a leopard three months ago after some goats went missing, was moved to Vinayakar Kovil Street near the fringes, an official said. “This cage is now placed at Vinayagar Koil Street which houses the Dharmalingeshwari Temple. But it does not mean there is a leopard in the area. We are more worried about presence of wild elephants here,” said Madukkarai forest range officer Srinivasan.However, another official said people were scared after some stray dogs went missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-leopard-in-madukkarai/articleshow/77898397.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||State tourism policy to create brand new hubs, experiences||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Tourism Policy-2020, approved by the state Cabinet on Wednesday, has sought to promote the state as a leading tourism brand in national and international markets, strengthen and diversify existing products, give priority to lesser-known destinations and improve visitors’ experience. As per the five-year policy, two to three prominent monuments or sites in each division of the state will be developed as ‘Iconic Monuments’ or sites. These sites will be managed by new District Tourism Development Committees. Similarly, there is a provision for a museum grant scheme to promote private museums showcasing cultural heritage of the state. Many villages in the state have prominent heritage hotels or sites and are also home to popular art or craft forms. The policy envisages to identify them in each district and declare them as ‘Special Heritage Village’ (SHV) or a ‘Special Craft Village’ (SCV). A long-term master plan will be prepared for the SHVs and SCVs to develop them as new tourist hubs. With growing demand for new “experiences”, several private stakeholders are offering innovative experiential tourism products which require the support of the government for marketing and promotion. “The department will compile a database of all such offerings and publish an e-brochure for dissemination of information. It will also bring out guidelines for certification of such products. An incentive scheme will be introduced for startups in the tourism sector to create such new experiential products,” the policy document said. Pristine locations with beautiful sand dunes in untapped areas such as the stretches around Sambhar, Pushkar, Nagaur and Bikaner will be promoted as new desert destinations. The policy creates the scope for rolling out an incentive scheme to attract both national and international filmmakers to such destinations. Special incentives will be given to promote aero, aqua and land-based adventure tourism. Keeping in view the growing interest in wildlife and eco-tourism, the policy seeks to develop new sites, but wants an eco-certification scheme for hotels, restaurants and other service providers operating there. Guidelines for granting certificates to heritage hotels or properties will be revised and made investor-friendly. A project for conservation of havelis in heritage zones such as the Shekhawati or Braj areas will be taken up. To leverage crafts and cuisine of the state, curated direct marketing platforms will be created on the lines of Delhi Haat in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bikaner. MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) and wedding tourism have emerged as potential segments and, for their promotion, the policy lays out a plan to identify, grade and list such facilities. For establishing integrated MICE infrastructure, such facilities with more than two lakh sq ft carpet area will be exempted from stamp duty. Since the state has a lot of potential as a weekend getaway, the department will identify 10-20 such places in proximity to interstate borders and aggressively market them to boost the segment. An infrastructure gap study will be undertaken for such destinations to improve road and last-mile connectivity. In a bid to attract non-resident Rajasthanis, the department will launch ‘Rajasthan Calling’ initiative both in India and abroad to connect people having their roots here. The policy also outlines a scheme for classifying all tourism units such as hotels, paying guest houses. An annual event, ‘Rajasthan Startup Tourism Connect’, will be organised to bring innovation to the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-tourism-policy-to-create-brand-new-hubs-experiences/articleshow/77899945.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Green leaf tea price touches new high of Rs 28/kilogram||Udhagamandalam: The price of green leaf tea reached a new high as Indcoserve – the apex body of industrial cooperative (Indco) tea factories in the Nilgiris - fixed the price at Rs 28 per kg for the month of September. Factors such as demand in the market and the prevailing short supply of tea owing to floods in Assam have favoured the hike in green leaf tea price in the Nilgiris.“Fixation of Rs 28 per kg of green leaf tea is a historic new high. Market is favourable for us,” said Supriya Sahu, CEO of Indcoserve.For the first time, the Indcoserve has roped in at least five private tea brokers to explore the other tea auction centres such as Coonoor, Coimbatore and Cochin. The private brokers are allocated to Indco tea factories accordingly. Indcoserve operates through its own portal ‘Teaserve’ for auction purposes. “In a bid to explore other tea auction markets, at least five private brokers have been roped in by passing a resolution in the board of Indcoserve. They will auction certain quantities of teas at Coonoor and Coimbatore auction centres,” said Sahu. She further said, “Our made-teas fetched the maximum of Rs 188 per kg at Coonoor auction centre last month, which was more than the price sold at our portal Teaserve at least by Rs 20.”Meantime, the Tea Board has fixed the price at Rs 27 per kg which is applicable to small tea farmers who are supplying green leaf tea to the bought leaf factories (BLFs) in the district.According to a press release by the Tea Board, all the BLFs are instructed to adhere to the average green leaf price.Sahu said green leaf tea prices will see a jump in the coming months. As the tea season is also starting, it is a golden period for the small tea farmers. Tata and Unilever are the main buyers of Indco teas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/green-leaf-tea-price-touches-new-high-of-rs-28/kilogram/articleshow/77898403.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Five high-polluting areas near hotspots identified in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has identified five high-polluting areas in Delhi-NCR, which are adjacent to existing pollution hotspots. These include Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Peeragarhi, Rohtak Road, Azadpur and Sarai Rohilla. In a review meeting held with Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Wednesday, DPCC said while action was being taken in the existing 13 pollution hotspots in the capital, the five locations in the vicinity of the existing pollution hotspots had emerged as problem areas. A DPCC official said these are not ‘new’ hotspots, but they are being treated as high priority areas in addition to the existing pollution hotspots. “During the review work and on-ground visits, we identified these high-polluting locations. Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, for instance, has high traffic load and pollution arising from different fuels. We have informed EPCA about the problems at these new locations and what measures will be undertaken ahead of this winter,” added the official. EPCA was holding a review meeting for the pollution hotspots ahead of the winter, taking a look at the progress made at each location. The meeting also discussed how many measures had been already implemented based on the action plan made for each hotspot. Following the identification of each pollution hotspot, Central Pollution Control Board and DPCC had last year been tasked to develop an area-specific action plan for all the 13 hotspots in order to bring down the pollution levels there. EPCA member Sunita Narain said Narela and Bawana had made considerable progress among these. “A detailed review meeting was carried out and the problem areas have been identified at each hotspot and the work that is pending. In addition, five new high-polluting locations have also been identified for which specific work will be required again,” added Narain. While Delhi has 13 pollution hotspots, six hotspots were identified last winter in other NCR towns. These included two in Faridabad and one each in Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwadi and Sahibabad. Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri are the pollution hotspots in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-high-polluting-areas-near-hotspots-identified/articleshow/77899950.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Irregularities found at RTOs, 3 senior officers suspended||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s transport department cracked down on three Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) after major irregularities in issuance of driving licences came to light. After a raid conducted by a team led by Special Commissioner (Transport) KK Dahiya on Saturday, the government on Wednesday suspended the motor licensing officers (MLOs) of Vasant Vihar, IP Depot and Surajmal Vihar. Dahiya said that the action came after it was witnessed during data analysis that there was an unusual rise in the number of driving licences being issued from these RTOs. These RTOs are yet to get automated driving test track and manual tests are conducted. “Major irregularities like issuance of driving licences without mandatory videography of the applicants and violations of PIN code restrictions were unearthed during surprise raids,” Dahiya said, adding there would be a detailed inquiry and more than 1,000 people who have been issued driving licences without videography might be recalled for fresh driving tests if needed. The transport department has also written to National Informatics Centre (NIC) for a vigilance inquiry to check whether SARATHI software for online applications to get driving licences was tampered with by its developers. “Non-compliance of rules in public service will not be tolerated and since road safety is involved in issuance of a driving licence, it is an area of zero tolerance,” Dahiya said. “This problem, however, will not remain by the end of this year when all driving tests will be carried out on automated driving test tracks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/irregularities-found-at-rtos-3-senior-officers-suspended/articleshow/77919448.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||3 juveniles booked for gang-raping 16-yr-old||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Tuesday night booked three juveniles for gang-raping their 16-year-old neighbour.The minor, who works as a domestic help, said in her police complaint, “The accused used to stalk and harass me. Out of fear, I never told anyone about it. On Sunday evening, when I was on way home, the trio pulled over their bike near me. One of them got down and the other two asked me to come along with them. When I refused, they threatened to throw acid on me. Scared, I went along with the duo on their bike. They took me to a room and molested me.” Soon, the third juvenile too reached there.“The trio gang-raped me. They clicked my pictures on their cellphones. They again threatened me with acid attack and harm to my family if I spoke about the incident,” she added. On returning home, the survivor did not say anything about it. On Tuesday night, she apprised her mother of the incident.The family lodged a police complaint.Investigating officer inspector Satish Kumar said, “A case has been registered under Section 376-D (gang rape) of the IPC and the IT Act against all the three accused, who are between 14 and 16 years old. They will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-juveniles-booked-for-gang-raping-16-yr-old/articleshow/77896889.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||‘Covid tourism’: Mt Abu sold out on weekends||JAIPUR: Try booking any hotel or resort in Mount Abu on weekends, the answer is invariably going to be, “It’s sold out.” The local hospitality industry calls it “Covid tourism”. Continuous rains over the past one month, misty mountains, gurgling streams and water falls are just the cherry on the cake. Till June, the hill station was in green category, but isolated cases started since then and went almost unnoticed. Mount Abu has so far reported 54 cases out of which 15 are active now. Being a four-hour drive from Ahmedabad, Mount Abu is a popular among for Gujaratis, as it also serving as a watering hole for the liquor-starved neighbours. As borders opened after the lockdown, they were the first ones to arrive. But the rush begun from August. “We lost the summer rush to the pandemic. In July, travellers were tentative … As rains came in August, it opened the floodgates of cooped up tourists. Now, the destination is a full house on weekends,” said Kashyap Jani, former president of Mount Abu Hotel Association. He said while Gujaratis traditionally account for 80-90% of tourists, people from nearby cities like Udaipur, Jodhpur and Jaipur are also thronging the destination. “It’s been too long a confined life, depression is not far away. With almost negligible coronavirus cases, Mount Abu is safer than my place,” said Heeral Mehta from Ahmedabad, who along with his family spent the last weekend in the hill station. The rates charged by hotels are as high as pre-Covid days, but Jani said, the weekday rates are cheaper by about 50%. With occupancy during weekdays rising from 10-15% a month back to about 40% now, rates are also rising proportionately. District collector Bhagwati Prasad said, “We are not worried about the rush, but the administration is strictly monitoring adherence of SOPs by hotels and visitors.” It’s hard to guess how long the hill station can remain as an oasis in the Covid world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-tourism-mt-abu-sold-out-on-weekends/articleshow/77899969.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||Of 8,700 Covid patients in Ghaziabad so far, only 24 were Tablighi members||GHAZIABAD: Members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were once linked to the rising Covid numbers in Delhi-NCR, account for just 24 of the 8,703 cases reported in Ghaziabad so far. This means that for every 363 cases in the district, only one was a Jamaat member. Around 2,000 Jamaat members from across the country and abroad had attended a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March and a number of them had tested positive after that. This had fuelled speculation that anyone who had attended the gathering could be possible carriers of the infection. Ghaziabad police had formed teams to trace those who had either attended the event or had come in contact with any of the participants. Around 550 people with links to the Jamaat were quarantined in 10 centres in a single week. Sources said many of them had not been allowed to go home even after spending 32 days in quarantine. A police verification was conducted before the Jamaat members were discharged from Covid hospitals or quarantine centres. Many of them, including a few foreign nationals, were booked for staying in villages of the district and withholding information about their travel history from the administration. A further analysis of Ghaziabad’s Covid numbers has revealed that only one out of 10 patients had exhibited SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) symptoms. A majority of the patients — about 42% — were those who were tested randomly or had volunteered to get themselves examined at testing camps. About 30% of the Covid patients had shown influenza-like symptoms, according to the data. Of the 8,000-plus patients, only 139 are frontline health workers so far. Of them, 111 hadn’t shown any symptoms. The data has also revealed 18 people with foreign travel history have tested positive till now. A health department official said that over 250 private hospitals and nursing homes had been asked to give daily reports of patients visiting them. This will help the department identify people showing virus-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/of-8700-covid-patients-in-gzb-so-far-only-24-were-tablighi-members/articleshow/77901109.cms||Aditya Dev
September 3, 2020||Noida||Noida: A train every 15 minutes on Aqua Line||NOIDA: In line with the Centre’s guidelines issued on Wednesday for restarting metro services, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will resume trains on the Aqua Line from September 7 as well. All passengers and staffers will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms, said NMRC MD Ritu Maheshwari. Initially, the trains will run from 7am to 11am and 5pm to 9pm with a frequency of 15 minutes from Monday to Saturday. On Sundays, the service will operate from 8am to 11am and 5pm to 9pm. The temperature inside the coaches will be maintained between 24 and 30 degrees. The decision on whether stops in containment zones will be avoided is pending. NMRC officials said in case there are changes in those areas, passengers will be informed in advance. Common areas, belts and handles will be sanitised frequently. Passengers will be screened with thermal sensors and will need to display ‘green’ status on Aarogya Setu app. They will be asked to avoid touching machines directly while scanning tickets with QR code. On escalators, passengers have to maintain a gap of at least one step. Only one entry and exit gate will be kept open at sectors 101, 81, 83, 137, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, NSEZ, Alpha 1, Delta 1 and GNIDA office. Stations where both the entry and exit gates will be open include sectors 51, 50, 76, KP-II, Pari Chowk and Depot station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/a-train-every-15-minutes-on-aqua-line/articleshow/77901117.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Gandhi kin appeal to CM, Aaditya to stop Sevagram tree felling||Nagpur: Six family members of Mahatma Gandhi, spanning over three generations, have appealed to the state government to stop felling of trees on ‘Bapu Kuti’ road between Wardha and Sevagram. PWD has felled 70 big trees and is in process of felling another 130 trees for widening the road. “We the descendants of Kasturba and Mohandas Gandhi, write to you with folded hands to kindly use your good offices to order end to atrocity on the environment and act of brutal violence against trees on the road from Wardha to Sevagram,” they wrote.The appeal comes a few days after Gandhi’s grandson Tushar Gandhi’s appeal went viral on social media. On Wednesday, Tushar’s father Arun, aunt Ela, his uncles Rajmohan & Gopal Krishna Gandhi, who lived at Sevagram with Gandhiji and Kasturba for several years in childhood days, and Tushar’s daughter Kasturi, an environmental researcher, joined him. All sent separate e-mails on Wednesday to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and user agency PWD to save the remaining trees.“The reason being cited for felling is that road widening is required so it will make it easier for tourists to visit Bapu’s ashram at Sevagram. But a pilgrimage does not need to be made easy and there should be an element of penance,” the Gandhis said.These trees were lovingly planted from the time Gandhiji lived at Sevagram. These particular trees were planted with a purpose that they would provide shade and shelter for visitors who arrived at Wardha and made the five mile trip to Sevagram by foot.Ela Gandhi said, “I am a South African now. However, I am deeply concerned about environmental issues and particularly now when we are facing Covid-19 pandemic that has brought into sharp focus the need to conserve both our environment and water.”“Trees are a source of water and it is important to do everything in our power to conserve as many trees as we can. Therefore, I write to you to ask whether it is not possible to save the trees,” she said.Arun Gandhi said, “I am sorry that government has embarked on the modernization of Bapu’s monuments and destroying the last vestiges of Bapu’s wishes and teachings from the face of India. I had lived with Bapu at Sevagram in 1945-46 when I was 12 years. When Bapu acquired the land from Jamnalalji it was not only barren but was almost a desert. Today the world is suffering from the effects of years of abuse of environment. Future generations will curse us for destroying their future by wanton abuse of ecology.”“I fully support Tushar Gandhi's efforts to protect the trees that form a precious part of that sacred environment in and around Wardha from where Mahatma Gandhi strengthened the movement for India's freedom,” said Rajmohan Gandhi.Gopalkrishna Gandhi said, “In October-November 1913, when thousands of Indian South Africans commenced great satyagrahic march from Natal to the Transvaal, one of the codes laid by Gandhiji was no trees or plants be felled on the route. On decision to fell trees along Bapu Kuti road, I am reminded of Gandhiji's uncompromising code.”“When such was the priority he accorded to trees in the height of a major public struggle, we can well imagine what his reaction would be to the information that trees are to be felled to facilitate travel to Sevagram. I would urge the authorities to be sensitive,” he said.“As the great great granddaughter of Kasturba and MK Gandhi, I not only appreciate the historical significance of the ashrams they set up, but also deeply respect the geographies they were set up in. While it is imperative to bring progress in local education, health, and human resource development, doing so by erasing the landscape’s natural wealth, which the people of the region have rightfully inherited, is fundamentally wrong. Gandhian ashrams and their landscapes must serve as examples of socially and ecologically inclusive infrastructure,” said Kasturi Gandhi. “In the case of Wardha, and the larger issue of the expansion of the State Highway, the total opposite has happened — where there was a need to increase green cover, there has been mindless hacking of historically and geographically significant trees; there is no damage mitigation plan for forest areas and tiger habitats that the project passes through, and no intention has been expressed to remedy the destruction that is being wreaked. The most tragic part is that with mindful planning and collaboration with the people of Wardha, several trees can still be saved. I appeal to all the authorities to please give this issue due attention and prepare a plan to remedy the injustice the people of Wardha have had to face during these difficult times,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gandhi-kin-appeal-to-cm-aaditya-to-stop-sevagram-tree-felling/articleshow/77899690.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 3, 2020||Cuttack||32 years after appeal, Orissa HC acquits two of murder||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Tuesday gave voice to the popular adage – ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’ – while acquitting two people of murder charge, 32 years after they had appealed against the trial court verdict. As per the case file, Nityananda Behera and Madhaba Behera were charged with murder during a clash over sharing of a Jamun tree at Dighi, under Kamakhyanagar police station of Dhenkanal district, on February 18, 1986. Nityananda and Madhaba were convicted by the trial court on July 21, 1988. The court of sessions judge, Dhenkanal, sentenced Nityananda to three years’ rigorous imprisonment under Section 304 (II) of IPC for assaulting a person having knowledge that his act had the likelihood of causing death, while Madhaba was sentenced to six months’ rigorous imprisonment under Section 324 of IPC for voluntarily causing hurt by a weapon likely to cause death. Both Nityananda and Madhaba filed a criminal appeal on August 5, 1988. Admitting it on August 26, 1988 the high court had on the same day directed their release on bail. While finding the trial court verdict not sustainable in the eye of law and setting it aside, Justice Sangam Kumar Sahoo observed, “In view of the glaring inconsistencies in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and when the case as was projected by the appellants appears to be more probable, I am of the humble view that it is a fit case where benefit of doubt should be extended in favour of the appellants.” He went on to add, “Before parting with the case, I am reminded of the oft-quoted legal maxim, ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’. Right to speedy trial is a fundamental right. Appeal is a continuation of trial. After fighting the legal battle for more than 32 years, the appellants have won the case.” Delivering the verdict, he remarked, “The passage of time must have brought wrinkles on their faces and dark hairs turning grey. No one can restore the lost years to them.” In the concluding lines of the 39-page judgment, Justice Sahoo said, “Changes are being made in the criminal justice delivery system from time to time to deal with serious problem of delay and arrears and for quicker disposal of cases. Let us hope for a better result in the future with the extra efforts put by all concerned in that regard with active support and participation from the members of the bar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/32-yrs-on-orissa-high-court-clears-two-men-of-murder-charge/articleshow/77901469.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Proper nutrition must for breast cancer survivors’||LUCKNOW: The department of endocrine surgery at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), organised its monthly Lucknow breast cancer support group meet on a virtual platform on Wednesday. The theme of the programme was ‘Healthy Nutrition’ in tune with ‘nutrition month’ being celebrated in September. The meet began with the address by Prof Anand Mishra. Senior dietitian at KGMU Shalini Shrivastav gave a brief talk on importance of proper nutrition for cancer survivors. She also moderated a session in which cancer survivors showcased their culinary skills. Mehtaab, Neetu Rastogi, Kanchan Rawat, Anita Lal, Mukul Rani Tripathi, Anju Varam, Neelam Singh, Deepa Sunil Gupta, Beena Mishra and Pushpa Tripathi showed how healthy and affordable dishes can be prepared even by those hard-pressed for time. The videos are available on the official YouTube channel of Lucknow breast cancer support group. Prof Anand Kumar Mishra and Dr Kul Ranjan Singh answered the queries of patients and survivors. More than 70 survivors attended the meet. A bigger meet is being planned in October to celebrate breast xancer awareness month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/proper-nutrition-must-for-breast-cancer-survivors/articleshow/77900172.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Road rage emerged as most fatal||Vadodara: Although the number of road accidents in the state may have dropped last year, it was the major cause of accidental deaths in Gujarat in 2019. Some 7,428 people had died in road accident while 1,012 people died in railway accidents. “The World Health Organization (WHO) has also stated that the deaths due to road accidents will remain high like some deadly diseases. There is an increase in number of vehicles, however there has been a constant effort to bring down the number of road accidents in Gujarat,” said Satyen Kulabkar, a traffic expert and member of Road Safety Council in Vadodara. Another major reason is people dying suddenly because of heart attacks. Gujarat is the third state in the country after Maharashtra and Kerala where deaths due to heart attacks are highest. In Maharashtra, 11,286 people died, in Kerala 3,077 while in Gujarat 2,888 people died of heart attack. According to NCRB report, natural forces do not lead to accidental deaths so much as the other reasons. Among the other main reasons for deaths in Gujarat have been people falling from a height or in a pit or falling from a vehicle. Last year, 894 people died by falling from a height while 348 people died by falling from a vehicle and 92 died by falling in a pit. Thirty persons also died by falling into a manhole. Drowning by accidentally falling into a water body has also led to death of 1,164 people and 30 people drowned due to capsizing of boat. Fire caused by electronic short-circuit too killed 131 people. Poisoning caused by snake bite also led to death of 329 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/road-rage-emerged-as-most-fatal/articleshow/77896286.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt’s Telugu only e-class stumps English, Urdu students||HYDERABAD: After a hiatus of six months, the Telangana government’s plan to go digital and provide education at home via T-SAT and Doordarshan fell flat on Wednesday after nearly 10 lakh English and Urdu medium students found that the lessons were all in Telugu. Moreover, the unavailability of T-SAT on various broadcasters made it impossible for even Telugu-speaking students to attend the digital class. E-lessons are being transmitted from 9 am to 4.30 pm on T-SAT and from 10.30 am to 1 pm on Doordarshan Yadagiri. The lessons, however, are making little sense to students whose medium of instruction is English and Urdu. “I attended physical education lessons but could hardly understand anything. I only looked at the pictures and tried to make sense of what the teacher was saying on screen. I often clicked pictures of the TV screen and sent it to my class teacher to get some clarity,” said Asifa Begum, a class 9 Urdu medium student of a government school in Vikarabad. Students who have Telugu as their mother tongue but English as their medium of instruction are also finding it difficult to cope up as they are unable to understand various terms in subjects such as science. “I have studied in English medium since primary school. While Telugu and English language subjects are easy to understand, studying Physics and Physical Science is very difficult as I am unable to understand,” said Anusha Mandala, a class 10 student from Warangal. “Whenever I don’t understand anything, I reached out to my subject teachers. But doing that constantly is not viable,” she added. Teachers admit that many students are facing issues in learning core subjects. “Students don’t understand the meaning of terms such as mass, volume, reflection etc in Telugu. Grasping theoretical subjects such as Science, BioScience is emerging as a major challenge for many,” said Roja Rani, a teacher at a government school. According to school education department officials, Telugu content is being converted into English with voice-over. “We are producing over 500 digital lessons for class 6 to 10 students in English. Simultaneously, content for primary students is also being produced. We are hopeful that by the third week of September, the same will be transmitted,” said a senior official overseeing content development. There is however no clarity for over 1.5 lakh Urdu medium students. “The day officials decided to transmit e-lessons through television, we had urged the government that lessons should be simultaneously transmitted in different languages. But Urdu has also been neglected by the government,” said Aleemuddin, headmaster of a government high school. While majority of students have access to DD Yadagiri, T-SAT continues to be elusive on several DTH platforms such as Tatasky, SunTV and DishTV. “@RNTata2000 sir @TataSky is not carrying @TSATnetwork channels. Vidya and Nipuna are the government of Telangana education channels. Students of government schools are unable to access the television classes that started today. Pls help sir. Similar channel Kite Victers of Kerala govt carried,” tweeted Shailesh Reddy, chief executive officer of T-SAT Network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govts-telugu-only-e-class-stumps-english-urdu-students/articleshow/77900863.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||Outstation candidates stay back in Lucknow to self-isolate||By: Raghav Duggal LUCKNOW: Outstation candidates who appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) in the city on Wednesday have opted for self-isolation as a precautionary measure to avoid carrying the virus back home to their families if they are infected. One such candidate, Advik Pandey, said, “I have a two month-old niece and a joint family. Since I used public conveyance, I was exposed to the crowd and I don’t want to take any risk. I will self-isolate before returning home.” He added, “I have stayed in Lucknow earlier to prepare for the exam and had requested the landlord for a room on rent with food for 10 days for which I have paid Rs 3,000.” Like him, a number of candidates who had attended city-based coaching centres or those who had acquaintances here have arranged for rooms or booked a hotel. “My senior in an engineering college here arranged a room with tiffin service for me. I could have returned the same day but one of my relatives will be arriving with his own vehicle to take NEET,” said Akhil Singh, who came from Ambedkarnagar. He said “I will return with him instead of using public transport again.” Bahraich engineering aspirant Arpita Sengar is living at her family friend’s place in Aliganj as a paying guest and will leave after a week. “My aunt lives on the ground floor and was kind enough to give me a room on the first floor. I arrived two weeks before the examination. Now when I am done with the examination I will stay a week more.” She said it will not only help in self-isolation but would be a better option in case she gets infected as health facilities were better here. “I have come from Siddharthnagar and am planning to stay in a hotel for a week in self-isolation. I don’t want my family to land in trouble,” said Ankur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/outstation-candidates-stay-back-in-city-to-self-isolate/articleshow/77900200.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Boy gets stuck in lift, dies||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 15-year-old boy died after he got stuck in a lift at the house of a trader in Kidwai Nagar on Wednesday evening.The deceased has been identified as Gautam of Islam Ganj. His mother, Pooja, works as a domestic help at the house of Arvind Kumar. Gautam had gone there to help her.Division 2 police station SHO inspector Satpal Singh said, “Arvinder’s daughter is going to get married in a few days. Therefore, the family had gone for shopping, leaving Pooja and her son home. When Pooja was busy with work, Gautam started operating the lift. It turned on and he got stuck in it. He suffered injuries and died on the spot.” His mother took him to a hospital with the help of neighbours, but to no avail. About the safety measures for using lifts, the SHO said, “I am not aware if there are specific guidelines to be followed for using lifts.” Police have proceeded with Section 174 of the CrPC. The family did not lodge any complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/boy-gets-stuck-in-lift-dies/articleshow/77896904.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Varanasi||IIT-BHU’s app on pregnancy health declared second best in country||Varanasi: The IIT-BHU startups are on the way to make it a big with ‘AatmaNirbhar pregnancy health app.’ Two alumni of IIT-BHU Ravi Teja and Mayur Dhurpate have developed iMumz app, which was declared the country’s second best app in health category in the prestigious ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’. The challenge was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4 which witnessed participation from 6,940 tech entrepreneurs and startups across the country. According to them, the iMumz app is a unique app. Its scientific week by week pregnancy and baby care program during pregnancy includes nutritional diet, stress busting meditations, harmonizing music, baby bonding exercises for a healthy baby and a safe delivery. Their journey was started in 2017 at IIT-BHU. Looking into the various medical/emotional/physical problems related to women health during their pregnancy period and considering that pregnancy is the most crucial phase in human life which dictates the health, immunity, and personality of humans and has the power to actually alter the DNA, they decided to leave their high paying job offers and used their skills to build the platform which can enable the expecting mothers to deliver healthy and happy babies. With the vision to provide holistic care to pregnant women through innovative protocols, Ravi and Mayur started working to address this problem in 2017 at IIT-BHU and gradually developed this innovative app with the support of their mentor Rajesh Jagasia, a senior meditation coach and an experienced CXO trainer. They were also motivated by Dr Narendra Malhotra, a gynaecologist and Dr Jaideep Malhotra an obstetrician. They claimed that with the feature of live sessions with doctors every day, so far 125+ doctors have answered more than 20,000 questions of the expecting mothers. This app is currently available in Hindi and English languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhus-app-on-pregnancy-health-declared-second-best-in-country/articleshow/77895579.cms||Binay Singh
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports record 1-day spike of over 1.5k corona cases||JAIPUR: With the Pink City reporting the highest single-day spike of 352 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, the state breached the 1,500 mark for the first time, bringing the overall tally to 84,674. In all, the state reported 1,511 new cases for the day. Twelve persons also died, taking the state toll to 1,081. The pace at which the virus is spreading can be gauged by the fact that for the past six consecutive days, the state has been setting new records for single-day spikes. Besides, since August 15, the state has set single-day record for new cases 10 times. “Though new cases are on the rise, the mortality rate is going down and the recovery rate moving upwards. The recovery rate has gone above 83%, while the mortality rate has reduced to 1.27%,” said a health department official. The graph of recovered cases too has constantly moved up, with the state reporting the highest single-day recoveries of 2,550 patients on Wednesday. This has taken recovered cases above the 70,000 mark and reached 70,674, overall. In just a single day, 763 persons recovered in Alwar, 395 in Jaipur and 238 in Jodhpur. Currently, the three worst-affected Covid districts are Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, contributing over 60% of the total active cases in the state. Out of 12,919 active cases in the state, 7,768 are in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (352), Jodhpur (201), Kota (150), Bikaner (94), Alwar (85), Jhalawar (84), Ajmer (79), Banswara (40), Udaipur (38), Dholpur (36), Rajsamand (33), Churu (29), Baran (27), Bundi (27), Jaisalmer (24), Chittorgarh (23), Dungarpur (23), Nagaur (21), Bharatpur (18), Dausa (16), Barmer (16), Pali (15), Sawai Madhopur (14), Tonk (13), Pratapgarh (12), Bhilwara (10), Sikar (8), Sirohi (8), Sriganganagar (6), Karauli (3), Jalore (2), Hanumangarh (2) and Jhunjhunu (2). Jaipur reported its 278th Covid death, Jodhpur 102nd, Bikaner and Kota the 76th each, Bharatpur 70th, Pali 45th, Alwar 25th, Barmer 21st, Sikar 19th, Rajsamand 15th, and Banswara and Jaisalmer fifth Covid fatality each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-reports-record1-day-spike-of-over1-5k-corona-cases/articleshow/77900004.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Forget ego, think of students’ future, West Bengal CM tells Centre||KOLKATA: The Centre should forget its ego and think of the students who could not appear for JEE (Mains), said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, reiterating that students’ career could not be the primary concern when their health was at risk. “Who gave you the right to destroy the students’ future? Why had they been so egoistic? What would have gone wrong if the exams were a bit delayed?” the CM asked the Centre, adding the examinees had to risk their lives and many were forced to give the entrance tests a miss . “Postponing the examination could have helped all students,” she said. Bengal has been among the six states, which had filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against the Centre’s decision to hold JEE (Mains) and NEET (UG) in September. Banerjee had been vocal on this issue and had even written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Our state was a party in the SC as we understood the problem of the students. The students are facing great trouble. So many of them were deprived of attending the examination,” she said. Banerjee pointed out that the students had never said they would not sit for the examination, but they had asked to postpone it. “They had to risk their lives while trying to build a career,” she said. “Outside Bengal, from inputs that I have received, more than 50% examinees were unable to appear for the examinations. Thus, many were deprived but it would not have been the same if the examinations were delayed, going by our appeal. I still urge the Centre to review the situation and think about those who failed to appear in the exams. The Centre must think of those who could not appear for the tests. The examinations are conducted by the Centre. We had made arrangements as per directive, but only 25% of candidates in Bengal turned up,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/forget-ego-think-of-students-future-cm-tells-centre/articleshow/77898439.cms||Debasis Konar
September 3, 2020||Lucknow||83% JEE aspirants turn up on Day 2, but tricky questions leave examinees puzzled||LUCKNOW: The second day of the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) for admission to the engineering course in IITs and NITs witnessed a better attendance of 83.5% aspirants in comparison to the first day when 44% had skipped the Bachelor of Architecture examination. According to district administration officials, 2,917 candidates from various districts of UP had enrolled for the test and chosen Lucknow centre, of which 2,439 appeared for the test at the nine centres in the city on Wednesday. Most aspirants said the JEE (Main) examination was tougher than the first one held in January. The candidates also shared that the weightage of questions from the class 11 syllabus was more than that of class 12 in all the three sections of Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. Even at the time of the pandemic, the number of candidates skipping the engineering examination this year was almost like in previous years. In the first shift of 1,457 candidates, 1,243 (85%) were present, while in the second shift of 1,455 candidates 1,196 (82%) were present. However, on the first day of the architecture examination, the attendance was less than 60% in both the shifts. On Tuesday, of the 1,065 candidates at the three centres, only 597 appeared for the test, while 469 preferred to drop out. In the first shift, 224 (42.4%) out of 528 candidates skipped the exam, while the second shift saw 245 (45.6%) absentees though 537 candidates were supposed to appear. In previous years, the absentee rate used to be just 15-20%. “The first JEE (Main) examination held in January was comparatively easier, this one was lengthy and unlike the set format, questions from class 11 syllabus were more as compared to from intermediate. The chemistry part was too tricky with an indirect question, while the other two papers were tough too,” said Samridhi Agarwal. Another candidate, Shrestha Singh said, “It was not an easy paper, mathematics was tough and lengthy while physics and chemistry also didn’t have questions that were asked often in the last five years. The model papers solved didn’t work much.” “We focused more on the class 12 syllabus, but only those who have studied class 11 will stand a good chance to make it to IITs and NITs,” said Arvind Sinha. The examination was held smoothly following Covid-19 norms at all centres. Mask was given to the candidates who didn’t wear one at the centre itself, while thermal scanning and sanitization were also taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/83-jee-aspirants-turn-up-on-day-2-but-tricky-questions-leave-examinees-puzzled/articleshow/77900222.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 3, 2020||Surat||Exortion allegations on ‘sexually harassed’ teacher||Surat: Adajan police on Tuesday booked a 50-year-old teacher on charges of extortion. The woman had alleged sexual harassment by her former employer and leading businessman, Chunilal Gajera. The woman, a resident of Piplod, had filed a complaint against Gajera on Monday and the next day a counter complaint was lodged against her. The fresh complaint, lodged by Shweta Parihar, 41, principal of Gajera Global School, alleges the woman of having filed the sexual harassment complaint against Gajera to extort more money as she was sacked from her job in 2019 as a teacher in Gajera’s school due to her bad behaviour with students. Police booked the woman for allegedly extorting Rs 11 lakh from Gajera in April 2018 by threatening to lodge a police complaint against him. During the same period, she also had submitted a written application in Adajan police station against Gajera and others alleging sexual harassment. The accused was booked for extortion and criminal intimidation charges under IPC. Gajera is trustee of GGS and Gajera School in Katargam. He is also one of the owners of Laxmi Diamond and a leading realtor. Gajera’s family is from Amreli and in the past Gajera and his elder brother Vasant were arrested for property-related separate criminal cases. In her complaint, Parihar claimed that the woman was recruited as a language teacher in July 2018 and within a few days the school administration started receiving multiple complaints from parents against her of behaving badly with the students and also abusing them.Later, Parihar and school trustees tried to explain about her need to improve her behaviour but she continued with behaving rudely after which the school decided to sack her in March 2019. After her removal, the woman started demanding money and threatened to lodge a police complaint against Gajera. She also submitted an application in Adajan police station requesting to lodge a police complaint. At that time Gajera paid her Rs 11 lakh to avoid getting his image tarnished in public, Parihar stated in the complaint. But the woman started demanding money again and also threatened to lodge a complaint, the latest complaint alleged. On Monday, the accused woman lodged a complaint against Gajera in Adajan police station alleging Gajera of making sexual advances at her on many an occasion in the school as well as his office in Laxmi Diamond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/exortion-allegations-on-sexually-harassed-teacher/articleshow/77896996.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||IAS official tests positive for Covid||Aurangabad: Another IAS official posted in Marathwada has tested positive for Covid-19 and has got himself admitted to a state-run hospital. According to a senior health official, the throat swab sample of the bureaucrat was sent for testing and the report came on Monday. “The IAS official purposely decided to get admitted to a government-run Covid hospital rather than going to a private one. This will give out a positive message among the health officials and the society at large,” he said. The district administration has appealed to all those who came in contact with the senior officer to get themselves tested. “The official process of tracing the high-risk and low-risk contacts is on. The same IAS officer got his pregnant wife admitted to a state-run hospital for delivery during the Covid-19 outbreak,” the official added. So far, two IAS officials from Marathwada have contracted the infection in the recent past and have recovered successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ias-official-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/77896958.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Rs 97,000, laptop, mobile phone stolen from Ghaziabad businessman’s vehicle in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A businessman on his way to Ghaziabad in his SUV was robbed by unidentified men of Rs 97,000 cash, a laptop and a mobile phone after tyres of his vehicle deflated near Gaagan trisection under Majhola police station in Moradabad late on Tuesday night. In his complaint, the victim Jitendra Singh, a resident of Sector 13 C, New Moradabad, alleged that the accused had “spread” nails on the road that deflated the tyres of his vehicle. “When I was checking the deflated tyres, two men came offering help. They told me that the punctures could be fixed at a nearby petrol station. As I took my punctured vehicle to the petrol pump slowly, the duo followed the vehicle and managed to open the rear door and fled with two bags containing Rs 97,000, a laptop and a mobile phone,” he said. “At the petrol pump, I found the bags missing and requested the pump staff to replay the CCTV footage. We spotted the duo opening the SUV’s rear door and taking away the bags and the laptop,” said Singh, who often travels to Ghaziabad, where he has a business. Majhola police station SHO Rakesh Kumar told TOI, “An FIR was registered against the unidentified accused under section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are scanning the CCTV footage to identify the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rs-97k-laptop-mobile-phone-stolen-from-ghaziabad-bizmans-vehicle-in-moradabad/articleshow/77896941.cms||Maria Khan
September 3, 2020||Varanasi||Police target armoury of jailed MLA Vijay Mishra||VARANASI: After targeting the armoury of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari, police of Varanasi zone have initiated the process of cancellation of arms licences of jailed muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra and his family. Bhadohi police has recommended the cancellation of arms licences of the seven arms in the name of four-time MLA Mishra, his MLC wife Ramlali and son Vishnu. SP Bhadohi RB Singh told TOI on Wednesday, “We have recommended the district magistrate to initiate the process of cancellation of arms licenses of Mishra, his wife and son citing the criminal cases lodged against them. A letter in this regard has been sent to the DM on Tuesday.” Mishra owns a rifle and a pistol, his wife has a double barrel gun, a rifle and a revolver, while their son owns a rifle and a revolver. Mishra was booked under Goonda Act on July 18 for threatening a contractor, who got the contract of toll collection at the Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai. Mishra, his wife and son were booked in a case lodged on August 8 by their relative Krishna Mohan Tiwari for allegedly grabbing his house. A case was registered against them at Gopiganj police station under Sections 325, 506, 347, 387 and 449 of IPC. Mishra tried to evade being caught and escaped but was arrested on August 14 in Madhya Pradesh. His wife Ramlali went missing and could not be searched after which Bhadohi court issued a non-bailable warrant against her on August 26. The court also rejected the interim bail plea of their son Vishnu against his arrest in the same case. Efforts are on to arrest Ramlali and Vishnu, SP Bhadohi added. As many as 71 criminal cases are lodged against Mishra, who is lodged in Chitrakoot jail. 11 cases against Mishra are being heard in MP/MLA court. Before Mishra, Mukhtar Ansari’s economic empire and armoury had been targeted by police in its drive against organised crime, gangs and ganglords. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said action for suspension or cancellation of 78 arms licences of Mukhtar’s family members and henchmen is already in process. Mau police has also seized four buses worth Rs 86 lakh owned by Mukhtar’s close associate Suresh Singh as part of their drive of seizing the property procured from illegally earned money, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-target-armoury-of-jailed-mla-vijay-mishra/articleshow/77895619.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||City roads claimed most lives in region in 2019: NCRB||Ludhiana: Ludhiana has once again earned the dubious distinction of being a city with a large number of road accident deaths, as it recorded the second-highest number of such deaths in north India in 2019, according to a report. Ludhiana city ranked eighth among the 52 cities of the country with high road accident deaths.As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, Ludhiana witnessed 365 road accident deaths in 2019. In north India, Delhi had the highest number of such deaths at 1,400 and Faridabad in Haryana 311.Among the cities of the region, Ludhiana occupied the top position in deaths from road accidents, with Chandigarh seeing 104 such deaths, Amritsar 95 and Srinagar recording 45 deaths.As for the number of accidents, Ludhiana was at number three with 526 road accidents in 2019, while Delhi topped the north India chart with 5,349 accidents and Faridabad (most populous city of Haryana) at number two with 736 accidents. In the region, Ludhiana was at number one, with Srinagar, Chandigarh and Amritsar recording 310, 304 and 133 road accidents.However, although the number of road accident deaths in the city increased in 2019, the NCRB data suggests that such deaths were even higher in 2016 when 384 persons had died. In 2018, 328 persons had died in 477 accidents.Blaming several factors for the rise in road accident casualties, a road safety expert said, “The rise of 10% in road accident deaths is shocking. There are many reasons for the rise in road accidents and related deaths. Firstly, the agencies concerned haven’t been able to rectify more than 90 black spots identified by them. Secondly, there is a lack of political, bureaucratic and official will to do something about road safety. There is also lack of coordination in all the road construction and maintenance agencies, including the municipal corporation, PWD and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Fourthly, there is poor planning and traffic management leading to chaos and disorder on the roads,” said international road safety expert Kamaljeet Soi. With the release of NCRB data for 2019, many city residents are upset over such a large number of deaths from road accidents. “The authorities should improve the road safety infrastructure in the city and the agency managing the traffic should make it a mission to bring down the number of deaths in road accidents in the city,” said a city resident Ajit Singh.BOXAnnual death countYear — Deaths — Accidents2019 — 365 — 5262018 — 328 — 4772017 — 281 — 4932016 — 384 — 549 2015 — 271 — 489 (Figures: Transport ministry and NCRB)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-roads-claimed-most-lives-in-region-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/77896930.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Connaught Place roof collapse: NDMC finally swings into action||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council has issued orders for all occupants of a building in Connaught Place to vacate the premises after the roof of the second floor collapsed on August 11. The order dated August 26 gives the occupants three days to move out from the date of issuance of the letter. On August 27, almost two weeks after the roof collapse at Regal Building, TOI had reported that no concrete action had been taken by the authorities, jeopardising the safety of occupants and people around the building. The debris from the collapse hadn’t been removed till then either. The NDMC order states, “All occupants of premises no. 63 (second floor) and adjoining premises will vacate the building within three days of issuance of notice”. It adds that non-compliance will attract action under Section 250 of the NDMC Act. Mohit Singla, director of Indraesh Builders Pvt Ltd, the name under which that portion of Regal Building is registered, told TOI on Wednesday, “One of the occupants received the vacation order on August 31. Hopefully, some action will be taken now. We got a call from NDMC today about clearing the debris, but we are not ready to take a risk unless the building is vacated and communicated this to NDMC.” Singla had earlier told TOI that the company had written to NDMC in 2017 itself about the building being certified as ‘unsafe to use’. “After the August 11 incident and on receipt of our correspondence, NDMC directed the local police on August 13 to cordon off the building, but nothing happened,” claimed Singla. When TOI visited the place on August 25, people were moving freely inside the building. According to the NDMC order, “While the roof of premises 63 has collapsed, the roof of premises 58-59 was found to be sinking. Since the buildings in Connaught Place area have been notified as heritage grade II by the Heritage Conservation Committee, it is the duty of the owner to carry out regular repair work and maintenance as per unified building bylaws.” The civic body also asked police to have the building vacated and to investigate whether the roof collapse was due to mischief or sabotage. The local police, however, maintained they could only assist NDMC in emptying the building. “We clarified this to NDMC in mid-August. After that, we have not received any fresh orders or directions,” said a Delhi Police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cp-roof-collapse-ndmc-finally-swings-into-action/articleshow/77900051.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 3, 2020||Noida||Noida: University registrar booked after sexual harassment complaint by professor||NOIDA: The officiating registrar of Gautam Buddha University (GBU) has been booked after a senior faculty member accused him of sexual harassment. The FIR, lodged against SN Tiwari on charges of outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation and intentional insult, comes almost a fortnight after the professor approached the cops. On August 16, after the faculty member’s complaint had reached the Noida women’s cell, police had formed a three-member team headed by ACP Ruchi Gupta to probe the allegations against Tiwari. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday after the police team found the allegations were serious in nature and needed to be investigated further. According to the FIR lodged at Ecotech 1 police station, Tiwari had made several illegitimate demands before the woman and passed indecent remarks about her physical appearance and dressing sense. The FIR states that the professor, a former head of department, had first met Tiwari while working on two central government projects on renewable energy. In June 2019, Tiwari contacted her multiple times and asked her to come to his office, she alleged. The faculty member alleged she had to meet the registrar in his office as she needed leave for an assignment in a foreign university. “He said ‘if you want leave, you will have to do as I say and come to my office whenever I ask you’. I didn’t like to visit his office again and again,” the complaint reads. It was on August 29 last year that Tiwari commented on her appearance, according to the complaint. “I was engaged in a class when he called me to his office again. I told him he should not delay the sanction of my leave. But he passed comments on my appearance. He also demanded gold and keys to my office. As a professor, it was very demeaning for me,” she said in her complaint. The woman also alleged that when she approached the registrar — Tiwari was the deputy registrar then — he asked her not to take Tiwari’s calls. “After my leave was sanctioned, I blocked him on WhatsApp. But he kept calling me until I left India,” she added. However, the professor said, her ordeal did not end there. When she returned to India and went back to her university to resume work on June 25 this year, Tiwari, who was now the officiating registrar, allegedly refused to meet her. “I had sent him my joining letter on June 18. But he has kept that pending,” the senior faculty member alleged. She claimed she had been receiving threats from unknown persons asking her to take the complaint back. She said she was concerned about her daughter, who studies in the same varsity. “Around 2.30am on August 26, someone rang my doorbell thrice. When I looked outside, there was no one. Again, on September 1, some people threw garbage outside my house and broke all the flower pots,” the professor said. Tiwari had earlier dubbed all the allegations against him baseless. On Wednesday, vice-chancellor BP Sharma did not respond to repeated calls from this newspaper. GBU spokesperson Arvind Singh confirmed they were aware of the FIR against Tiwari, but declined to comment. DCP (women’s safety) Vrinda Shukla said the FIR was based on the three-member police team’s report and appropriate action would be initiated soon. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/univ-registrar-booked-after-sexual-harassment-complaint-by-professor/articleshow/77901098.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi-based dancer invited to party at UP hotel, raped; two held||BAREILLY: A Delhi-based woman, who was invited to perform at a birthday party in UP’s Moradabad, was allegedly raped at the hotel in which the event was organised and where she was provided accommodation for the night. On Wednesday, police have arrested two persons in the case while the main accused is still on the run. The woman, a resident of Vasant Kunj in Delhi and a dancer by profession, alleged that she had gone to perform at the event hosted in a hotel on Station Road near Budh Bazar on August 30 and was raped by a local, Aslam, later in the night. The accused even threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed the episode to anyone. Moradabad SHO (Kotwali) Ravi Kumar said, “The woman, a 27-year-old resident of Vasant Kunj in south Delhi, performs at parties and other such events. She was invited to dance at a party organized in a city hotel and raped the same night by a local.” Superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “Hotel owner Manoj Gwal and caretaker Deepak alias Shashi, who the woman has accused of being present at the scene but didn’t help her, have been arrested while Aslam is still on the run. Based on the woman’s complaint, a case has been registered against the accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (acts done by several person in furtherance of common intension) of the Indian Penal Code.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Delhi-based dancer invited to party at Moradabad hotel, raped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-based-dancer-invited-to-party-at-up-hotel-raped-two-held/articleshow/77896975.cms||Maria Khan
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Minor girl gang-raped by four in UP’s Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by four youngsters when she was on her way to collect passport-sized photographs from a local studio for her school admission form in the CB Ganj area of Bareilly district on Wednesday. Police have registered an FIR against all the accused and two have been detained so far. The girl and all the accused belong to the CB Ganj area. The girl’s father told police that her daughter was walking towards the photo studio when the main accused, identified as Mohit, 18, and his three accomplices stopped her near the railway ground. They then dragged her to an abandoned place and took turns to rape her. The girl - in severe trauma - returned home with her clothes torn and bruises. She was profusely crying, and narrated her ordeal to her father. In his complaint, the minor girl’s father also alleged that the young men had thrashed his daughter and filmed the sexual assault on their mobile phone. Police, however, are yet to include any section of the IT Act due to "lack of evidence". “The girl was in a state of complete shock. We have registered an FIR against Mohit, Sumit Singh, Ankit Gupta and an unidentified person under IPC sections 376-D (gang rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) along with sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act. After the initial probe, we found that the girl went to meet Mohit, someone she knew, when three of his accomplices raped her," CB Ganj SHO Bachoo Singh told TOI. "Two of the accused have been detained. Relevant sections of the IPC will be added after recovering the mobile phones. The girl's statement has been recorded. She will be sent for medical tests and further treatment,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-gang-raped-by-four-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/77896964.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit stray leopard dodges baits, moves to new area||Pilibhit: The authorities of the forest and wildlife division in Pilibhit are perplexed after finding out that the stray leopard, which they are planning to trap, has moved away far from the locations where cages with live baits have been placed. The five-year-old male leopard has made the agricultural belt around Surajpur, Rasoola, Jagat, Bishanpur and Gajraula villages its home about a year ago despite the presence of over 10 tigers in the area. It has now started prowling in new far away areas such as Kattaiya, Pandari and Bela Pokhara villages. The urgency of trapping this leopard was felt as farmers in the region have become desperate after it frequently attacked pet dogs and cattle. The authorities have placed two cages with live baits in Surajpur village and one each in Jagat and Katmati villages on August 25 after the animal was seen prowling in the area frequently. “We want the leopard removed from our area immediately. Already, there are tigers in the sugarcane fields. It is a threat to villagers and their livestock and pets,” said Paramveer Singh Perry, a farmer leader in Surajpur village. Divisional forest officer of forest and wildlife division, Sanjeev Kumar, said though the cages were placed to trap the leopard, the authorities do not want to catch the tigers present in the area. “We normally keep the cages in 'charged condition' after dusk to avert caging of any tigers that move frequently in the area even in the day. At night, we keep a watch so as to push away any approaching tiger,” said Hemant Kumar Seth, sub-divisional officer of the forest division. END||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-stray-leopard-dodges-baits-moves-to-new-area/articleshow/77896952.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Jayakwadi set for discharge, people living near Godavari told to be ready||Aurangabad: Jayakwadi major irrigation project is filled to 95% live storage with discharge of water likely to begin soon. While the key dam is on the verge of water release for the second consecutive year, people living along the banks of the Godavari river have been asked to take necessary precautions. Most of the other important irrigation projects in the region have also been showing satisfactory level, addressing the need of drinking water till next monsoon. Sandeep Rathod, in-charge of Jayakwadi dam, on Wednesday said the dam may witness discharge over a period of next 24 to 48 hours depending upon inflows from upstream areas. “In the recent past, the dam witnessed direct release of water into Godavari in 2019,2017,2008,2007,2006 and 2005. It is for the first time during the current decade that water is set for discharge from the dam for consecutive years,” he said. As per official data, Jayakwadi dam was showing over 85% live storage during corresponding period last year. Nathsagar, the dam reservoir, received inflows at the speed of around 18,000 cusec by Wednesday afternoon. Among other key major irrigation projects in Marathwada, Yeldari dam and Lower Dudhna dam from Parbhani district have been showing 100% and 70% live storage respectively by Tuesday. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jayakwadi-set-for-discharge-people-living-near-godavari-told-to-be-ready/articleshow/77896968.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||In death, lender unmasks ‘teacher-cum-loanshark’||Rajkot: A dead man led Amreli police and Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) to unearth disproportionate assets (DA) worth Rs 1.27 crore from a suspended primary school teacher in Amreli district. Accused Bhabhlu Varu who had invested in luxurious cars and land was found to be involved in money lending. The matter came to light after a resident of Nageshree village in Jafrabad taluka, Hitesh Goradia, allegedly took his own life to end the harassment by a moneylender. In his suicide note addressed to Amreli superintendent of police, Nirlipt Rai, Goradia, who took the extreme step in Rajkot in June this year, named Varu. The accused was then teaching in Balanivav primary school of Rajula taluka. While a case of abetment of suicide was registered against Varu in Rajkot at that time, Amreli police later found cases of money laundering against him. According to police, deceased used to borrow money from Varu and lend it again at higher interest to others. The police had also recovered ornaments worth Rs 1.56 crore which is had seized from Goradia’s residence in Nageshree village. Varu, who too was found to be involved in various offences like extortion and threatening and was wanted by Rajula police station, is currently lodged in judicial custody. Talking to TOI Rai said, “We have found disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.26 crore on the name of his spouse and children which is 147 percent higher than the income from his legitimate profession.” A case of money lending was earlier registered against Varu in Rajula police station and the police had registered another case against him after Goradia’s suicide. The police, thereafter, found various bank accounts in his name, luxurious cars and various other properties in Amreli district besides a visit to Thailand and sent a report to the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-death-lender-unmasks-teacher-cum-loanshark/articleshow/77896921.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-based dancer invited to party at UP hotel, raped; two held||BAREILLY: A Delhi-based woman, who was invited to perform at a birthday party in UP’s Moradabad, was allegedly raped at the hotel in which the event was organised and where she was provided accommodation for the night. On Wednesday, police have arrested two persons in the case while the main accused is still on the run. The woman, a resident of Vasant Kunj in Delhi and a dancer by profession, alleged that she had gone to perform at the event hosted in a hotel on Station Road near Budh Bazar on August 30 and was raped by a local, Aslam, later in the night. The accused even threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed the episode to anyone. Moradabad SHO (Kotwali) Ravi Kumar said, “The woman, a 27-year-old resident of Vasant Kunj in south Delhi, performs at parties and other such events. She was invited to dance at a party organized in a city hotel and raped the same night by a local.” Superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “Hotel owner Manoj Gwal and caretaker Deepak alias Shashi, who the woman has accused of being present at the scene but didn’t help her, have been arrested while Aslam is still on the run. Based on the woman’s complaint, a case has been registered against the accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (acts done by several person in furtherance of common intension) of the Indian Penal Code.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Delhi-based dancer invited to party at Moradabad hotel, raped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-based-dancer-invited-to-party-at-up-hotel-raped-two-held/articleshow/77903197.cms||Maria Khan
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Angry tillers swim in farms to protest apathy||Rajkot: This monsoon has proved to be extremely trying for the villagers of Raval, a tiny hamlet in Devbhumi Dwarka, which was flooded for the fourth time in this season alone owing to heavy rains and also by water released from Vartu dam. Angry with the vagaries of the rainy season and the government apathy at their plight, farmers under the banner of Kisan congress organized a swimming competition in their flood-filled farms on Wednesday to register their ire at having suffered total loss of crops. According to state government’s data, Devbhumi Dwarka district received 323 percent of average rainfall this season leading to huge damage in the district. According to a rough estimate nearly 800 acre land has been washed out in these back-to-back floods.Raval is the endpoint from where waters from three rivers — Sani,Vartu and Sorthi — merge and flow into the sea. The gates of 30-year-old Sani dam have been opened as the government has started restructuring the dam and the district administration was unable to manage the water. The district administration also had to open the gates of Vartu dam owing to huge inflow from heavy rains, thereby causing floods in the village. Chairman of Gujarat Kisan Congress, Pal Ambaliya said, “Raval is not the only village that’s suffering huge loss but there are nearly 12 other villages facing the same problem. We demand the government to complete restructuring Sani dam before the monsoon ends this year.”More than two dozen farmers joined the protest swimming competition and winners were awarded with lollipops. Protesting farmers claim they do not want government financial assistance but will pay the government Rs50,000 per Bigha if it can make their land fertile again.Baldev Varotaria, a farmer said, “I sowed three times but all three times it was washed out. My farm is continously under water and I couldn’t even harvest my Rabi crop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/angry-tillers-swim-in-farms-to-protest-apathy/articleshow/77896945.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Salary dues: Civic staff to strike for 2 hours daily in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Employees of different departments of three civic bodies will abstain from work for two hours daily and protest between 11am and 1pm at Civic Centre. They have not got their salaries for the past few months and hence, launched an indefinite protest on Wednesday. They have formed a confederation of employees’ unions, which includes all groups and pensioners. The confederation claims to have informed commissioners, mayors and welfare officers concerned about the protest. Except for sanitation workers, salaries for other departments in the north corporation are not paid for 3-4 months, in the east corporation for two months and in the south corporation for one month. Municipal Corporations Teachers’ Association general secretary Ram Niwas Solanki said that their several meetings with authorities did not yield any results. “We don’t want the work to suffer but without pay, how long can we continue?” he asked. An SDMC official said they don’t have funds to pay salaries. “Salaries can be paid only after we get funds from the property tax or the Delhi government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salary-dues-civic-staff-to-strike-for-2-hours-daily/articleshow/77900060.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Teenaged cousins found dead in Beed well, suicide suspected||Aurangabad: A 16-year-old girl and her 17-year-old cousin were found dead under suspicious condition in a well in the Mategaon village of Gevrai tehsil in Beed district. The incident came to light when some villagers spotted two floating bodies in the village well. Soon, the police were informed. The bodies were fished out of the well and taken to the Umapur-based primary health centre. After ascertaining their identities, autopsies were performed and the bodies were handed over to the respective families. The deceased have been identified as Shubham Rohidas Kapse of Bhatantarwali and Kaveri Rajendra Khandare of Patharwala village. Both were students. An offence in this regard has been registered with the Chaklamba police station. Harssh Poddar, the Beed superintendent of police, told TOI, “A case of accidental death has been registered at the moment. The enquiry is on about whether there was any abetment of suicide angle or any other offence. Once determined, appropriate sections will be applied.” Not ruling out that it could be a case of abetment of suicide, the police have decided to record statements of the duo’s families. The police have already reached out to the villagers and some relatives of the deceased to find out the possible reason which might have forced the minors to take the extreme step. Sources in the police said the two are close relatives and the investigation officer in the case is trying to check if there was any missing complaint registered by the respective families, the time when the duo went missing and how did they reach the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teenaged-cousins-found-dead-in-beed-well-suicide-suspected/articleshow/77896994.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||NEET student leaves home, goes missing||Kolkata: A 20-year-old NEET candidate has been missing ever since he left his home in Belgharia on Tuesday morning. Even as a search was on to trace Rakshit Mittal, his scooterette was recovered from a desolate place near a school at Murshidabad’s Beldanga, 170km from his home. His family, who runs a wholesale pulse business in Burrabazar, feared Rakshit might have been abducted though no ransom call has not arrived. According to the Mittals, Rakshit, who was to appear for the medical entrance test on September 13, left their apartment in Belgharia for a temple at Almabazar near Dakshineswar. “He is a meritorious student and kept to himself. My son left home around 11am on Tuesday, saying he was going to Shyam Mandir. Since then, he has not returned. His mobile is switched off,” said Ashoke Mittal, Rakshit’s father. The family lodged a missing person diary at Belgharia PS. His uncle Dinesh said Rakshit’s phone location was traced to Duttapukur in North 24 Parganas on Tuesday evening. “But he wasn’t found there,” he said. “We can’t understand how he reached Murshidabad. He might have been lured by someone and abducted.” Police said CCTV footage showed the boy entering the temple. “A search has been launched,” an officer from the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neet-student-leaves-home-goes-missing/articleshow/77898454.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Over-speeding killed 5K in 2019||Vadodara: ‘Speed thrills, but kills’ goes the popular saying but for Gujaratis, speed is the adrenaline when in driving seat. Incidentally, over-speeding is the major cause for the higher number of fatal accidents in the state. The recently released report of National Crime Records Bureau on accidental deaths and suicides in India show that of 7,428 people who died in road accidents, 5,739 people died due to over-speeding in Gujarat last year. Dangerous or careless driving also led to deaths of 972 people. Interestingly, although the prohibition cases are highest on the crime charts in case, fatal accidents caused due to driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs were only 41 across the state. Gujarat has large network of national highways, but maximum fatal accidents took place on state highways as 2,164 people died while 1,942 people died in accidents that took place on national highways, 42 people died on expressways and 3,280 people died on other roads. “Over-speeding is the major reason because that is mentioned by the complainant in the FIRs. But we have invested in infrastructure so that commuters do not drive beyond the permissible speed limits,” said J J Chaudhari, deputy superintendent of police of State Traffic Branch. He added that the state police had just 50 speed guns so far, but an approval has been received for procuring 212 more speed guns. “In all districts special cameras have also been placed which can detect the speed of a vehicle so if somebody is found over-speeding an e-challan gets automatically issued to the commuter.” “If a biker is riding candidly on a village road connected to the highway, there have been instances where the biker continued to ride like that on the intersection too without anticipating a heavy or speeding vehicle approaching. This leads to road accident,” said Satyen Kulabkar, a traffic expert and member of Road Safety Council in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-speeding-killed-5k-in-2019/articleshow/77896309.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Fratricidal case: Mehul Tamboli surrenders, arrest after nCov test||Rajkot: Mehul Tamboli, director of Bhavnagar-based Tamboli Casting Limited (TCL), accused of stabbing his own brother in company’s board meeting on Saturday has surrendered before the Vartej police on Wednesday. Based on the medical report, police have also added IPC section 326 in this fratricidal case. Talking to TOI Bhavnagar superintendent of police Jaipal Singh Rathod said, “We were searching for Tamboli everywhere including his home, farmhouse and other possible hideouts. He was under pressure and surrendered by himself. After completion of his Covid-19 test, we will arrest him.” At the time of filing an FIR, cops imposed IPC section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon) against him, but based on the medical report about the injury, they added IPC section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon) on Wednesday. Mehul, one of the directors in TCL, was enraged when his father Bipin Tamboli put forward a proposal to remove him from the post he was holding in the board in the meeting held on Saturday at the company's campus in Vartej, 24 km from Bhavnagar city. Overcome by blind rage, Mehul suddenly picked up a knife and started stabbing his brother Vaibhav in the stomach. He was soon overpowered by others and Vaibhav was rushed to a private hospital, where he is out of danger now. Senior Tamboli lodged a complaint against Mehul, his elder son for injuring his younger brother. It is learnt that the relationship between the two brothers has been strained for a long time now and sources said the main reason for the acrimony is ownership of family properties. Senior police officials in Bhavnagar told TOI that Mehul is extremely temperamental and impulsive in nature. Earlier in 2012, his wife Julie had lodged a complaint of domestic violence against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fratricidal-case-mehul-tamboli-surrenders-arrest-after-ncov-test/articleshow/77896973.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||Drug trade hurting Bengaluru’s image, says AH Vishwanath||Mysuru: Former minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanth on Wednesday asked chief minister BS Yediyurappa to crack the whip on the drug mafia in the state. He sought a high-level probe into allegations of drug use by film stars. “Journalist and film director Indrajit Lankesh made an allegation in the backdrop of the NCB busting a high-profile drug case in the state. He has openly stated that many Sandalwood actors, actresses, music directors and directors have been drug addicts,” he said here. “The drug menace is hurting Bengaluru. The city is moving closer to Punjab where the government is struggling to tackle the menace. Most of the 5-star hotels, high profile bars and pubs have become places for drug consumption. Drug peddlers are not only targeting children of the rich and influential people, even some children of MLAs are victims of the drug mafia,” he said. Vishwanath wanted police to crack down on such joints and free the state from drug menace to save children. “Police should not spare even the children of celebrities and politicians involved in the mafia,” he said. Meanwhile, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said the drug mafia is part of terrorism. Speaking to the reporters he said, “To destroy a country there is no need for bombs or missiles. Instead, making youths drug addicts is enough. Once a youth becomes an addict, his entire family gets destroyed. The mafia shall be eliminated mercilessly.” “The drug mafia is not limited to Bollywood or Sandalwood. Now drugs are available everywhere. We must be careful,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drug-trade-hurting-bengalurus-image-says-ah-vishwanath/articleshow/77898129.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Chengalthodu bridge work yet to begin||KOCHI: The regulator-cum-bridge work across Chengalthodu, which is considered as the most crucial part of the comprehensive flood mitigation plan, is yet to begin. Though the Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) airport authorities had floated a tender for civil works estimated to cost Rs.20 crore, it could not be taken forward due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. Cial is planning a regulator-cum-bridge at the starting point of Chengalthodu to reduce flood risk. The work is estimated to cost Rs.40 crore and now the permission has been given for civil works related to the project. Airport officials consider the project the most crucial flood control measure as they would be able to regulate the water level in the stream in accordance with that of Periyar river. The plan is to build a four-metre high concrete wall and install a shutter to control the water flow. It will act as a dam on Chengalthodu and will clear away the chances of decrease in water level in the stream due to the construction of two bridges on AP Varkey Road and Chethikkottu. Cial is planning to complete the work with the help of Kanjoor panchayat. Meanwhile, several residents and civic body leaders in the area are yet to agree with the construction of the regulator-cum-bridge. “Though majority of people have consented to implementation of the project, a few others are opposing it. The project is the most crucial flood control measure and people have to cooperate with it,” stated a booklet published by Cial as part of the flood mitigation plan. Many residents have said other works undertaken by Cial have not reduced flood issues in the neighbouring areas of the airport. Chengamanad panchayat president Dileep Kaprassery said around 80 families had to be evacuated due to floods this year. “Cial had promised to construct four bridges in my panchayat, but they haven’t started any work. Moreover, the runway drainage water is flowed into Kaithakattuchira stream and the water is polluted now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chengalthodu-bridge-work-yet-to-begin/articleshow/77898493.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||Cops crack murder attempt case triggered by ethnic tension||Mysuru: The city police have achieved a breakthrough in a murder attempt case in 2012 triggered by ethnic tension in north east of India and Myanmar. The cops have arrested two youths, exactly eight years after the incident. Twenty-two-year-old Tibetan national Tenzin Dhargyal was stabbed and injured by two youths at a hotel in the heart of Mysuru on August 14, 2012. The attack was planned by the youths and it was an upshot of the violence. The investigation in the case was temporarily suspended due to lack of evidence and clues about the assailants. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda said the accused admitted that the attack was planned as Muslims were targeted during the ethnic tension between Bodos and Muslims in Assam, and Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar. They planned the attack after receiving information about Tibetans visiting the city. The accused collected details of the itinerary of the Tibetan group and attacked Tenzin, who was then taking care of two of Tibetan Lamas at a hospital. Tenzin was attacked with a knife when he went out to have dinner at a hotel in Devaraja police limits. Prakash Gowda said this was one of the long pending cases in Mysuru. “There was no evidence with regard to the accused and despite our best efforts, the case couldn’t be cracked,” he said. Prakash Gowda told reporters that a special team was formed to crack unsolved cases in the city. The police team picked up Salim Pasha, a known offender and listed rowdy, on suspicion in a criminal case and during the inquiry he revealed this crime he had committed along with two of his accomplices — Salman Pasha and Ismail Khan. After the attack, the trio shifted to Bengaluru and then left for Dubai where they lived for over a year, before returning to Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-crack-murder-attempt-case-triggered-by-ethnic-tension/articleshow/77897944.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s Rs 3 lakh cheque to dead employee’s kin bounces||NAGPUR: In a major embarrassment for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), a cheque issued to the family of a deceased staffer of accounts and finance department bounced due to insufficient funds. Now, chief accounts and finance officer Hemant Thakre has asked the kin of late Raju Rasekar to collect a fresh cheque of Rs3,31,980. Rasekar worked with NMC for almost three decades and was a class IV employee with the NMC’s education department and was posted in NMC’s Hazaripahad school. Rasekar died on July 26 following a brief illness. As per procedure, apart from other benefits like family pension, the NMC’s accounts department handed over a Rs3,31,980 cheque drawn on Bank of Maharashtra towards leave encashment to Rasekar’s wife Mira on August 27. As Rasekar’s salary account was with NMC’s Employees Credit Cooperative Bank, Mira deposited the cheque on the same day with the cooperative bank. To her shock, Mira received a call from the cooperative bank on September 1 about the cheque having bounced. After enquiry, she was told that BoM returned the cheque as NMC’s account had insufficient balance. On Tuesday, Mira brought this to the notice of the NMC’s accounts department. The incident again brought the civic body’s grim financial situation to fore. NMC has not paid income tax, failed to deposit provident fund contribution though it was deducting this from employees’ salaries, and is yet to pay outstanding Rs500 crore to various contractors. The earlier municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had stalled works and announced no new works due to financial crisis. In his last interaction with the media, Mundhe had said NMC may not achieve even half of the revenue target of Rs2,523.82 crore for 2020-2021. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke expressed anguish over the cheque bounce case and maintained that NMC’s condition was not that bad. “I will inquire into the matter and the guilty officer will be punished,” he said, terming it a serious incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-rs3-l-cheque-to-dead-employees-kin-bounces/articleshow/77900109.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||40% of recovered patients lack antibodies: AMC||AHMEDABAD: Municipal health authorities now warn Amdavadis of a possible second and even a third wave of Covid-19 infections, if basic rules of Covid hygiene are not followed. They found in their latest serology or antibody study that nearly 40% of 1,816 persons who had recovered from Covid did not develop, or lost the antibodies from their body. They also found that 68% of the 3,973 people who had contracted the virus from an infected person, including close family members, did not develop any antibodies against Covid-19. “At this rate, a second or a third wave of Covid may follow, if precautions are not taken now,” warns an AMC official. The antibody study conducted between August 15 and August 29 over a representative sample size of 10,000 people found that 23 % of the sampled population had Covid antibodies, while in the last survey conducted in June where a larger 30,000 people were sampled 17.6% people had developed antibodies. Another clear sign of people shedding antibodies over a period of time is seen in the municipal Central zone which had seen the outbreak in March-April where there is just a 3.2 % rise in population having developed antibodies now, compared to June. Another such zone is the East zone where there has been a marginal rise of 0.74% population having antibodies against Covid. Dr Jay Shah, associate professor of AMC MET and Amit Parikh, HOD medicine, in SVP hospital said that the increase in positivity of 5.63% in the city after 1.5 months of earlier study, and in Unlock period, is very low. A clear socio-economic difference could be seen in this antibody study. The posh North West and s South West zones, consisting of Jodhpur, Thaltej, Bodakdev, Gota, Ghatlodia, Sola, Science City and other surrounding areas showed a smaller percentage of population had developed Covid antibodies compared to populations in Central, East, North and parts of South zone. But the bright spot in these posh areas is that there is a significant growth in the population showing presence of antibodies between the two surveys conducted in June and August. “We are fine-tuning our results. One task is to find whether these tests were showing presence of other coronaviruses along with Covid-19 and another is to find how much time one takes to shed the antibodies. The Central zone and East zones are clear examples of shedding antibodies,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/40-of-recovered-patients-lack-antibodies-amc/articleshow/77898489.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||Two workers die while working at stone crushing unit||Shivamogga: In a tragic incident, two workers from Assam were killed on Tuesday while working on a stone crushing site at Gejjenahalli in Shivamogga. The victims, Dekalog, 23, and Fremington, 24, originally from Bujal village in Chirang district in Assam, were fixing the stone crusher’s belt when the sheet and wall of the unit collapsed, killing the duo. The two workers cried for help, and while their colleagues rushed to their aid, it was already too late. While Dekalog, who was stuck in the debris, died instantly, Fremington sustained severe injuries and was admitted to the district hospital, where he succumbed on Wednesday morning. Vinobha police, who are probing the incident, have booked the owner of the unit Shivakumar under Section 304A of the Indian Penal Code. Cops said that both workers had none of their family members in Shivamogga, and had been hired through a middleman. “We have informed their caretakers, and thrie bodies are in the mortuary,” police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-workers-die-while-working-at-stone-crushing-unit/articleshow/77897029.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for cheating woman||Hyderabad: A photographer has been taken into custody by the RGIA police for cheating a woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused, Raj Kumar, who is from Shamshabad, met an orchestra singer from Kushaiguda, on Facebook four months ago. Recently he married another woman secretly. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-cheating-woman/articleshow/77322785.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city death rate below 2%||Nashik: The Covid-19 mortality rate in the city has dipped below 2% following various measures taken up by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Currently, the city has a Covid-related death rate of 1.9%. The first Covid-related death in the city took place in early May and the fatality rate was 4.8% on June 30. It dropped to 2.9% by July 31, and has now improved further. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of the city has touched 81.6% and currently, there are only 16.5% active patients here. The NMC officials said the increase in tracing of suspected Covid-19 cases, rapid antigen tests for early detection and immediate treatment provided to the identified patients have led to a drop in the death rate. “We also conducted a survey of patients with comorbidities and traced more than 37,000 co-morbid patients with critical ailments like cancer, diabetes, blood pressure etc. The overall measures have yielded good results, reducing the death rate,” said an NMC official. The civic body also changed the discharge policy from the previous 14 days to seven or five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-death-rate-below-2/articleshow/77897026.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 3, 2020||Nashik||13,000 from Nashik district appearing for JEE (Main)||Nashik: Around 13,000 students from Nashik district are appearing for JEE (Main), which are being conducted in batches from 9am to noon and 3pm to 6pm daily, sources linked to the exams said on Wednesday. The exams began across four centres in Nashik city on September 1 and will conclude on September 6. “The exams for B.Arch and B.Planning aspirants were conducted on September 1 and for those aspiring to do BE or B.Tech are being held from September 2 to 6,” said the sources. Additional papers were presented for drawing figures and charts only for B.Arch and B.Planning aspirants. All other candidates had to solve their question papers online. Students were not allowed to enter the exam centres with the masks they were already wearing and were given fresh masks. “Instructions were very clear that students are not allowed to retain the masks worn by them during their travel from home to the exam centre. We were provided fresh masks at the entrance,” said Vineeta Shimpi, one of the candidates. The centres were sanitised between the two shifts of the exams. It is mandatory to ensure the process is completed in time before the next batch of students come for the exams. A number of candidates who took the exams expressed relief. “This puts an end to the anxious moments whether exams would be conducted or not. Since the exams had been postponed, we were in ‘study’ mode for a longer period, which added to our pressure psychologically,” Rohit Jain, an aspirant, said. The students taking the exams have travelled to Nashik from Malegaon, Yeola and other talukas. “I had to start early morning on a motorycle with my father from Yeola to attend the exams as I could not stay at my relative’s house in Nashik in the current scenario when the fear of coronavirus has gripped one an all,” said Altaf Shaikh, another aspirant. In Aurangabad too, the JEE Main was conducted across four centres on Wednesday. Rajanikant Garud, the vice-principal of the Deogiri College, said the National Testing Agency (NTA) has ensured all measures for the safety of the candidates writing the exam. “Students must follow the instructions given by the NTA in letter and spirit to ensure personal safety,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13000-from-nashik-district-appearing-for-jee-main/articleshow/77897011.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||NMC mulls revoking P1 and P2 system of operating shops||Nashik: The Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) is actively considering to do away with the P1 and P2 model for operating shops in the city. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said that he has sought feedback from several municipal corporations, including Thane and Pune, in this regard. Jadhav said that the decision will be made taking into consideration the feedback. “We have already allowed shops from both sides of roads to open. Also, the roads on which there are shops only on one side will remain open daily,” said Jadhav. “The P1 and P2 model of operating shops is in force only to avoid crowd at public places, especially shops, and to ensure that social distancing is maintained to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he added. Traders in the city have been demanding discontinuation of the P1 and P2 system as it was impacting their business. “Earlier, since the moratorium was in effect, people as well as traders got some relief while repaying loans. However, the relief was short-lived as the moratorium has now ended and people will have to pay EMI for their loans starting September. Hence, P1 and P2 formula will create more problems for traders,” said an office-bearer of the Nashik Jewellers Association. He said that the civic body should take action against unauthorized hawkers who are responsible for traffic jams and unnecessary crowd on roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-mulls-revoking-p1-and-p2-system-of-operating-shops/articleshow/77897051.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||UP cop on MLA’s duty thrashes a driver to ‘clear traffic’ on NH-24||Bareilly: A constable was suspended by Shahjahanpur SSP in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly thrashing a car driver with a baton while "trying to clear traffic” on NH-24 near Baigul bridge along the border of Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts.The constable was apparently deployed as a gunner of Veer Vikram Singh, the BJP MLA from Shahjahanpur's Katra constituency. A purported video of the cop thrashing the driver has gone viral ever since. Bareilly DIG Rajesh Pandey then ordered a probe.The incident took place on Tuesday when the MLA was reportedly returning home from Shahjahanpur. However, the MLA told TOI, “The individual who was thrashed by my gunner had actually blocked the highway after a truck had brushed his car. He was bullying the truck driver for compensation without caring about a patient in an ambulance stuck in the traffic jam caused by him."When the local police and gunner Rahul Kumar requested him to clear the way for the ambulance, he misbehaved, the MLA claimed on Wednesday. "Since the patient was critical and was referred to a Bareilly hospital, Rahul lost his cool and thrashed the stubborn driver. The video showed my car, but didn’t show the ambulance behind it. I had shared the truth with senior cops, but Rahul was still suspended,” the MLA added.Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “I had asked additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam to probe into the matter. After receiving a preliminary report, we suspended the gunner Rahul Kumar and assigned another one for the MLA.”“This prompt action was taken to send a clear message to the department that such behaviour in public will not be tolerated under any circumstances by any official. Further action will be initiated against Rahul once the probe is complete," the SSP added.ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-cop-on-mlas-duty-thrashes-a-driver-to-clear-traffic-on-nh-24/articleshow/77897060.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata roads safest of big cities: NCRB||KOLKATA: The latest National Crime Records Bureau report, released on Tuesday, revealed that the city has the lowest share of accidental death rate in the country but drink-driving still remains a major challenge. Kolkata — the third largest in terms of the population in 53 mega cities surveyed in the country — has reported the lowest share of deaths accounting for merely 0.5 % of total accidental deaths during 2019. The rate of accidental deaths (per one lakh of the population) in Kolkata stood at 2.3, as compared to 27.7 for Delhi and 50.2 for Mumbai. In 2019, the city recorded 267 road accidents. The total accident figure is 56% less than that in 2018 when the figure stood at 734. However, drunk driving is believed to have caused about 71 accidents in the city, leading to four deaths and 50 injuries while dangerous driving and speeding paved the way for three accidents involving four deaths and 16 accidents involving 11 deaths respectively. The Kolkata traffic police said they are taking all steps to curb drink-driving. “There are several other reasons like weather and bad roads behind accidents and we don’t have much to do in this regard. But those driving cars under the influence of alcohol face temporary revocation of their licenses and this shows we go tough with the offenders,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “The Save Life Safe Drive Campaign has been successful ever since it was launched almost three years ago. Besides, we have introduced modern technology like cameras that can read number plates even at night, automated signals monitored centrally and speed guns on even flyovers. We followed up the issue with specific drives against two-wheelers at night and carried it on till the pandemic threw up a new challenge to us,” said joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey. The NCRB report has also dwelt on the ages of the victims killed in fatal accidents. Contrary to the national average, maximum accident victims in the city are senior citizens with around 128 dying on the spots. However, there has been a sharp drop in the total number of non-fatal accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drink-fuels-more-than-1-in-4-road-accidents/articleshow/77898580.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||HC judges to inspect KP on Saturday||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court judges would be visiting Kasturchand Park on Saturday at 11.30am to verify whether their orders over the years in a suo motu PIL (45/2017) were complied with. “The parties and counsels may remain present during the visit,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. The PIL was based on media reports exposing gross misuse of the historic place due to negligence by district administration. The NMC had undertaken beautification work of the ground, compound wall, gates, parking bay, toilet blocks, electrification, ground levelling and flag mast area. MahaMetro was granted permission for a Metro station construction by dismantling the protection wall of 23 metres from LIC square to RBI square and a public toilet was being constructed by the NMC in the south-east direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-judges-to-inspect-kp-on-sat/articleshow/77900114.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Hilsa catch drives down other fish rates in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The biggest catch of hilsa so far in this season at the confluence of the Hooghly and Bay of Bengal brought down the price of the fish by Rs 200 at city markets. Dictated by the availability of hilsa, the prices of other fish varieties have also come down marginally. Bekti, was sold at Rs 500, instead of Rs 600 a kg on Wednesday. Similarly, katla price has also dipped by Rs 50 a kg. On Tuesday, fishermen from Kakdwip, one of the biggest fish harbours of Bengal, caught 2,000 tonnes of hilsa, each weighing above 700 gram. Around 600 tonnes of this catch on Wednesday hit the city markets, pulling the price down a bit for the first time this season. Hilsa weighing 700-800 gram was sold at Rs 1,100 or Rs 1,200 per kg while the price usually remains not less than Rs 1,400-1,600 per kg this season, said Amar Das, a fish vendor at Lake market. Hilsa weighing between 1kg and 1.2kg was sold at Rs1,400-1,500 a kg, A hilsa of this size hitherto could not be available for less than Rs 1,700-1,800 a kg. The hilsa weighing more than 1.5kg, which is often dubbed as royal hilsa, remains as high as Rs 2,000 per kg even after its price dropped marginally from Rs 2,200-2,500 per kg. The taste of the fish gets better with size. Significantly, while the hilsa prices dropped in major city markets, the prices at New Market remained high on Wednesday. “We hope more supply will crash the high price barrier,” said Gulam Mustafa, a fish vendor at the market. Many fishermen think that the complete prohibition on fishing during the lockdown in March, April and May has allowed juvenile hilsa to mature, leading to the catch of the fish with good sizes. Bijon Maity, secretary of Kakdwip Fishermen’s Association, said, “The catch of hilsa has started late in the season, almost in the fag end of the monsoon. But the trend is good. We expect much better catches in the day ahead. So far, in the last three days, 2,000 tonnes of hilsa were caught. Fishermen have also started realising that catching juvenile hilsa does not earn them profits.” However, on the western side of the confluence at Digha, the catch is as less as 1.5 tonnes, said Digha Fishermen Association’s secretary, Shyamsundor Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hilsa-catch-drives-down-other-fish-rates/articleshow/77898497.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Nashik||A low-key farewell to Ganesh this yr||Nashik: The visarjan on the last day of the Ganeshotsav on Tuesday was a low-key affair in Nashik with most devotees either immersing their Ganapati idols at home or donating them to the civic personnel at the designated spots. Unlike other years, there were no grand processions given the ongoing pandemic. Around 1.1 lakh Ganesh idols were donated by the devotees to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) at the collection centres of 66 immersion spots. Last year, 1.3 lakh idols were donated. However, the number of Ganesh mandals that had set up pandals had also come down from last year’s 345 to 145 mandals this year. For the first time, the civic body provided online slots for immersion to avoid crowding. More than 15,000 people availed of the facility over the 10 days of Ganeshotsav, though 12,500 slots were booked for the last day alone. “In addition to the 33 natural immersion spots, we had set up artificial ponds in equal numbers. Around 9 tonne of ammonium bicarbonate was distributed among residents to immerse plaster of paris (PoP) idols at home,” said an NMC official. “The demand for ammonium bicarbonate had doubled this year,” the official added. “Eight mandals, including us, had collectively installed one idol at the Bhalekar ground. Instead of grand festivities, we had organised blood donation camp, health check-ups and antigen tests,” said Ganesh Barve, the president of a large Ganesh mandal in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/a-low-key-farewell-to-ganesh-this-yr/articleshow/77897068.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Probe sought into auctioning of mayor’s car||KOCHI: Opposition councillors in Kochi corporation have demanded a probe into the disposal of the car which had been used by the mayor. According to opposition councillors, the local fund audit department has revealed the alleged irregularities in the auctioning of the car. The government allowed the corporation authorities to dispose of the Innova car (KL 7 BQ 9999) in 2018 after the corporation informed the government that it was not usable. As per the government directive, the car should have been condemned. But the corporation auctioned it violating the instructions.  “The corporation spent Rs 20 lakh from 2018-19 plan fund for purchasing a new car for the mayor,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party. Finance standing committee of the corporation also had registered their dissent over auctioning the car. “But the corporation auctioned the car, a premium class one, at Rs 3,76,000. As per the auditors, the car (even if it is auctioned) should have been sold after cancelling its registration number. But was not done,” Chandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/probe-sought-into-auctioning-of-mayors-car/articleshow/77898613.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata saw one suicide every two days last year||KOLKATA: The city witnessed at least one suicide at an interval of every two days and the state saw close to 35 suicides daily last year, according to the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for the year 2019. The city saw a 11.7% jump in suicides from 162 in 2018 to 181 in 2019. Bengal witnessed a decline of 4.5% in total suicides — from 13,255 in 2018 to 12,665 in 2019. Despite this, the state got the third position in the list of maximum suicides in the country since 2017, after Maharashtra (18,916 cases) and Tamil Nadu (13,493 cases). The city saw 112 suicides by men and 69 others by women for various reasons. Mental illness was reported as the cause behind 139 suicide cases. About 20 other cases were linked with substance or alcohol abuse while nine other cases were attributed to failed love affairs and seven others to dowry. About 13 cases were related to dissatisfaction in marriage. Failure in exam was found the reason behind just one case. “According to studies, 90% of the suicide cases are related to depression. Depression is a silent killer. We need to talk about depression and other mental illness more often, so that the stigma attached with the ailment can be driven away,” said a senior doctor associated with the Institute of Psychiatry (IOP) at IPGMER, SSKM Hospital. The NCRB data provided a broad picture about the state. Of those who committed suicide in Bengal, 345 were illiterate. About 9,636 of them earned between Rs 1 and Rs 5 lakh per year. Another 280 victims earned more than Rs 5 lakh and 218 others above Rs 10 lakh. About 75 of the victims were government servants and 18 others had retired. Around 586 victims were unemployed, 1,199 self employed, 1,931 were housewives and 738 ran their own business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-saw-one-suicide-every-two-days-last-yr/articleshow/77898626.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat, Chikhaldara resort owners cross swords over conservation fee||NAGPUR: The Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) has put over a dozen resort and hotel owners in Chikhaldara on notice for default of conservation fee to the tune of Rs 30 lakh. This fee has been due for the last eight years. The 13 resorts issued notices fall in the buffer zone of the tiger reserve. Payment of conservation fee is mandated under the revised guidelines on ecotourism notified by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on October 15, 2012. Based on these guidelines, the state has also issued a GR on November 9, 2012. The guidelines prescribe conservation fee to be paid by resorts on a per room basis. As per the rules, homestays operated by locals are exempted from fee while private hotels and resorts having occupancy of 10 rooms or below have to pay Rs 500 per month per room while those having more than 10 rooms are charged Rs 750 per month. However, these 13 resort owners have not paid conservation fee since 2012, and were issued notices on August 24, 2020, by Vinod Shivkumar, deputy conservator of forest (DyCF), Gugamal division. This is the third time notices were issued to the hotel owners. The hotel owners have opposed the move by Melghat. The issue was raised by them at a meeting chaired by minister for women and child development and Amravati’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur on Monday. Though Thakur does not agree with the conservation fee, she told TOI, “No final decision has been taken yet. We will see what can be done after discussing the issue with chief minister, his deputy and forest minister. Other issues related to development of Melghat will also be discussed in the meeting.” Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, who is also chairman of the local advisory committee (LAC) of tiger reserve, said, “The issue was discussed in LAC meeting on October 19, 2018. Why were the notices issued after two years?” Singh said, “Though I chaired the LAC meeting, I will have to check entire facts to reconsider the decision to pay conservation fee. Not many members were present in the meeting.” The LAC meeting minutes of October 2018 clearly state that the chairman had directed the resort owners to pay conservation fee. It also has the list of hotel owners against whom dues are outstanding. Of the 22 members, the LAC meeting was attended by 17 members and the resort lobby was represented by Vijay Jhunjunwala, owner of Satpuda Resort, who owes Rs 10.57 lakh. The minutes clearly state that chairman had directed resort owners to pay conservation fee. On the contrary, president of Chikhaldara Hotel Owners Association Shreewardhan Karande said, “Our resorts fall under the jurisdiction of Chikhaldara Municipal Council set up in 1948. Most of the resorts came up before the buffer zone was notified. We learnt about the buffer zone only after receipt of notices.” Karande owes Rs 16.21 lakh towards conservation fee. He added, “Charging of conservation fee sounds well for tiger reserves like Pench and Tadoba where tourists come for tiger sightings. Chikhaldara is a hill station where only adventure and nature tourists come for sightseeing. The decision is unjustified.” MTR field director MS Reddy said, “There is nothing new in this. We are following government orders. Also, money received through conservation fee is used for the welfare of the local communities living in the buffer zone of the park.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-chikhaldara-resort-owners-cross-swords-over-conservation-fee/articleshow/77900164.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 3, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh just 100 mm short of meeting yearly rain quota||BHOPAL: Heavy showers in the third and fourth week of August helped Madhya Pradesh inch closer to its yearly rainfall quota. Now, the state is short by just 100 mm to meet its yearly rainfall quota. There are eight districts in the state where the rainfall deficiency is more than 10 per cent while the remaining 44 districts have received normal or more than normal rainfall and around 10 districts, including Hoshangabad, Raisen, Chhindwara and Sehore, witnessed floods in the two days of heavy downpour between August 28 and August 30. Not many days are left for the monsoon to end. Monsoon in Madhya Pradesh is from June 1 to September 30. But July and August are the months when the state records maximum amount of rain. Rainfall activity reduces in September as it is the last month of monsoon. Overall rainfall status of Madhya Pradesh from June 1 to Wednesday morning was 10 per cent above normal. The state received a total of 861.6 mm showers this monsoon so far. To meet its yearly rainfall quota, the state requires close to 100 mm showers more. As per the meteorological department, 940 mm rain is considered normal for Madhya Pradesh in the entire monsoon from June 1 to September 30. The state has received 861.6 mm showers, which means it needs close to 100 mm more rain to meet its yearly rainfall quota. Among the four main cities, so far, Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur are rain-surplus respectively by 37 per cent, 39 per cent and 2 per cent while Gwalior is rainfall deficient by 18 per cent. Bhopal received 1113.2 mm showers from June 1 to Wednesday morning while its total seasonal rainfall quota from June 1 to September 30 is 1,051 mm rain. Overall, at least eight of the 52 districts in MP are rainfall deficient by more than 10 per cent. The districts are Chhatarpur, Katni, Panna, Satna, Tikamgarh, Bhind, Datia, Gwalior, Mandsaur and Sheopur. Met officials point out that as per the general formula, 20 per cent less or more rainfall is considered as normal and since the gap between the deficient rainfall and actual rainfall received in not huge in the districts in question, the shortfall would be covered soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-just-100-mm-short-of-meeting-yearly-rain-quota/articleshow/77900105.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik-Pune bus service in demand||NASHIK: The Nashik-Pune and Nashik-Mumbai routes have witnessed a rise in the volume of passengers ever since the state government allowed inter-district passenger operations of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). This has forced the transport utility to increase the number of buses on these routes. So far, nearly 40,000 people have used the MSRTC services and most of the passenger flow has been from Nashik to Pune. “Before the pandemic, we had about 45 buses leaving Nashik for Pune. Today, 22 are already back in service. This is because of a large number of people are going to Pune from Nashik. At the same time, services to Mumbai and Borivali are also in great demand. We had six buses to Borivali and six to Mumbai before the Covid crisis as most people used trains on these routes. Today, we are running more buses on these routes to help office-goers in the absence of trains,” an MSRTC officer said. More than 50% of the traffic generated is between Nashik and Pune, and Nashik and Mumbai. This is followed by travellers to Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Dhule. The MSRTC has, so far, operated 904 buses that have completed 2,036 trips and carried 40,253 passengers, the MSRTC officers said adding that the corporation had recently introduced the services to Jalgaon as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-pune-bus-service-in-demand/articleshow/77897107.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 3, 2020||Bhopal||Eggs on the boil once again after mid-day meal debate||Bhopal: Once again, eggs are back on the boil on the political platter of the state ahead of bypolls on 27 seats with woman and child development minister Imarti Devi announcing that eggs will be given in mid-day meals to children who want it while others will be given fruits to combat malnutrition at the anganwadis.Immediately, Congress seized the opportunity to question BJP to come clear on the issue, as it had opposed the distribution of eggs in the past on sentimental grounds.“When I was minister during the previous Congress regime, I had stated that it is not compulsory for all the students to eat eggs. Those who want to eat eggs and demand for the same will be given eggs. Others, who do not want it will be given fruits like apples and bananas,“Imarti Devi told the media at a gathering in Gwalior, on Wednesday.A staunch supporter of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, Imarti Devi quit Congress and the ministerial berth in March this year to follow her mentor to join the saffron party. As minister during Congress rule, she had decided to serve eggs in anganwadis, which was opposed by BJP, including Shivraj Singh Chouhan. BJP had contested the move stating that serving eggs would hurt sentiments of several families where it is not consumed due to religious reasons. The then leader of opposition Gopal Bhargava had gone to the extent of saying that eating non-veg food will turn children into cannibals. Now the issue of serving eggs could turn out to a big embarrassment for the BJP.Imarti Devi however clarified that she was not in favour of imposing a decision on the children but, she recommended eggs for children and pregnant women who eat eggs as it is a nutritious meal. Those who do not want it will be served an alternative, she said.Imarti's statement stirred a war of words with Congress launching a scathing attack on the BJP alleging double standards. "During Congress rule, BJP was opposed to serving eggs in anganwadis. The party had launched protests against the decision. But, now the BJP leaders are mum over Imarti's statement to serve eggs in anganwadis. The BJP should come clear on its stand as a large number of social organisation opposing eggs in midday meals had supported BJP on this issue," said former Congress minister, PC Sharma.When asked about Imarti's statement, state urban development minister Bhupendra Singh said that he was not aware of what the minister had said. "I am not aware what Imarti ji stated about this issue. But, when all the party leaders will sit down to discuss the matter and reach a consensus then a final decision will be taken," he said.According to officials of woman and child development department, more than 80 lakh children in the state will benefit from the midday meal scheme as the department had planned to distribute 2.5 lakh nutrition baskets in a year through 97,135 anganwadis. However, paucity of fund proved out to be biggest hurdle before this scheme, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eggs-on-the-boil-once-again-after-mid-day-meal-debate/articleshow/77900084.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Meerut||BSF says jawan shot himself dead, kin point to ‘torture marks’ & allege murder||Muzaffarnagar: A commotion erupted after a shroud was partially lifted from the body of a BSF jawan (28) which reached his ancestral Lank village in UP’s Shamli, four days after his alleged suicide in Bengal. The entire sheet was then hurriedly pulled out from the body of Vikas Kashyap by his perplexed wife, Pampa Mehata, also a BSF constable. “It looks like murder,” she cried while pointing towards what she claimed torture marks on the body including the “missing fingernails”. “He (Vikas) did not commit suicide. He was murdered and I demand a high-level inquiry into the matter,” she said, holding back the tears. “Vikas had joined BSF in 2014. He was currently posted in Seemanagar in Bengal,” said Vijendra Kashyap, Vikas’s younger brother. Four days ago, a BSF official told the family over phone that Vikas had shot himself dead, he added. The entire family, which was already reeling under the shock of Vikas’s sudden demise, sat on a protest demanding a fair inquiry into the circumstances leading to his death. It didn’t go unnoticed. All the top district administration officials, including district magistrate (DM) Jasjeet Kaur, rushed to the village and promised a probe. After speaking to BSF officials, the DM said that the body will be sent for another round of post-mortem examination. However, a few hours later, the family decided against sending the body for post-mortem and cremated it, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bsf-says-jawan-shot-himself-dead-kin-point-to-torture-marks-allege-murder/articleshow/77897114.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon corporation approaches Civil for swab testing||Nashik: The Malegaon municipal corporation (MMC) has approached the Nashik civil hospital for swab testing of Covid-19 suspects after its contract with a private laboratory expired. Earlier, the MMC had a tie-up with a Mumbai-based private lab for carrying out swab sample testing, but since the contract has now expired, it is in the process of making alternate arrangements for conducting the tests. Until then, the MMC has cut down the number of tests carried out every day. “At this point of time, we have cut down our sample size from 180 per day to below 90 per day. This will continue for a couple of days until an alternate arrangement is made through,” a senior officer from the Malegaon civic body said. According to MMC officials, the contract with the private laboratory for swab testing has expired and that a new ones is yet to be initiated. At the same time, Malegaon is witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases by the day, the officials added. “We have limited the number swab tests at the moment. We only conduct tests of suspects in the high-risk category. Those belonging to the low-risk category have been advised for self-isolation and medication after having taken their X-rays to understand the presence of the infection in the patient’s lungs. This is a temporary measure,” a civic official said. Malegaon registers 67 casess Malegaon registered 67 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients to 2,665. Of these, 1,947 have been discharged after recovery. The death toll stands at 113.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-corporation-approaches-civil-for-swab-testing/articleshow/77897070.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Police arrests 3 gangsters, attach household properties of 2 other accused||PILIBHIT: Police on Wednesday arrested three wanted accused under the gangster act, carrying bounties of Rs 10,000 each from Madhotanda area. Apart from this, household properties of another two gangsters were attached by the police due to them being on a run. Superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav said that the police have enforced the action of attachment against two gangsters, Bhoora Quraishi and Rashid Quraishi of Bhoore Khan locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, after obtaining the concerned order from the court of the chief judicial magistrate. Both had a long criminal history of cow slaughtering and carried over 10 criminal cases each. They were on a run from March previous year after the police had booked them under the gangster act, he said. Station house officer (SHO) of Madhotanda police station Shahroz Anwar said that another three wanted gangsters including Sajid and Sartaj of Danga village and Jan Mohammad of Sukhdaspur village were nabbed by police teams from different locations on a tip off. They were on a run for a long time. “The three criminals, with nine cases of cow slaughtering in their names, were wanted in the gangster act. The police administration had announced a reward of Rs 10,000 on each of them,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-arrests-3-gangsters-attach-household-properties-of-2-other-accused/articleshow/77897112.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Meerut||After Shamli's CMO, now M'nagar'sadditional RTO tests Covid-19 +ve||Muzaffarnagar: Hours after a chief medical officer (CMO) of Shamli was tested positive for Novel Coronavirus, now Muzaffarnagar's additional regional transport officer (ARTO) has been found infected with the deadly virus. Soon after the development, the RTO office was shut down and sanitised. It will reopen after two days. As there is a substantial spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, the active ones in Muzaffarnagar have reached 720. Muzaffarnagar's ARTO was on leave and was in Noida where he tested corona positive. He was shifted to a Covid hospital soon after. After receiving information in Muzaffarnagar, the RTO office was completely closed for two days. Earlier, Shamli district's CMO had tested positive for the virus on Tuesday following which the entire CMO office was sealed and sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-shamlis-cmo-now-mnagarsadditional-rto-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/77897092.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 3, 2020||Kochi||One held for pledging fake ornaments in Kerala||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old man who is allegedly accused in 20 odd cases for cheating financial establishments by pledging gold-plated fake ornaments. Bobby Philip of Vakathanam in Idukki is the accused. Police said the man has cases against him across Ernakulam, Idukki, Kottayam and Alappuzha districts dating back to 2016. Police suspect him to be the kingpin of a gang operating with similar modus operandi. Police said the man was arrested after he attempted his fraud at the Kuruppumpady branch of Federal Bank in June. The man presented a gold bracelet weighing 30g for pledging. Though the ornament, reportedly forged by the gang themselves, was not detected by the bank authorities, their plan went awry when the bank asked him to produce an identity card and gave him a form to fill in before giving the money. Following this, he left the place. The bank authorities felt suspicious and approached the police. Police said roughly he has cheated lakhs through his con. The special squad led by Perumbavur DSP Bijumon Kuruppumpady, CI K R Manoj and SI Satheesh made the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/one-held-for-pledging-fake-ornaments/articleshow/77898629.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Meerut||Harassed by 3 youths, girl kills herself||MEERUT: Not far from Bulandshahr’s Aurangabad village where a US scholar was killed in a road accident allegedly triggered due to harassment, another girl, this time a student of Class VIII, died allegedly after consuming poison following days of “constant pestering” by three youths. While the family maintained that the harassment prompted the girl, 14, to take her life, who was cremated on Monday, local police offered a different version on Wednesday. They claimed that the girl was in a relationship with one of the accused and was “embarrassed” after a few youths saw them meeting behind a school on Saturday morning. But, on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s father, Bulandshahr police have booked the three youths under IPC section 304 (Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and also under POCSO Act 2012. “The three youths were continuously harassing her (the girl). It led to the suicide on Monday,” the father said. She was cremated on the same day, after which police were informed and an FIR registered. The girl’s father, who works in a private firm in Gurugram, wrote in the police complaint, “I cremated my daughter on the advice of villagers. She killed herself because the three youths were harassing her. I request police to initiate inquiry into the matter." On their part, local police, after an initial investigation, claimed the girl was involved in a relationship with one of the accused and her father knew it, and didn’t approve of it. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, Santosh Singh, said, “The girl had ‘good relations’ with one of the accused. She had made 845 calls on the mobile phone of the boy. And sent him 365 messages. Investigation also revealed that both families were against the relationship.” “The trigger of suicide appears to be an incident on Saturday morning when some youths spotted them meeting behind a local school. The youths returned to the village and told it to everyone,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/harassed-by-3-youths-girl-14-kills-herself-cops-say-she-was-embarrassed-after-being-spotted-with-boyfriend/articleshow/77897139.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 3, 2020||Shimla||NCRB data shows 21% decline in suicides in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: There were 21.1% less suicide cases in Himachal Pradesh in 2019, as compared to the previous year. The decline was against the 3.4% increase in such cases nationally. According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on accidental deaths and suicides, Himachal reported 584 suicides in 2019, which was just 0.4% of the total suicides in the country. Against the national average of 10.4 per one lakh population, rate of suicides in the state was 8 per one lakh population. Family problems, illness and unemployment remained three main causes of suicides in the state. According to the report, four persons committed suicide with the use of firearms, 275 hanged themselves, while 280 consumed poison. Among these were 142 housewives and 105 salaried persons. In Himachal, 34.8% suicides were due to family problems. Out of 584 cases reported last year, 203 were because of family problems. Three suicides were a result of bankruptcy or indebtedness, 81 due to marriage-related issues and 44 due to non-settlement of marriage related issues. Of these, 21 cases were of women committing suicide due to dowry related issues, 16 triggered by extra marital affairs, 19 because of failure in examination, 88 due to illness and 83 because of insanity or mental illness. Five persons committed suicide due to prolonged illness, four due to the death of a dear person, 21 (all males) committed suicide due to drug abuse or alcohol addiction, three due to fall in social reputation, one due to ideological cause or hero worship and 39 because of a failed love affair. Besides, 64 persons committed suicide due to unemployment, 26 due to professional or career related issues and 15 due to property dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ncrb-data-shows-21-decline-in-suicides-in-hp/articleshow/77898635.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Endured Covid, but didn’t develop antibodies: Doc||Ahmedabad: For Dr Naman Shastri, an anesthesiologist, the news of the survey has not come as a surprise as he has himself endured the Covid infection but did not test positive for antibodies. He says that the virus’s behaviour is unpredictable which means there are no guarantees that it will not strike again. “I tested positive for Covid-19 on June 25. Fifteen days later, I had recovered and the RT-PCR test was negative,” says Dr Shastri. “However, when I got myself checked for antibodies, none were found.” He says that unlike other illnesses, the absence of antibodies means that the body has developed special immunity to fight the disease. Dr Shastri goes to the extent of saying that he is more careful than doctors who have not contracted Covid-19 so far. “I have suffered 15 days of isolation, fever and stress,” the doctor says. “In fact, I still feel fatigue and feel that somewhere the virus has sapped more from the body than we know. I am extra careful and use all precautions to prevent reinfection.” Dr Shastri says that local people cannot afford to be careless as there have been reports in international medical journals about Covid reinfections. “One case has been reported from Germany while the other from the US,” says the doctor. He says that many international papers have captured the fact that antibodies disappear from Covid-recovered patients in a few months. “This raises the question if the vaccine will be effective against the virus,” says Dr Shastri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/endured-covid-but-didnt-develop-antibodies-doc/articleshow/77898647.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Hingolgadh turns ‘nature classroom’ for visitors||Rajkot: With lush green oxyrich cover provided by as many as 314 types of tree spices, Hingolgadh has emerged as a jungle that creates an opportunity for environmental education for the generations to come. Barely 78 km from Rajkot, there have been 3,950 environmental educational camps organized since 1982 every year, in which 2,20,293 students of different schools and colleges have been sensitized to the importance of environment conservation. Spread over an area of 654 sq km, Hingolgadh was declared a sanctuary in 1980. It is being managed by the Gujarat Ecological Education and Research (GEER) Foundation in Gandhinagar as the Hingolgadh Nature Education Sanctuary. It is home to animals like chinkara, bluebull, wolf, jackal, foxes, Indian porcupine, Indian hare, hyena and flying foxes. Sometimes, leopards are also spotted in the jungle of Hingolgadh. Birds like Indian pitta, vibrant red-vented bulbul, twittering green bee-eater, spotted dove, Indian paradise flycatcher and wood pecker have made this sanctuary their abode.That apart, there are 33 types of reptiles including four varieties of poisionous Indian snakes — spectacled cobra, russell's viper, saw-scaled viper and common krait — are found in Hingolgadh. In order to conserve rain water, the forest department has taken concrete steps. “We have created check dams and bunds over different water resources like rivers, streams and ponds in order to prevent rain water from going to waste and created 150 new water resources,” says Arif Theba, who has been serving at Hingolgadh as the range forest officer for the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hingolgadh-turns-nature-classroom-for-visitors/articleshow/77897046.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mysuru||Man stabs friend||MYSURU: A youth was stabbed to death by his friend during a scuffle over a trivial issue in Vijyanagar late on Tuesday. Chiranth, 21, died of stab injuries on the way to hospital. Accused Manoj has been arrested, Vijayanagar police stated. Deputy commissioner of police AN Prakash Gowda said both Chiranth and Manoj were friends for the last three years. A few days back they had quarrelled, and the public had intervened and pacified them. Around 7.30pm on Tuesday, Chiranth picked a quarrel with Manoj near KD Circle in Vijayanagar that ended in the murder, police said. Chiranth was carrying a sharp weapon and tried to threaten Manoj using it. During the scuffle, Manoj somehow grabbed the weapon and stabbed Chiranth on his chest leaving him badly injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-stabs-friend/articleshow/77897113.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||5 drown during visarjan in Nashik||Nashik: As many as five people, including two from the Nashik city, drowned during idol immersion in different parts of the district on Tuesday.Ajinkya Rajaram Gaidhani, a resident of Khajur Mala in Nashik Road area, and Naresh Nagesh Koli from Somvar Peth in Deolali Gaon were the two victims from the city. “Gaidhani had gone to the Darna river in the Chehedi area. He entered the water, but failed to gauge its depth. While his uncle was rescued by the locals, Gaidhani could not be saved. His body was recovered on Wednesday,” a police officer said.Meanwhile, Koli (40) drowned in the Waldevi river at 5pm.The other three victims were from Sinnar, Deola and Pimpalgaon Bawant. They have been identified as Prashant Vasant Gunjal (28), who drowned in the Deola taluka; 13-year-old Omkar Annasaheb Kakad, who drowned in the Mhalungi river; and Ravindra Ramdas More (37) who drowned in the Kadwa river.2 youths die in Jalna pondMeanwhile in Jalna, two youths, aged 17 and 18, also drowned during immersion in a pond in Londiwadi village on Tuesday. their bodies were recovered on Wednesday.— with PTI inputs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-drown-during-visarjan-in-nashik/articleshow/77897131.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 3, 2020||Meerut||Cop found hanging at police quarters||Meerut: A head constable posted at Brahmpuri police station here was found hanging at his quarters within the premises on Tuesday night. The victim Mange Ram was in-charge of the station malkhana (store room for arms and ammunition). Police said that the reason for the suicide is not clear immediately, adding that a prescription for anti-depressants was recovered from his pocket. Sources said that Mange Ram last spoke to his family over phone around 5pm and then left for his quarters. Constable Ajay Kumar, his roommate, said, “I reached the quarters around 8pm but found the room locked from inside. Even after banging on the door repeatedly, there was no response. I even tried calling him on his phone but to no avail. Then I realised that something was amiss and broke open the door with the help of others. We found him hanging from the ceiling.” SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan said, “The motive behind the suicide is not clear but we are looking at all angles. An inquiry is on.” Keeping in mind the rising number of suicides among the police personnel due to stress and other reasons, the UP Police had last year chalked out a plan to deal with the crisis in a professional manner by engaging experts. The plan also included providing remedial measures on a regular basis to all personnel, especially constables and sub-inspectors considering their job profiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cop-found-hanging-at-police-quarters/articleshow/77897130.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Mini bus rams into four-wheeler; one dead||BAREILLY: A speeding mini bus rammed into a four-wheeler on Moradabad-Aligarh national highway under Kundarki police station limits in Moradabad on Wednesday killing one on the spot while a few were severely injured, police said. The incident occurred on Wednesday afternoon when a car had a head on collision with a mini bus coming from the opposite direction at Moradabad-Aligarh national highway near Kalaampur village. The impact was such that the windshield of the car was completely smashed. Identity of the deceased is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mini-bus-rams-into-four-wheeler-one-dead/articleshow/77897141.cms||Maria Khan
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Six accused cops remanded to 10 days’ custody||VADODARA: A local court remanded the six cops accused in custodial death to 10 days of police custody on Wednesday. CID (crime), Gandhinagar sleuths produced the accused cops in the court after they surrendered before the police on August 31. They were arrested after testing negative for Coronavirus test. CID sleuths told the court that they want to question the accused cops to locate the body of Sheikh Nishar Babu who died in police custody at Fatehgunj police station. The remand application also stated that the cops want to ascertain what role was each accused cop played in causing death of Sheikh. Investigators also want to find out who switched off the CCTVs on the day of the incident and if the accused cops used any weapon to torture and kill the victim. CID sleuths said in the remand application that the accused cops are well-versed with law and hence are not cooperating in the investigations. All the accused cops, who were posted in Fatehgunj police station, had gone missing two months ago after they were booked for Sheikh’s custodial death. When the city police failed to track the accused, the case was handed over to CID (crime) last month. Sheikh, who was picked up as a suspect in a theft case in December last year, had gone missing. He was brought to Fatehgunj police station but there was no evidence of him leaving the building. Sheikh’s son later filed a missing persons complaint in Sayajigunj police station. During police inquiry, the accused including police inspector Dharmendrasinh Gohil’s who is from Palitana, PSI Dashrath Rabari from Kheda, LRD Yogendrasinh Jilansinh from Sabarkantha, Rajesh Savjibhai from Morbi, Pankaj Mavji from Amreli and Hitesh Shambhu from Bhavnagar maintained that Sheikh had left the police station. But investigations done by an ACP-ranking officer revealed that Sheikh never left the police station. The city police filed a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the six cops in July, but the Gujarat high court later directed the police to add murder charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/6-accused-cops-remanded-to-10-days-custody/articleshow/77896366.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bhopal||Dozen minors caught partying at Hookah lounge in TT Nagar||Bhopal: Members of right-wing organisations raided a restaurant and hookah lounge on the top floor of a hotel in TT Nagar locality and found around a dozen minor boys and girls a celebrating a birthday party at the spot. They created ruckus after which TT Nagar police reached the spot and rounded up the minors.The minors were handed over to the Childline and special juvenile police unit (SJPU) for counselling where they revealed after three hours that they had ordered hookah for smoking.TT Nagar police may register a case against the restaurant and hookah lounge manager for giving entry to minors and serving them hookah. SHO TT Nagar Manoj Dave said that on Wednesday evening members of some right-wing organisations allegedly protested at a hookah lounge and restaurant at Malviya Nagar. Acting on information police reached the spot and detained around a dozen youth including five minor girls and four minor boys.The minors along with two adult boys had come in a group to celebrate the birthday of a girl in their group. The minors were handed over to childline and SJPU for counselling and the counselling report is awaited. After receiving the report police will plan further action.Director childline Archana Sahai said that the minor girls during counselling stated that they had left home to celebrate the birthday of their friend telling their parents that they were going to a dam. Their two adult friends brought them to the hookah lounge for the party. They said that when police raided the spot there were girls and boys in a cabin at the spot and the cops found a liquor bottle on their table. The minor boys told that they used to come to the restaurant to play snooker.The minors said that they had ordered hookahs but the activists raided the restaurant before it was served.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dozen-minors-caught-partying-at-hookah-lounge-in-tt-nagar/articleshow/77900113.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Six-year-old defeats Covid||Rajkot: A six-year-old boy of Rajkot defeated Covid by getting treatment in Samras hostel of Rajkot. Dev Chudasama was tested positive on August 27 but was asymptomatic so he was kept in Samras Hospital, the government quarantine facility. Dev Chudasama, who is studying in upper KG, said: “I was watching superman and other cartoon series for passing time.” He said, “I was not afraid because I wanted to defeat Corona like a superman.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-year-old-defeats-covid/articleshow/77897066.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Pandharpur’s Vitthal temple to remain closed till Sept-end||Kolhapur: Even though the Thackeray-led government had assured Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar that the temples in the state would reopen soon, the management of Vitthal Rukmini Devstahan has announced the closure of the temple till the end of September. The management said in its statement that the decision has been taken following the increase in the number of Covid patients and deaths in Pandharpur. It was not known whether the temple would be closed even if the state government permitted to reopen it. The temple has been closed for the public since the third week of March. Meanwhile, Pandharpur tehsil has reported 114 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection on Wednesday. The tehsil currently has 2,680 cases, of which 578 are active. The death toll in the tehsil stands at 55. Pandharpur has the highest number of patients in Solapur district. Rural Solapur recorded 411 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 12,115. As many as 166 patients were discharged while seven deaths were reported. There are 3,110 active cases. The death toll is 349 in the Solapur rural.Solapur municipal corporation registered 45 new Covid patients and three deaths till Wednesday noon. The fresh cases have been traced in 32 localities of the city. The city has 6,757 cases, of which 761 are active. A total of 420 patients have succumbed to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandharpurs-vitthal-temple-to-remain-closed-till-sept-end/articleshow/77897144.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Govt to bring bill to cut pay of ministers’||GANDHINAGAR: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to introduce a legislative bill in the upcoming monsoon session of the Gujarat assembly to reduce the pay and perks of MLAs and ministers for a period of one year beginning April 2020. This is one of the austerity measures that has been adopted following a sharp decline in government revenue because of the pandemic outbreak. Minister of state (MOS), home, law and legislative affairs, Pradipsinh Jadeja said, “The state government has decided to bring a legislative bill in the upcoming monsoon session of the state assembly to reduce salary and perks of office bearers (ministers) and MLAs by 30% for a period of one year beginning April 2020. As a result of this austerity measure, approximately Rs 6.27 crore will be saved.” Jadeja added, “There will be reduction of 30% in the salaries of contractual retired employees as well. The state government has taken several austerity measures to control expenditure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-bring-bill-to-cut-pay-of-ministers/articleshow/77898633.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Meerut||Village pradhan’s husband accuses Baghpat cops of fake encounter of his son, threatens with ‘exodus’||Meerut: Days after the arrest of criminal Praveen Rathi in a police encounter in Baghpat’s Doghat region, his family has pasted on their home “for sale” pamphlets and accused police of being “politically motivated” and “concocting a fake encounter story”. Threatening “exodus” from Baghpat, Rathi’s father Satvir Singh — also the husband of Gangnauli village pradhan — said: “Praveen was working in the fields when police in several vehicles arrived there and took my son away. They, later, shot at him. This is a clear case of a fake encounter. We have CCTV footage of police arriving here. The move is politically motivated given that the panchayat elections are approaching. As police are working hands in glove with our political opponents, we are left with no choice, but to leave Baghpat and settle somewhere else.” The family has, meanwhile, knocked the doors of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and demanded an impartial inquiry into the matter from UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Notably, Praveen is a brother of dreaded gangster Pramod Rathi, who was killed in a police encounter five years ago. Terming all charges levelled against police “baseless”, additional SP Manish Mishra said, “It’s a family of criminals. Pramod Rathi, who was killed in a police encounter in January 2015, had a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on him at that time. One of his brothers is in jail. He has 15 cases registered against him, while his sibling Praveen, who was arrested on Sunday, has also five criminal cases registered against him. Furthermore, Satvir Singh is also a criminal, and his criminal antecedents are being looked into.” After the murder of the former president of BJP’s Baghpat district on August 11 in Chaprauli area, a new police team was sent to the district infested with the high crime rate and they launched a massive crackdown against the criminals. So far, more than a dozen criminals have been arrested in as many encounters and a couple of them surrendered in the court as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/village-pradhans-husband-accuses-baghpat-cops-of-fake-encounter-of-his-son-threatens-with-exodus/articleshow/77897145.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 1,250 Covid cases in 2 days||Kolhapur: Satara district has registered a surge in coronavirus cases in the last two days with the addition of 1,250 new patients, of which, 661 were reported on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has swollen to 15,247, of which, 7,039 are currently active. The district also reported 33 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of casualties to 430. Meanwhile, Satara and Karad tehsils continue to add new patients by the day. Satara tehsil reported 218 patients while Karad tehsil recorded 320 new patients in two days. As many as 145 new cases have been reported in Karad tehsil since late night on Tuesday. Karad town reported 75 cases, including patients from Mangalwar and other areas. A large number of patients were reported from Somwar, Shukrawar and Shaniwar peth in the last few days. Eight health workers from three hospitals in Karad, too, tested positive for the contagion. Satara tehsil registered 101 new cases, including 77 from the town. Few localities in Satara town such as Shuhupuri, Sadar Bazar, Sangam Nagar, Yadav Gopal Peth and other old parts continued to register patients. Two villages in Khatav tehsil have added new cases at alarming level. Mayni and Waduj villages registered 18 and 13 patients respectively..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-1250-covid-cases-in-2-days/articleshow/77897153.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chopper fails to reach Spiti, accident victims taken to Shimla by road||Manali: Poor visibility prevented a helicopter to reach Spiti after the district administration sought the special service to airlift two persons, who were critically injured in an accident in the valley. The chopper had to return from Rohtang area. A car had fallen into Spiti river on Kaza-Shego road. Car occupants, identified as Sonam Tandup, 32, and Raj Kumari, 24, were rushed to the community health centre at Kaza where doctors referred them to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. The administration sought a heli-service to airlift the patients after doctors suggested that long travel by road could be dangerous for the patients. Spiti additional district magistrate Gian Singh Negi said a helicopter had conducted a sortie from Bhuntar (Kullu) to Kaza, but it had to return due to inclement weather. “We are left with two options – wait for another attempt on Thursday morning or take the patients by road. As there was possibility of poor visibility on Thursday too, we decided to shift the injured to Shimla by road only,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chopper-fails-to-reach-spiti-accident-victims-taken-to-shimla-by-road/articleshow/77898649.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Fire destroys house in Kullu||Manali: A two-storey house with traditional kathkuni architecture was gutted at Deughara village of Bhrain panchayat in Kullu district on Tuesday night. The villagers tried to douse the fire, but it was reduced to ashes in minutes. Fire tenders could not reach on time due to poor road condition. The officials estimated the loss to property to nearly Rs 50 lakh. Kullu SDM Amit Guleria said the residents have been given cash, and ration as immediate relief. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fire-destroys-house-in-kullu/articleshow/77898661.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rape accused attempts suicide in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A rape accused attempted suicide by consuming pesticide after a woman lodged a rape complaint against him in Ashapura Nagar on Kotharia Road in Rajkot on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, Deepak Al (28), collapsed after surrendering at Bhaktinagar police station. “We rushed Al to Rajkot Civil Hospital from where he gave his statement in which he pleaded innocence and claimed that he was falsely implicated in a rape case. Al said, though he knew the complainant, he never had any relationship with her,” said Narendra Bhadrecha, assistant sub-inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Al even expressed his readiness to undergo DNA test to prove his innocence. Meanwhile, Rajkot A division police station has deployed its personnel at the hospital who will arrest Al once he is discharged. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-accused-attempts-suicide/articleshow/77897104.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Allahabad||Cyber fraud: Prayagraj tops zone list with 624 cases||PRAYAGRAJ: With 624 cases, Prayagraj district registered the highest number of cyber fraud incidents among eight districts of Prayagraj zone in the past seven months. These statistics were released by police on Wednesday. The total number of cyber fraud cases reported from Prayagraj zone between January 1 and July 31 was 868. Prayagraj district was followed by Pratapgarh (87), Banda (47), Kaushambi (41), Fatehpur (22), Chitrakoot (20), Hamirpur (18) and Mahoba (9). Prayagraj range which comprises Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Fatehpur and Pratapgarh had registered 774 cases while Chitrakoot Dham range which comprises Banda, Hamirpur, Mahoba and Chitrakoot had registered only 94 cases. In Prayagraj range, out of 774 cases of cyber frauds, 700 were related to online financial fraud, 71 were related to social media crime and three for other cyber crime. In Chitrakoot Dham range, out of 94 cyber fraud cases, 32 were related to online financial fraud, 55 social media crime and rest four for other cyber crime. Out of 868 cyber fraud cases in Prayagraj zone, 732 cases were related to online financial fraud, 126 for social media crime and rest 10 for other cyber crimes. All 624 cases registered in Prayagraj district were related to online financial frauds Cops, however, claimed to have cracked 263 out of 868 cases but 605 cases including 499 in Prayagraj and 36 in Pratapgarh district, are still unsolved. Data also revealed that properties/cash worth Rs 3.16 crore have been stolen by the cyber fraudsters while police have only managed to recover properties/cash worth Rs 5.05 lakh in the seven months of the ongoing year. Records also showed that police have arrested a total of 97 people involved in cyber fruads in the Prayagraj zone. Smaller districts like Kaushambi, Hamirpur, Fatehpur, Banda and Chitrakoot have recorded rise in cases of online frauds compared to last year. However, majority of cases were related to withdrawal of money from bank accounts. Police claimed that majority of cases were tracked to Champaran and Siwan (Bihar), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Bhadohi (UP) and even Pakistan. Additional Director General of police (Allahabad zone) Prem Prakash told TOI, “Besides setting up special cyber crime police stations to tighten the noose around cyber fraudsters, cops have also initiated awareness campaigns among masses on online frauds and have asked citizens not to disclose their bank details to anyone.” Cops have also busted many gangs where fraudsters posing as bank officials duped customers. Besides swindling money, fraudsters also cheated people through e-mails and whatsapp, declaring them as lottery winners and asking them to submit money for registration. In a recent case, an unidentified cyber fraudster made a call to a city based woman and duped her of more than Rs four lakh on the pretext of registration in the famous game show Kaun Banega Crorepati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cyber-fraud-prayagraj-tops-zone-list-with-624-cases/articleshow/77894736.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Move to amend Marine Fishing Regulation Act on anvil||Mangaluru: A proposed amendment to Karnataka Marine Fishing Regulation Act (1986) and rules framed therein a year later will empower the department of fisheries to curb delinquent acts by fishermen. At present, various offences under the said act are non-cognisable and the department at best can impose a maximum fine of up to Rs 5,000, which was a big amount by the late 1980s, said Ramacharya, director, department of fisheries. In an informal chat with STOI on the sidelines of a department workshop here, Ramacharya said the proposed amendment seeks to make various offences under the act cognisable. “We have mooted to raise the upper limit of fine that can be imposed under the amended act to Rs 2.5 lakh,” the director said. The department of law is vetting the proposed amendment and is expected to be tabled in the forthcoming legislature session. The proposed amendment will be placed in the public domain for suggestions/ objections, Ramacharya said, adding the intent is not to use it to browbeat fishermen, but to ensure their welfare by adherence to rules. “We are considering setting up an independent fisheries enforcement unit on the lines of similar arrangements in Kerala, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu or alternatively empower Coastal Security Police to act once the amendment is through,” he said. CSP SP R Chethan said the department of fisheries at present compounds fine as applicable for various offences under the act such as light fishing, bull trawling and no separate criminal offence is made out. Bhaskar Rao, additional director general of police (internal security division) said while empowering CSP under the act is a welcome step, one has to wait for the nuances of how the department has set out to achieve it. Incidentally, the marine enforcement wing that Tamil Nadu inaugurated in November last not only patrols the high seas, but also enforces fishing regulations, deters illegal and destructive fishing activities and acts against the use of banned nets. The enforcement wing also addresses issues like juvenile fishing, which has a bearing on future fish production as well as deals with potential law and order issues that can arise in the high seas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/move-to-amend-marine-fishing-regulation-act-on-anvil/articleshow/77897152.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 3, 2020||Goa||State to approach HC to allow coal handling within dome||Panaji: The state environment ministry has decided to approach the high court of Bombay at Goa to allow South West Port Limited (SWPL) – a unit of Jindal Steel Works – to construct a closed shed or dome inside which the coal handling could be done, environment minister Nilesh Cabral said. He added this will help to bring down the pollution at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), Mormugao, Vasco and surrounding areas considerably. “JSW had gone to court and also to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) but it was not allowed to carry out the handling inside a dome. NGT said that permission cannot be given for the dome until the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Goa was ready. The process of preparing the CZMP is on,” said Cabral. The closed dome or shed will be a permanent structure. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had written to the Union environment minister on two occasions in August 2017 and January 2018, stating that handling of the coal has to be carried out inside a closed dome to reduce pollution in the region. Putting on record his reservations to any proposals to enhance cargo-handling capacity at the MPT in view of the deteriorating air quality reported by Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), Parrikar had said that due consideration had not been given to the proceedings of the public hearing and the recommendations of the GSPCB. “The existing cargo handling facility needed to be further streamlined and handling in closed shed/dome needed to be adopted,” Parrikar had stated. In the absence of a closed dome or shed to handle the coal, residents of Mormugao and Vasco continue to complain about black particles settling on and even inside their residential premises. Locals have raised concern over their health due this continued exposure to such particles. As per the high court orders, the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) conducted a study in 2008 and gave several recommendations regarding safeguards to be taken vis-a-vis coal handling activities. One of these recommendations was that MPT should ensure that coal handling only happens in fully enclosed domes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-approach-hc-to-allow-coal-handling-within-dome/articleshow/77900210.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat inches closer to 1 lakh cases||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 1,305 positive cases, taking the total to 99,050. It was the second consecutive day on which the state recorded 1,300-plus daily cases. With the update, the state is 950 cases away from the 1 lakh mark. The new cases included 265 from Surat, 169 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Jamnagar, 143 from Rajkot, and 125 from Vadodara. These five districts accounted for 65.3% of the total cases in 24 hours. The cumulative cases in Rajkot have now crossed 5,000 at 5,071. The cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara reached 31,932, 21,137, and 8,443 respectively. Jamnagar that recorded its highest daily tally on Wednesday, has reported 26% of its total cases over the past seven days. The state also recorded the deaths of 12 patients, taking the toll to 3,048. The deaths in Gujarat included six from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Gandhinagar, and one from Vadodara. Deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara touched 1,722, 637, and 134. A total of 1,141 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 80,054. The discharges include 332 from Surat, 112 from Jamnagar, 97 from Vadodara, 86 from Ahmedabad, and 72 from Rajkot. The number of active patients rose to an all-time high of 15,948, which is 16.1% of the total positive cases in Gujarat. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are now at 80.8% and 3.1% respectively. Gujarat in the 24-hour period carried out 74,523 tests, taking the total to 24.84 lakh. The state health department said that the testing rate is 1,146 per day per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-inches-closer-to-1-lakh-cases/articleshow/77898637.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Surat||Over 4k idols immersed in canals||Surat: Despite a ban from the Surat police to immerse Ganesha idols into water bodies or anywhere in public places, hundreds of Ganesha idols, many POP, were immersed into canals passing through Surat city. Authorities had urged people to install clay idols at home and immerse them at home but the messages seems to have not gone well.On Wednesday, around 100 volunteers fished out 3,500 Ganesha idols from various canals like Dindoli Canal, Parvat Patiya Canals, Kharvasa Canals in the city.“There was a complete ban on immersion of Ganesha idols and idols made of PoP but we fished out 3,500 idols from various canals in the city and all were made of PoP materials. We took 500 idols from people who had come at canals to immerse idols and prevented them before the immersion. So, in total we collected 4,000 idols,” said Ashish Suryavanshi, president of the Sanskrutik Raksha Samiti.“We have been doing this for the last four years to save water bodies from idol immersion. This year, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) did not make an artificial lake to immerse idols. So, people immersed idols into canals passing through the city. We also requested the police to act against those who were selling PoP idols,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-4k-idols-immersed-in-canals/articleshow/77897179.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bareilly||Minor boy sodomised, thrown into canal in Kheri district||BAREILLY: A 14-year-old boy, a student of a government primary school, was allegedly sodomised by a local who threw him into a canal after committing the crime in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday evening. The boy was, however, rescued by passers-by. After his parents approached police, an FIR was registered against the 25-year-old accused, a labourer, on Wednesday and the boy was sent for a medical examination. Dhaurahra SHO DP Tiwari told TOI, “We have registered an FIR on the complaint of the boy’s father under sections 377 (unnatural offences) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. The accused, an alcoholic, has been absconding. We have pressed a police team to nab him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-boy-sodomised-thrown-into-canal-in-kheri-district/articleshow/77897161.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 3, 2020||Surat||364 discharged, 176 fresh cases||Surat: As many as 364 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in Surat city on Wednesday, almost double than that of the fresh cases. According to Surat Municipal Corporation officials, 176 new cases were reported. The high discharge rates helped the city to move up its recovery rate to 83.6%. Athwa reported the highest 47 cases. Moreover, Covid-19 cases crossed the 2,000-mark in Varachha (A) and Limbayat zone. Now, out of the eight civic zones, five have more than 2,000 cases. Two more patients succumbed taking the toll to 621. In Surat district, 99 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday taking the tally of cases to 4,675 so far. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/364-discharged-176-fresh-cases/articleshow/77897232.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICAI to promote plasma donation||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad branch of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), in association with Chhatra Sansad and Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), have launched a campaign to promote blood plasma donation from the patients recovered from Covid-19. “ICAI would disseminate awareness videos on need for plasma donation, its usage, procedure, etc. to dispel myths. Our teams would identify the area-wise patients and would reach out to them,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icai-to-promote-plasma-donation/articleshow/77898693.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Charges framed against M Sivasankar||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has initiated proceedings for disciplinary action against IAS officer M Sivasankar, who is under suspension for his alleged links with the key accused in the gold smuggling case. The government has framed the article of charges and served it to Sivasankar. It is learnt that Sivasankar has submitted his reply to the government on the charges levelled against him. As per top sources in the general administration department, the charges against the officer say that he misused his official position by providing reference to appoint a person, who was also working as secretary to consul general of the UAE, in Space Park under the Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL) as operations manager. It also said that he frequently associated with a foreign consulate official without the knowledge of the government, thereby violating rule 3 (2) and 3 (2B) sub-rule three, five, seven, eight and 10 of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968, and the Centre’s miscellaneous executive instructions regarding contact of members of all-India services with foreign nationals and missions. It further said that the government has found that his association with a person who was later arrested for serious criminal activities has sent a wrong message to the public. A two-member committee comprising chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh had conducted an inquiry into the contractual appointment of Swapna Suresh as operations manager in Space Park. The committee that probed the role of Sivasankar found that Swapna had approached the authorities concerned for the job with the former IT secretary’s reference. The committee report said that though there were three positions identified in SpacePark for recruitment through PricewaterhouseCoopers, only the post of operations manager was filled through the consultant. The other positions were filled through the internal working arrangement from KSITL. The report found that Swapna approached the special officer for SpacePark in 2019 August, with a reference from the then IT secretary Sivasankar, while still working as a secretary to the consul general of UAE. Also, both the managing director of KSITL as well as special officer for SpacePark had cross-checked Swapna’s reference with Sivasankar, and got it confirmed. The committee had also recommended that the call list of Sivasankar should be examined in detail so as to unearth the extent of his contact and association with Swapna. Quoting the guidelines of the central vigilance commission, the report of the committee also said that there is no harm in initiating a departmental inquiry against Sivasankar even when a criminal investigation is going on. If the explanation furnished by the officer is not satisfactory, the government can frame charges against him and hold an inquiry by appointing an inquiry officer of its choice and a presenting officer to present the case. As per the all-India services (discipline and appeal) rules, depending on the findings of the inquiry, any penalty could be awarded to him by the government, ranging from censuring (which is a minor penalty), cutting down increments, reducing the rank of the officer to lower scale and pay, compulsory retirement, removal from the service or retirement from the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/charges-framed-against-sivasankar/articleshow/77897233.cms||KP Saikiran
September 3, 2020||Agra||Had judiciary not stepped in, I'd have been eliminated: Kafeel Khan||Agra: It was a bittersweet homecoming for Dr Kafeel Khan on Wednesday. Moments after walking out of Mathura jail, over 12 hours after the Allahabad high court had ordered his release, he said he had begun to worry during his seven-month-long incarceration that he would not make it. So instead of going home to Gorakhpur, he told TOI at 2am, he was crossing UP's border. “What a relief," he said. "I have only the judiciary to thank for this. I could have been eliminated.” The paediatrician has been in the crosshairs of the state government since the death of 61 children at BRD Hospital in Gorakhpur, where he worked, because of oxygen shortage in 2017. “I am being victimised because I questioned the government about the real culprits of the children’s deaths,” he added. He remains suspended from his medical duties though the case of negligence against him was not proven. On Tuesday, the Allahabad HC set aside his detention under the stringent National Security Act. He had been arrested on January 29 for a speech he delivered at Aligarh Muslim University during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Thanking the judiciary for the “brilliant” order that showed the state government’s case against him was “false, baseless and fictitious”, he said, “I also thank the STF (Special Task Force) for sparing my life when they brought me from Mumbai to UP after arrest.” When he had been arrested, he said, the STF had interrogated him for 48 hours with “absurd” questions. “I was accused of trying to topple the state government and that I had some kind of powder to kill people, had visited Japan, and so on.” In the course of conversation, he crossed the state borders safely. “I am taking my family with me and will spend some time with them,” he said. “I missed them a lot. My son, Oliver, was 11 months when I was jailed. Now, he has started saying ‘papa’.” His wife Shabista and brother Adeel, who had been waging a battle to get him out all this while, met him at a predetermined spot. When he was sent to prison, he continued, he was not given food or water for five days. “I was not allowed to talk about the Gorakhpur hospital case in prison.” Prison conditions were also “pathetic”, he said. “One toilet. Some 1,600 prisoners. And a capacity of 530. It was horrible.” He had started writing a book on the Gorakhpur tragedy while in prison. He will now try and finish it. It has been a long time since he practised medicine, but he wants to help. “I want to do something for people in flood-affected states by organising medical camps. Floods increase risk of communicable diseases like cholera, malaria and dengue. Maybe some research on Covid-19. I had worked intensively on encephalitis earlier.” But he is not headed to his hometown anytime soon. “I’ll be staying away from UP for a while.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/had-judiciary-not-stepped-in-id-have-been-eliminated-kafeel-khan/articleshow/77895766.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal bus service resumes today: BCLL to roll out fleet of 9 buses||BHOPAL: Nine public transport buses will ply on city roads from Thursday. The move is seen as a measure by the administration to normalise public transport services in the state capital. There are 220-odd red buses operated by Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL), which have been off roads as a result of the pandemic. “Increase in BCLL bus operation would be in a sequential manner. For now, new measures are being introduced to make travel safe and secure during the pandemic,” said BCLL CEO Aditya Singh. The new measures include cashless payment on city buses. Besides, BCLL, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), has come up with vouchers for passengers that have a number of incentives on long-term recharge. BCLL will operate six buses on route SR-1 (Bairagarh Chichli via New Market to Chirayu Naka) and three buses will operate from Route SR-1A (Bairagarh Chichli via Vallabh Bhawan to Chirayu Naka). Through the BCLL app, a contract-equipped ticketing scheme to promote cashless transaction has been introduced. Accordingly, various cards and schemes are being implemented through which passengers will be able to get tickets through their mobilephones. Various offers will also be given to passengers on purchasing a BCLL card. Also, a free offer card with a full balance amount of Rs 100 will be provided on the recharge of Rs 100. Flexible Recharge offers, full recharge offer and super saver plans have also been floated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-bus-service-resumes-today-bcll-to-roll-out-fleet-of-9-buses/articleshow/77900166.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 3, 2020||Agra||Agra: Dalit couple get back child they sold to cover hospital costs||AGRA: Babita and Shiv Charan had given up on ever seeing their child again. But in an extraordinary sequence of events for the poor Dalit couple from Agra, eight days after being forced to sell their baby to the hospital where he was delivered after they could not pay the bill, they have got their child back. “I had been longing to see him. I am so happy he is with me now,” Babita told TOI on Wednesday morning. On August 24, she had delivered him at a private hospital. But the medical bills ran up to Rs 35,000 and they didn’t have the money to cover it. The hospital, they said, then gave them an option. "We were asked to sell our baby to the hospital for Rs 1 lakh. They would deduct Rs 35,000 from that and give us back the rest. We had no option but to agree. As we are illiterate we put our thumb impression on a piece of paper they gave," said the father. TOI had reported the story on Tuesday. The chief minister’s office took cognizance and asked the district administration to take action. Read AlsoAgra: Unable to pay medical bills, couple ‘sells’ newborn to hospitalBabita, 36, underwent a C-section to deliver a baby boy last week. The procedure cost Rs 30,000, her medicines Rs 5,000. Neither she nor her husband Shiv Charan, a 45-year-old rickshaw puller, had the money. The hospital, the Dalit couple alleged, asked them to sell the baby to settle the bill — forThe hospital was sealed after a raid revealed glaring lapses. Primary investigation also revealed the hospital had been operating without a licence for five years. On Tuesday night, the district administration brought their child back home. “The baby was handed over to the parents in perfect health. This was the couple’s sixth child. Following district administration orders, we will be counselling them about family planning and the need for contraception. They will also be provided Ayushman Bharat cover,” Agra chief medical officer RC Pandey said. The investigation into the setup which allowed such a transaction to take place is also making headway, with district magistrate Prabhu N Singh ordering a probe. Additional city magistrate Vimal Kishor Gupta and deputy superintendent of police Vikas Kumar Jaiswal are leading the investigation. The hospital had on Monday claimed the baby had been “given up” for adoption. Sources, however, had said the hospital would have sold the baby to another set of parents. The DM said, "An FIR will be registered against those found involved. The family will be looked after and covered by government schemes. At the same time, the health department will be asked to launch a campaign against hospitals and medical centres operation in violation of norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dalit-couple-get-back-child-they-sold-to-cover-hospital-costs/articleshow/77895778.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 3, 2020||Agra||13-year-old Ukrainian girl raped by mom’s live-in partner, a Pak citizen, in Vrindavan||AGRA: A 13-year-old Ukrainian girl was allegedly raped in Vrindavan by a Pakistani national who was living in with her mother. The accused, a 25-year-old man, was arrested on Wednesday. Superintendent of police (city) U S Singh confirmed that the accused, Anand Kumar, who gave private music lessons, was staying in Vrindavan on a long-term tourist visa for the past eight years. “His visa is valid as per the records,” said Singh. The girl’s family has been in the town for the past 10 years and her parents are separated. According to police, the girl and her sister stayed with their father — a bhajan singer from Ukraine — and Kumar frequently visited them. On August 31, the accused came to the victim’s house and upon finding her alone, he allegedly raped her. The father found out the next day through a WhatsApp chat on his daughter’s phone. The girl then told her father that she was raped following which he alerted police. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that an FIR has been registered against the man under section 376 (rape) of IPC and section 3/4 of Pocso Act based on a complaint filed by the girl’s father. The minor’s medical is to be conducted and her statement will be recorded soon. The father in his complaint said his daughter only allowed the man into the house because she knew him as her mother’s partner. “My daughter was not just physically abused but also mentally harassed. Strict action must be taken against such people who are a threat to society.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-yr-old-ukrainian-girl-raped-by-moms-live-in-partner-a-pak-citizen-in-vrindavan/articleshow/77895794.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||21,000 to take Gujarat University’s pen and paper examination||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University will hold the first phase of the annual college exams from Thursday in which 21,008 candidates are expected to participate. The varsity, which has more than 350 colleges affiliated to it, will conduct the exams across 102 centres in the state. Of these, 46 are in Ahmedabad and 22 exam centres are in Gandhinagar and Viramgam districts. For postgraduate courses including MA fourth semester, LLB (2,4,6 semester), LLM (1, 3 semester) and MCom fourth semester students, the exams are to be held from September 3. A total of 1,759 regular students have enrolled for the MA terminal semester exam and 1,043 students have registered for the MA final semester exam as external candidates. Similarly 5,038 regular students are expected to take the MCom semester four exam and 4,085 as external students for the M.Com final semester exam. Members of NSUI held demonstrations and raised slogans at the university campus on Wednesday, demanding the authorities make proper arrangement for protecting the health and safety of students. Gujarat University will conduct exams for arts, commerce, science and law students in two phases from September 3 and September 12. About 70,000 students in various GU affiliated colleges are expected to take this offline (pen and paper) format exams that are to end on September 20. The university will hold exams separately for students who have applied for online exams. Their dates are yet to be announced. Candidates pursuing their undergraduate studies like BCom, BA, BSc, BBA, BCA, will participate in the second round of offline exams starting September 12. Last month, GU had announced deferring the pen-and-paper mode for the annual undergraduate and postgraduate exams. The exams, which were to be held at various centres across 13 districts, were slated to begin from August 21 and August 31. The announcement was made after the Gujarat government announced state-specific guidelines for Unlock 3.0. The guidelines said that schools, colleges, and other educational institutions must remain closed till August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21000-to-take-gus-pen-paper-examination/articleshow/77898683.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Uncertainty over Teachers’ Day event after Goa CM tests positive||PANAJI: With the chief minister Pramod Sawant testing positive for Covid-19, officials are unsure if his scheduled interaction with teachers on September 8 from 6pm to 7pm to mark Teachers’ Day, will be held as planned. This year, a virtual event was planned as the annual Teachers’ Day event could not take place at Kala Academy premises at Campal due to the pandemic. After the chief minister tested Covid positive, his other engagements were called off as he in self-isolation at his private residence. Officials said a decision on whether the virtual event will go ahead as planned is yet to be taken. “Chief minister will be interacting with the teachers of primary, secondary and higher secondary schools along with the teachers of special schools as well. The event is being held on the WebEx platform. The computer teacher(s) are directed to assist the headmaster/principal to get connected to the webinar in case they face any difficulty,” the directorate of education had told schools in a circular issued on September 1. Director of education Santosh Amonkar told schools that the link to connect to the webinar will be provided on the day of the event to the participating teachers. “All the heads of the institution shall convey their teachers to watch the interaction live on Facebook page @GoaCM and @DrPramodPSawant,” Amonkar had told the institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uncertainty-over-teachers-day-event-after-cm-tests-positive/articleshow/77900261.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC to reopen courtrooms||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has finally decided to go for physical hearings in courtrooms in a phased manner in the Covid-19 pandemic, but with a condition on participating lawyers that they will not seek adjournments. The chief justice passed an order on basis of a decision taken by the HC’s standing committee to resume physical functioning of courts. He has said that one division bench and two or three single-judge benches will be set up in the first phase from September 14. The division bench and a single-judge bench will hear criminal appeals of convicts lodged in jails. The civil judge bench will give preference to 500 oldest civil matters besides those cases in which HC has stayed lower court proceedings, land acquisition and motor accident claims. The HC has said that those lawyers who are willing to participate in physical hearing in courtroom will have to submit consent for conducting “in-jail criminal appeals” through the Physical Hearing Consent Module. On basis of these consents, the list for hearings will be prepared for the week. After explaining the procedure, the HC has placed a clause for hearing in criminal matters, “No request for adjournment will be entertained as the criminal appeals are being listed with sufficient prior notice and with consent of the appellant side parties.” For civil matters, the court, however, appears a little liberal on the aspect of adjournment, “Request for adjournment will not be entertained except in exceptional circumstances if and as may be considered by the concerned Bench.” To make the procedure of physical hearing easy in Covid-19 pandemic, the HC has said that in the hearing of criminal appeals, consent on part of complainant side will not be a pre-requisite. But the complainant side will be allowed to participate in the hearing. Meanwhile, Chief Justice Vikram Nath has requested other judges to show their preference whether they would like to conduct hearing in courtrooms or to continue with the current mode of hearing through video conference from their residences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-to-reopen-courtrooms/articleshow/77898668.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kolhapur||People donate idols in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: For the first time ever, no Ganesh idol was immersed in any of the rivers in the Kolhapur district on Tuesday — the last day of Ganeshotsav. Every year, around 4 lakh idols are immersed in the rivers, while only a few people opt for the artificial kunds or lakes on the immersion days of the 10-day festival. This time around, the district administration and local bodies had appealed to the citizens to donate their idols and not immerse them in the waterbodies. The KMC had made immersion arrangements at Irani Quarry. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We had appealed to the mandals to donate idols. We had 40 vehicles ready to carry the idols. We had deployed a staff of over 250 at Irani Quarry to carry out the immersion of idols.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-donate-idols-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77897223.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Met warns of downpour at many places in Raj||Jaipur: Rains continued to lash several parts of the state in the last 24 hours. Eastern areas of the state including Reodar of Sirohi recorded 3cm rainfall followed by 2cm each in Mount Abu tehsil, Begun and Pindwara. Similarly in West Rajasthan, Bagora and Jaswantpura of Jalore recorded 3cm followed by 2cm in Raniwada, Met officials said. Till evening on Wednesday, Bhilwara recorded 17mm and traces were recorded in Pilani. Maximum temperature was recorded in between 30.6°C and 36.8°C at most of the places. MeT department has warned for heavy rainfall in isolated places of Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Tonk, Rajsamand and Udaipur in East Rajasthan and also in isolated areas of Jodhpur, Pali and Nagaur district in the next 24 hours. Rainfall is also expected in Jaipur, Bharatpur and Ajmer divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/met-warns-of-downpour-at-many-places-in-raj/articleshow/77900256.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Rains wreak havoc in several villages of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Heavy rains for almost 48 hours in Jaisalmer that started on Sunday damaged more than 200 small and big khadin (anicuts) besides hitting kharif crops worth crores of rupees. Many villages remain waterlogged and temporary routes for going to villages and hamlets are currently submerged. Jaisalmer-Barmer and Jaisalmer-Jodhpur national highways have also suffered damages at many places. Boundaries of fields of villagers have been washed away. The railway underpass on Brahmasar-Pohda route is currently under six feet water due to which the route is totally blocked. Villagers with the help of tractors pumped out water for many hours to make the route operational. The district administration has sent teams of tehsildars and patwaris to the affected areas to assess the loss. The villages that bore the maximum brunt include Dabla, Badauda, Jhabra, Jetha, Kalro Ki Dhani, Sagra and Bhu Bhopa where water entered into houses. In Chandan area, water from Gogadi river have spilled on to Jetha, Sagra & Rugedi areas. Farmers have sought help from the administration and asked the power department to restore supply. A resident of Kalro Ki Dhani said that two pregnant women, who were to deliver, got stcuk because of rainwater. Later, ANM Manju came to the village and carried out the deliveries. Similarly in Dabla village too, water got accumulated and the administration sent teams to pump pumped out water. Although water has receded from houses, it is still accumulated at some places. District collector Ashish Modi said water had been pumped out from villages. There has been no information of any heavy damages. Crops have been damaged at some places and loss was being assessed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rains-wreak-havoc-in-several-villages-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/77908427.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rains wreak havoc in several villages of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Heavy rains for almost 48 hours in Jaisalmer that started on Sunday damaged more than 200 small and big khadin (anicuts) besides hitting kharif crops worth crores of rupees. Many villages remain waterlogged and temporary routes for going to villages and hamlets are currently submerged. Jaisalmer-Barmer and Jaisalmer-Jodhpur national highways have also suffered damages at many places. Boundaries of fields of villagers have been washed away. The railway underpass on Brahmasar-Pohda route is currently under six feet water due to which the route is totally blocked. Villagers with the help of tractors pumped out water for many hours to make the route operational. The district administration has sent teams of tehsildars and patwaris to the affected areas to assess the loss. The villages that bore the maximum brunt include Dabla, Badauda, Jhabra, Jetha, Kalro Ki Dhani, Sagra and Bhu Bhopa where water entered into houses. In Chandan area, water from Gogadi river have spilled on to Jetha, Sagra & Rugedi areas. Farmers have sought help from the administration and asked the power department to restore supply. A resident of Kalro Ki Dhani said that two pregnant women, who were to deliver, got stcuk because of rainwater. Later, ANM Manju came to the village and carried out the deliveries. Similarly in Dabla village too, water got accumulated and the administration sent teams to pump pumped out water. Although water has receded from houses, it is still accumulated at some places. District collector Ashish Modi said water had been pumped out from villages. There has been no information of any heavy damages. Crops have been damaged at some places and loss was being assessed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rains-wreak-havoc-in-several-villages-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/77900265.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: No space in health centre for Sassoon hospital patients||PUNE: The 800-bed CoEP jumbo heathcare facility on Wednesday refused to take 200 patients from Sassoon General Hospital on the ground that it was operating with 400 beds and would make functional the remaining 400 in the next five days once the medical professionals joined the hub. On Wednesday, 200 patients from Sassoon hospital were to be shifted to the College of Engineering, Pune (COEP), facility as the state-run health hub was supposed to repair its oxygen supply. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said he had a discussion with the dean of Sassoon hospital and it was decided to shift the patients to carry out the oxygen supply repair work in a phased manner. But late on Wednesday evening, the Sassoon authorities were told that the CoEP facility could not accommodate the patients. Pune divisional commissioner said he would ensure that patients from Sassoon hospital were accommodated at either of the jumbo facilities at CoEP or (PCMC’s) Magar stadium. Though the PMC authorities said they were operating only 400 beds at the CoEP facility, the Pune divisional commissioner dashboard reflected allocation of 800 beds. The total allocated beds for isolation without oxygen was mentioned as zero, while the allocated isolation beds with oxygen were 600, allocated beds for ICU without ventilator was 170 and allocated of ICU beds with ventilator was 30. On being told about the dashboard numbers, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said it would get corrected and updated. S Chockalingam, settlement commissioner and in charge of Sassoon hospital management, said, “We were planning to shift only those patients requiring oxygen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-space-in-health-centre-for-sassoon-hosp-patients/articleshow/77900260.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 3, 2020||Meerut||Accusing traffic police of thrashing their associate, sanitary workers block traffic in Meerut||MEERUT: Sanitary workers of Meerut Nagar Nigam blocked traffic at Hapur Adda in the city after police issued a challan to one of their associates and allegedly beat him up. The protest that lasted for hours was lifted only after police pacified the protesters. While watching the CCTV footage in the evening, police reportedly found that “the worker got injured after he slipped and he was not thrashed”. Kailash Chandola, general secretary, Safai Karamchari Union, said, “One of our sanitary workers Amit was standing at Hapur Adda when a police officer clicked his photo with his scooter and issued a challan. The policeman also beat him up with a stick so badly that Amit got one of his legs fractured. Later, we rushed him to a hospital.” In the ensuing probe, police said they found that the traffic was blocked over “false allegations”. Ashutosh Kumar, station house officer, Nauchandi police station, said, “Upon watching CCTV footage of the spot, we found that the traffic police officer had only told the man to move his scooter since it was blocking the traffic and the officer did not beat him up at all. However, as soon as the man parked his scooter, he slipped and got his leg fractured. Sadly, a traffic jam was created over a false allegation. The matter is being further probed. It is being looked into whether the accused could be booked for levelling a false allegation that caused a problem to the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/accusing-traffic-police-of-thrashing-their-associate-sanitary-workers-block-traffic-in-meerut/articleshow/77897240.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Bring own water bottle, sanitiser: RBSE to students||Ajmer: The supplementary exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will start from Thursday and will continue till September 12. The board has asked parents to send their children with water bottles and sanitizers. Board chairman D P Jalori said around 1.23 lakh students have registered for supplementary exams. Among them 93,700 are for class X and 38,500 for class XII. While remaining students are for Pravishika and Upadhyaya classes. As many as 235 centres have been set up throughout the state in which Jaipur has the maximum 21 and Jaisalmer has only 2 examination centres. For security of question papers, sealed envelopes have been kept in nearby police stations and a total 28 collection centres have been established in different districts to collect answer sheets after the exams are over. The board has directed the heads of centres to sanitize the classrooms before the commencement of the examination. Thermal screening has also been made compulsory at every centre. The board passed a special budget for soaps and sanitizers to these examination centres. The number of students has also been restricted, forcing the board to create 20% more examination centres compared to last year. The control room will remain active from 7am to 9pm in the evening. The board has already released the time table and has asked students that those who were unable to submit their examination fee can now submit a demand draft of Rs 2,100 in which Rs 1,500 is the late fee and Rs 600 is the examination fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bring-own-water-bottle-sanitiser-rbse-to-students/articleshow/77900259.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 1 lakh ‘lost’ from Covid patient’s bag in hospital||Rajkot: Thieves stole Rs 1.34 lakh from a Covid-19 positive patient at a private hospital at KKV Chowk in Rajkot. Police said Jayenti Kotecha (69), a resident of Amrutnagar Society in Chotila of Surendranagar, was admitted to Ayush Hospital in Rajkot after he tested Covid-19 positive. “After Kotecha was admitted to the hospital on August 14, thieves stole Rs 1.34 lakh, which Kotecha was carrying in his bag, between August 14 and 21. The thieves are yet to be identified,” said A K Madhak, assistant sub-inspector with Malaviyanagar police station. “We have launched an investigation on basis of CCTV footage of the hospital,” added Madhak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-1-lakh-lost-from-covid-patients-bag-in-hospital/articleshow/77897189.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Distanced Education||Seeking deferment of the new academic session to January 2021, Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray’s letter to the Prime Minister brings forth the impact of the Covid-laden education impasse on students of all ages. Panellists at this month’s TOI Debate — which was streamed live on Facebook — consider the potential consequences of resuming classes, and the challenges therein for administratorsThe impending resumption of on-campus education throws up a variety of questions on timing, safety and modalities. The answers, panellists averred, would be different for each institution. Only if the campus is a residential one, said Symbiosis International University pro-chancellor Vidya Yerawadekar, where students can be onboarded in a staggered manner and their mental and physical well-being ensured, should immediate resumption be considered. “Since every city has its own set of Covid-19 rules, the date of commencement of academic year would also vary accordingly,” she added. Tuli College of Hotel Management director Urvashi Yashroy said that while classes had already commenced online, a “blended learning approach” seemed to be the way forward. “Movement into colleges should begin, but with restrictions. We can have fewer students on campus by dividing them into batches. Meanwhile, online classes should continue,” Yashroy said. Rushing to open colleges would serve no purpose, felt Nagpur University (NU) Shikshan Manch president and former mayor Kalpana Pande. “We have to think about students from all strata of society. How will students from rural areas travel to college? Will they find a place to stay?” she said. To sidestep this issue, Sachin Untawale, director, GH Raisoni College of Engineering, suggested that the academic session be divided into smaller terms, so that each course split could be completed online. “Autonomous institutions should identify clusters for courses in every stream, and teach them online till the time classrooms reopen physically,” Untawale said. On whether colleges were equipped to take the responsibility of students’ safety, former NU pro vice-chancellor Mahesh Kumar Yenkie said the onus fell on the entire university, and all institutions could not provide the same level of safety. “There are over 4 lakh students in NU, who would be constantly exposed to contagious disease while travelling. It is not advisable to take that risk right now,” Yenkie said. “Colleges can be reopened when it is safe, and we can work extra hours to make up for the lost time,” he added. Bringing in the students’ perspective on this, Sanketraja Soinde — who is in the final year of his MBA — said while some are self-starters, majority of the students need to be motivated for studies. “Online classes can suffice for the former, but the latter need in-person guidance, and colleges need to be opened again for them,” Soinde added. Academics did not entirely agree with this hypothesis. Quoting a media report, Indira Gandhi National University (IGNOU) regional director P Sivaswaroop stated that 85.4% students in Telangana between Std III and X attended classes through TV, which showed their “readiness to utilize various means” to complete their education. “We can also adopt the concept of inverted learning, where students do their classwork at home and homework in class. The idea of online learning should be to maximize interaction,” he added. Yerawadekar said universities must prepare for bringing students to campuses a few months down the line. “Once the students are there, we need to ensure everything is in place. We will have to set up a system to mitigate the challenges posed by Covid-19, in the interest of students,” she added. The discussion veered to Yuva Sena president Aaditya Thackeray’s call for shifting the academic session to January 2021. Pande was of the opinion that expert analysis was needed before jumping to make “populist announcements” on a decision as important as this. “If this is a long-term move, there must be due deliberation on it, as it affects so many students and colleges,” she said. Yenkie, though, felt the proposal made sense as the universities following semester system were slated to commence their even semester classes in January anyway. “Abroad too, spring admissions take place in January. The system exists, we just need to make it resilient enough to absorb shocks like this pandemic,” he asserted. Former AICTE chairman SS Mantha too found merit in Thackeray’s demand. “Getting things up and running will easily take 2-3 months, so starting in January is a good idea. Classes can be held in two shifts — the first one can cover the conventional curriculum and the second can focus on competency-based skilling,” Mantha explained. “Those who cannot afford full fees may opt for the second shift. This will improve Maharashtra’s gross enrolment ratio (GER) too,” he added. Stating that this academic flexibility was, however, only feasible for non-professional courses, Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU) vice-chancellor Ashish Paturkar drew the panel’s attention towards the “hands-on training” required in professional courses. “These courses have a fixed syllabus, and unless students complete the basic subjects, they cannot go for advanced studies in the next semester,” he explained. Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) vice-chancellor VM Bhale agreed with Paturkar, saying post-graduation students stood to lose the entire year if the course studies were not resumed soon. “Training must be given in person, keeping Covid distancing and other precautions in mind. Parents must be prepared to take some risks for the sake of their children's’ careers,” Bhale said. Soinde highlighted the stigma among private companies with regards to jobs for the Covid-affected batch. Untawale pointed out that it was not just a matter of one batch, but of three (first, second and third years). Nevertheless, many panellists remained optimistic. Mantha stressed on the need to adopt a student-centric approach while making any decision. Pande said this was not the first time an unforeseen situation impacted education. “There were World Wars before this. There was the Independence movement, where lakhs quit their schools and colleges to join the struggle. Such situations have arisen before, but the education system did not collapse. If we can survive despite such setbacks, we are resilient enough,” she summed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/distanced-education/articleshow/77900286.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Agra||Agra varsity to conduct OMR based exam for final year students||AGRA: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University will be conducting exams for the session 2019-20 for the final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses from September 11. The exam will be based on optical mark recognition (OMR). Students will have to answer around 60 multiple choice questions in two hours. The exam process will be completed on October 6. Varsity’s examination controller Rajeev Kumar said, “The exams for final year students will be conducted from September 11 to October 6. The sessional exam timetable is determined in such a way that it does not overlap with any competitive exam.” “No theoretical questions will be asked. Students will have to answer multiple choice type questions on an OMR sheet. The duration of the exam will be 2 hours. We are in the process of finalizing the exam centers. The details will be made available on the varsity website very soon. Social distancing norms will be strictly followed while conducting the exam.” According to the varsity records, maximum 43,495 students will be eligible to appear for BSc final year exam, 30,969 for BA final year, 10,812 for BCom, 8,684 for MA, 2,085 for MSc, 2,689 of MCom and 308 for Bcom (vocational).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-varsity-to-conduct-omr-based-exam-for-final-year-students/articleshow/77895801.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||High price, low demand cut August gold imports by 49%||AHMEDABAD: High price and poor demand have made gold imports plunge by a significant 49% in a month. According to the data of Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex, merely 1.9 metric tonnes (MT) of gold was imported in August, against 3.74 MT in July this year. Gold analysts said that the low demand was mainly driven by investors who had made bullion purchases in the initial part of the month. “Gold price touched a record high of Rs 58,000 per 10 gram earlier in August. Till then the demand for gold was buoyant,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). “But as soon as the price crashed, fresh investments stopped. Those who had invested in gold began selling for profit-booking,” Acharya said. “Thus, the overall demand for gold declined and as a consequence, the imports could have fallen too.” Gold price stood at Rs 52,800 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. Gold imports in July were primarily to fulfil past orders from jewellers, coupled with some demand from investors, said industry sources. Jewellery demand has taken a major hit because of high prices, especially at a time when individual disposable incomes have shrunk. “Gold is a luxury commodity. When people’s incomes and revenues have taken a hit, there is a feeble chance that people will buy gold jewellery,” said Jigar Soni, vice-president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “Besides, in the wake of the pandemic and norms governing social distancing and gatherings, not many weddings are taking place,” Soni said. “This is also a key factor that has dented the demand for the yellow metal.” Industry players said that monsoon has been good and that may bring back demand from rural areas which account for 60% of gold jewellery demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-price-low-demand-cut-aug-gold-imports-by-49/articleshow/77898725.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||After 5 mths, flights resume from Jodhpur to Bengaluru & Chennai||Jodhpur: After remaining suspended for five months ever since the lockdown, local flights resumed at Jodhpur airport on Wednesday with two flights, one each from Bengaluru and Chennai, landing at the airport. Considering the demand from south-bound travellers, Indigo airlines has started its service on two routes and is expected to open a third route for Mumbai next week, considering the demand. Director (Jodhpur airport) G K Khare said that Indigo has resumed two flights from Wednesday on Bengaluru-Jodhpur and Chennai-Jodhpur route. These two flights will be operating on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Jodhpur-Chennai flight will be landing in Jodhpur at 12.05pm and will take off at 12.40pm, while the flight from Bengaluru will be arriving at 02.05pm and will be departing at 02.40pm. Khare said that the airline has expressed interest in the Jodhpur-Mumbai route also, but the confirmation is yet to come. If the Mumbai route is also opened, the three major destinations for Jodhpurites will have air-connectivity after a gap of five months. It may be noted that many people from Jodhpur have business in southern states and with the economic activities resuming gradually, the demand for the air services started gaining momentum. No airlines, however, have evinced interest in operation to Delhi so far in spite of a massive passenger load for Delhi. It may be noted that 24 flights of Air India, SpiceJet and Indigo had been operating at Jodhpur airport for Delhi and southern states before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-5-mths-flights-resume-from-jodhpur-to-bengaluru-chennai/articleshow/77900288.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt won’t extend RTE deadline||Ahmedabad: The state government on Wednesday said it will not extend the deadline for parents who want to file applications to have their wards admitted to schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Many parents have been demanding an extension citing several reasons including Covid-19 and heavy rainfall across the state, said sources. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Wednesday that enough time has been given to the parents to file applications for RTE. Schools in the state have already started online education for the past few months and any more delays would further hamper the education of students under RTE. The government had publicized RTE admission on August 7 and parents had 23 days to file their applications. More than 2.04 lakh application forms have been filed against 96,000 RTE seats in the state. Last year, 1.89 lakh candidates had filed for RTE admissions. The number of seats, 1.20 lakh, were also higher in comparison. The process for admission to RTE seats started very late this year. Every year, the process for admission is initiated in April. This time however, due to the pandemic, parents were given time till August 29 to fill forms online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-wont-extend-rte-deadline/articleshow/77898747.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 45% jump in suicide cases: NCRB||PATNA: Bihar saw a nearly 45% jump in the number of suicide cases in 2019 — the highest in the country—, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data released on Monday. Altogether 641 suicide cases were recorded in the state as compared to 443 in 2018. Bihar is followed by Punjab with a jump of 37.5% cases while neighbouring Jharkhand is ranked third with a 25% rise in terms of rate of suicide cases. In 2018, Punjab recorded 1,714 cases, which increased to 2,357 cases in 2019 while for Jharkhand the number of cases went up from 1,317 in 2018 to 1,646 cases in 2019. At the national level, suicide cases saw a rise of 3.4% with 1,34,516 cases reported in 2018 and 1,39,123 cases in 2019. However, in terms of rate of suicide cases per lakh population, Bihar has the second-lowest rate among all states and Union Territories. Bihar’s suicide rate per lakh is just 0.5%, which is also much below the national average of 10.4% per lakh population recorded last year. This process is also presumed as a standard yardstick for comparison with others. As per the NCRB data, the biggest contributing factor in suicide cases in the state is family problems. With altogether 234 cases, Bihar ranked 10th across the country last year in suicide cases due to family problems. Altogether 160 men and 74 women committed suicide last year in the state due to family problems. Suicide due to marriage related issues is the second biggest factor in the state as per the 2019 data of NCRB. Altogether 111 suicide cases took place due to marriage-related issues, which included dowry, extra-marital affairs, divorce and others. Romantic relationships are the third big factor with 59 men and 42 women committing suicide due to this. The fourth-biggest factor exam failure due to which 58 boys and 37 girls committed suicide last year. Clubbing all these factors, Padma Shree Sudha Verghese, who had been working for the Dalits and the downtrodden section of society for several decades, said “Competitiveness, lack of freedom in society and family, amalgamated with the economic situation of the state results in the increase of suicide cases.” She added, “The young generation, be it unmarried children or married ones, must be provided more freedom within the family. There remains continuous tension between a woman, her husband and other family members most of the time. More susceptible ones succumb.” “Broad mindedness of family and society is required. People need to think beyond, caste, religion and region to bring down suicide cases,” she further said. According to her, extreme pressure on children and high expectation of parents is the root cause of suicide among students. “Parents pre-decide dreams and professions while children, if they fail, are disappointed to such extent that they are unable to face reality amid an absence of a support system. This ultimately pushes them towards suicide,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-45-jump-in-suicide-cases-ncrb/articleshow/77898751.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Journalist dies of Covid-19; kin allege ambulance delays||PUNE: A city-based television journalist succumbed to Covid-19 at the CoEP jumbo facility on Wednesday. Pandurang Raykar, 42, was admitted to the facility on Monday night (August 31). His family has alleged he died waiting for emergency medical transport that was supposed to take him to a hospital after he developed a serious drop in oxygen levels. Raikar is survived by his wife and two children. “It’s a mockery of the system. My brother could not get the right ambulance at the right time,” said Akshara Shendge, Raikar’s sister. Authorities said they have now ordered a probe into the death. Sujit Patkar, partner of Lifeline hospital management — the agency running the 800-bed CoEP facility — confirmed an investigation is now on. “An inquiry has been ordered to check if treatment protocol was followed,” he said in a statement. According to relatives, Raykar had a negative Covid test on August 27, after which he left for Ahmednagar, his hometown. But he continued to experience discomfort all through August 29 and 30. He then underwent an antigen test, which confirmed he had Covid-19. Raykar was first admitted to a local hospital, but was moved to Pune because his condition showed no improvement. He was admitted at the CoEP facility around 8.30pm on Monday. His family said he was moved to the facility’s ICU on Tuesday because of deteriorating oxygen levels. This is also around the time Raykar’s family decided to move him to the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital for critical care. But given his condition, the transport had to be a specialised ambulance. “Two ambulances came to pick him on Wednesday night. But one had technical problems and the second vehicle did not have a doctor,” said Mandar Gonjari, a friend of Raykar’s and a fellow journalist. Raykar’s condition is believed to have deteriorated further during the wait for an ambulance. According to doctors, his oxygen levels dipped to 50 within a minute around 4.30am on Wednesday. He was put on ventilator support and administered CPR, but an hour later, Raykar was pronounced dead. The cause was noted as ‘cardiorespiratory failure, secondary due to Covid-19’. “But a well-equipped ambulance on time could have saved his life,” added Gonjari. Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said Raykar’s death was “unfortunate and extremely sad”. Kumar told TOI, “After conversations with doctors, it has emerged that his oxygen levels were initially stable — at around 95. He had dinner the previous night and his condition was described by the experts as stable, but critical. At around 4.30am on Wednesday, however, Raykar’s blood oxygen levels suddenly dropped to less that 50 within a few seconds. Doctors could not save him despite CPR and use of emergency drugs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/journo-dies-of-covid-kin-allege-ambulance-delays/articleshow/77900269.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala entrance results likely in a fortnight||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala engineering and pharmacy entrance examination results are likely to be announced by September 15. The state entrance examinations were held on July 16, braving the pandemic. Sources said that the office of the commissioner for entrance examination (CEE) may unlock the online student portal in a day or two for the candidates to cross-check and confirm the marks they scored in Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics in their qualifying Plus Two examinations conducted by different boards. “Unlike in the past, the CEE may not first release the score obtained by candidates in the entrance examinations. Instead, the CEE website would first capture the Plus two results of candidates and make it available for the confirmation of the students. Once the anomalies, if any, in the qualifying examination result is rectified, the final result would be ready for announcement by September 15,” sources said. The state government has obtained permission from AICTE for the extension of procedure for admission to BTech courses this year. As per the current plans, the allotment of seats would start only after the first allotment of JEE is over, sources said. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions that followed, the state government had to postpone the entrance examinations for selection of candidates eligible for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses, originally scheduled for April 20 and 21. The test was later held in two schedules on a single day on July 16. Around 85 lakh students had attended the state entrance examination. Sources say that there was some delay in obtaining the mark list of candidates who had cleared Plus two examinations by some national education board. This delay was one of the many practical reasons that slowed down the evaluation and allied process. The restrictions demanded by the state health department on New Delhi-based technicians, entrusted with the maintenance and repair task of advanced scanning machines used for reading the OMR sheet of candidates, was another major reason that delayed the entire process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-entrance-results-likely-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/77897273.cms||B S Anilkumar
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Third phase of GTU online tests on September 21||AHMEDABAD: After conducting two rounds of annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students in the online mode, Gujarat Technological University (GTU) is all set to hold another round of online tests. The varsity had earlier planned to hold the third round in pen and paper or offline mode. However, given the huge demand from students to conduct this round too in online mode, the varsity has given in to their demands and asked the students to register between September 3 and September 8. The third phase of annual tests will be held in online mode on September 21, the varsity has announced. The state’s largest technical university has conducted online exams in two phases so far. “We received requests from many students for exams in the online format due to the Covid-19 situation. As a result we have decided to hold another online round this month. We feel that after this there would be hardly 3,000-4,000 students left to take the test in the offline mode,” said Navin Sheth, GTU vice-chancellor. A mock test will be held for the third round on September 15 following which the main exam will be held at the end of the this month. GTU had got a good response for its second online exams that were held from August 17. About 24,000 students had opted for taking the college exams in online format after the varsity cancelled the pen and paper or offline format scheduled on August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-phase-of-gtu-online-tests-on-september-21/articleshow/77898746.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Agra||SNMC surgeon tests Covid +ve in Agra, 113 cases in Bareilly||AGRA: A pediatric surgeon of SN Medical College (SNMC) in Agra was tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The senior doctor was placed under home isolation. So far, half a dozen doctors of SNMC, including the principal, have been diagnosed. At least 71 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 3,041. The patients included five suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, six of influenza-like illness, four of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 3,041 cases reported in the district, 81.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 490 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,444 people have recovered. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.” Significantly, in Bareilly district, 113 people were tested positive on Wednesday. So far, 6,851 people have been infected by the virus here and 121 have died. Meanwhile, at least three persons died while 93 more cases were reported from Shahjahanpur. The death toll rose to 49 with 3,422 positive cases in all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-surgeon-tests-covid-ve-in-agra-113-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77895819.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Madhu Shrivastava tests Covid-19 positive||Vadodara: BJP MLA from Waghodiya and chairman of Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation, Madhu Shrivastava, tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital in the city for treatment. One of Shrivastava’s staff members had tested positive for the infection earlier and passed away. Shrivastava had been exercising precautions ever since the staffer who was also a close aide tested positive. Shrivastava is the second MLA from the district to have tested positive from Vadodara district. Earlier, Savli MLA Ketan Inamdar had also tested positive along with some of his family members. Akshay Patel, who had recently resigned as the MLA from Karjan to defect from the Congress to the BJP, is also amongst the list of prominent leaders from the district who have tested positive. Former Karjan MLA, Satish Patel, who had held the seat before Akshay was also infected by the virus. In the city, Vadodara Municipal Corporation standing committee chairman, Satish Patel, had tested positive for Covid-19 recently. At least five corporators have also been found suffering from Covid-19 so far. Veteran Congress leader Maulin Vaishnav and Congress spokesperson Narendra Ravat, his wife and corporator Ami Ravat have also been infected by the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/madhu-shrivastava-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77896392.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Audits catch bills inflated by Rs 56 lakh||PUNE: An official pre-audit of bills to be issued to Covid-19 patients by hospitals helped reduce a whopping Rs 56.74 lakh in excess charges. The audit — results of which were released on Monday — was conducted on bills issued last week. All Covid-19 bills above Rs 1.5 lakh have to be vetted by auditors before they are handed to patients and their families. A total of 314 bills amounting to Rs 4.41 crore — issued by hospitals across PMC and PCMC limits — were verified by auditors. “They were able to reduce Rs 56.74 lakh from this amount. The biggest reduction happened in bills issued by hospitals within PMC areas," an official from the Pune divisional commissioner’s office said on Wednesday. The total amount was reduced to Rs 3.84 crore. Flying squads have also been formed across the district to keep an eye on any huge charges, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/audits-catch-bills-inflated-by-rs-56-lakh/articleshow/77900273.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||BSF detains man at border, hands over to Pak Rangers||JAISALMER: The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday detained an intruder at Banda post at Raisinghnagar sector adjoining international border in Sriganganagar district. However, he was handed over to the Pak Rangers after no objectionable material was recovered from him. According to BSF sources, the youth was seen crossing the border near pillar number 358 at around 8am. The man has been identified as Adil Hussain (22), a resident of Chak 127-L, Haroonabad tehsil, Bahawalnagar district in Pakistan. He was brought to post for questioning. Senior officers from Sriganganagar immediately reached the post and in the meantime officers of other security and intelligence agencies also reached. Anupgarh deputy SP Rameshwarlal and SHO Ramuram also reached the spot, sources said. Sources said, during inquiry no objectionable material was recovered from him. Hussain’s sister is married in a village near the border and he had come to meet her. He mistook that border starts from fencing. He had come to see the border, sources said. Late on Wednesday evening, a flag meeting was held between officers of both India and Pakistan. BSF agreed to send back Hussain. He was handed over to Pak rangers. They checked the details of Hussain. His family members were sitting at Pak rangers’ post from afternoon to take Hussain with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-detains-man-at-border-hands-over-to-pak-rangers/articleshow/77900271.cms||Vimal Bhatia
September 3, 2020||Pune||nCoV burden tops 50k in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: The number of Covid-19 cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits crossed the 50,000-mark on September 1, exactly 175 days after the first case was detected here on March 10. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded as many as 14 cases in March, 113 in April, 522 in May, 2,507 in June, 18,686 in July and 28,137 in August. On September 1, as many as 966 new cases were recorded. The rapid rise in the positive cases in July and August was due to the unlock measures, health experts said. On September 1, the tally stood at 50,296 in the PCMC areas, while the number of active cases stood at 12,005. A civic body official said the doubling rate of the Covid-19 cases had slowed down substantially. In July, it was around 12 days, which is about 32 days now. — Piyush Bhusari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncov-burden-tops-50k-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77900293.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 3, 2020||Surat||Lockdown ends, but this Surat bizman’s food mission continues||Surat: While most have already wind up their charity kitchens that fed the poor and needy during the lockdown, this 44-year-old businessman is still been running his kitchen and serving food twice a day. Jignesh Gandhi has been on the mission for the last 163 days and is unstoppable. In fact, Gandhi used to serve food to hundreds of people who were left without resources during the lockdown and were even unable to procure anything from outside. Even after the lockdown ended, hundreds of daily wagers are still jobless and hungry. So, Gandhi continued to provide food to some 2,000 people twice a day in the slums.Gandhi personally visits these slums and distributes food among the daily wagers.“There are hundreds of people who have nothing to eat and therefore I continue to provide food to those people and I am trying to ensure that they don’t go to sleep hungry,” said Gandhi, who is engaged in textile machinery business in the city.Gandhi and his friends run a group, named ‘Alliance Club of Surat Hope’ which is actively involved in providing education to more than 5,000 underprivileged children in and around Surat.Gandhi, a resident of Bhatar area in the city, says that he can understand the pain of the poor and less fortunate as he too faced a lot of struggles in his life.“The recent floods in Mithi Khadi was a double whammy for the slum dwellers in Limbayat areas as the waters entered their dwelling units. So, these battered labourers and daily wagers need food to survive. I will continue to distribute foods to people as long as I can,” Gandhi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-ends-but-this-surat-bizmans-food-mission-continues/articleshow/77897337.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In new normal, JEE Advanced centres in AP increased to 30||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, which is the organising institute for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Advanced-2020, has increased the number of examination centres for the JEE Advanced examination for the convenience of students. Now, there will be examination centres in 30 cities/towns in the state compared to the earlier proposal to have 14 centres. Srikakulam district had no centre as per the initial plan. Under the current proposal, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts will have exam centres in four to five cities/towns each. For example, the exam will also bes conducted in Surampalem, a small village in East Godavari district near Peddapuram and home to several engineering colleges. The case of Gudlavalleru village in Krishna district is also similar. Candidates have to compulsorily choose eight cities/towns at the time of online registration, which will commence from September 12. However, to appear for the JEE Advanced, an aspirant should be among the top 2.5 lakh in the list of rankholders in the JEE (Main). Around 82,000 students from Andhra Pradesh are expected to appear for the JEE (Main) exams, which started on Tuesday and will continue till September 6. A major decision taken by the Joint Admission Board this year in view of the Covid-19 outbreak has been to relax the eligibility criterion for admissions to IITs. JEE Advanced-2020 qualified candidates can seek admission into IITs irrespective of marks obtained in their intermediate (10+2) for this year. Earlier, general category students should have secured 75% aggregate marks in the class XII or equivalent exam or should find a place in the top 20 percentile of the Board results to secure the seat. But this year, just qualifying marks are sufficient. Admission into various undergraduate programmes across IITs will be given through the JEE Advanced. The score will also serve as a basis for admissions into various centrally-funded institutes, including the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, Visakhapatnam. IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said given the pandemic, adding more cities to the list will help students appear for the exam in their own district. “IIPE will fill the 120 seats based on the JEE Advanced scores. The institute has already started online classes for the senior students from Tuesday, September 1. IIPE decided to reimburse the broadband bills of students belonging to various categories, including the economically weaker sections, for facilitating online classes,” said Dr Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-new-normal-jee-advanced-centres-in-ap-increased-to-30/articleshow/77897303.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Architecture aptitude test marred by glitches||KOCHI: The online national aptitude test in architecture (Nata) 2020, was marred by technical glitches as students faced issues in network and problems related to server shutdowns. The exams were held on Saturday and the results are expected to be released on Thursday. The students were given options to write the exam from their homes or as well as at allotted centres. Many of them from interior parts of the state came to the city to avoid network issues. But even at the centres, they faced difficulties right from the moment they sat before their systems and most of them could not complete even one part of the paper. Many were not able to login. Those who logged in found questions getting auto-submitted before they were able to answer them. In addition, several diagrams were not visible. “My daughter just couldn’t login in. When we called the toll-free helpline, there was no response. After some time, people from her coaching centre provided us a number. When we contacted them, they asked us to start writing the exam after about more than two hours. She logged in but could answer only a few questions. When she finished Part-B first and came to Part-A, the system just logged off though the answers for Part-A were not submitted,” said Abdullah, a parent of a student from Kannur. Coaching centres were flooded with upset parents and inconsolable students, many of who are yet to get out of shock. “We thought that only students writing their exams from their homes faced issues. But even those who attended the exams at their centres had a tough time. There was no response from authorities at all. Some of the students who managed to reach through to some officials were told to apply for the next exam scheduled to be held on September 12,” said a coaching centre official. “My daughter couldn’t come to Kerala for the exam and hence she wrote if from Qatar. She faced similar issues and halfway through, the answers were automatically submitted. We sent mails, tried calling NATA helpdesk but nobody answered us. These exams are conducted by the central government’s Council of Architecture and the agency has completely disappointed us,” said P Jose, an NRI parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/architecture-aptitude-test-marred-by-glitches/articleshow/77897318.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 3, 2020||Pune||PMR caseload above 1.77 lakh, 74 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 3,535 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing its tally to more than 1.77 lakh. Besides, 74 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the region’s toll to 4,257. A total of 2,599 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, including 1,408 from the PMC limits, 809 from the PCMC areas and 382 from the rural and Cantonment parts. With this, the total recoveries in PMR stand at more than 1.37 lakh. The tally of active patients in the region increased to 35,495 on Wednesday, including 20,298 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals. A report released by the district health office stated that over 12,118 tests were conducted in the region on Wednesday. The total recoveries in the PMC areas crossed 80,000-mark on Wednesday, rising to 80,897. According to PMC’s report, the tally of critical patients stood at 1,040 on Wednesday, including 530 patients on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-caseload-above-1-77l-74-more-dead/articleshow/77900290.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 3, 2020||Goa||Govt asked to submit report on lack of sites for final rites||Panaji: The additional district magistrate South Goa has directed the deputy director of panchayats, South Goa to examine the issue of lack of public crematoria and burial places and submit a detailed report within four days. Additional district magistrate Agnelo Fernandes has stated that the matter be treated as most urgent following notices issued to the government over the lack of places for last rites to be conducted. The Goa Human Rights Commission last month had issued notices to the chief secretary and both the collectors over a complaint filed by activist Rajan Ghate.  The issue was deliberated by the Goa Law Commission in 2009 and their report is gathering dust, he said, adding that the former chairman of the Goa Law Commission, Ramakant Khalap, submitted a report and a draft bill to the state government on the issue in July 2012 requesting the chief minister to enact a legislation on the subject and declare public crematoria and burial places. Ghate appealed to the Goa government to declare existing crematoria and burial places in towns and villages as public crematoria and burial places and put them under controlling committees appointed by the government. He also appealed for last rites to be allowed in public crematoria and burial places according to religious faith and sought a proper legislation to establish public crematoria and burial places in public interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-asked-to-submit-report-on-lack-of-sites-for-final-rites/articleshow/77900300.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Meet to review work on Unesco heritage sites on September 7||Jaisalmer: A meet to review the progress of works being carried out on the six hill forts, including Sonar Fort, which have got the Unesco World Heritage Site tag, will be held in Jaipur on September 7. The final report on the works will be handed over to Unesco in January 2021. The meeting will be chaired by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup. ASI joint director, conservation, Jhanavi Sharma, Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi and collectors of Udaipur, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer, Jaipur and Rajsamand will join the meeting along with project coordinator Shikha Jain. To prepare for this meeting and to review the present problems, a meeting on fort conservation has held here on Wednesday under the chairmanship of district collector Ashish Modi. The meeting decided to resubmit the site management plan for the Sonar Fort with some changes. Official sources said the consolidated report of conservation and other works being carried out as per the Unesco guidelines will be handed over to the Director, Unesco, in January next year. The Jaipur meet will focus on site management plan, visitor management sub-plan, works of sewerage line done by RUIDP and progress of conservation works of Sonar Fort along with illegal constructions and removing encroachment. Sources the meeting will also discuss the site management plan approved in 2018 and submitted to Unesco, which could not be implemented till now. The Sonar Fort could go in danger zone of Unesco because of not implementing the site management plan. Sources said the Jaipur meeting will discuss progress of works at Kumbhalgarh fort, Chittorgarh fort, Ranthambore fort, Gagron fort and Amber fort. Modi said in view of the meeting in Jaipur, a review meeting of fort conservation committee was held on Wednesday at the collector’s office in which progress of works has been reviewed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meet-to-review-work-on-unesco-heritage-sites-on-september-7/articleshow/77900298.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A’s PGPX prog: IT top recruiter||Ahmedabad: The Information Technology (IT) sector retained its position as top recruiter for the PGPX course – IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A)’s full-time MBA programme for executives – for the year 2020. The process had completed in July-end and the audited report was received by the B-school on September 2. Officials said that 130 firms had participated in the placement process, offering 300 roles. The students chose 120 offers. IT sector firms recruited 42 students, followed by online services (14 students), consulting (13 students) and banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) (11 students). Some of the major firms that participated in the process included Accenture, Adani Group, Aditya Birla Mgmt Corporation, Amazon, Axis Bank, Bank of America, Citi, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, Havmor, ICICI Bank, L&T Infotech, Microsoft, MasterCard, Praxis Global, PwC, Schindler and Shell among others. Prof Amit Karna, chairperson of the placement committee, said that the students have got placed from mid to senior management positions. “We were delighted to welcome over 20 new recruiters from across sectors this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-as-pgpx-prog-it-top-recruiter/articleshow/77898764.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||Manjhi declares he’s with NDA, rules out merger with JD(U)||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi said on Wednesday that he has formally decided to join the NDA and would work with complete dedication as a “partner” to CM Nitish Kumar. “We will become a part of JD(U) led by Nitish Kumar, and have decided to work with him in the NDA, as we are close to the JD(U) led by him,” Manjhi said, ruling out the possibility of a merger of HAM(S) with JD(U). “Our party men never talked about the merger of our party with the JD(U). We will work in the NDA as a partner of JD(U), and, therefore, it is natural. As Nitish is the partner of the NDA, we will also be in the NDA as a partner of Nitish,” Manjhi also said, adding he was scheduled to announce his decision on Thursday but decided to advance it under pressure from his supporters. Manjhi even indicated that he had not yet decided if he would contest the coming assembly elections, as he had taken a principled stand that persons above 75 should retire from politics. “In such a situation, it is my 80% thinking that I will not contest the election, but the decision also rests on people,” he said. As to the comfort level in the NDA, Manjhi, who was in the NDA after having fallen out with CM Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections, said this political combine had accorded him “respect” at the highest level. “When I was in NDA, PM (Narendra) Modi gave me maximum respect. Not many people know that during the 2015 assembly elections, PM Modi used to skip names of other leaders, but always took my name,” Manjhi said. “When I attended the India Rising conclave held in Delhi, even there PM Modi took my name publicly and mentioned me as a representative of Bihar. Even there, people saw the stature I commanded. I was respected there (in the NDA),” Manjhi said, adding he had walked out of NDA under the influence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad in whose party “there is ‘bhaaee-bhatijawad (nepotism) and corruption.” As to the issue of seat-sharing and the number of seats his party would like to contest, Manjhi said the matter was not complex and would be sorted out amicably. On the question of his son Santosh Kumar becoming an MLC with the RJD support, Manjhi said that his son was qualified enough for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-declares-hes-with-nda-rules-out-merger-with-jdu/articleshow/77898779.cms||Abhay Singh
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man bites PSI’s thumb||Ahmedabad: A man bit the thumb of a police sub-inspector during a scuffle near Bhatiyar Galli in the small hours of Wednesday. The incident took place when the PSI, Shehzadkhan Makrani, of Karanj police was patrolling the area and found the accused along with two others in an autorickshaw. In his complaint filed with Karanj police, Makrani said that he was with three other cops when he spotted the accused Aslam Navahi, 40, with two others. Makrani began frisking the men in the autorickshaw. A knuckle duster was found in Navahi’s pocket. When Makrani motioned to Navahi to sit in the police vehicle, Navahi pushed Makrani and tried to snatch his service revolver. Then Navahi held Makrani’s hand and began biting his thumb. Navahi was eventually overpowered. The PSI was taken to VS Hospital in the Ellisbridge area. There, he filed a medico-legal case and later an FIR for causing injury and obstructing the work of a policeman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-bites-psis-thumb/articleshow/77898773.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||JEE: More examinees than in ’19||Ahmedabad: The second day of the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) saw higher attendance of candidates in Gujarat as compared to last year, despite the Covid pandemic. From Wednesday, the entrance test for engineering students began, in which more than 80% of registered students attended the exam, said an official close to the development. In comparison, only 75% of registered students had attended the exam last year, the official added. One of the major reasons cited behind this change is the number of aspirants for reputed institutes, especially the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have increased, said sources. Drashti Patel, a student living in Paldi said the paper was easy this time as compared to the January paper. “I think I will score better marks this time. I have taken the exams as I want to enrol in a premier engineering institute in Gujarat and they all require good JEE score,” said Patel. Another Ahmedabad-based student, Nikunj Patel, said the authorities had made sufficient arrangements at the exam centres and the students were provided with masks and gloves upon entry to the centres. “I was a little apprehensive but my fears vanished when I got the question paper in my hands. I want to get admission in IIT,” said Patel. This year about 38,500 candidates from Gujarat are expected to take JEE exam for admission to degree engineering, pharmacy and architecture studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jee-more-examinees-than-in-19/articleshow/77898775.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Constable accuses ASP of abuse, harassment||Udaipur: In a major development in the Tejaram Devasi case (a cattle raiser from Pali, who was arrested and presently in jail over charges under NDPS Act), a constable attached with the police line has given a written complaint against additional SP (rural) Mukesh Sankhla for using abusive language and causing mental harassment. He also said Tejaram was tortured by the ASP at a police station last month. Tejaram’s Devasi community has been holding protests for his release and action against Udaipur cops for framing a false case against the poor man. The constable, Babulal s/o Kanaram Jat, gave a written complaint at the Surajpole station on Wednesday wherein he referred to an audio recording which had gone viral on social media some days ago. The constable, in his complaint, said that the senior officer was pressurising him to give false evidence against a circle inspector Sumer Singh so as to put the inspector in a bad light for having taken Rs 25 lakh from Tejaram to let him scot free in the NDPS case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-accuses-asp-of-abuse-harassment/articleshow/77900311.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Youth beats father to death in Kota district, still at large||KOTA: A 50-year-old man was beaten to death with stick by his 25-year-old son on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday in Govind Nagar under Udhyog Nagar police station of Kota city. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board and lodged a case of murder against the accused son, who has been absconding since the crime and is yet to be nabbed. The deceased Mukesh Valmiki, 50, was a resident of Govind Nagar near Sivya factory. Valmiki and his son Rohit regularly consumed liquor and frequently engaged in scuffle with each other and other family members, circle inspector at Udhyog Nagar police station Pramendra Rawat said. The accused son had triggered a row with his parents on Tuesday noon, but the matter was pacified after he left house, he added. On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, when Valmiki got up from sleep to relieve himself, his son Rohit, already asleep in the house, woke up and lashed multiple attacks with stick on his father and fled from the spot, the CI said. Valmiki, who fell unconscious, was rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead, he said. The motive behind the crime is yet to be ascertained, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-beats-father-to-death-in-kota-district-still-at-large/articleshow/77900305.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||PMPML to resume services from Thursday||PUNE: No more than 17 passengers will be allowed to board a single Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus as the service resumes from Thursday. PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajendra Jagtap said that a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been prepared keeping in mind all precautions and safety procedures. Children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years will not be allowed in standard-sized buses and three points have been marked where passengers can stand. “Only one passenger will be allowed in a row of two seats and passengers will have to sit in a zigzag fashion. All depots have been instructed to sanitize the buses after each trip,” Jagtap said. The bus service had ground to a halt since March and will resume slowly, senior officials said. As many as 421 buses will ply on 190 routes initially. “The last time the PMPML operated buses at full capacity was on March 18, when around 1,600 buses plied carrying close to 10 lakh passengers. More than 200 buses have been operational during the lockdown to ferry people working in essential services,” an official said. Another official said, “The drivers and conductors will have to wear masks, gloves and face shields, while commuters will have to wear masks. In case passengers in the bus show Covid-19 symptoms these helplines are to be contacted: 020-24545454 (PMPML helpline), 020-26123371 (district administration office), 020-25522106/7/8/9 (PMC), 108 (ambulance), 020-26340534 (disaster management) and 020-67331140 (PCMC). Foot sanitizer machine has been placed in one corner of the buses for passengers,” he said. PMPML authorities are working on a cashless system of fare payment. The staff will check the temperatures of people before they board the bus. Marks have been painted at bus stands to maintain social distancing. Once the bus has the required number of passengers onboard it wouldn’t have more stops. “It is a tough decision. With cabs and autorickshaws a costly affair for many, the resumption of PMPML services is a relief,” PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-resume-services-today/articleshow/77900307.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed, two hurt as car collides with bus in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Three persons were killed and two seriously injured when their car collided with a bus after hitting a bull on the road at Balesar near Jodhpur on Jodhpur-Jaislamer highway in the wee hours of Wednesday. All the victims were going to Sheo in Barmer district for the joining of one of the injured, who had recently been selected as a Grade-II teacher, at the government school in Sheo. Such was the impact that the car got stuck under the bus. Police, with the help of the villagers, had a tough time separating the car from the bus and extracting the passengers. SHO (Balesar) Deep Singh Bhati said Ravi Kumar Meena of Alwar had left with his brother and three friends on Tuesday from Alwar for joining in the school. “When they reached near Agolai in Balesar around 4 am, a bull suddenly appeared on the road. The car lost control and hit the bull. A bus coming from the opposite direction then hit it,” said Bhati. Hearing the sound of the collision, villagers from the vicinity rushed to the spot and informed police. A rescue operation was launched and by the time the car was separated from the bus, three persons had already succumbed and two were badly injured. Those who died were identified as Munesh Kumar Meenat, Lekhraj Meena and Bhoor Singh Meena. Ravi and Sonu Meena was rushed to the hospital in serious condition. Munesh Kumar was the brother of Ravi and had been accompanying him for helping him in joining as he himself was a teacher posted in Alwar district as a Grade-III teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-two-hurt-as-car-collides-with-bus-in-jodhpur/articleshow/77900302.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||Pune recorded fourth highest accidental deaths among 53 mega cities in 2019||PUNE: The city recorded the fourth highest number of accidental deaths in 2019 among the 53 mega cities with 10 lakh and above population in the country. At 3,932, the accidental deaths in 2019 were lower than 4,000 recorded in 2018, the National Crime Record Bureau’s report on ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India 2019’ revealed on Wednesday. Barring deaths caused by natural forces, the accidental deaths cover all other reasons like traffic mishaps, drowning, electrocution, falls, stampede and sudden deaths, among others. Police usually record accidental death reports (ADRs) in these matters. With 9,246 accidental deaths, Mumbai tops the list of 53 mega cities followed by Delhi (4,516) and Bengaluru (4,016). Jaipur (2,628) and Surat (2,353) follow Pune in the list. A majority of the people who died in such cases were aged from 18 to 60. In terms of traffic accidents, which include railway crossing accidents too, Pune recorded an 18.2% decline to 337 deaths in 2019 as against 412 in 2018. In terms of road accidents, Pune recorded a 21.8% decline to 308 deaths in 2019 from 394 casualties in 2018. According to the report, 17 people in the city died due to wall collapse and other reasons in 2019. No such deaths were recorded in 2018, the report stated. A total of 61,404 people died of accidental deaths in the 53 mega cities in 2019. According to the report, 300 children aged below 14 died in 2019 due to various reasons, while 73 children in the age group of 14 years and 18 years also succumbed to various reasons. However, a maximum of 2,879 belonging to the working age group of 18 years and 60 years died in 2019, while 701 senior citizens also succumbed to various reasons. Overall, 3,110 men/boys and 839 women/girls died in the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-recorded-fourth-highest-accidental-deaths-among-53-mega-cities-in-2019/articleshow/77900303.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Rajkot||Two booked for uploading woman’s obscene video||RAJKOT: A female monk lodged a complaint against two persons for allegedly defaming her by uploading her obscene video on WhatsApp and social media on Wednesday. The complainant alleged that the accused, Swami Harijivandasji, chairman of Gadhada Gopinathji Devmandir, and Shri Lakshminarayandasji, priest of the temple, of circulating her video on social media. “The accused had shared the obscene video of the woman’s personal moments captured on CCTV on the WhatsApp and social media,” said A B Devdha, inspector with Gadhada police station. Both have been booked for outraging modesty of the woman and under different sections on the Information Technology Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-booked-for-uploading-womans-obscene-video/articleshow/77897245.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Civic body approves Ayodhya temple blueprint||NEW DELHI: The Ayodhya Development Authority approved the blueprint for the grand Ram temple and the map of the Ram Janmabhoomi premises, reports Arshad Afzaal Khan. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust deposited a development fee of Rs 2.1 crore and Rs 15.4 lakh in labour cess with the development authority as part of the sanction procedure. Ayodhya divisional commissioner M P Agrawal said the maximum height of the temple domes had been fixed at 49.24 metres. The 2.74 lakh sqm layout within the 67-acre site has to adhere to aviation norms as the airport at Faizabad is just 6.5km away. According to the Ram Janmbhoomi map, the total covered area of the temple will be 12,879 sqm, with the ground floor spread across 2,628 sqm and the corridor occupying 7,343 sq m. The first floor of the covered area will be 1,850 sqm and second floor will be 1,056 sqm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/civic-body-approves-ayodhya-temple-blueprint/articleshow/77901589.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Over 10,000 new Covid cases for eighth straight day, tally crosses 4.5 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,392 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 4,55,531. The toll jumped to 4,125 as 72 more patients succumbed to the virus. About 8,450 patients were discharged from various treatment facilities. There are currently 1,03,076 active cases with 3,48,330 cumulative recoveries and 4,125 Covid-related deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 76%. The recovery rate improved to over 90% in West Godavari. Prakasam district, which is projected to have entered its peak, has only a 55% recovery rate. The recovery rate is hovering around 85% in Anantapur, Krishna and Kurnool districts. According to state health officials, nearly 96% of Covid-19 cases are emerging from existing containment clusters and they have been able to establish the source of infection in nearly 97% of cases. As per the available data, the novel coronavirus seems to have made strong inroads into the rural parts of the state as more than 50% cases are currently being reported from the villages. Rural AP accounted for nearly 50% of the 597 deaths reported in the fourth week of August. However, the case doubling rate has improved to nearly 30 days. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 38.43 lakh samples for Covid-19 with an overall positivity rate of 11.85% against the national average of 8.5%. The mortality rate stands stable at 0.91%. East Godavari reported 1,199 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, followed by Chittoor at 1,124 and Nellore at 942. Of the 72 deaths on Wednesday, 11 are from Nellore, 10 from Chittoor, nine from West Godavari, eight from Prakasam, six each from Krishna and Visakhapatnam, four each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Srikakulam, three from Vizianagaram, two from Kadapa, and one from Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-10k-new-cases-for-eighth-straight-day-tally-crosses-4-5l/articleshow/77897329.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Business||Bajaj Auto regains 91% of its August sales||Pune: City-based Bajaj Auto has regained 91% of its August 2019 sales in August this year. The company actually ended up selling 3% more two-wheelers in the domestic market in August this year as against the same period the last year. In August 2020, the company said it sold 1,78,220 two-wheelers (1,73,024) in the country and exported 1,42,838 units (1,52,276). It’s commercial vehicle sales was 78% down at 7,659 in August 2020 while exports were down 7% at 27,482 units. “A combination of reducing lockdowns, pent up demand and preference for two-wheelers as a safer option contributed to the increase,” Rakesh Sharma, executive director, Bajaj Auto, said. He said sustainability in sales depends on the progress of Covid virus and the administration’s response to it. Bajaj Auto’s three factories are back in full-stream, while commercial offices are operating at 50% of manpower capacity. Sharma said the company was planning to increase that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-auto-regains-91-of-its-august-sales/articleshow/77900278.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Habeas corpus filed after arrest||Ahmedabad: The arrest of one of the accused, Virendra Patel, in the case of attempt to murder and domestic violence involving owners of Popular Builders, has led to filing of a habeas corpus petition in the Gujarat high court accusing the Vastrapur police of keeping him in illegal custody. Patel’s wife, Silva, filed the petition on August 29 complaining that Virendra was summoned by cops on August 27 evening, but he was not produced before the competent court even after 24 hours custody. She demanded that Virendra be produced before the HC by the police. Virendra is a cousin of Monang Patel, whose wife Fizu has lodged the FIR accusing her husband and in-laws of attempt to murder and domestic violence. To this, the state government told the HC that the delay was caused in production of the accused before the judicial magistrate because RT-PCR test was conducted on him to ascertain whether he was Covid-19 positive. It took nearly a day to get the test result. This led the high court to question the government whether it could shift from time-consuming RT-PCR test to quick Rapid Antigen Test to check all detained persons’ Covid status before producing them in court. The state government is expected to file a reply on the HC’s query on Thursday. Meanwhile, a sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus completed hearing of Vastrapur police’s application seeking six-day remand of all four accused, Raman Patel, Dashrath Patel, Monang Patel and Virendra Patel. The court has reserved its verdict till Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/habeas-corpus-filed-after-arrest/articleshow/77898799.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Atmanirbhar panel formed for election||Ahmedabad: Barely two days ahead of the polls at Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), a section of the candidates in the fray have formed the Atmanirbhar Panel to jointly contest the polls at the industry body for key posts. The polls are scheduled to be held at GCCI on September 5. Members of the Atmanirbhar Panel include Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation, who is in the fray for the post of senior vice-president; along with Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of BJP’s business cell for Gujarat, who is in the fray for the post of vice-president, CA Kailash Gadhvi, Meghraj Dodwani, Jagdish Modi, Amit Shah and Arvind Gajera. The polls of the industry body have already been postponed once from a date in July and recently a plea has been made before the Ahmedabad collector by a veteran GCCI member to further postpone the polls in the wake of the pandemic, as 35% local members are above the age of 65. Soon after the new election date was announced, the Pragati Panel, led by Hemant Shah was formed .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atmanirbhar-panel-formed-for-election/articleshow/77898780.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Need to spend more money to restart economy: CII-Goa chief||Panaji: People need to spend and pump money into the economy, which will aid the government’s efforts, said chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry-Goa, Blaise Costabir on Wednesday. Costabir also said that more people must take up entrepreneurship, even for a short period of time, in order to give the economy some momentum. Using the metaphor of a stalled bus, Costabir said that able-bodied passengers must push the bus while the driver steers it. “The bus is the Indian economy, which has got stuck because of Covid,” he said. “The driver is the government and the able-bodied people are the well-off — those who can spend — and I suggest that instead of holding your cash, please start spending your money.” The entrepreneur’s suggestion comes at a time when data shows that the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the April-June quarter slipped by a sharp 23.9%. As people spend money, more money will flow through the economic system generating revenue for the government and for the private sector, which in turn will put money in the hands of the people who work, he said. “This way, the economy will crank up, and GST will flow to the government. If you spend money, the economy will kick start. I would call this crowdfunding the economy,” said Costabir. Given that many Goans have lost their jobs and many Goans have returned from abroad, the demand for employment in the state is expected to surge. Costabir has suggested that people should take up cooking, baking, animal husbandry or any other home-based enterprise. The CII-Goa chairman also urged students to consider the current academic year as a gap year. “Listen to online classes, go into farming, but consider that you will start from June next year afresh, from wherever we left off. By then the infrastructure will be in place, the teachers will be ready and things will be in place,” said Costabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-to-spend-more-money-to-restart-economy-cii-goa-chief/articleshow/77900318.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||GST: CM Pinarayi Vijayan seeks Modi’s intervention||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, conveying the government’s concerns over the hurdles in the payment of compensation to states. Kerala has decided not to accept the Centre’s propositions for sourcing fund for the GST compensation due to the state. “When GST was implemented with effect from July 1, 2017, it was agreed that states would be assured an annual compounded growth rate of 14% in GST revenue with 2015-16 as the base year during the initial five years. This was incorporated in the goods and services tax (compensation to states) Act 2017. Section 7 of the Act states that compensation shall be payable to states and it shall be provisionally calculated and released at the end of every two-month period. Unfortunately, since 2019-2020, this provision has not been adhered to. From April 2020, no compensation has been released to states. The amount due to Kerala from April to August in 2020-21 is Rs 7000 crore,” he said. Vijayan said transferring the obligation of GST compensation to states through their borrowing was not in accordance with the spirit of the understanding reached between Centre and the states. “The two borrowing options set by the ministry of finance to states go against this and need to be withdrawn. I request your good self to intervene and advise the finance ministry not to go ahead with the plans of transferring the burden of GST compensation on the states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gst-pinarayi-seeks-modis-intervention/articleshow/77897351.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Two bovines test positive for rabies in Aug||Panaji: In August, the Mission Rabies team in Goa responded to three rabies positive cases in the state, a dog and two bovines - one cow and one calf. All three cases were in Bicholim taluka. “The infected dog bit the bovines and they contracted rabies,” Dr Murugan Appupillai, director of education at Mission Rabies said. Reports by the NGO reveal that cases of animals being detected as rabies positive stopped from September 2018 in nine talukas of Goa. Hence, all positive cases in animals recorded during the last 23 months are only from Pernem, Bardez and Bicholim. “Recently, the cases started increasing after the lockdown, which could be due to more dogs migrating from Maharashtra in search of food. Most of the positive cases have been reported from the villages closer to the border,” the team from Mission Rabies said. They will now investigate the entry of the virus and to further, work out an elimination strategy. “The most likely explanation is due to interaction of dogs from Goa with the unvaccinated dogs from the neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka where rabies is endemic. Until measures are taken to limit the spread of rabies from neighbouring endemic regions, continued re-introduction is inevitable. Re-introduction of rabies across the border can occur from direct movement of free-roaming dogs across the border or through human-mediated transport of dogs,” the team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-bovines-test-positive-for-rabies-in-aug/articleshow/77900359.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Married ex-lover assaults woman||Ahmedabad: A woman share broker has filed a complaint with Sabarmati police alleging that her ex-lover often assaulted her after their break-up and had recently damaged her car. She said she broke up with the man after his parents threatened her. Vishakha Meghwal, 28, stated in her FIR that she met Maldev Bharwad, 30, when she studied at CU Shah Arts College. They began a relationship though she knew Bharwad was married. In 2018, Bharwad’s parents came to her house and berated her. Meghwal then snapped ties with him, but he continued to pursue her and beat her up often for spurning him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/married-ex-lover-assaults-woman/articleshow/77898814.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Pune||Oxygen supply, staff support a worry at CoEP jumbo hospital||PUNE: The death of three patients and shifting of at least 20 others within a week in the absence of adequate support, oxygen supply and manpower have raised questions about the efficacy of the 800-bed makeshift jumbo hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds. The facility, built at a cost of Rs80 crore, was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month. The latest casualty at the jumbo healthcare facility was on Wednesday morning when a city-based television journalist suffering from Covid-19 succumbed to the infection. Pandurang Raykar, 42, was admitted to the facility on Monday night and his family claimed that he died waiting for emergency medical transport that was supposed to shift him to another hospital after a serious drop in his oxygen levels. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar said instructions have been issued to improve the oxygen supply and other facilities at the makeshift health hub. “I have personally visited the facility. Improvements have been suggested to the operators about oxygen beds and other management shortfalls,” he said. Kumar said that of the 358 patients in the facility, 42 were on ICU beds and 30 were critical on Wednesday. “Orders have been issued to add more nursing and other staffers at the facility. We will review the functioning at the makeshift hospital and ensure improvement,” he said. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) had set up the facility in association with the PMC within 18 days. The facility has 800 beds, including 200 ICUs and 600 oxygenated beds and covers around 13,000sqft space. It became operational from August 25. “The hospital was started without proper planning. It became operational without ensuring proper infrastructure,” city BJP chief Jagdish Mulik said. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Vasant More said the lack of coordination between various authorities was a cause for concern in terms of the hospital’s functioning. “We have raised concerns about the poor Covid-19 management at the civic body’s general body meetings. But hardly any improvement is seen. The CoEP health facility does not have adequate staff,” he said. MLA Siddharth Shirole said, “The jumbo care centre lacks essential facilities. The pandemic is peaking, but patients are being neglected.” Shiv Sena city chief Sanjay More said, “The civic administration and the local leaders, who are at the helms of the affairs, don’t want to improve the situation. They are indulging in politics over the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-supply-staff-support-a-worry-at-coep-jumbo-hospital/articleshow/77900327.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Not taken to hospital for screening, 45-year-old woman dies at CCC||NAGPUR: A 45-year-old asymptomatic Covid positive woman was found lying dead on her bed at VNIT Covid care centre around 10.30am on Wednesday. NMC’s Nehru Nagar zone officials had belatedly shifted her into the CCC on Tuesday though she had tested positive around eight days back. As per doctors, the woman should have been first taken to a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) or hospital (DCH) for screening if officials felt the need to shift her so late during home isolation. CCC officials said the woman’s blood oxygen saturation level was above the required 95 at 10.30pm when the staff last checked her on Tuesday. She had told them that she was asthmatic and suffered hypothyroidism though her case papers didn’t mention these issues. This is the second death at the VNIT CCC and third in any CCC in Nagpur city. The CCCs don't have oxygen facility. The CCC staff had gone for routine blood oxygen saturation level check-up on Wednesday at 8am but didn’t get any response from the woman who was alone in the room. Later, the staff gained entry into the room through the ventilation window and found her lying motionless on the bed. The body was cremated at Ambazhari ghat as per NMC protocol by evening. The woman’s son and husband had come to take formal custody and accompanied the officials to ghat. She was a resident of Senapati Nagar. Doctors said X-ray was must for her to ascertain how badly she was infected. “Hospitals and even NMC-run DCHC are sending back all patients referred from CCCs. The woman should have been taken to at least the DCHC as it belongs to NMC,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-taken-to-hosp-for-screening-45-year-old-woman-dies-at-ccc/articleshow/77898877.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||81% Hyderabad IT staff miss office, least among top 6 IT hubs||HYDERABAD: While nearly 90% of IT & ITeS sector employees across the top six IT hubs in the country miss working from office in the new Covid-19 enforced work from home (WFH) era, the number is the lowest for Hyderabad’s IT sector employees, if a survey by real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank is to be believed. The survey found that as compared to 81% IT employees in Hyderabad who miss the workplace, the figure is 98% in NCR, 94% in Mumbai, 91% in Bengaluru, 90% in Chennai and 88% in Pune. The survey, `Work from home and the impact on corporate real estate’ involving 1,600 respondents and financial statements of 119 companies in these six cities, assessed the impact of WFH on India’s corporate real estate market from the employee insight and cost structure perspectives. Pointing out that the Covid-19 enforced WFH has adversely impacted the productivity and performance of employees, it said about 30% of respondents said they observed a deterioration in productivity and work performance while working from home. According to the survey, 60% of the respondents believed that they were saying time by not having to travel to office and 58% highlighted savings due to no cost of travel as key advantages for WFH. However, in terms of disadvantages, 43% felt a lack of office driven social life and 42% cited difficulty focusing on work in an informal setting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/81-hyd-it-staff-miss-office-least-among-top-6-it-hubs/articleshow/77898890.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Colony associations can’t alter roads, green spaces: HC||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that colony welfare associations cannot alter roads, open spaces and green belt spaces in colonies, Telangana HC on Wednesday took a serious view of the spectator role being played by GHMC in this regard. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a petition filed by activist S Narasimha Reddy. Reddy said colony welfare association leaders in Jagadgirigutta encroached green spaces inf Rajiv Griha Kalpa buildings. The bench directed Medchal Malkajgiri district collector and GHMC to look into encroachments and furnish a report by September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/colony-associations-cant-alter-roads-green-spaces-hc/articleshow/77898882.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Speeding thrills and kills most on roads||NEW DELHI: Speeding on roads took the most number of lives in Delhi, followed by dangerous driving. Data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that of the 1,433 fatal accidents that took place in 2019, more than 500 casualties were a result of speeding. The period between January and March was the deadliest. Two-wheelers were found to be the reason behind most deaths on the roads in the city. In 2019, two-wheelers were involved in 156 accidents in which 455 people were killed. Traffic police officers said in most cases the rider and the pillion both died due to head injuries after falling off the vehicle. About half the accidents were caused due to skidding of two-wheelers. Times ViewTimes ViewThe high number of deaths due to speeding is worrying. Such rash drivers not only endanger their own lives but also those of innocent citizens. The answer to this is more speed cameras and strict imposition of high fines. The only real deterrence is the certainty of punishment.The NCRB data also revealed that private cars were involved in 121 accidents last year in which 236 people died. Accidents claimed the lives of 551 people, while 2,026 people were injured in 2,202 such incidents caused due to speeding. Dangerous driving or overtaking from the left side took the second highest number of lives. In all, 529 people were killed and 1,700 injured in 1,978 accidents caused by dangerous driving. Apart from this, 29 people were killed and 130 injured in 142 cases of drunk driving. The NCRB records showed that nearly one-fifth of the accidents occurred between January and March. Traffic police officers said that speeding during foggy winter nights was the reason behind such accidents. It was found that various stretches within the national capital, including colony roads, were vulnerable spots for accidents. A total of 942 people died on the city’s roads in 4,058 accidents last year compared with 271 and 187 deaths on national highways and state highways, including Ring Road and Barapullah elevated road, respectively. “Accidents mainly take place on longer stretches where drivers tend to behave erratically. The time period between 3pm and 10pm is particularly worse as more people step out to go to markets for buying essentials,” said a senior police officer. Almost 80% of the pedestrian deaths in the city took place while people were crossing the road. The other vulnerable road users who became victims of accidents were two-wheeler riders, who were either hit by other vehicles or fell down after losing balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/speeding-thrills-and-kills-most-on-roads/articleshow/77899115.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy stops convoy to let ambulance with injured man pass||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, while returning from Gannavaram airport after attending his father Y S Rajasekhar Reddy’s 11th death anniversary rituals on Wednesday afternoon, asked his convoy to stop to make way to an ambulance. The incident happened when the ambulance, ferrying a person who was injured in an accident, was held up between Gudavalli and Nidamanuru due to the CM’s convoy. Jagan, noticing that the ambulance was tailing the convoy, immediately directed his security to give way to the vehicle. A few hours before, at Idupulapaya in Kadapa district, he displayed similar kindness towards a woman who had came to meet him along with her newborn baby all the way from Pulivendula. The CM and his wife Y S Bharathi took the baby in their arms and greeted the mother (Jyothi). Earlier, tributes were paid to YSR on his 11th death anniversary, with Jagan leading his family members in a prayer service at YSR ghat at Idupulapaya. Besides the CM’s family members, TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, deputy chief minister Amjad Basha and several other leaders were also present. In Visakhapatnam, senior leader and Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy said YSR will stay alive in the hearts of people through his welfare schemes and development initiatives. The late chief minister strived for the development of Visakha region and his son (chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy) is continuing YSR’s legacy, Vijayasai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-stops-convoy-to-let-ambulance-with-injured-man-pass/articleshow/77897250.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Godavari water level starts rising again, flood warning may be issued||RAJAHMUNDRY: The water level in river Godavari is rising again due to heavy rains on the upstream of Kaleshwaram, Lohandiguda and Darbha in Chhattisgarh, and Sardaput in Odisha. If the rise in water level continues, the first flood warning may be issued late on Wednesday night or Thursday morning. About seven lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from the Sir Arthur Cotton barrage into the sea. Meanwhile, around 19 villages have already been cut off from the mainland in Polavaram mandal due to flood water overflowing on Kothuru causeway. Road connectivity to 20 villages in Velerupadu mandal of West Godavari district has also been affected due to overflowing of Eddula Vagu. The villagers, who had come down from the hillocks where they had taken shelter during last months floods in Godavari and were restarting normal lives, are thinking of going back to the hillocks if the flood warning is issued. Officials are now focusing on the four mandals under Chinturu ITDA limits which were among the worst-hit in last month’s floods. Around 20 vulnerable villages have been identified and relief boats and essential commodities are being kept ready if the situation worsens. Irrigation department officials, however, are expecting the water level to recede in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/godavari-water-level-starts-rising-again-flood-warning-may-be-issued/articleshow/77897811.cms||Samson Raj
September 3, 2020||Amaravati||Government inks MoU with CSIR to set up bulk drug pharma park||AMARAVATI: Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (APIIC) on Wednesday inked an MoU with CSIR-IICT, a premier R & D institute in the country to to set up a bulk drug pharma park in the state of with the Centre’s support. While industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy attended the MoU signing session via virtual mode from Nellore, senior officials from both the sides exchanged documents at the APIIC headquarters in Mangalagiri. “CSIR has been established to carry out research in chemical sciences leading to innovative processes for a variety of products necessary for human welfare such as food, health, energy and environment and the conduct of R&D work. Partnering with such an institute will surely help the state get big ticket investments in the sector as CSIR is fully geared to meet the requirements of technology development, transfer and commercialization,” said Mekapati. Special chief secretary (industries) Karikal Valaven said that AP is heading to become leader of the bulk drug market in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-inks-mou-with-csir-to-set-up-bulk-drug-pharma-park/articleshow/77897507.cms||Samdani MN
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Patients, NMC turning lax about norms proving deadly||NAGPUR: Violation of home isolation, not testing of high-risk contacts, and patients reporting to Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) in critical condition continue to prove deadly in city. Despite three family members having tested positive a week ago and in home isolation, a 55-year-old woman with disability from Khamla was not tested for Covid-19. She was brought to GMCH in critical condition and died within 24 hours. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been allegedly failing to monitor positive patients in home isolation and ensure testing of all high-risk contacts. Residents of Khamla said a person (52) had travelled to Mumbai with his wife, elder brother and sister-in-law for an engagement ceremony. On August 23, some days after they returned, his 17-year-old son had fever and tested positive. The person and wife also got tested and were positive on next day. All three decided to be in home isolation. However, the person’s two daughters, sister (woman with disability) and father (75) were not tested. “We were surprised and asked the person who was cooking food for all and doing household works with three people in home isolation. We suggested that all family members be also tested,” a neighbour told TOI. The woman with disability developed some health problems and was taken to a private hospital that suggested getting her tested and admitting her at GMCH. She was reportedly admitted at GMCH on Sunday night and died on Monday morning. Her samples came positive after death. The person’s father was also having symptoms. After death of the woman, the senior citizen was admitted in a private hospital on Wednesday. His reports are awaited. The person’s elder brother and sister-in-law also got tested on Wednesday. TOI had highlighted that late testing and reporting of comorbid with DCHs were causing deaths. NMC’s analysis on deaths also revealed over 60% deceased were admitted after 6-9 or more days of symptoms. IGGMCH alone registered 74 cases that were brought dead to the hospitals but whose samples tested positive later. These 74 deceased were patients of TB, heart disease, asthma, diabetes, hypertension, high fever etc but most were not aware of their corona status. Khamla cases reveal testing of high-risk contacts is also being neglected despite immediate family members being positive and in home isolation. President of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat, Khamla, Narayan Ahuja told TOI, “It is also NMC’s failure to monitor positive patients in home isolation and ensure testing of all high-risk contacts. Earlier, NMC used to forcibly quarantine and test high-risk contacts. The same should have been continued when there is community spread.” Ahuja added, “Panchayat has decided to launch a drive with many cases coming from Khamla. We will visit the family when any person tests positive and ensure all high-risk contacts are tested. This will not only ensure early treatment for entire family but also contain spread in the locality,” he said. In this regard, RSS Lok Kalyan Samiti has also launched ‘Mission Vishwas’ recently. Mayor Sandip Joshi said it was becoming difficult for the NMC with high number of cases and many of its own employees testing positive. “NMC teams are still visiting homes of patients and asking high-risk contacts to get tested immediately. Now, we are taking help of NGOs for the same purpose,” he said. NMC has started Covid-19 testing centres across the city. Tests are free. On Wednesday, 16 more testing centres started functioning taking the total to 50. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had directed the civic body to double the testing centres, which means over 75. Samples of 13 unnatural deaths test +ve The samples of 13 people who had unnatural deaths tested positive for Covid-19 at IGGMCH. Though the state government issued guidelines only on June 19, IGGMCH has been testing all those brought dead there for Covid-19 from April onwards. IGGMCH had registered 87 brought dead cases of which 13 were cases of unnatural deaths and tested positive for novel coronavirus. Of these 13, nine had died by suicide, two had drowned, one died in road accident and one was run over by train. GMCH is also testing brought dead but did not provide data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-nmc-turning-lax-about-norms-proving-deadly/articleshow/77898951.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Low occupancy: Covid Care Centres in Bengaluru to close soon||BENGALURU: With nearly 45% patients opting for home isolation, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is contemplating closing down some Covid Care Centres which were set up to house asymptomatic patients. There are around 40,000 active cases in Bengaluru, but the occupancy rate in about a dozen CCCs is barely 15%. The cash-strapped Palike says closing some of them down will help save on steep maintenance costs. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told TOI: “Ever since home isolation was introduced as a policy, those testing positive, especially asymptomatic ones, chose to isolate themselves at home. The number of people in CCCs has been decreasing.” Prasad said patients chose home isolation since they felt it is safer and comfortable too. Three CCCs have already been shut and two more face imminent closure. Several BBMP officials argue that CCCs — a knee-jerk reaction to the spike in cases in the first week of July — was ill-conceived and a waste of resources. “Most CCCs, including the proposed 10,000-bed facility at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre, became operational when the state government changed treatment protocol and allowed asymptomatic patients to recover at home. The timing of the move to open CCCs was bad,” a senior BBMP official said. On August 24, of the total 4,576 beds in CCCs in Bengaluru, only 50% were occupied, while of the total 3,938 beds on September 1, occupancy was even lower. Only 350 of the 6,500 beds readied at BIEC were occupied. “We will open CCCs if the situation in the city gets worse,” said senior official working in a CCC. As for the beds in CCCs, Prasad said they will be used in hostels and primary health care centres. “We bought these beds so we should not be discarding them. There are many who do not have beds and we will use these to help them out,” Prasad said. “We will surrender medical equipment which was rented. If there is a need, we will resume operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/low-occupancy-covid-care-centres-in-bengaluru-to-close-soon/articleshow/77897403.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt explores road access to KSLTA in Cubbon Park||BENGALURU: A week after greens opposed the move to allow traffic and parking in Cubbon Park, the horticulture department on Wednesday held a meeting to identify roads to enable access to Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA), which is located on the park premises. However, Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary, horticulture and sericulture department, said it was a routine meeting to zero in on roads where movement of traffic can be allowed. It was part of a series of meetings being conducted to identify ownership of the land inside Cubbon Park, Kataria said. Cubbon Park has been notified under Karnataka Government Parks (Preservation) Act. After Covid-19, movement of traffic and parking have been banned inside. Sunil Yajaman, joint secretary of KSLTA, said, “We are in discussions with the government to give us dedicated access to KSLTA. The response has been encouraging and they are working towards finding a solution.” KSLTA is among the various entities located in the park. Cubbon Park Walkers Association president Umesh Kumar, however, said they have been opposing all traffic in the park since 2012. “We want Cubbon Park to be treated like Lalbagh where vehicle movement is not allowed...The government should look at sustainable solutions to address issues of traffic and parking rather than affecting the city’s prime lung space.” Priya Chetty-Rajagopal of Heritage Beku said she was surprised to know that the government is considering allowing vehicle movement inside the park. “The only purpose of our #TrafficFreeCubbonPark campaign is to ban vehicle movement inside Cubbon Park to protect the one open space in the heart of the city, just like Lalbagh. We need to move forward to protect, not dial back to destroy. Bengaluru can’t afford to lose this green lung space,” she said. Bhaskar Rao, additional director-general of police (internal security division) on August 29 wrote to Kataria, police commissioner Kamal Pant and joint commissioner of police (traffic) Ravikantha Gowda, requesting vehicle movement and parking not be allowed to resume inside Cubbon Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-explores-road-access-to-kslta-in-cubbon-park/articleshow/77898103.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Phone tapping PIL referred to CJ’s bench||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi referred the public interest litigation filed on high court judges’ phone tapping issue to the chief justice’s bench on Wednesday. The PIL was moved seeking a probe by a special investigation team into the allegations of phone tapping of high court judges with active involvement of the police department. The petitioner alleged that an IPS rank official was designated to track the movements of judges while shadow teams from the state intelligence department were asked to keep a watch on the judges besides tapping their phones. The HC had earlier asked the petitioner to file an additional affidavit with all details, including the names of officers involved in the phone tapping. As the petition came before Justice Rakesh Kumar’s bench, he referred the same to Chief Justice J K Maheswari for his directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phone-tapping-pil-referred-to-cjs-bench/articleshow/77897950.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Amaravati||Agriculture department expecting bumper kharif paddy harvest||AMARAVATI: The state is expecting a bumper paddy harvest during kharif thanks to abundant rain in the last three months. The agriculture department expects that paddy harvest is likely to set a record if the season goes off smoothly without any natural disasters. Almost all the districts have received surplus rainfall during the season helping farmers to swing into action on time. Thanks to heavy rainfall in the upper-catchment area of the rivers Krishna, Godavari, Penna and Vamsadhara, all reservoirs are brimming with water. The irrigation department has readied a plan for release of water from different reservoirs to canals in different regions to tap the benefits of rain. The irrigation department is anticipating more rains and flood in Krishna and Godavari in September and October which might further help it release additional water to the canals. Paddy farmers have completed nurseries in about 30 lakh acres in different districts and total area under paddy cultivation is likely to touch 45 to 50 lakh acres in the next two weeks with the tail-end of the canals receiving waters. Majority of the canals in the state are gushing with waters released from the projects. The state government had in principle decided to release water for paddy cultivation under Nagarjuna Sagar Right Canal (NSRC) spread over nearly 12 lakh acres in Guntur and Prakasam districts. Sowing operations or nurseries were completed in about 14 lakh acres under Krishna delta spread of Krishna, Guntur, West Godavari and Prakasam districts. “We are expecting that there will be nearly 20 percent jump from the previous year in paddy production by the end of the season,” said agriculture mission vice-chairman MVS Nagireddy. Interestingly, the cultivation of all other crops have also been in full swing and is likely to set new records. According to latest information, the sowing operations of food grain crops including paddy, red gram and other pulses touched nearly 45 lakh acres which is likely to go up further in the coming weeks. Similarly, the ground nut is being cultivated in a record 20 lakh acres against the last year’s 12 lakh acres. With Rayalaseema region getting heavy rains, farmers have gone for groundnut cultivation in a big way. While pulses are being cultivated in about 5 lakh acres, coarse grains were sowed in about three lakh acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/agriculture-dept-expecting-bumper-kharif-paddy-harvest/articleshow/77897610.cms||Samdani MN
September 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family of three kidnapped by woman’s ex-husband, rescued||Ahmedabad: City crime branch and Sabarkantha local crime branch (LCB) in a joint operation in Idar early on Wednesday morning, rescued a woman along with her husband and their one-month-old child, from the clutches of her ex-husband, his brothers and their step-mother. Rekha Bharthri, 24, her second husband Jagdish Bharthri, 24, and their one-month-old child, were allegedly kidnapped from Sarkhej and taken to Idar by Rekha’s former husband, Moriya Bharthri, 34, and his brothers Suresh (23, Prakash Bharthri 20 and their step mother Vali Bhartri (70). While Moriyo, Suresh, Prakash and Vali have been held in Idar, three other accused, including the wives of Suresh and Prakash, are still absconding, crime branch sources said. “Jagdish has been injured seriously. His legs have been broken and he is in hospital. is presently in hospital. The four accused have been handed over to Sarkhej Police for further investigation. They intended to kill Jagdish and keep Rekha with them,” said a crime branch official. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said Moriyo and Rekha were married in 2005 and separated about a year and a half ago. Rekha then married Jagdish, leaving her three children from Moriyo behind and began living in Sarkhej. “The accused had made two attempts to kidnap Rekha earlier. This time they managed to kidnap both Rekha and Jagdish,” added Gohil. Gohil said at about 12.55am on Wednesday, inspector J P Roziya, PSI Ishwar Desai and their team reached Sarkhej as soon as they recieved a message about the family being kidnapped in an MUV. “From Jagdish’s brother, Lala, they learned that the family had been kidnapped by Moriyo and his family. Our team went to Moriyo’s house in Chandkheda and learned that they had been living in Idar,” said Gohil. Crime branch officials said based on the description of the MUV, Sabarkantha LCB traced the car and driver, Kailash Marwadi, of Idar. “Marwadi told us Moriyo had rented his MUV on Tuesday evening and had gone to Ahmedabad. From there, they forced Rekha and Jagdish in the MUV. However the tyre of the car burst near Vaktapur village in Idar. Moriyo then arranged for a two autos and was talking about taking them to a place near Rameshwar lake,” added a crime branch source. A crime branch team then raided the house near Rameshwar lake and rescued the kidnapped couple and their child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-of-three-kidnapped-by-womans-ex-husband-rescued/articleshow/77898870.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Patna||JD(U) first political party to launch digital platform||PATNA: Bihar’s ruling JD(U) on Wednesday became the first political party in the country to launch its own multi-tasking digital platform ‘jdulive.com’. The party claimed that this connectivity platform that can link up to 10 lakh devices has been "indigenously" developed by Bihar-born IITians. “Up to 10 lakh distant devices such as mobile phones, TV screens, digital screens, can be linked with this first-of-its-kind political digital platform at a time,” senior JD(U) leader and state’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary told TOI on Wednesday. He said no other political party has so far developed such a gigantic digital platform. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar would address his proposed mega virtual rally- ‘Nischay Samvad’- on September 7 on this unique platform. “Through this platform, we can link more than 30 lakh people at a time so that they can easily hear our leader’s speech. This platform can link 10 lakh devices at a time. Suppose, if we link one lakh digital screens, a minimum of 50 to 100 people can watch one big digital screen while maintaining the norms of social distancing. Thus, at a time even 30 lakh or more people can be allowed to watch and hear our leader Nitish Kumar using this platform,” Choudhary explained. Senior JD(U) leaders such as energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Ashok Choudhary and WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, jointly inaugurated the digital platform at the party’s office here. Earlier, Nitish was scheduled to inaugurate it on Wednesday. But his programme was changed due to the ongoing national mourning following the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee. “This digital platform will also host a database of lakhs of JD(U) workers. Lakhs of party workers can be linked with the platform at the click of the mouse. Any message can be transferred to lakhs of JD(U) members at a time at the click of a button,” JD(U) state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya told TOI on Wednesday. “Our leader Nitish Kumar strongly believes in having a direct dialogue with common people. But it was not possible to hold open meetings due to Covid-19. Hence, JD(U) developed its digital platform so that our leader can have direct dialogue with common people, party workers through video conferencing,” Bijendra Yadav. “This platform is an outstanding example of ‘Make in Bihar’ because it has been visualized and prepared by a dedicated team of Bihar born IITians,” Sanjay Jha said. This platform would also work as a ‘Bihar Brand TV’. Positive news stories related to the JD(U) and achievements of Nitish government would be aired through this platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-first-political-party-to-launch-digital-platform/articleshow/77898860.cms||Madan Kumar
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Doubts over use of 2019 Vahana Mitra aid||VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite receiving Rs 10,000 each in 2019 under the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme, 45% of the 5,67,099 autorickshaw drivers in the state have not utilised the allowance to set their papers in order at the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs). “The YSR Vahana Mitra was launched on October 4, 2019 with an aim to provide an annual allowance of Rs 10,000 to autorickshaw and taxi drivers to meet insurance premium, licence fees and other recurring expenses. More than five lakh auto drivers have received the fund in 2019 and more than 45% of them have not utilised the funds for the said purpose. Then, why did government disburse the funds this year as well?” questioned a senior RTO official. This year, on June 4, the government disbursed funds under the scheme four months in advance to over 2.6 lakh beneficiaries, of which 1,82,000 beneficiaries are autorickshaw drivers. Sources said several among these 1,82,000 have got the funds for the second time despite not utilising funds for last year. “If you consider Visakhapatnam district, around 48,000 auto drivers received Rs 10,000 each in 2019. However, only 27,000 autos in the district are running with valid papers. This year 31,000 auto drivers from the district have got the funds under this scheme. It means there are at least 4,000 drivers who have got the funds for the second time,” G Vamanamurti, secretary of Auto Drivers’ and Workers’ Federation, a trade union organisation affiliated to AITUC told TOI. District revenue officials refused to comment on the issue stating that their job is to register the beneficiaries and disburse the amount. “This year we have done the registration process afresh and then disbursed the funds. We are not sure whether it is mandatory for auto drivers to utilise the funds for RTO paperworks or not. Although the fund was disbursed under the Vahana Mitra shceme, the chief minister has announced that the government is disbursing the funds as the auto and taxi drivers had no source of income during the past few months due to the lockdown,” a senior official at a district collectorate office told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/doubts-over-use-of-2019-vahana-mitra-aid/articleshow/77897373.cms||Arpit Basu
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC eyes Rs 300 crore from layout regularisation scheme||HYDERABAD: With the notification for new layout regularisation scheme (LRS) scheme issued, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) expects Rs 300 crore in its coffers. “An assessment has been done, we are expecting 50,000 LRS applications within GHMC limits and the LRS fee sums up to Rs 300 crore,” a GHMC official. Of the 85,313 pending LRS applications, 30,092 proceedings had been issued, 21,300 were rejected, while 28,306 applicants did not submit all documents (shortfall category). The remaining did not pay the requisite fee. According to GHMC officials, as per a recent memo issued by the registration and stamps department, only layouts for which proceedings have been approved (30,000) were eligible for registration. “The applications rejected are the ones where the parcel of land falls within full tank level (FTL) of lakes, buffer zones and storm water drains,” a GHMC official said. As per GHMC records, several applicants, whose applications have been kept pending due to shortfall, did not submit documents despite reminders. “We have informed the applicants and gave them a list of documents they need to submit, but they did not turn up,” a GHMC official said. The applicants could submit the pending documents online before October 15. GHMC officials said unlike earlier, LRS melas would not be held this time. “Due to Covid-19 norms, we will not hold LRS melas,” the GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-eyes-rs-300cr-from-layout-regularisation-scheme/articleshow/77898899.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 3, 2020||Kolkata||Class VII boy ends life in Kolkata after online class||KOLKATA: A 13-year-old boy — a Class VII student of an English medium school — allegedly committed suicide by hanging in his residence at Regent Park on Tuesday afternoon. The boy had reportedly attended his online classes in the morning. Cops said they have started a probe to ascertain the exact reason behind his taking the extreme step. “We are finding whether the victim had been rebuked by his parents or relatives after he had asked for something or he killed himself in the wake of any dispute with friends. We are ascertaining if he was subjected to bully anywhere. We are also trying to find whether the lockdown had left any adverse impact on his mind and led him to commit suicide,” said a police officer. The victim’s father is a railway contractor and his mother works in a dental hospital. “After attending his online classes, he had gone out with his father and demanded a haircut. He returned home and suddenly hanged himself,” said the officer. However, cops refused to comment on whether they had found a suicide note or anything else like that. In a separate incident, Samir Mondal (48), a cook at a nursing home in Phoolbagan, allegedly ended his life by hanging from a grill with the help of a gamcha. The reason behind his suicide was not ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/class-vii-boy-ends-life-after-online-class/articleshow/77898905.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Charges would be borne by government: Ajeya Kallam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chief advisor to the state government Ajeya Kallam on Wednesday assured that there will be no burden on farmers availing free power. The advisor said that discoms will be installing smart metres for agriculture sector and usage charges will be transferred directly into the bank accounts of farmers. “The state government will be introducing the direct electricity cash transfer system. Every month, the meter reading will be sent to the finance department which will immediately transfer the amount to the farmers’ bank accounts. This can be redeemed by the discoms,” said Kallam. “Several states, including AP and Telangana, had objected to some components included in the draft Electricity Bill but the state government formulated a new policy that fits within the guidelines of the Union Government,” the chief advisor said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/charges-would-be-borne-by-govt-kallam/articleshow/77897935.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Offline classes: Deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan’s tweet sparks confusion||BENGALURU: A tweet by deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan on offline classes restarting in October has created confusion among college students, many of whom want virtual sessions to continue. Narayan, who’s also minister for higher education, had tweeted on August 26: “The academic year for degree colleges will commence from September 1 via online classes. Offline classes will begin in October.” He added that the government is awaiting guidelines from the Centre regarding resumption of offline classes. However, students told TOI some colleges have already issued circulars regarding reopening of colleges, while the Centre’s guidelines are still not out. Dhruv Jatti of Bangalore Student Community (BSC) said: “A GOK order was issued on June 7 with respect to offline classes beginning from October 1, but lack of clarity has left colleges, students and parents concerned. The deputy CM’s tweet has caused confusion and panic among the public.” Many college-goers want virtual lessons to continueBSC, a student group with more than 2,000 members, conducted a survey following Narayan’s tweet to gauge the preferences of students and parents. Of the 15,000 respondents, 75.3% parents and 57.4% students wanted online classes. Harshita P from BSC’s research and policy team requested the higher education ministry to conduct an official government survey. The tweet received mixed reactions. “Worst premature decision making by the government, how can they even announce before the Central govt says anything about it, a vaccine has not arrived yet, better stop risking the life of students and their families (sic),” said a Twitter user. Students who had travelled to their hometowns outside the state also took exception to it. “A student tweeted: “Most of us are outstation candidates and physical classes are not safe at all.” However, there were some who backed the decision. Ridhima Singh tweeted: “Thank you so much, sir. Really relieved after hearing this. Thank you for being the first state to support reopening colleges. Our education and careers were at stake...” Another student said: “We are aware of the risks and we will follow health protocols, we should be allowed get back to classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/offline-classes-dy-cms-tweet-sparks-confusion/articleshow/77898142.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: ACB searches on SRO, tahsildar, town planning offices||VIJAYAWADA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted state-wide searches on tahsildar, sub-registrar and town planning offices and noticed several irregularities on Wednesday. According to officials, the ACB recovered unaccounted money in all the offices they raided and found that employees were not maintaining personal cash register properly. In Srikakulam, officials raided Santhakaviti tahsildar office and found 30 pattadar pass books that were not distributed for the last three months. Other irregularities include 15 pending Spandana petitions, 242 Meeseva petitions and staff having Rs 22,810 unauthorised cash. In Krishna district, officials raided Ibrahimpatnam tahsildar office and found unaccounted money of Rs 2.28 lakh from 10 employees. They found 12,687 applications received in Meeseva, out of which, 9,900 applications were approved and 885 of them were rejected without assigning reason. Around 1,669 applications are within SLA (service level agreement) and 40 of them set to lapse in 24 hours. “On verification of the attendance register for the year 2020, it was found that the names of only 11 staff were entered. Some members had signed and some did not sign up to August 2020 and the register for the month of September not yet opened,” ACB official said. Officials also raided the sub-registrar office in Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district and found Rs 11,180 cash from M Lakshmana Rao, a private person. The officials stated that Rao is engaged by the sub-registrar to collect bribes. Similar offences were noticed at sub-registrar offices in Kadapa and Chittoor. The officials also raided the town planning office at Gudur municipality in Nellore district and found eight petitions regarding layout regularisation scheme and 140 petitions regarding public grievances were pending. They also found lapses in collecting tax dues of advertisement hoardings till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acb-searches-on-sro-tahsildar-town-planning-offices/articleshow/77897786.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Scolded for playing PUBG, teen ends life||Vadodara/ Anand: A day before the Centre issued orders to ban 118 more Chinese apps including the popular mobile gaming app PUBG, a teenager in Anand district reportedly committed suicide after he was allegedly scolded for playing the online game. Sources said that a 16-year-old boy hailing from Sureli village of Anand’s Umreth taluka committed suicide on Tuesday after his father allegedly scolded him for continuously playing the game on his mobile phone. Sources said that the boy – Mohammed Ismail Pathan – was addicted to the game. His father, who is a teacher, warned him and asked him to stay away from his cellphone. Distressed by the scolding, the teenager consumed poison at his residence. He then went inside the house and started vomiting and rolling on the floor of his house. Family members rushed the boy to a private hospital in Umreth after which he was referred to another hospital in Anand where he passed away during treatment. Umreth police has registered a case of accidental death. “His father is a teacher and mother is a housewife,” said a police official. After the teenager’s death, his photograph with the message urging children not to play such addictive online games was being circulated on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scolded-for-playing-pubg-teen-ends-life/articleshow/77896412.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Most number of suicide deaths in AP due to poisoning: NCRB data||VISAKHAPATNAM: Poisoning was the most-adopted method among suicide victims in Andhra Pradesh according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2019. The report reveals that over 42 per cent of victims ended their lives by consuming poison. This was followed by hanging, which accounts for 37 per cent of suicide cases in the state. Apart from consuming poison and hanging, other methods of suicide included self-inflicted injuries, consuming sleeping pills, self-immolation, jumping from buildings, the statistics reveal. The report shows an increase in suicides in the state by 21 per cent in 2019 compared to 2018. The state had reported 5,319 cases in 2018, which jumped to 6,465 in 2019. Of the total suicides in Andhra Pradesh in 2019, as many as 2,741 victims ended their lives by consuming poison of whom 680 were women. In 2018, as per the data, 2,308 cases of suicide by poisoning had been registered. Hanging accounted for 2,378 cases of suicides in 2019 of which 693 victims were women. Suicide by hanging accounted for 1,923 cases in 2018. As many as 502 persons ended their lives by coming under the wheels of running vehicles and trains while 358 died of suicide by drowning in 2019. A senior police officer confirmed that self-poisoning was the most common method of suicide in the state with most victims to resorting to substances which were most accessible. Among the most-used substances consumed by victims of self-poisoning were pesticides, insecticides, and rat poison. While pesticides and insecticides accounted for most cases in rural areas, rat poison was the most-used method of self-poisoning in urban parts of the state. Among professional groups, daily wage workers accounted for most cases of suicide in the state with as many as 2,167 daily wage earners ending their lives in 2019. According to psychiatrist Dr NN Raju, India had the highest rate of death by suicide and that depression was the most common cause. “Everyone is fighting their own battle. A revolution in mental healthcare system and strong family bonds are needed to prevent suicide which has emerged as the new killer among youngsters and others as well,” Dr Raju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/most-number-of-suicide-deaths-in-state-due-to-poisoning-ncrb-data/articleshow/77897182.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, chug into AP’s 1st green railway station at Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) has awarded the Visakhapatnam railway station ‘Platinum’ rating for adopting green concepts to reduce adverse impact on the environment, Waltair divisional railway manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said on Thursday. Lauding the Visakhapatnam station team, environment and health management, medical and other departments for their efforts in achieving this feat, Shrivastava announced that Visakhapatnam’s is the third railway station in the country to be awarded the distinction after Secunderabad and Jaipur railway stations. The Vizag station has been actively employing smart and green initiatives alongside developmental activities. The station secured 82 points out of 100 in the six environmental categories — sustainable station facility; health, hygiene and sanitation; energy efficiency; water efficiency; smart green initiatives; and innovation and development. In a related development, Visakhapatnam railway station is on course to become the first station in the state to be illuminated completely using green energy by 2021. The project gains significance as Vizag emerges as the executive capital of the state. The project, estimated to cost around Rs 2 crore, will employ solar panels on roofs of all eight platforms to generate power for the station. “Work on 350KW solar power plant is in progress at Visakhapatnam railway station. This project is expected to be completed by this calender year or by March 2021,” a railway official told TOI. In fact, the railways had proposed the project in the financial year 2016-17 with a completion target of September 2017 but the project saw delays due to various reasons. The project gained momentum during the lockdown period with work beginning in March with an aim of completion by December 2020. “Unfortunately, some of the key railway officials who led the project were affected with Covid-19. One of the key officials even succumbed to the pandemic. All these factors led to delays in the project. However, we are all working together to complete it at any cost at the earliest,” a railway source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-chug-into-aps-1st-green-railway-stn-at-vizag/articleshow/77918140.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 3, 2020||Surat||Seven-year-old girl goes missing from Surat’s Pandesara||Surat: A seven-year-old girl went missing from Pandesara area on Wednesday morning. Police teams of over 250 cops have initiated a search for the girl. Maya Ransinge, a resident of Jalaram Nagar in Pandesara, went missing at around 7 am. The family, that does labour work, searched till afternoon and failing to locate her contacted police. The girl was spotted in CCTV cameras around one kilometre away from the home. “She was alone in the last footage we checked. We are checking in various directions connecting her last location,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, division F. The girls’ father works for a construction contractor and lives with family in under-construction properties to guard it. The girl is not studying in school and the family is from Maharashtra. The minor is not familiar with the area and her parents told police that she never goes far from home. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-year-old-girl-goes-missing-from-surats-pandesara/articleshow/77897424.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77901751.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77901750.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77901752.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77901748.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77901749.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Allahabad||Flood water recedes marginally, expected to rise again due to discharge of water from upstream barrages||PRAYAGRAJ: The water levels of both Ganga and Yamuna, which had been rising sharply till Wednesday morning, started receding marginally at all three points by the evening. However, as the barrages at Haridwar, Narora and Kanpur have released over 3.5 lakh cusec water in the Ganga, the water level is all set to rise again in the district in the next 24 hours. At 8 am on Wednesday, the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau was 81.09 m, which was 11 cm more than the level recorded four hours before. Likewise, at Chatnag, the water level had increased by 11 cm and was recorded as 80.20 m at 8 am. The water level of Yamuna, as recorded at Naini, stood at 80.90 m, 10 cm more than the level recorded at 4 am. However, by Wednesday evening, the water levelat all three points of both the rivers started receding. At Phaphamau and Chatnag, it came down by .04 cm. It was recorded as 81.02 m at Phaphamau and 80.12 m at Chatnag. The Yamuna too receded by .04 cm and the water level stood at 80.82 m. “This seems like a temporary relief as water released by barrages located upstream, have released huge amounts of water which would increase the water level marginally in the next 24-48 hours,” said executive engineer of flood control department, Brijesh Kumar Verma. An amount of 41,247 cusec water has been discharged from Haridwar barrage, while 56,137 cusec of water has been released from Narora on Wednesday. Likewise, Kanpur barrage has discharged 2,58,921 cusec water into the Ganga. Although the flood water had marginally reduced on Wednesday evening, the residents and the administration are keeping a close eye on the water level. With the additional water discharged into the Ganga, there is fresh danger of flood water making way in the catchment area of the river. The devotees at Bade Hanuman temple of Sangam too fear the possibility of flood water entering the premises of the temple. “We expect that Maa Ganga would bathe the deity on Friday morning as the water discharged from the upstream barrages usually takes a day or two to reach Sangam,” said Abhishek Panda, a priest at Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/flood-water-recedes-marginally-expected-to-rise-again-due-to-discharge-of-water-from-upstream-barrages/articleshow/77894854.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Osmania OTs on the blink, patients hit hard||HYDERABAD: After a month of coping with pain caused by hernia, Mohd Kareem Khan was referred to the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) from the Mancheriyal district hospital for a surgery a fortnight back. He has since made two rounds to the OGH, only to be turned away with a strip of painkillers. Like him, at least 20 patients have been declined service at the general surgery department while 25 patients who required orthopaedic surgical intervention were given conservative management and packed off. With operation theatres in the orthopaedic and general surgery departments of the hospital not functioning for nearly two months, many patients have been only put on painkillers and asked to wait for a future date. Although emergency surgical theatres are operational in the departments, majority of the patients requiring surgeries fall under the non-emergency or elective category. Several departments being shifted due to flooding in the hospital has also added to the menace in the only only tertiary care centre of the government sector. No alternative arrangements were also made following the shifting. The issue has been represented twice in front of the director of medical education by the Osmania Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association. The junior doctors have threatened to boycott their services if an alternate arrangement is not made. Following the threat, an emergency meeting was held by hospital superintendent. “As there is no admission for elective surgeries in the general surgery department or orthopaedic department, we are not able to take IC Fracture Femur cases. We have to usually do a hemiarthroplasty but now, we are only applying a cast, which makes the patient bed-ridden,” said Dr P Rohith, the president of the junior doctors’ association. “This results in the patients frequently quarrelling with the doctors since they also do not have any other place to do. The situation in OGH, which serves lakh of poor patients, is very disappointing. Despite us making representations, nothing has moved agead. Although we do not want to boycott services during the ongoing pandemic, the hospital’s failure in making alternative arragements is a loss to the patients only,” added Rohith. Meanwhile, the hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender met the DME over the issue on Wednesday. “We will make some arrangements by the end of the week in the Quli Qutub building by clubbing OT facilities for super-speciality departments,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/osmania-ots-on-the-blink-patients-hit-hard/articleshow/77898933.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has 52,000 active cases; Sivaganga worst fatality rate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,990 cases on Wednesday taking the case tally to 4,39,959. The state reported 98 deaths that took the cumulative death toll to 7,516. There were 52,380 people still under treatment on Wednesday. The recovery rate was more than 86%, after 5,891 people were discharged in the past 24 hours. While an average of 11% of the people was still under treatment across the state, there were 33.6% of active cases in Erode, 31.5% in Salem and 30.8% in Tirupur. Coimbatore had around 25% of its patients still under treatment, compared to 9% in Chennai and 5% in Madurai. Perambalur (107) , Dharmapuri (168), and Sivaganga (249) had the lowest number of people under treatment. The state tested more than 73,883 people and 75,829 samples between Tuesday and Wednesday. The average positivity rate is 9.2% in the state and around 15% in Chennai. While Ranipet has around 15.4% positivity rate, Chengalpet and Cuddalore have 13% each. The fatality rate was 1.7% in the state. Sivaganga (2.6%) had the highest fatality rate followed by Madurai (2.5%), Ramanathapuram (2.2%) and Chennai (2%). Chennai, the worst affected district, recorded 1,025 new cases and 19 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (390), Kancheepuram (133) and Tiruvallur (285) together clocked 808 cases and 18 deaths. The Chennai region had 1,833 fresh cases and 37 deaths, pushing active cases in the region to 18,558, including 12,537 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 1,247 cases and 16 deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the West together reported 1,375 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore reported 579 cases and Salem recorded 403 cases, followed by Erode (106), Tirupur (87) and Namakkal (83). The number of active cases in the zone was 11,543, including 4,269 in Coimbatore and 3,724 in Salem. Though the southern districts had fewer cases than the west, it reported 21 deaths. The ten districts together reported 858 cases, while the central zone recorded 664 cases and eight deaths. There were 7,805 people under treatment in the south and 5,558 in the central districts. Of the 98 people whose deaths were reported on Wednesday, five had no comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-has-52k-active-cases-sivaganga-worst-fatality-rate/articleshow/77898929.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||Ravi Pujari case: Special court recalls three bail orders||MUMBAI: In a rare instance, a special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court on Wednesday recalled three bail orders it had passed last month and directed the accused to surrender, reports Rebecca Samervel. In August, in two separate cases of extortion by alleged gang members of extradited gangster Ravi Pujari, three accused were granted bail under a section CrPC which entitles an undertrial bail if he has been in jail for more than half of the period of maximum punishment prescribed for the crime. Last week, the judge issued “urgent notices” initiating the procedure for recalling the order. The court reasoned, “While passing the order, the statutory provisions of imprisonment for offences punishable under MCOCA were not dealt with.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ravi-pujari-case-special-court-recalls-three-bail-orders/articleshow/77901603.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 3, 2020||Allahabad||Ganga to rise again as water released from three barrages||PRAYAGRAJ: The water levels of both Ganga and Yamuna, which had been rising sharply till Wednesday morning, started receding marginally at all three points by the evening. However, as the barrages at Haridwar, Narora and Kanpur have released over 3.5 lakh cusec water in the Ganga, the water level is all set to rise again in the district in the next 24 hours. At 8 am on Wednesday, the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau was 81.09 m, which was 11 cm more than the level recorded four hours before. Likewise, at Chatnag, the water level had increased by 11 cm and was recorded as 80.20 m at 8 am. The water level of Yamuna, as recorded at Naini, stood at 80.90 m, 10 cm more than the level recorded at 4 am. However, by Wednesday evening, the water levelat all three points of both the rivers started receding. At Phaphamau and Chatnag, it came down by .04 cm. It was recorded as 81.02 m at Phaphamau and 80.12 m at Chatnag. The Yamuna too receded by .04 cm and the water level stood at 80.82 m.  “This seems like a temporary relief as water released by barrages located upstream, have released huge amounts of water which would increase the water level marginally in the next 24-48 hours,” said executive engineer of flood control department, Brijesh Kumar Verma. An amount of 41,247 cusec water has been discharged from Haridwar barrage, while 56,137 cusec of water has been released from Narora on Wednesday. Likewise, Kanpur barrage has discharged 2,58,921 cusec water into the Ganga. Although the flood water had marginally reduced on Wednesday evening, the residents and the administration are keeping a close eye on the water level. With the additional water discharged into the Ganga, there is fresh danger of flood water making way in the catchment area of the river. The devotees at Bade Hanuman temple of Sangam too fear the possibility of flood water entering the premises of the temple. “We expect that Maa Ganga would bathe the deity on Friday morning as the water discharged from the upstream barrages usually takes a day or two to reach Sangam,” said Abhishek Panda, a priest at Sangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ganga-to-rise-again-as-water-released-from-three-barrages/articleshow/77894882.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Nandi Hills to open from Sept 7||Bengaluru: Nandi Hills will open its gates for visitors from September 7. The Chikkaballapura district administration had banned tourists from the hills five months ago in the wake of Covid-19. Though the lockdown was relaxed, the decision to allow visitors to Nandi Hills was not taken fearing violation of social distancing norms and other health protocols. However, the re-opening of comes with a rider: It will remain open only between 8am and 5pm. Chikkaballapur deputy commissioner R Latha said the timings have been restricted to ensure compliance with health protocols and to avoid over-crowding. The move has not gone down well with nature lovers and biking enthusiasts. “The best thing about a trip to Nandi Hills is to catch a glimpse of the sun over the clouds or fog. But it’s a waste if they do not allow us entry before sunrise,” said Suresh Gowda, a biker. However, the district administration said: “We fixed the entry time at 8 am as we expect a surge in visitors from Bengaluru as a majority of them are tired of sitting at home. We will take a call on changing the timings after a few days.” Latha said visitors to Nandi Hills will be screened before being allowed entry. “If visitors are not wearing masks they will not be allowed. On the hill, our personnel will identify those who remove masks or violate social distancing and penalise them,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nandi-hills-to-open-from-sept-7/articleshow/77897425.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Narayana Guru used Adwaita for progressive purposes: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Unlike Sankaracharya, Narayana guru used Adwaita for progressive purposes, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while inaugurating the birth anniversary celebrations of Sree Narayana guru on Wednesday. Inaugurating via online the 166th birth anniversary celebrations of social reformer and spiritual guru Sree Narayana at Chempazhanthy Sree Narayana Gurukulam here, Pinarayi said guru took a distinctive path as he put man first and made him the focal point of his philosophy. Narayana guru put man first and tried to find solution to his sufferings. He upheld universal brotherhood and promoted spirituality devoid of religion. He did not think about salvation beyond death. Instead, his thoughts were about betterment of the present-day lives of people, Pinarayi Vijayan said. “Both Narayana guru and Sankaracharyar were advocates of Adwaita philosophy. But what made Narayana guru different? He used Adwaita for the betterment of human lives. Not for sanctifying the conservative values. Narayana guru tried to correct them and devoted his time to propose humane and practical propositions of progressive nature,” Vijayan surmised. The chief minister said that attempts from some quarters to justify evil customs like untouchability in the past by equating the same with the social distancing in the age of Covid-19 pandemic were absurd and should be denounced. “Guru followed tradition and at the same time outpaced the same. He used to address people directly and transformed their lives. In these pandemic times, we can pay him obeisance by adhering to Covid protocol,” he added. Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah paid respects to Narayana guru by way of a social media post prepared in Malayalam. “The contributions of Narayana guru towards the empowerment and education of the downtrodden are unforgettable. His philosophy and advices would continue to brighten up the lives of people in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guru-used-adwaita-for-progressive-purposes-cm/articleshow/77897450.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||20 pvt hosps to provide 700 beds||Nashik: As many as 20 private hospitals in the city have sought permission of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) for treating Covid-19 patients. They have agreed to provide over 700 beds altogether for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, including over 50% oxygen beds. NMC officials said that we are in the process of issuing permission to these private hospitals to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients as per the government guidelines. “The doubling rate of the Covid-19 patients, which was 18 days on August 15, has now improved to 24 days. The number of patients which were around 16,000 on August 15 have now swelled to 32,000 so far,” said NMC officials. NMC officials said that the number of Covid-19 patients are expected to increase up to 60,000 by September end. “Accordingly, we also need more beds in the city, including oxygen beds,” they said. “Twenty private hospitals are ready to provide over 700 beds for the Covid patients and have sought permission to start treatment to Covid-19 patients. We are expected to give them permission in the next two three days,” civic officials said, adding that they are in the process of setting up 60 oxygen beds at medical college hospital in the city. Besides, the NMC has also planned to install 200 oxygen beds, including 24 ventilators at Bytco hospital. “We have already floated a bid to get large tanks with 20,000 litres on rent. We are expecting to complete the tender process within a week and all the beds are expected to be ready within a couple of weeks,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-pvt-hosps-to-provide-700-beds/articleshow/78024212.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Number of immersions in city nearly half compared to last year||NAGPUR: The appeal made by officials regarding ganesh visarjan at home seems to have worked tremendously in favour of city’s water bodies. NMC statistics for the ten-day festival reveals that immersions witnessed a drop of 50% compared to the last year. A total of 1.22 lakh idols were immersed this year in the ten zones. This is nearly half of 2.92 lakh idols that were immersed in artificial tanks last year. The number of artificial tanks was also less. “Last year, we had placed 276 tanks while this year, the number was 184 in the ten zones,” said officials. On Tuesday, the last day of immersion, a total of 62.5 tonnes of nirmlaya was collected. NMC officials claimed that this year marked a big achievement as no immersions took place in water bodies. As TOI has been reporting, this is the first time that NMC cordoned off all lakes for immersions, including Futala, which usually witnessed the highest footfall. Data by members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation, who were volunteering at Futala lake since last ten days, also shows 50% decline in immersions. Last year at Futala, a total of 6,500 idols were immersed. “This year, the number fell to 3250,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of the NGO. Members also said that the festivity was a low-key affair this time around. “There was no DJ or loud music, decibel levels were thankfully very low. Even members of the ganesh mandals did not come in large numbers,” said Surbhi Jaiswal, team leader at the NGO. A loophole that came into the picture was large-scale selling of PoP idols under the garb of mud ones. Deciding to perform immersions at home, many chose to mud idols. However, many cases came to the fore of idols not getting dissolved. “Many citizens complained that the idols were not of pure mud. With the ban on PoP idols extending to next year, the sellers wanted to sell off as much stock as possible. They fooled people by selling PoP idols in the name of shadu mitti,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/number-of-immersions-in-city-nearly-half-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77898954.cms||Manka Behl
September 3, 2020||Goa||Deny nod to Jhaverri for parties, court tells govt||Panaji: The Panaji sessions court has suggested that Kapil Jhaverri, who was arrested for hosting a party at Anjuna on August 16, should not be given permission to organise parties in the future. Jhaverri was granted conditional bail last week after the court held that the quantity of drugs in his possession was small. The crime branch, however, had alleged that he had bulk quantities of narcotics and had alleged that he was hosting parties and boosting the drug trade along Goa’s coastal belt. “The authorities may take strict action against the applicant in not issuing such permissions in future,” sessions court judge Irshad Agha said in the order The crime branch had objected to Jhaverri’s bail application on the grounds that he was a celebrity and owner of a company, High Tide World in Mumbai, and was also associated with foreign nationals. The court held that bail could not be denied merely because the police sought to know the source of drugs. “Admittedly, in the present case, drugs found in possession of the accused were either in small or variable quantities. Although in reply the respondents have stated that bulk quantity of drugs was found with the accused, the case papers show that they were not carrying any commercial quantity of drugs,” the court held. Police said they had recovered from Jhaverri 45.2g of suspected charas, 7g of suspected ecstasy, 3.2g of suspected MDMA, and 7.2g of suspected cocaine. Another accused, Elena Emelianova, who was caught red-handed with Jhaverri at the party, was found in possession of 69g of cocaine. The police also arrested Ana Nucamendi who was found to possess 2.9g of suspected charas. Another accused, Eva, was found in possession of 2g of suspected charas. Jhaverri’s counsel K Poulekar, submitted that there was no other case registered against him and that he was only charged for possessing drugs and not for selling and manufacturing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deny-nod-to-jhaverri-for-parties-court-tells-govt/articleshow/77900366.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: FASTag in slow lane? Over 35% still paying cash||HYDERABAD: Over nine lakh motorists paid toll in cash in the first 15 days of August at various toll plazas in Telangana. Over 35% of motorists passing through toll gates are still paying cash, despite the Union government withdrawing concessions to vehicles not having FASTag. Contrary to the expectations that cash transactions at toll plazas would come down due to Covid-19 fear, it hasn’t. There were 19 toll plazas in Telangana. Despite only one gate at toll plazas being allocated to vehicles without FASTag, over nine lakh motorists had paid cash at the toll plazas between August 1 and August 15. In January, the Union road transport and highways ministry had made it mandatory to allow only FASTag users to avail any discount at the highway toll plazas in a bid to promote the digital mode of payment. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) regional manager Krishna Prasad confirmed to TOI that only 65% of the motorists were using FASTag. “Often, the non-FASTag vehicles pile up at the lone lane earmarked for them resulting in a traffic jam. While RTC buses and other taxis have adopted FASTag payments for seamless travel, a large number of private vehicles, including cars and even trucks, have not taken the FASTag,” he added. Transport and traffic experts said more awareness should be created about seamless travel and digital payments after which the government should consider an abnormal increase in toll fee for vehicles without FASTag. Traffic and transport expert PR Bhanumurthy of JNTU said while the target should be to ensure over 95% vehicles are covered with FASTag, the option of a single gate for cash payments should always be kept open in case of emergency. Also, FASTag should be made mandatory at the time of registration and insurance for vehicle, and pollution under check, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fastag-in-slow-lane-over-35-still-paying-cash/articleshow/77898957.cms||Roushan Ali
September 3, 2020||Chennai||Bus and train services within Tamil Nadu to resume from September 7||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that inter-district public and private bus transport and passenger train services within the state will resume from September 7. The state government restarted bus service within districts on Tuesday. In an official statement, the chief minister said there were requests from the public to recommence the operations for inter-district travel for work and business-related activities. “Permission is granted to resume inter-district public and private bus transport following standard operating procedure,” Palaniswami said. There were media reports about ordeals faced by the commuters to travel to other districts as the state transport corporations stop the services quiet away from the district boundaries, compelling the commuters to take a walk to enter the neighbouring district to get another bus. The CM also said passenger trains would also be allowed in the state adhering to the standard operating procedure. Palaniswami said that though the government has extended relaxations, citizens must follow all safety precautions, including wearing masks, washing hands with soap and maintaining social distance. No exam centres in containment zonesOnly those exam centres which are outside the containment zone will be allowed to function for holding exams, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday in its SOP on conducting exams. All staff and students to be allowed entry only if using face cover or masks. The face cover/mask has to be worn at all time inside the examination centre by all. Airlines can fly 60% of aircraftIn further easing of restrictions, the government on Wednesday permitted Indian airlines to increase the number of domestic passenger flights to 60% of their pre-Covid services, according to an official order. On June 26, the ministry of civil aviation had allowed the airlines to operate a maximum of 45% of their pre-virus domestic flights. Masks must in all Metro trainsUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said Metro train services will resume in a graded manner from September 7 across the country, except in Maharashtra, and passengers will have to follow preventive measures against Covid-19 such as maintaining social distancing and wearing face mask. All Metro lines will become operational from September 12. An official said Metro trains will not stop at stations where passengers are found not maintaining social distancing. “Only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to travel after thermal screening at the entrance of the station. Wearing of face mask will be mandatory for all passengers and staff,” Puri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bus-train-services-within-state-to-resume-from-sept-7/articleshow/77898959.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Low cholesterol also poses health risks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Increasing sedentary lifestyles and restricted movement since the Covid-19 outbreak began has turned the focus on lifestyle diseases, as the pandemic and restrictions imposed to combat it stretch into months. While it is assumed that high cholesterol levels can trigger heart attacks, city doctors point out that people may suffer a heart attack even with low cholesterol levels. Doctors said the prevalence of heart attack, ischemic heart disease and stroke has increased by over 50% over the last three decades, especially due to increased prevalence of coronary risk factors, such as elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL), ‘bad cholesterol’. This leads to the build up of fatty deposits within walls of arteries and reduces or blocks blood and oxygen flow to the heart, and can eventually lead to a heart attack. Some types of cholesterol, such as HDL, are essential for good health. “High cholesterol is closely related to increased risk of heart attack. But one may be at an increased risk of heart attack, despite high HDL and low LDL. It is observed that even people with ideal cholesterol, low or very low LDL may also have underlying heart attack risks. Also, not all patients with ‘normal’ cholesterol level have the same risk for developing heart disease. It depends on other conditions like smoking, diabetes, which could increase this risk. It’s important that even the healthiest people take steps to promote better heart health,” said Dr Rakesh Dubba, consultant cardiologist at Care Hospitals. “Maintaining a healthy body weight and regular exercise makes the heart muscles stronger. Especially people with diabetes should set realistic weight goals and aim for moderation,” explained diabetologist Dr T Sravanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-cholesterol-also-poses-health-risks/articleshow/77897413.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Godavari pollution ‘unlocked’ again||Nashik: The pollution in the Godavari river, which had become cleaner during the lockdown, has once again started increasing after the state government decided to ease the lockdown norms and start the “unlock” process. During lockdown, the industries, which are major contributor to the river pollution, were shut down. There were also fewer devotees visiting the banks of the Godavari. “As industries have resumed operations, the effluents are once again flowing into the river through the nulahs. The disposing of solid waste into the river is still under control,” an official from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said. “A Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) is being constructed for the industries by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). The discharge of the effluent will be zero once this CETP Plant is operational. We want the MIDC to speed up the construction of the project and make it operational at the earliest to make the river free from industrial pollution,” he added. The official said that the civic body has created a network of storm water lines in the city that is released into the river. “The rainwater flows through these lines and reaches the river. But some of the city residents have connected their sewage lines to storm water lines, which is completely wrong and against the norms. We have also decided to take action against such erring citizens,” he said. Environmentalist Rajesh Pandit, a petitioner of Godavari pollution case in Bombay high court, said that Godavari had become cleaner due to lack of human interference during lockdown. “This is the first time I had seen the river so clean and pollution free in April and the first half of May. But the pollution level has now increased to some extent. The industries have again started operations and are discharging effluents into the nullahs leading to the pollution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/godavari-pollution-unlocked-again/articleshow/78024190.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 3, 2020||Allahabad||Rare manuscripts to offer a peek into Nirgun poets’ ideals||PRAYAGRAJ: Looking to offer residents a peek into a sect which challenged exploitation of lower castes and promoted the idea of God as a ‘nirgun’ (regular) entity, Hindustani Academy will publish rare manuscripts containing the writings of famous Satnami panth poets Bhikha Saheb and Bhomik Saheb. The manuscripts date back to around 350 years. While Bhikha Saheb belonged to Bhurkura in Jakhanian tehsil of Ghazipur district, Bhomik Saheb lived in Lakhimpur Kheri. Bhurkura has been closely associated with Bhikha Saheb, who was born in 1791 in Azamgarh. The manuscripts are in Devanagari and Kaithi script and will be edited by Hindustani Academy president Uday Pratap Singh and litterateur Uday Shankar Dubey. Dubey was recently conferred the Tulsi Award by the organisation. A disciple of one of Satnami panth’s noted seers Gulal Saheb, Bhikha Saheb holds a special place in Nirgun literature. His works include Rama Kundaliya, Kavitta, Rekhata, Rama Shabad and Sakhi. “The manuscripts talk about an egalitarian society which is above religious and caste divides and a beautiful world where love and sacrifice is the basis of all relationships among humans,” said Singh. He said that the poet has written on handmade paper using handmade ink in different colours. “The doha is written in black, while the chaupai is in a shade of golden colour. The calligraphy is also very beautiful,” said Singh. Over the years, several sub-sets of Satnami panth mushroomed across the country. The earliest of these sub-sects could be traced back to the 15th century. Bhikha Saheb was also associated with Bawri sect a sub-sect of Satnami Panth. He also has a ‘taposthali’ in Ghazipur’s Bhurkura. “We are fortunate that these masterpieces have been preserved so well using traditional methods of conserving manuscripts written on handmade paper and were were given to us by a math in Lakhimpur Khiri”, said Singh. The manuscripts include some of the works by Apa Saheb Nirgun, a poet-saint credited with propagating a Satnami Panth sub-sect Apa Panth in the late 17th century. He wrote under the pseudonym Munidas. Singh said the manuscripts will be published in five volumes and each would have around 250-300 pages. Their translation would take around two years to complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rare-manuscripts-to-offer-a-peek-into-nirgun-poets-ideals/articleshow/77894892.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||DRI detains 24 containers at Mormugao||Vasco: The directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) detained 24 containers at Mormugao Port on Monday just before they could be shipped out on the grounds that the consignment contained restricted export items. DRI officials said that the contents of the containers, valued at Rs 1.3 crore, have been sent for testing to see if the cargo contains natural garnet, which is restricted for exports. According to officers, the containers were being exported by a Thane-based firm which has classified the cargo as a natural abrasive stones. “We suspect that the containers have natural garnet which can only be exported through Indian Rare Earths Limited (IREL),” said an official. As per an August 2018 notification, export of rare earth compounds classified as Beach Sand Minerals (BSM), including Garnet, Uranium and Thorium shall be regulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dri-detains-24-containers-at-mormugao/articleshow/77900374.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Firm fined Rs 69 lakh for illegal gravel mining||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department led by assistant director R Pratap Reddy carried out a raid at Panchadarla under Rambilli mandal in Visakhapatnam district and imposed a penalty of Rs 69.69 lakh on a firm, CEPLEX, on charges of illegal gravel mining and violation of temporary permission norms. CEPLEX had signed an agreement with farmers to mine gravel on assigned land (D-patta land) on an extent of four acres. Vigilance officials found violations relating to excavations in excess of approved quantities and misuse of permits. Pratap Reddy said the squad has conducted a comprehensive survey of the area through Electronic Total Station (ETS). As per norms, CEPLEX managing director N Srinivasa Reddy had permit to excavate 74,290 cubic meters, but the firm excavated 83,490 cubic meters. The firm also excavated another 4,480 cubic meters without permission, Pratap Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/firm-fined-rs-69l-for-illegal-gravel-mining/articleshow/77897456.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 3, 2020||Chennai||After five months, CMBT to reopen on Monday||CHENNAI: The Chennai Moffusil Bus Terminus (CMBT) at Koyambedu will reopen after five months on Monday as the state government has permitted inter-district bus services from September 7. However, the Madhavaram Moffusil Bus Terminus (MMBT), a facility for Andhra Pradesh and Tiruvallur-bound fleet, is unlikely to be opened for passenger services. Ahead of its reopening, the CMBT will be disinfected and passengers visiting the terminus will be screened for their body temperature once at the entrance and again before boarding buses. They would also be offered sanitizers and a staff will be deployed at each of the six platforms at CMBT to ensure the norms are followed. Each bus will be allowed to carry only 32 passengers against total seating capacity of 52. The middle seats in three-seater will remain empty and only one person will be allowed to sit on a two-seater. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in Villupuram, will operate 1,660 trips covering all the northern districts from CMBT on the first day. “Air-conditioned buses will not be operated from Chennai to other districts,” a state transport corporation official said. Before the pandemic set in, the facility handled an average of 1.5 lakh visitors daily, who travelled in 2,000 buses to different parts of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation and TNSTC fleets are also likely to be operated from CMBT, until the temporary fruit market set up at the MMBT is shifted back to the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which maintains MMBT, has not decided a date for this. Before the lockdown, about 12,500 passengers used MMBT every day to commute using the 315 services operated from Madhavaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-five-months-cmbt-to-reopen-on-monday/articleshow/77898998.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||After NGT order, Ghaziabad plans to clear 15-yr-old waste heap||GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has initiated proceedings to treat 1.5 lakh tonne of civic waste accumulated over 15 years in a dumping ground in Indirapuram’s Shakti Khand area. The development comes in the wake of National Green Tribunal’s order directing agencies to clear the landfill spread over 35,000 sqm. “As directed by NGT we have started the process of treating Shakti Khand dumping ground and floated tenders. As per the court’s direction, Ghaziabad Development Authority has been asked to bear the cost. So, we have sent the cost estimate to the development authority,” said Mahender Singh Tawar, municipal commissioner, GMC, adding that the work will start in a fortnight once the tendering process is complete. The land owned by GDA was originally the site for a sewage treatment plant. But over the years, the area has been converted into a giant dumping yard full of unsegregated waste from Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara. Presently, there is a 15ft high swelling heap of waste where the STP was supposed to be as per the last master plan. Alok Kumar, a resident of Indirapuram, said, “There have been many occasions when waste at the site would catch fire, and would burn for days. The GDA, on our complaint, had barricaded the area and claimed that no waste is being dumped. But there is another open side through which waste is regularly dumped.” In 2018, Trans-Hindon Residents' Welfare Association filed a plea with NGT claiming that the undesignated dumping yard in the middle of the township posed a health hazard to the residents. The green tribunal formed a committee comprising DM, GDA vice chairperson, and one each representative from UP pollution control board and Central Pollution Control board which presented a damning report in August 2019 on the condition of dumping yard. “The committee had warned in no unambiguous terms that the waste generated leachate was percolating to ground water leading to its contamination,” said Kuldeep Saxena, convener of Trans-Hindon Residents' Welfare Association. Following this, the corporation planned to move the garbage to the waste-to-energy plant in Galand. “But the plant is not ready yet, and so, we will rely on bio-remedial method to decompose the garbage locally,” explained Tawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/after-ngt-order-gzb-plans-to-clear-15-yr-old-waste-heap/articleshow/77899806.cms||Abhijay Jha
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||19 hospitals accounted for 80% of Covid deaths in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Close to 80% of Covid-19 deaths in Bengaluru were reported from major eight government and 11 private hospitals. There have been 2005 deaths in Bengaluru till September 1. According to a BBMP review report submitted to the chief secretary, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute accounted for the highest number of deaths, 293. The hospital admitted 4,398 patients till September 1 and the case fatality rate is 6.7%. Eight government hospitals reported 826 deaths (52%). The Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), the first hospital to treat Covid-19 in the state, admitted 677 patients and reported CFR of 13.6%. As per the report, the highest CFR of 14.8% was reported by St John’s Medical College Hospital that admitted 1368 patients, of which 202 died. Bengaluru’s CFR is 5.2%, higher than Karnataka’s 1.7%. Experts assert that looking at hospitals’ CFR and comparing it with that of the state is incorrect. “The state data includes lakhs of asymptomatic patients whereas hospitals see only severe cases, at least after the admission protocol was changed in June-end by which time the number of cases had begun increasing. Major hospitals that treated a large number of cases also had to contend with late admissions, and many coming with severe pneumonia,” an expert said on condition of anonymity. The report, however, does not mention deaths at home or brought dead cases. BMCRI’s dean-cum-director Dr CR Jayanthi said: “This is not entirely true. Keep in mind that our hospital was the only one to admit Covid positive patients during the first three months. All private and corporate hospitals had to necessarily send their cases to us.” “The CFR includes those who died due to non-Covid reasons too, like traffic accidents, advanced malignancies, patients with chronic kidney disease who were asymptomatic to Covid,” she said. At BMCRI, almost 53 patents who came intubated (on ventilator) or came seeking intubation died within 12 hours (average 8 hours) of admission. Dr Sanjiv Lewin, associate medical superintendent, St John’s Medical College Hospital, said, “CFR is to be calculated for a defined community and not for hospital population. If one admits sick patients with complications and comorbidities like even head injuries, acute intestinal disorders, cancer and uncontrolled diabetes, among others, because they need urgent critical care, one must be prepared to accept losses but not without a fight. People who need ICU care need critical care and we have rarely sent a very ill patient away during this Covid crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/19-hospitals-accounted-for-80-of-bengalurus-covid-deaths/articleshow/77897470.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 3, 2020||India||HC seeks IAF ex-pilot’s views on film on her||NEW DELHi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday issued a notice to former IAF pilot Gunjan Saxena, seeking to know her views on the controversy surrounding the Netflix film “Gunjan Saxena — The Kargil Girl”, reports Abhinav Garg. The HC’s decision came in response to a suit filed by the Centre and the IAF, accusing the makers of the movie of “denting the image” of the air force by portraying it as gender-biased. The judge said the former flight lieutenant should be made party to the suit since the film was supposedly based on her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-seeks-iaf-ex-pilots-views-on-film-on-her/articleshow/77901606.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 3, 2020||Goa||Oppn says collapse of law & order, seeks quick arrests||Panaji: Alarmed over the brazenness of Wednesday’s murder in broad daylight at Margao, the opposition raised questions over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. It also urged the government to pull up its socks. The death of the Margao-based businessman saw all political parties condemning the state’s failure to deter criminals during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Completely devastated with the news of the stabbing of a young businessman from Margao, Swapnil Walke, at his jewellery shop,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. “Complete collapse of law and order in the state. I demand immediate action in nabbing the murderers.”  In a tweet, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said, “How many more murders you need @goacm to put law and order in place? Soft approach of the defective @GovtofGoa on murderers, dacoits, drug and beggar mafia has made Goa into a crime destination.” Goa Forward Party (GFP) urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to act quickly and decisively to ensure that the crime graph does not continue its upward trajectory. “If the state government displays the same lethargic response it showed towards the pandemic, it’s only a matter of time before crime becomes an epidemic,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said. Sardesai demanded that Goa Police conduct a swift investigation and nab the accused as quickly as possible, to send a strong message to criminals. “Utterly shocking! The audacity of the assailant should be an alarm call for law enforcement agencies to be proactive in keeping Goemkars safe and to be merciless in enforcing the rule of law. Your callousness will cost lives,” Sardesai said. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also criticised the state government over the incident. “This daylight robbery and murder of a jewellery shop owner shows law and order has taken a beating,” AAP-Goa convenor Elvis Gomes said. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said the delay in appointing a full-time deputy superintendent of police for Salcete is one reason for the crime. “Salcete doesn’t have a full time DySP who monitors day-to-day law and order. The file regarding promotions is stuck at the Secretariat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-says-collapse-of-law-order-seeks-quick-arrests/articleshow/77900378.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Uniforms, ID cards for ragpickers||GHAZIABAD: In an attempt to bring ragpickers into the organised sector, GMC has decided to register them with the department and give them a uniform and identity cards. The body rolled out a plan to integrate them with recycled product manufacturers at a meeting on Wednesday chaired by municipal commissioner Mahendra Singh Tanwar GMC will also buy waste products made of plastic, iron and paper from ragpickers at little over market rates, and use them for manufacturing roads, flowerpots, file holders, benches, among other items which are needed by the civic body to maintain parks and meet office requirements. The surplus would be sold in the market as well. According to an estimate, there are around 12,000 ragpickers in the district. A consultant will be hired to implement this ambitious project, officials said. The corporation also plans to assist them in opening bank accounts, so that money for their products is paid on a daily basis. Apart from ragpickers, scrap dealers and units manufacturing recycled products will also be integrated. “It is an attempt to streamline the system, and bring them in the organised sector and give dignity to their work. They are already a part of the waste disposal system. Till now, they have been segregating waste and then, selling them to scrap dealers who further sold the waste to wholesale dealers. We will integrate ragpickers and scrap dealers with us,” said Tanwar. GMC health officer Mithilesh Kumar said, “They suffer social stigma and face difficulty in carrying out their work. Once they are recognized by us, it will help in uplifting their conditions. The corporation will also be benefited in terms of cleaning the city.” Kumar and additional municipal commissioner Pramod Kumar have been asked to prepare a project report and submit to the department. The corporation’s initiative is in consonance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, which mandates state government or local bodies to integrate ragpickers and informal waste collectors to the formal sector. Similar initiatives have been seen in Indore, Jaipur and Nagpur, among other cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/uniforms-id-cards-for-ragpickers/articleshow/77900120.cms||Aditya Dev
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hair clinic ruins Hyderabad woman’s locks, fined Rs 55k||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed a skin and hair clinic to pay Rs 55,000 to a consumer whose hair fall became worse after taking treatment from the clinic. The complainant, M Shanthi, said that she approached Layers (skin/hair/laser) for hair fall treatment and paid Rs 25, 000 on July 31, 2019, as she was assured satisfactory results in six months. In early August 2019, she said she was given an injection, but did not see any change. In the last week of August, Shanthi was administered with the second injection, due to which her fall was aggravated. She said that she had immediately contacted the clinic and informed them about the issue, but was assured that hair fall would reduce after the third dose of injection is given. In September, she was given third injections, but it made her problem even worse. When she raised the issue again, Shanti said that she was prescribed tablets, which had to be taken at her own expense, saying injections were not suitable for her. When Shanti took those tablets, she said she felt uneasy. She vomited and had to be rushed again to the clinic, where they prescribed some other tablets and ointment to reduce the hair fall. As she couldn’t see any result despite incurring more expenses, Shanthi said she demanded the clinic to refund the amount, but in vain. Alleging that the clinic failed to provide proper treatment, she approached the forum for refund and compensation. Though notices were served on the opposite party, they did not attend. During the trial, the bench noticed that she was given different tablets and ointment during treatment. “It appears that the opposite party had adopted the trial and error method. First tried the injections, when they did not work shifted to tablets and ointments,” said the bench, adding that from the documentary evidence it can be concluded that that the problem of hair fall had aggravated after starting the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hair-clinic-ruins-womans-locks-fined-rs-55k/articleshow/77580419.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Recovered cops to donate plasma||HYDERABAD: One hundred and forty-seven cops in Karimnagar have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Seventy-four of them have recovered and resumed work. In a new initiative, police have started donating plasma so that other Covid-hit patients could benefit. Karimnagar police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy appointed a nodal officer who will coordinate with police personnel needing medical help and also meet the needs of theose who test positive. Head constable T Srinivas was the first to donate plasma on August 28. “At least 20 constables have shown interest to donate plasma,” ACP, Special Branch, Somnath Shekhar told TOI. Shekhar, who was made the nodal officer, said the cops who test positive should not panic or lose heart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/recovered-cops-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77899084.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 3, 2020||Goa||Labourgate verdict scheduled for Sep 9||Panaji: Goa Lokayukta Justice (retired) PK Misra concluded the hearing on Wednesday into the alleged scam pertaining to funds disbursed to building and other construction workers (BOCW) and is scheduled to pronounce the order on September 9. According to Goa Forward Party (GFP), which made the allegations and filed a complaint before the Lokayukta, the office of the labour commissioner has not only failed to provide a satisfactory explanation but has even made false submissions. “Initially, the labour department tried to avoid the hearings, then they started to ask for time to delay the proceedings as they knew that the Lokayukta is retiring on September 17,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. Kamat filed the complaint on behalf of GFP and has provided evidence to back up his allegations. “ If you see the final statement made by the labour department, there are a lot of false statements made,” he said. Kamat had alleged that the government has diverted financial aid meant for labourers during the pandemic to BJP karyakartas with several panchayat representatives being identified as beneficiaries of the scheme. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had admitted that several sarpanchas benefited from the scheme. Kamat said that the labour commissioner was unable to provide data on the annual contribution collected during the registration process. “Second, they were asked about the self certification scheme and who registered the workers. They mention that the workers were manually registered by the BOCW board which is again a false statement because a private company called LabourNet was the one that registered the workers from day one,” said Kamat. Kamat also claimed that the BJP government was deliberately under staffing the office of the Lokayukta to prevent corruption cases from reaching their logical end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/labourgate-verdict-scheduled-for-sep-9/articleshow/77900375.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Surat||Two Nigerians, three others cheat realty firm of Rs 1.7 crore, nabbed||Surat: Crime branch sleuths on Wednesday nabbed five persons including two Nigerians for allegedly siphoning Rs 1.71 crore from a construction company’s account and transferring it to their bank accounts. The Mumbai-based Nigerians were running the racket and transferring the money to at least 50 bank accounts they were operating in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and even in the city itself. Police arrested Rafel Adedyo Yinka, 38, Kelvin Febiyan Ozombechi, 38, both Nigerians, along with Imran Ibrahim Kazi, 42, a resident of Pangloli village in Raigad district of Maharashtra, Nevil Shukla, 33, of Rajkot and Rakesh Malaviya, 44, of Katargam area in city. Shukla, Malaviya and Kazi have criminal backgrounds and were caught in multiple offences in different cities of Gujarat and Mumbai earlier. The accused siphoned the money between July 26 and 27 from the account of Unique Construction at the Bank of Baroda branch in Bhatar area of city. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Priyank Patel, an employee of Unique Construction, who managed the bank account. The accused got hold of the firm’s bank account details and got the services of the linked mobile number terminated. “The accused may have replaced the mobile number provided by the account holder in the bank and registered a new number after which they transferred the money,” said a police officer. Police are yet to find out the exact method that how the bank account was hacked. Since the services of the complainant’s mobile number was terminated, the complainant did not receive any intimation about the fraud. He came to know only when he could not log in to make payment from the bank account through the mobile phone. Police investigation so far revealed that the accused first transferred the money to 11 bank accounts and continued transferring it to multiple bank accounts by dividing it in smaller amounts. Before executing the fraud, the accused created a network of bank accounts across the country to use it while transferring the fraud money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-nigerians-three-others-cheat-realty-firm-of-rs-1-7-crore-nabbed/articleshow/77897557.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Kummattikkali reduced to just a ritual due to Covid||THRISSUR: Kummattikkali, which had become an integral part of Onam festivities in Thrissur over the years, was performed as a ritual at the Panamukkumpilli temple on Wednesday. The programme was held under the auspices of the Kizhakkumpattukara Vadakkumuri Desam Kummatti group, which is a prominent team performing this folk art annually during the Onam season. Even though the usual fanfare associated with Kummattikali was avoided this year, two Kummatti dancers accompanied by a mini-scale Nadhaswaram participated in the programme. Only the temple committee office-bearers danced along with the Kummatti dancers, though a large number of people accompany them usually. Earlier, the Kizhakkumpattukara Thekkumuri Desam Kummatti group arranged a ritualistic performance at Pazhunnallipurath Thaikkattusseri Mana on Tuesday. They presented Kummatti Pattu and Thumbithullal Pattu with the accompaniment of the rhythmic beating on Onavillu. The participation and duration of the event were scaled down in view of the Covid-19 protocol. The famous Pulikkali or tiger dance, another popular component of Onam celebrations in Thrissur, will be held on Thursday on an online platform by the Ayyanthole Desham Pulikkali team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kummattikkali-reduced-to-just-a-ritual-due-to-covid/articleshow/77897490.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP surveys Naxal-affected Asifabad||HYDERABAD: Among speculation that Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathy, former general secretary of CPI (Maoist) will surrender before police, DGP M Mahendar Reddy visited Naxal-affected Asifabad on Wednesday to review the police preparedness in handling Naxals. This is the second visit of Reddy to Asifabad in last two months. He reviewed the movement of Naxals in Asifabad and along with other senior officials, conducted aerial survey as well. Reddy directed local police to make sure no scope is given for Naxals to revive influence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-surveys-naxal-affected-asifabad/articleshow/77899001.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Noida||Rera orders forensic audit of Supernova over project map||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) on Wednesday ordered a forensic audit of Supertech’s Supernova project in Sector 94 and also threatened to revoke the registration of the builder in case of its failure to renew within a month the project map that lapsed last year. UP-Rera officials told TOI that the forensic audit was initiated as Supertech had failed to respond to the regulator’s previous calls for project map renewal with the Noida Authority. Supertech’s project map for Supernova was due for renewal last year itself. UP-Rera member Balvinder Kumar said, “We had also sent a notice to the builder in February, asking it to renew the project map. More than six months on, there has been no development on this front. So, we have ordered a forensic audit of Supernova to check the lapses on part of the builder.” According to UP-Rera secretary Abrar Ahmed, the builder now has 30 days to comply with the Rera’s February order, “failing which its registration will be revoked under Section 7 of the UP-Rera Act, which permits the regulator to take such a step”. “The Authority has a panel of top audit firms, which will compile the forensic reports,” Ahmed said. However, Supertech chairman RK Arora refuted Rera’s claim, saying they had not received any such notice in February. “However, the revalidation of the project map is under process. Due to lockdown, the renewal has not been done. We are hopeful that the revalidated map will be received soon and we will inform Rera accordingly,” he said. Apart from Supertech, UP-Rera on Wednesday also issued a notice to Ansal API to submit within 15 days a compliance report of an interim order, dated July 9, 2019, over fund diversion allegations, and warned that registrations of six of its projects would be withdrawn in case of failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rera-orders-forensic-audit-of-supernova-over-project-map/articleshow/77900033.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Qutb Shahi-era mosque restored by TS Waqf Board||HYDERABAD: A 400-year-old Qutb Shahi-era mosque at Raidurgam was restored by the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Tuesday. The mosque is located at Survey No. 82 at Malkamcheru near Raidurgam and is spread over 34 guntas land. Mohammed Saleem, chairman, TSWB, said that the mosque was in a state of neglect since many years. “The mosque remained shut for several years due to which no one was offering prayers inside the mosque. The entire area was covered with bushes and turned into a haven for anti-social elements and strays. Also, a 100-feet road was being laid at the mosque site without the Waqf Board’s permission,” said Mohammed Saleem. The board held several discussions with revenue officials and the police over protection of the mosque and starting prayers there. “The board has so far managed to restore five mosques which were abandoned. Once a property is notified as Waqf, it can’t be changed at all. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is a secular leader and he is concerned about Waqf properties,” said the TSWB chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/qutb-shahi-era-mosque-restored-by-ts-waqf-board/articleshow/77899034.cms||Omar bin Taher
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maoist top guns plan to surrender?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Top Maoist leaders Muppalla Lakshmana Rao, alias Ganapati, and Mallojula Venugopal, alias Sonu, are reportedly planning to surrender to join the mainstream. Both are believed to be suffering from ill health for long. While the police are tight-lipped on the rumours, civil liberties organisations allege that cops are playing a psychological game by floating news about their proposed surrender. While Ganapati served as the general secretary of CPI-Maoist party, Sonu is a politburo and central committee member. According to sources, Telangana police are working secretly to get both Maoists to surrender. “The secret operation (for their reported surrender) has been going on for the past five-six months,” a senior officer involved in anti-Maoist operations told TOI. Police have reportedly assured the middlemen, who have links with both Ganapati and Sonu, that no case would be filed against the duo and they would be provided the best possible medical care. Ganapati, 74, a former school teacher from Birpur in Karimnagar district of undivided AP, is said to be suffering from various health ailments for the last seven years. He had stepped down from leadership role due to his health issues and gave the baton to Namballa Kesava Rao, alias Basava Raj, of Srikakulam in 2018. Hailing from the upper caste Velama community, he carries a reward of nearly Rs 3 crore on his head, currently the highest in the country. Ganapati has eluded arrest for over four decades since he was arrested for violence and arson at Jagtial in Karimnagar in 1977. The other leader, Venugopal is the Dandakaranya area chief of the banned outfit. He is the brother of Mallojula Koteswara Rao, alias Kishenji. Venugopal carries around a bounty of Rs 1 crore on his head. The 60-year-old is believed to be behind many attacks on security forces, including the Dantewada attack, in which 73 CRPF jawans were killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoist-top-guns-plan-to-surrender/articleshow/77897500.cms||Siva G
September 3, 2020||Goa||Mapusa ryots want devpt plan rectified, warn of stir||Saligao: The president of the Bodgeshwar Farmers’ Union in Mapusa, Sanjay Barde, has alleged that the names of local farmers have been excluded from the new outline development plan (ODP) submitted to the town planning authority. Barde warned that if the ODP is not withdrawn immediately from the planning and development authority (PDA), around 2,000 farmers will come to the streets in Mapusa. During the meeting of farmers held on Monday at Mapusa, the new map of the town and the area drawn by the authorities was discussed in detail. Barde said that the ODP map was drawn by the PDA without taking the local farmers into confidence. The association stated that the names of the farmers were deliberately excluded and demanded that the ODP map be immediately withdrawn. “We are warning the government that we will launch a strong agitation in Mapusa if we don’t get justice and if our demands are not taken into account,” said Barde. The association’s secretary, Pundalik Kinlekar, said that the seven-day deadline given by the government to farmers to submit their claim was an eyewash and made no sense. A farmer, Anil Kerkar, spoke about the alleged injustices being committed by the present government on the local farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-ryots-want-devpt-plan-rectified-warn-of-stir/articleshow/77900384.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Varca murder: HC acquits four, pulls up prosecution||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has acquitted four accused facing life imprisonment for murder at Varca in 2017 due to ‘serious deficiencies’ in police investigation. Pradeep Horo, Safar Khan, Mangra Gope and Ettandevi Gope alias Asha Devi were charged with killing Samuel Soren alias Rahul on December 12 in the rented premises of one of the accused at Pedda, Varca. The chargesheet was filed based on the recovery of a T-shirt at the murder spot belonging to one of the accused, which the prosecution maintained that it had the deceased’s DNA material on it. The prosecution also relied on the recovery of articles used to murder the victim, following the statement made by the accused, and the blood stains found in the rooms of the two accused. The trial court held the accused guilty. “The prosecution in this case did not bring any evidence on record to suggest that any DNA material traceable to the accused was also discovered on the T-shirt. In this state of evidence, we can hardly say that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the T-shirt indeed belonged to the said accused or he was wearing it at the time of commission of crime,” a division bench comprising Justice M S Sonak and Justice M S Jawalkar observed. Referring to the prosecution’s argument that mere deficiencies in the investigation may not be a good ground for acquitting the accused persons, the high court said, “However, these are quite serious deficiencies and such deficiencies at least warrant scrutiny and evaluation of evidence on record with greater caution.” The court noted that at least two prosecution witnesses, who were examined to prove that the accused was seen with the deceased before his body was found, had turned hostile. Lawyers representing the accused, Arun D’Sa and A Gaonkar, submitted that the identity of the body was never established by the prosecution and the recovery of the articles used to commit crime are a sham. They pointed out that the prosecution did not give scientific evidence regarding the alleged attachment of a two-wheeler and SIM cards belonging to the deceased. “The prosecution has, however, not adduced any evidence whatsoever to establish that the two-wheeler so recovered indeed belonged to Rahul. It has also led no evidence whatsoever in relation to two attached SIM cards or mobile phone. Such evidence might have been important for determining the issue of guilt or innocence of the accused persons,” the court said. Further, it remarked that there is no explanation from the prosecution as to why such leads were not investigated, or if investigated, why the result was not placed before the sessions court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/varca-murder-hc-acquits-four-pulls-up-prosecution/articleshow/77900379.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||MS University sets up call centre to assist students||Vadodara: M S University has set up a help (call) centre to assist students during the online mock test and online final examination.The university has started the help centre for terminal, semester-end online mock test and the phase 2 of final examinations that are to be conducted this month. “We are starting the help centre to assist the students if there is any difficulty faced by them pertaining to the examination,” said an official. Students have been asked to read the guidelines for online examination and follow the instructions through MSUB exam portal before calling the help centre. The university has recently conducted mock tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ms-university-sets-up-call-centre-to-assist-students/articleshow/77896459.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Stern action will be taken, assures CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that he has asked DGP and South Goa SP to investigate the Margao daylight stabbing incident and arrest the culprits at the earliest. Sawant said he was shocked by the tragic incident at the jewellery outlet in Margao on Wednesday. “We will ensure stern action is taken and that the guilty are brought to justice. My deepest sympathies are with the family of the victim in this difficult time,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stern-action-will-be-taken-assures-cm/articleshow/77900380.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government: Pay compensation as promised under GST Act||HYDERABAD: States with higher growth rates like Telangana have more to lose by the implementation of Centre’s two options scheme on GST compensation which is why the state government is opposed to this move and pressing for payment of the compensation as promised under the GST Act. Finance minister T Harish Rao said both the GST compensation options offered by the Centre are of no use as Telangana will get only Rs 10,000 crore. Pointing out that states have been told they can either get GST cess or 1% of FRBM, whichever is higher, he said 1% of FRBM for Telangana is Rs 10,000 crore and its expected share in the Rs 3 lakh crore GST cess is also Rs 10,000 crore. While Telangana has entered into agreements with various lending agencies like banks to raise Rs 83,000 crore loans by way of guarantees, it has utilised only Rs 35,000 crore as guarantees provided to various state corporations. The Union government has given the option of raising the borrowing limit of states under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM) for taking loans against the GST compensation. “But, the state’s FRMB utilisation is under control as we have good fiscal discipline. In the last six years, we have not used all the guarantees available. Many organisations are ready to grant us loans, but the Centre should do its duty,” Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-pay-compensation-as-promised-under-gst-act/articleshow/77899009.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Online Kathakali festival begins on Saturday||THRISSUR: National Kathakali Festival organized by the Kathakali School Society, Cheruthuruthy, will begin on Saturday. Kaliyachan Puraskaram will be presented to Kalamandalam Vasu Pisharody at his house during the five-day festival. Actor Mohanlal had released the logo of the festival by presenting a copy to the director Rajeev Kumar recently, said Kalamandalam Gopalakrishnan, director of Kathakali School Society. Kathakali performances and cholliyattams (performances without costumes), Mohiniyattam and Bharatnatyam recitals will form part of the festival, which has been organized as part of the 12th annual day celebrations of Kathakali School Society. Union ministry of culture is supporting the event. The whole programme will be conducted online complying with Covid-19 protocol, Gopalakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-kathakali-festival-begins-on-saturday/articleshow/77897532.cms||---
September 3, 2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah hail ‘Mission Karmayogi’||NEW DELHI: Hailing the Cabinet approval to new capacity building of civil services — Mission Karmayogi — Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said it will radically improve human resource management practices in the government, while home minister Amit Shah said it will bring transformational changes in civil services. “National Program for Civil Services Capacity Building approved in today’s cabinet will radically improve the Human Resource management practices in the Government. It will use scale and state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of Civil Servants,” Modi tweeted soon after the Cabinet decision came in. He said the iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management and continuous learning. “Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare civil servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive & innovative through transparency and technology,” the PM added Thanking PM Modi for the Cabinet decision, Shah termed it a visionary reform, which will bring a transformational change in civil services. “This holistic and comprehensive scheme will focus on individual as well as institutional capacity building,” the HM said He said it was a landmark reform for the 21st century which will end the culture of working in silos and bring out new work culture. “Goal driven and constant training will empower and sensitise the civil servants to ensure accountability and transparency in the system,” Shah said. He said this reform will not only provide a mechanism for government functionaries to improve their own performance but also enable them to fulfill and live upto the aspirations of New India. “Modi government is fully committed towards building a future ready civil service,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-amit-shah-hail-mission-karmayogi/articleshow/77901608.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chennai||Southern Railway gets coaches ready to resume suburban train operations||CHENNAI: The Southern Railways has began preparing the coaches as the Union government is considering on permitting suburban train operations after repeated demands for the services in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata. The rakes, which were idling for five months, are being cleaned and checked for fitness so they can be run once the Centre gives nod. A railway official said, “A few rakes are being used in rotation to operate staff specials on suburban routes. The number of staff special trains will be increased this month. There are five services daily on the three suburban routes. This is seen as a trial for resuming services.” Officials said only special trains, which were operated in the first week of June and later suspended, will be resumed following the state government’s permission to start inter-district trains. The Tamil Nadu government has said in its new order that intra-state trains can be operated next week. There is pressure to resume suburban services as metro rail services are now permitted. T Sadagopan, a regular commuter from Chennai said, “We badly need suburban trains to commute within the city.” The railway department is concerned about implementing social distancing. “We are planning to follow the same rules that are being applied for staff special trains. There will be a large number of passengers, as many industrial units, small businesses and shops have started to function. However, the number of people in a coach will be restricted. Only two commuters will be allowed to sit on a three-seater,” stated an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-gets-coaches-ready-to-resume-suburban-train-ops/articleshow/77899055.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Singareni worker dies in mine accident||HYDERABAD: A miner died and four of his colleagues suffered injuries when an explosion occurred in an underground coal mine of Singareni Collieries in Mancherial district on Wednesday evening. Around 6 pm, a blast occurred in the under ground mine RK 5B of Srirampur area, police said. “Preliminary information from the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) is that the explosion in the under ground mine was the cause of the accident. We are yet to get full details about the accident,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Mancherial, Uday Kumar Reddy said. Five injured workers—R Lingaiah, 54, P Rajaiah, 52, G Shivaiah, 53, Ch Sumar Kumar, 30, and K Srikanth, 24 — were rushed to SCCL area hospital at Ramakrishnapur. While undergoing treatment Lingaiah, 54, a coal cutter from Mandamarri, succumbed to injuries around 9 pm. Police said SCCL was in the process of shifting the injured workers to Hyderabad for better medical treatment. A case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. After the accident, SCCL workers rushed in huge numbers to Ramakrishnapur area hospital to enquire about the health condition of their injured colleagues. In June 2019, a 52-year-old SCCL worker, Ramulu, died and another worker suffered injuries when roof of the RK 5B mine collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/singareni-worker-dies-in-mine-accident/articleshow/77899069.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||With just 18 months left for assembly polls, BJP MLAs reluctant to accept vacant cabinet berths in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With just 18 months to go for the assembly election in the state, BJP legislators — many of whom were vying for the three vacant cabinet berths earlier — are now reluctant as they feel that if made minister, it would be hard for them to meet expectations of the people in their constituencies in such a short span and the unmet expectations may in fact backfire on them in the polls. Two cabinet berths have been vacant since Trivendra Singh Rawat took over as chief minister in March 2017. When state finance minister Prakash Pant died, another slot also fell vacant. The issue of vacant berths has been gaining steam lately as speculations of a cabinet expansion are rife. A senior party leader, who is among those considered to be a frontrunner for a cabinet spot, told TOI, “There is no denying the fact that the last six months are usually spent in election mode, which leaves us with just a year. If made a minister, expectations of people rise but a new minister would take time to adjust and may not be able to fulfill all expectations which will have a negative impact on the polls.” Meanwhile, a frontrunner for the cabinet berth, Bishan Singh Chufal – a five-time MLA – recently met party’s national chief Jagat Prakash Nadda. It is being speculated that he met Nadda to convey the displeasure of some of the party MLAs regarding certain matters. However, Chufal could not be contacted despite several efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-just-18-months-left-for-assembly-polls-bjp-mlas-reluctant-to-accept-vacant-cabinet-berths-in-ukhand/articleshow/77896087.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 3, 2020||Goa||Will inform status of new Lokayukta in 3 weeks: AG to HC||PANAJI: The state government on Wednesday informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that it has initiated the process to appoint a new Lokayukta for Goa, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. The current Lokayukta, Justice P K Misra, retires on September 17. “The status (of the search for his successor) will be informed to the court in three weeks,” he told TOI. TOI reported on Tuesday that even as Misra’s tenure is due to end, its office will be non-functional with 75 pending cases, as the state is yet to start the search for a new Lokayukta. A Panaji lawyer, Aires Rodrigues, had approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta to take office after the incumbent’s term ends. In his petition, Rodrigues had said that the government should have started the process to appoint a new one. Misra, the current Lokayukta, took the oath of office on April 28, 2016. Most pending cases at the institution pertain to illegal construction, along with others like the labour scam and the construction of the new Taleigao panchayat ghar. Misra was appointed after the Goa cabinet dragged its feet for three years. Misra, prior to his appointment as Lokayukta, served a five-year term as chairperson of the state human rights commission. The first Goa Lokayukta, former Supreme Court judge Justice Sudershan Reddy, was appointed in March 2013, but resigned within seven months, citing personal reasons. In January this year, the Lokayukta recommended that the directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) file an FIR against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, former mines secretary Pawan Kumar Sain and former mines director Prasanna Acharya in connection with the alleged “corruption” and “criminal conspiracy” regarding the renewal of 88 mining leases between November 2014 and January 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ag-to-hc-will-inform-status-of-new-lokayukta-in-3-weeks/articleshow/77900382.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Private buses can run within state with 50% seating capacity||NAGPUR: Over five months after bus services were stalled across Maharashtra to control the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has allowed private buses to operate with 50% capacity. The government had already allowed Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (ST) buses to ferry passengers within the state last month. Mahendra Luley, president of Nagpur Private Travels Association, said the operators are yet to take a call regarding resuming bus services. Regional transport officer of Nagpur city Dinkar Manwar on Wednesday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for private buses by allowing them to operate services with 50% of the seating capacity, and adhering to Covid-distancing during the extended lockdown period. “The private bus services have been allowed to operate for the convenience of the general public, who must follow SOPs in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” Manwar told TOI. Apart from destinations within the state like Aurangabad, Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Pune, and Mumbai, there are over 500 private buses running under the stage carriage scheme to different destinations in neighbouring states like Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana etc from the city. These are a major means of transport for thousands of people. Though the transport commissioner’s office has allowed inter district bus operation, a senior official requesting anonymity said the department will allow operation of private buses to other states too. The senior official pointed out the central government too has already allowed interstate bus operation. Though the Maharashtra government has not issued any notification in this regard, it will not take any action against private bus operator plying buses outside the state, the official clarified. The state transport commissioner has already issued orders to the regional transport authorities to allow operation of buses under the stage carriage scheme and strictly enforce SOPs. He said only one passenger will be allowed to occupy each seat — double or single. The passengers and the crew will have to maintain Covid distancing and cover their faces with masks. As per the notification, bus commuters interact with three main contact points — bus stops, ticket counters and inside the vehicle. Safe standing distances can be marked at the bus stops along with queuing for smooth boarding. Interaction-based spread should be mitigated through regular sterilization of high-contact surfaces. Deep cleaning of touchpoints like seats, railings, and grab handles in coaches, and at steps and restrooms should be performed regularly. “Routine cleaning and disinfection practices of private buses will also minimize the spread of disease,” the RTO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-buses-can-run-within-state-with-50-seating-capacity/articleshow/77899098.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Plantations: Efforts on to ensure uninterrupted power||IDUKKI: The KSEB will set up a parallel power distribution system from Munnar to Marayoor to avoid electricity disruption in plantation areas. When a massive landslide struck Pettimudy on August 7, rescue operations were hindered in subsequent days as power disruption in the area had snapped off communication links. KSEB officials said the setting up of the parallel power line will avoid such incidents in Munnar-Marayoor region. The 11kv existing power line from Munnar to Marayoor passes through the Kannan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) for over 32km and was set up by the plantation several decades ago, said an official. “The construction of a 33kv KSEB substation has been almost completed. The first phase of the project to build the parallel line is over and the tender process for the second phase has been completed. The parallel power distribution system in Munnar will ensure smooth power supply in the region,” said Manoj D, deputy chief engineer, KSEB Idukki. “Presently, Tata Group is distributing electricity in Munnar town. The KSEB has already set-up a parallel distribution system in Munnar town and is prepared to issue new power connections on request. The KSEB tariff is lower than the company’s tariff,” said Manoj. Meanwhile, power supply to Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat inside the Munnar forest division, is yet to be restored. The power distribution system in the tribal region was cut-off after underground cables got damaged in the landslide. The KSEB will resume the power connection within a week, said an official. As pet data from Devikulam primary health centre, presently 2,126 people live in 24 tribal settlements of Edamalakudy. “Entire hamlets in the panchayat remain cut-off. Students used to reach the main centre at Societykudy to attend their classes. Online classes which were stopped after the landslide are yet to restart,” said a source. “The destroyed underground cables need to be replaced. The cables were damaged in three locations. Repair works are progressing and will be completed in a week,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plantations-efforts-on-to-ensure-uninterrupted-power/articleshow/77897598.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 12% rain deficit in first 3 months of monsoon season||DEHRADUN: In the first three months of monsoon season, which lasts from June 1 to September 30, Uttarakhand recorded a rain deficit of 12%, having received 883.9mm rainfall against the normal of 1002.3mm between June 1 and September 2. The distribution of rainfall among the state’s 13 districts has been erratic, with some being flooded and others receiving less than normal rain. As many as eight districts, including hilly ones like Champawat and Pauri, witnessed less than normal rainfall. On the other hand, Bageshwar, another hilly district, received 169% surplus rain during the same period, according to data released by the Met office. Reacting to the data, Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, said, “The 12% departure of rainfall from normal is under safe limits.” Apart from Bageshwar, districts like Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar also recorded excess rainfall at 21%, 10% and 6% respectively. Champawat recorded the maximum rain deficit at -48%, followed by Uttarkashi (-43%) and Pauri (-43%). Rudraprayag recorded a deficit of -28%, Nainital (-27%), Dehradun (-20%), Tehri (-19%), Almora (-17%) and Haridwar (-9%). Incidentally, all three months—June, July and August—recorded deficient rainfall. In the month of June, Uttarakhand recorded an 18% rain deficit, while rainfall increased in July and the deficit reduced to 10.9%. In August, Uttarakhand recorded an even smaller deficit at 7%. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre has predicted normal rainfall in September, which is the last month of the four-month-long monsoon season in the Himalayan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-12-rain-deficit-in-first-3-months-of-monsoon-season/articleshow/77896104.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Tech glitch at JEE centre in Chandrapur causes scare||NAGPUR: A few students appearing for JEE on Wednesday at a centre in Chandrapur faced technical glitches towards the end of their online exam. Due to the connection being lost, one of these students had to shift almost three computers before the exam came back online. Shubham Narnavare, who appeared in the morning shift at Chandrapur’s Rajiv Gandhi College of Engineering, said that it was an unsettling experience. “I was almost done with the exam when the connection was lost. Another three to four students also complained about the same issue. For them, the connection was re-established on the same computer, while mine was pure bad luck,” said Shubham. As the officials tried one computer after another, Shubham was without doubt very nervous. “It was the fourth computer which finally connected and I re-started the exam. I did not loose time because the timer started from where it had disconnected. But I was in a particular mental zone with a lot of focus. I was reviewing seven unmarked questions when it got disconnected,” said Shubham. He explained that candidates can click on ‘review’ option whenever a question pops-up. “We can mark it or leave it unmarked. Questions can be reviewed later,” said Shubham. Immediately when the connection got lost, a comedy of errors followed. “When connection was not being re-established, one of the officials tried to make a call, probably to the NTA or the technical team, but his calls were not going through. Then another official pointed out that there are mobile jammers due to which phone calls won’t be possible,” said Shubham. But soon all the technical issues were sorted out and Shubham was able to complete the exam. “I feel that I would have done a better job at reviewing the doubtful questions if the connection had not been lost. It did unsettle me a bit,” he added. Most of the candidates appearing B.E/B.Tech subjects in Wednesday’s JEE (Main) found the exam to be of ‘moderate’ level. Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI), said, “The difficulty level differs from student to student, but the consensus was that the exam was not overly tough. A majority of the students were able to perform better than expected.” Navin Joshi, vice president of e-learning platform Goprep, said, “The overall level of the exam was easy to moderate. The physics section was considered difficult, maths was moderate and lengthy while chemistry was easy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tech-glitch-at-jee-centre-in-chandrapur-causes-scare/articleshow/77899103.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Hold exams & declare results by Oct 31: Guv to VCs||Nagpur: A week after the Supreme Court ruled final-year examinations were mandatory, governor-cum-chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Friday directed all universities to complete all formalities, hold exams and declare results by October 31. He asked universities to start practical examinations from September 15. It was also decided that vice chancellors (VCs) would convene meetings of the Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) and Academic Council within the next couple of days, and prepare timetables at the earliest. After getting proposals passed from these statutory bodies, the VCs would approach Disaster Management Committees in their areas to get their clearance to hold exams. Last Friday, the apex court had made it clear that no government or university would promote final year/semester students without holding exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The directive came while hearing a bunch of pleas, including one by Yuva Sena chief and state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who requested cancellation of exams in view of risk to students’ lives due to Covid-19 pandemic. The governor’s directive would spell trouble for Nagpur and other universities, which had already expressed their inability to hold the exam in view of steep hike in number of coronavirus cases and deaths since last month in Vidarbha. The chancellor’s instructions came during an online meeting organized with VCs of all state universities, including Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (Mafsu), Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV), and Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU), from Raj Bhavan in Mumbai. Advising the VCs to consider conducting examinations using the best possible mechanism, Koshiyari asked them to explore options like Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) or Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) method, or conduct offline examinations only in exceptional cases. In view of space constraints for setting question papers, the chancellor asked VCs to coordinate with Mumbai, Pune and other universities to prepare question banks. Earlier, the VCs apprised Koshiyari of preparedness of their universities to conduct exams and declare results within stipulated time. The governor congratulated VCs of Mafsu, Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), PDKV and other professional courses universities for finishing exams as per schedule. Minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant, minister of state Prajakt Tanpure, chairman of the committee of vice chancellors on examination Suhas Pednekar (Mumbai University VC) and additional chief secretary, higher and technical education Rajiv Jalota accompanied chancellor during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hold-exams-declare-results-by-oct-31-guv-to-vcs/articleshow/77916468.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Spouses cite Covid-19 hardship to bypass maintenance payments||VIJAYAWADA: Women dependent on maintenance from their husbands are among the worst-hit by Covid-19, a study by a city-based NGO has shown. The number of divorced women seeking redressal through grievance portals has increased after their former spouses stopped paying maintenance citing financial constraints due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 and Section 23(1) of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, women can claim maintenance from their spouse. Allegations of spouses defaulting on maintenance payments have grown recently. “The domestic violence (DV) court in March 2019 ruled in my favour and directed my husband to pay me a monthly maintenance of Rs 6,800. He paid it for two to three months and then stopped. I used to work in an Auto Nagar industry as a daily labourer and earn some money but the lockdown changed that and I lost my job. Maintenance is the only source of income for me and my children,” said K Sandhya Rani (name changed), a resident of Prasadampadu. In its study, Vasavya Mahila Mandali (VMM), the NGO that conducted research on 151 women who are supposed to receive maintenance, showed that none of 151 women have been receiving regular payments. The court had ruled in favour of all the women. Polisetty Subhashini, legal counsellor at VMM said, “Not even five per cent of women are getting paid maintenance regularly. Husbands are utilising legal privileges to avoid payment of maintenance. The situation of these women has become pathetic after the lockdown and most of them are not in a position to feed their families.” Advocates agree that legal loopholes have worsened matters for women. “A woman can only complain in a court when she does not receive mainentanance for 12 months at a stretch. The husband can pay the dues in court or simply accept a one-month-long imprisonment to waive off dues. Many husbands are doing this. We have started a fight against this and are circulating petitions. We will soon move the Supreme Court, challenging Acts that worsen the plight of women,” said senior advocate Neeru Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spouses-cite-covid-19-hardship-to-bypass-maintenance-payments/articleshow/77897568.cms||Venu Lanka
September 3, 2020||Goa||NCB’s Goa catch tests Covid +ve||Panaji: An accused arrested by the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a global drug racket tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. The NCB staff is likely to go into home isolation. The bureau stated that the accused used to send marijuana buds to “prominent and high-profile clients” in Bengaluru by bus. Sources said the NCB team took the accused for Covid-19 test on Wednesday morning. Sources said that the NCB staff will follow the state government’s standard operating procedure. During investigation, it was found that sometimes people used to travel from Bengaluru to pick up the narcotic consignment, while at other times the accused used to travel to Bengaluru for delivery. The NCB on Tuesday arrested one person and searched two locations in Calangute as part its investigation into a global drug racket. The search was part of a wider operation against the illegal import of marijuana buds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncbs-goa-catch-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77900385.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||New violations added to CCP’s grievance app||Panaji: Three more violations – sale of gutka, spitting and sale of polythene bags have been added to the recently launched Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) app. The app, which was supposed to be operational from September 1, will now be active from September 10, mayor Uday Madkaikar said. CCP had launched its ‘I change my city (ICMYC)’ app last month to allow citizens to report their grievances. “The app also supports a photo upload feature wherein pictures of the violation can be clicked and posted on the app. Citizens can use this platform to report the illegal sale of gutka or polythene bags,” he said. Currently, only the sale of cotton bags and paper bags is allowed in Panaji, while sale of gutka is banned within the city’s jurisdiction. The app is expected to be updated by early next week, Madkaikar said. The CCP intends to add another feature where new businesses can apply for NOCs or other permits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-violations-added-to-ccps-grievance-app/articleshow/77900387.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Fertility centre booked for duping couple||HYDERABAD: A ‘Zero FIR’ was registered by Bhadradri Kothagudem police against Universal Srushti Fertility and Research Centre for allegedly cheating a childless couple in the guise of surrogacy. Earlier, the AP police arrested eight people, including MD of the fertility centre, in Visakhapatnam on the charge of child trafficking. PV Sathyanarayana from Budida Gadda village of Kothagudem, who along with his wife, had approached Universal Srushti Fertility Hospital at KPHB Colony in Hyderabad in 2019 . According to police, one Dr Rani suggested they go for surrogacy and said the entire treatment would be done at their Visakhapatnam branch. Believing her, the couple paid Rs 13 lakh in tranches to the fertility centre. One Dr Tirumala from Universal Srushti Hospital later informed the couple giving an estimated delivery date between June 2 and June 17, 2020. On June 5, the couple was informed that the surrogate died of Covid, but assured that they would re-start the procedure. The couple on Wednesday lodged a complaint against the hospital doctors for cheating them and booked the Zero FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fertility-centre-booked-for-duping-couple/articleshow/77899087.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Goa||Tourism stakeholders sulk as Goa proposes hike in registration fees||Panaji: The major hike proposed for various registration fees in the draft rules published by the tourism department last week has left the hospitality industry stakeholders unhappy. The move comes even as they remain unsure of reopening in light of the pandemic, they said. The rules have been drafted consequent to an amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu Registration of Tourist Trade Act, 1982, a year ago. While trade bodies are preparing to meet the government over the proposed hike in registration fees, director of tourism Menino D’Souza said the rules were long overdue. Drafting commenced only after the amendment came into force and there were many discussions and deliberations held over the year. Finally, after being duly vetted by the law department, the draft rules were placed in the public domain. “Now, it is for the government to decide about the implementation. We had not hiked fees for a very long time,” D’Souza said. He said that stakeholders can submit their objections and suggestions till September 29 and that the rules will be finalised only after that. D’Souza said that the registration fee that a few in the trade are charged is meagre in comparison to their volumes. For instance, hotels irrespective of their category pay Rs 5,000 as registration fee presently, he said. Under the proposed rules this has been increased to Rs 1 lakh for category ‘A’ hotels — having 100 and more rooms — classified as sophisticated accommodation. A hotelier said this is like a “punishment” when the industry awaits relief from the government due to losses suffered owing to the pandemic. President of the trade body, travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah, said, “The government may have a point in raising fees as they say that registration charges were not raised for years, but this is not the time to do it. In fact, we were actually expecting a waiver.” The TTAG has called a meeting of its members to seek their inputs and accordingly a proposal will be prepared to be submitted to the tourism department. “We have been given time till September end. We will put our point of view before the government,” he said. While the raise proposed for beach shacks have been in line with the past trend, president of the Goa Shack Owners’ Association (SOWS), Cruz Cardozo said they had not expected the hike due to the current economic crises. The SOWS representatives will meet the tourism director on Wednesday, he said. “We will also meet chief minister Pramod Sawant as well as tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-stakeholders-sulk-as-goa-proposes-hike-in-registration-fees/articleshow/77900389.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Unpaid for valuation work, teachers reach out to CBSE||NAGPUR: A few teachers from Nagpur who have not been paid for the board exam paper evaluation work reached out to CBSE on Wednesday morning to register a complaint. A representative from the aggrieved group contacted a senior board official and provided details about the problems they were facing in getting their dues. “I told the official that in Nagpur, an unprofessional system is in place. Some evaluators have been paid in full, some partially while others like us have not received a single penny,” said the teacher. She added that the board official assured that the entire issue will be sorted out within 15 days. “The official sought my permission to note down the complaint on record. They were surprised that a payment issue existed in the city. The local in-charge principals have no answer to our queries, hence we decided it’s best to speak to CBSE directly,” said the teacher. This year, evaluation work as well results got delayed due to travel restrictions in summer. “We evaluated hundreds of papers in record time. There were so many logistical problems and yet teachers everywhere put in their best to ensure a smooth flow of events,” said the teacher. “Even though CBSE had asked for answersheets to be dropped and picked up from our homes, we had to innovate due to logistical challenges. Papers needed to be exchanged between teachers and that was done at our risk by travelling during lockdown,” the teacher added. Soon it will be clear who was at fault for delaying payments. “Our only contact are the senior teachers or principals whom various groups of evaluators report to. Nobody has clear answers at Nagpur level and that is why we thought it’s best to take the matter up to the hierarchy,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unpaid-for-valuation-work-teachers-reach-out-to-cbse/articleshow/77899129.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Around 10 persons booked for hurting religious sentiments||Karnal: The police have booked unidentified persons on the charges of intending to hurt religious sentiments by attacking an imam in a mosque of Alipur Khalsa village in Karnal district. The victim, Mohammad Ahsan, has been hospitalised at Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital (KCMCH) and his condition is said to be stable. In the police complaint, he alleged that late on Monday evening, 10-12 people attacked him with sharp-edged weapons, rods and batons when he was reading ‘tasbih’ after the evening prayers at the mosque. Some villagers reached the spot, but the miscreants managed to flee from the spot. After that he was taken to community health centre, Gharaunda, but was later referred to KCMCH, Karnal. The police have recorded his statement. He has also named some suspects, but the police said that investigation was going on to verify the allegations. Kanwar Singh, in-charge, Gharaunda police station, said that on the complaint of the victim a case has been registered against 10-12 unidentified persons under Section 295-A (intending to outrage religious feelings of a class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 148,149, 327, 452 and 506 of the IPC. He said that the accused would be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/around-10-persons-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/77899124.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Japanese firms to help revive Srisailam hydel power plant||HYDERABAD: Days after the fire that ravaged the Srisailam power plant in which nine employees were killed, a team of officials from Toshiba arrived at the plant on Wednesday to take stock of the damage caused to the equipment. They inspected the panel boards, generators and turbines where the fire occurred on the night of August 20. Officials said the Toshiba team will also confabulate with the TSGenco-appointed expert committee headed by TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G Raghuma Reddy and CID chief and additional DGP Govind Singh and guide Genco on revival of the plant. “Japanese firms — Mitsubishi, Hitachi and Melco — had supplied the generators, turbines, panel boards, 400 kv cables and gas insulated sub-station (GIS) material. They had also erected the power station between 2001 and 2003. They have come voluntarily to inspect the accident site and tell us what needs to be done for revival of the plant,” Genco CMD D Prabhakar Rao told TOI on Wednesday. The officials, during a preliminary investigation, had come to an understanding that the fire broke out in the unit 6 panel board and spread to unit 4, which was gutted completely. They also suspect DC supply failure that ensures tripping of the plant in case of any problem. However, the officials are still clueless as to what might have gone inside the panel board, the report of which is expected to be submitted by a separate committee constituted by the government. In another development, Genco has started laying the 400 kv cables to revive units 1 and 2. There are six units at the plant. “If the two units are revived, it can generate about 300 MW. Rest of the units will take more than six months to revive,” a hydel power official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/japanese-firms-to-help-revive-srisailam-hydel-power-plant/articleshow/77899120.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 3, 2020||Goa||Aguada museum’s renovation upsets heritage lovers||PANAJI: Ongoing restoration work at Goa’s ambitious new museum at the former central jail, Aguada facing the Arabian Sea has irked heritage lovers who allege that the Portuguese-era structure will lose its heritage character and history. The project has secured a grant of Rs25 crore from the central government to turn the Aguada jail into a world class tourist spot. While heritage lovers and freedom fighters are keenly awaiting its completion, some are unhappy with the conservation methods adopted for the project. Controversy first broke out over the digging of the green hillside for parking space and stakeholders are now upset at the PVC roof installed, replacing the quaint Mangalore-tiled roof. “This is a prestigious restoration project. Everything has to be kept true to the original structure, and should not be altered for convenience,” Heta Pandit, chairperson of Goa heritage action group (GHAG) said. A meeting on July 14, 2016 between the project promoters’- Goa tourism development corporation (GTDC), local MLA Michael Lobo, Prajal Sakhardande of GHAG, representatives from Candolim accepted a few proposals, like retaining the Mangalore-tiled roof and adding more Goan elements. GTDC had involved stakeholders, including freedom fighters during a site visit last year. “All decisions taken and plans made (at the July 2016 meeting) seemed to be perfect. Suddenly, we now find that the plans have changed,” Pandit said. But GTDC officials said that strictly adhering to conservation parameters is an uphill task. High velocity winds and severe weather conditions at the site expose the roof and structures to much damage. “Looking at the site from a heritage point of view is easy, but structural conservation here is a big challenge. The changes are needed to raise infrastructure of international standards and we cannot have frequent repairs messing up the place,” an official said. GHAG disagrees with this point of view. “GTDC’s own environment impact assessment report has considered these factors and even sea erosion, flora and fauna but the changes have come now. They have even locked the gates and are not allowing us a site visit,” Pandit said. The main fort barracks were built circa 1604-12 and later extended into more blocks to house prisoners, including freedom fighters during the liberation struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aguada-museums-renovation-upsets-heritage-lovers/articleshow/77900388.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||MEA erased info on KCR’s foreign tours prior to ’17: Activist||HYDERABAD: Has the MEA erased all information on foreign trips undertaken by Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and his cabinet ministers prior to 2017? RTI activist Sudheer Jalagam says the MEA has deleted the information and acknowledged the same to him in an RTI reply he has received from the ministry recently. When Sudheer filed an RTI application, the MEA said the CM had visited only one country, the United Arab Emirates, after 2017. It said, “Records up to July 2017 have been taken out after completion of their retention period. Complete details about subsequent visits of the CM and ministers of government of Telangana cannot be provided since this information needs to be searched in several files which will disproportionately divert our resources.” MEA further said, “As such, the information sought by the applicant cannot be provided vis-a-vis Supreme Court verdict (dated August 9, 2011) in matter of CBSE Vs Aditya Bandopadhyay.” Sudheer said he had filed the applications with health, education and industries departments seeking information on the foreign trips of ministers concerned that were private-funded and public-funded. “I have also sought details on outcome of the trips. I haven’t got any reply from any of the departments. In this digital age, how can they erase records,” he wondered. He said government was not ready to reveal information on the foreign trips and outcome of these trips. MEA in its reply said, “We process the applications for issue of political clearance for overseas travel by CMs and ministers of various states. Record of actual travels made by CM of Telangana and ministers of the government of Telangana could be obtained from state government.” State government GOs say that KCR had visited Singapore and Malaysia in August 2014, China in September 2015 and the United States in August and September 2016||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mea-erased-info-on-kcrs-foreign-tours-prior-to-17-activist/articleshow/77899118.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 3, 2020||Dehradun||Shooter deployed to ‘trap or kill’ man-eater leopard in Devprayag||DEHRADUN: A team of 25 forest staff members, accompanied by shooter Joy Hukil, has been deputed to ‘trap or kill’ the leopard believed to have turned man-eater in Devprayag region of Garhwal. According to Dharam Singh Meena, the divisional forest officer of Narendra Nagar forest division, six camera traps and three cages have also been installed at different spots for the animal. The decision to ‘trap or kill’ the leopard was taken by state’s chief wildlife warden JS Suhag after agitated villagers demanded immediate action. To recall, a mentally-unwell man was mauled to death by the animal on Saturday night. Following the attack, forest officials pressed into action to trace the leopard before any more such accidents occured. Prior to this, on August 8, a 35-year-old woman was dragged from the courtyard of her house and killed by a leopard in Maletha village. With two man-eaters believed to be on the prowl in Narendra Nagar forest division, local villagers are having a tense time although forest officials are trying to allay their fears. “Throughout the lockdown period, we remained active 24x7 to avert all kinds of human-wildlife conflict. We are trying our best to bring down the mortality rate of humans as well as animals due to conflict, but scanty resources and workforce often impact the pace of our operations,” Meena said. According to sources in the forest department, Uttarakhand has already put down three leopards after declaring them as man-eaters between January and July 31. One leopard each was put down in Almora forest division, Narendra Nagar forest division and in Badrinath forest division, according to the forest department data accessed by TOI. It is worth mentioning that as many as nine leopards have been declared as man-eaters this year in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shooter-deployed-to-trap-or-kill-man-eater-leopard-in-devprayag/articleshow/77896130.cms||Shivani Azad
September 3, 2020||Chennai||For Chennai-based artists, canvas is smaller, but Covid-19 looms large||CHENNAI: Miniaturisation of artwork, virtual exhibits, making use of everyday objects… these are just some of the techniques artists have been using over the past few months to keep their art alive in the months of lockdown. Vasundhara Sellamuthu, a Chennai-based artist, says she has scaled down her recent work to smaller laser-cut studies, which she later paints by hand. “These are more convenient to produce under the current circumstances,” says the artist who is participating in an online show called ‘Broadway’, curated by city-based artist Sujeet Kumar Sree Kandan’s Scaffold Collective. For Parvathy Nayar, a visual artist, collaborations between photography, poetry and art has been an important form of expression during the pandemic. Since the lockdown began, she finds herself seamlessly slipping between media, both digital and traditional. Nayar, whose photo poetry is now presented at HELD by Goethe Institut, Chennai, has been working on smaller series which she finds easy to execute. Nayar says she now works out of a temporary studio she set up during lockdown at her residence in Egmore. The pandemic has seeped into work on a thematic level as well. One of Nayar’s latest works is ‘Old Smoke’, a photo poem as a response to news stories and images during the lockdown, expressed through poems and pen-and-ink sketches. “I recently rendered a white wall with cow dung treatment on photoshop to question the white wall as a sign of hygiene and sanitation. I believe it’s worth experimenting with every skill up your sleeve in these uncertain times,” says Sellamuthu, who uses CAD drawings and digital fabrication to create prototypes before staging hand-painted pieces in a simulated gallery. A few artists have also started making use of everyday objects as painting tools. “Though I now use digital tools such as my iPad and Apple Pencil, I also incorporate items such as dishwashing wire meshes and cycle tyres to create different textures,” says Aishwarya Manivannan, artist and founder of Maisha Studio, Chennai. Manivannan says she began using these products due to the lack of access to art products during the intense lockdown, but continues to use them. “These tough times have taught me to use what I have and explore items and themes that were always around, but never focused on,” adds Manivannan, who now encourages her young students to use products available around them as tools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-city-based-artists-canvas-is-smaller-but-covid-19-looms-large/articleshow/77899123.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Negligent act: Man who ran over teen denied leniency||NEW DELHI: A man’s appeal against his one-year jail term for allegedly running over a 16-year-old boy with a bus has been turned down on account of his “negligent act”. The court, while upholding the punishment, referred to government data that said Indian roads have witnessed 4.67 lakh accidents in 2018, claiming over 1.5 lakh lives. The teenager’s untimely death, in court’s view, caused irreparable loss to his family due to the accused’s negligent act. District and sessions judge Sudhir Kumar Jain also pointed out that India ranked first in the number of road accident deaths across 199 countries reported in the World Road Statistics, 2018. “As per the WHO Global Report on Road Safety 2018, India accounts for almost 11% of the accident-related deaths in the world,” he added. The accused, Ajeet Singh, faced trial under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC for knocking down the motorcycle on which the teenager was a pillion rider. He was riding with his uncle on Wazirabad Road in November 2004. Fifteen years on, a trial court convicted Singh of the two offences, awarding him two concurrent jail terms of three months and one year, respectively, on March 22, 2019. He was also asked to pay up a fine of Rs 50,000. Singh, in his defence, called it a case where no independent witness was roped in despite availability. He alleged that the victim’s uncle, who was the complainant in the case, didn’’ bear any injuries indicating that he wasn’t present at the scene of the incident. “The prosecution did not examine the photographer who took photographs of the place of accident and owner of the offending vehicle,” contended his counsel. According to the statement of the uncle, the truck hit the motorcycle from the rear while overtaking another bus. It came on record that though he sustained injuries, he wasn’t medically examined. The appellate court, on the other hand, found “no legal force” in the accused’s argument that the conviction could not be established on the sole testimony of the complainant. “Mere relationship does not disqualify a witness,” it stated. Singh, while driving a heavy and commercial vehicle, was “supposed to take care of other vehicles” on the road, especially light vehicles. “The punishment awarded by the trial court is justified and reasonable under given facts and circumstances of case and is awarded after striking a balance between mitigating and aggravating circumstances. The sentence awarded by the trial court does not call for any interference,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/negligent-act-man-who-ran-over-teen-denied-leniency/articleshow/77899201.cms||Aamir Khan
September 3, 2020||Surat||Flood waters recede near Bharuch||Surat/Bharuch: Water level in Narmada river near Bharuch is rapidly decreasing as discharge from the Sardar Sarovar Dam has reduced.Compared to Tuesday night’s discharge of eight lakh cusec, the discharge of water from the dam reduced to 1.14 lakh cusec.At the same time, water level at the Sardar Sarovar Dam is steadily rising. By Wednesday evening, it recorded the level of 133.88 metres, said P C Vyas, director of Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL).The water inflow from upstream on Wednesday evening was 2.15 lakh cusec. The outflow has been reduced so that more water can be stored in the dam.The Iive storage in dam is currently 4093.30 million cubic metres (MCM) and it will further increase in coming days. “Overall rainfall in catchment area of upstream has reduced and thus inflow is less,” said Vyas.Around 6,000 people of 21 villages of Bharuch district were shifted to safer location as water level at Golden Bridge crossed 35.75 feet mark on Tuesday night. The level however reduced to 29 feet late on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/flood-waters-recede-near-bharuch/articleshow/77897653.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Khammam sees 699 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Khammam district recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 cases with 699 people testing positive on Wednesday. The number includes 110 cases detected at the Covid Care Centre at Sharada College. A total of 2,591 samples were collected for Rapid Test Antigen (RAT) tests, out of which 589 were positive in the district. From those who tested positive earlier and were given treatment, 175 got discharged on Wednesday. As many as 87 patients are in the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khammam-sees-699-new-cases/articleshow/77899128.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Tamil Nadu honours PAP pact, fills Sholayar dam||PALAKKAD: Tamil Nadu has filled up Sholayar reservoir to its full reservoir level (FRL) of 2,663 feet water on September 1 as per the Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP) agreement between Kerala and Tamil Nadu to share the waters of Bharathapuzha, Chalakudy and Periyar, after many years of its violation including last year. As per PAP agreement between the two neighbouring states, Tamil Nadu has to ensure 12.3tmcft of water in the Kerala Sholayar a year for power generation, irrigation and drinking water needs. Also, it has to maintain FRL of 2,663 feet every September 1 and February 1 in the Kerala Sholayar reservoir. Filling up of Sholayar reservoir to FRL on September 1 and February 1 is crucial for Kerala to provide drinking and irrigation water for Chalakudy basin and also to produce electricity from this water. An FRL on February 1 is of prime importance to Kerala since it assures the state of 5.4tmcft of water for the lean months from February to May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tn-honours-pap-pact-fills-sholayar-dam/articleshow/77897641.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nashik||Nandurbar collector wins NCGC accolades||Nashik: The National Centre for Good Governance (NCGC) has lauded Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud for his initiatives and efforts in containing the spread of Covid-19 through technology. Bharud had made his presentation during a virtual workshop entitle ‘Good governance practices in aspirational districts in pandemic’ on September 4. More than 800 central government officials, Niti Ayog functionaries, district collectors and district-level officials of 117 aspirational districts participated in the workshop. Aspirational districts are the ones affected by socio-economic indicators. In a letter to state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, NCGC director-general V Srinivas said Bharud’s presentation at the workshop was well appreciated. “I would like to congratulate Bharud for his efforts. I am sure he will continue to work with the same dedication in all the works assigned to him,” he added. Speaking to TOI, Bharud said he made the presentation about the extensive use of the technology in controlling the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the tribal dominated district of Nandurbar. “We are tracking and tracing containment zones with the help of Google mapping and GPS and analysing data on a daily basis to take steps to break the virus chain. The use of the technology is aiding us to track and trace contacts of positive Covid patients effectively,” he said. He said Nandurbar has one of the lowest positive and deaths per million in the state. “The other presentation that I had made about monitoring the use of funds for projects in the district. We have introduced a system where we can track the movement of files for development projects,” said Bharud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-collector-wins-ncgc-accolades/articleshow/78024403.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Estranged wife starved for 20 days||VIJAYAWADA: Twenty-eight-year-old Vellaturu Swarna Gowri starved for 20 days during the lockdown after her husband Giridhar stopped paying her maintenance. Weakened and malnourished, she had to be admitted to Vijayawada GGH. Married in 2011, Gowri and her husband separated three months after the wedding. Her legal battle for maintenance has gone on since. “In 2018, the domestic violence court directed my husband to pay a monthly maintenance of Rs 8,000. But he has not paid a single rupee till date. My husband said he is inspired by many political leaders who went to jail. He spent one month in jail to waive maintenance. My situation got worse after the lockdown and I lost my job,” Gowri said. Vijayawada East legislator Gadde Ramamohana Rao has provided financial assistance to Gowri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/estranged-wife-starved-for-20-days/articleshow/77897613.cms||Venu Lanka
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Man on run after axing wife, 3 kids to death in Narnaul: Police||CHANDIGARH: A man allegedly escaped after murdering his wife and three children at their rented accommodation in Narnaul, said police on Wednesday. The crime is alleged to have taken place on Tuesday night. Bodies of the slain victims were found in a pool of blood. A blood-soaked axe, suspected to be the weapon of crime, was lying near the bodies. The mobile phone of the accused was switched off. Police have sent the bodies to the civil hospital for autopsy and a case of murder has been registered at Narnaul City police station. According to information, the accused identified as Tulsi was a migrant from Madhya Pradesh. He was living with wife Arti, daughter Sandhya, and sons Arun and Arvind in the rented accommodation in an outer area of Narnaul. All his children were less than 10 years of age. Preliminary enquiry revealed that Tulsi worked as a mason and used to have arguments with his wife over trivial issues. Neighbours confirmed to have heard the noises of the scuffle among the couple. It could not be ascertained when Tulsi killed his family members. It was only after neighbours noticed foul smell emanating, they informed the police which found the bodies lying on the floor. “He might have managed to leave the spot in the night. Soon after getting information, the crime scene team and the crime investigation agency (CIA) and Narnaul City police station teams rushed to the spot. Investigation is in progress to solve murder mystery,” Narnaul superintendent of police (SP) Chander Mohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-on-run-after-axing-wife-3-kids-to-death-in-narnaul-police/articleshow/77899143.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Patients taking discharge, returning in critical state find no beds||NAGPUR: Even as symptomatic patients are finding it difficult to get beds in hospitals, some mildly symptomatic patients are demanding to be discharged, and then being forced to run around in critical condition to secure hospital beds. Two private hospitals said two patients had no fever for three days, and forced a Ramdaspeth hospital to discharge them in line with the policy of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW). In home isolation later, the patients developed severe breathlessness and started to request admission in private hospitals. The two finally managed to get admitted in a private hospital at Khamla Square. Similarly, relatives of a patient who took discharge from a private hospital on Kamptee Road 11 days ago, could not get admission on Wednesday when his condition deteriorated. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar told TOI, “Patients read discharge policy on internet, and insist on discharge 10 days after onset of symptoms. They don’t believe the doctors, and believe hospitals are forcing them to stay to increase billing. Why would hospitals do this when hundreds others are waiting for admission,” he asked. Dr Marar, director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute, added, “We can't force patients to stay and allow discharge. Later, these patients land up with complications, and ask for immediate admission. It becomes difficult if beds are full. Then the relatives raise a hue and cry, take videos, highlight insensitivity of hospitals. It is absurd.” “If doctors warn they may not get a bed later, they feel they are being unnecessarily terrorized,” he said. Dr Marar also said patients with moderate and severe symptoms, especially chest infection, should take treatment till they recover completely. “The treating doctor should be believed, not any policy or information on internet,” he said. On non-availability of beds in private hospitals, Dr Marar said, “People need to be self-disciplined. They roam around ignoring guidelines, then stage emotional scenes at hospitals when breathless due to corona. There are limited beds. All those flouting guidelines should understand Covid-19 can be easily avoided if they follow norms. If flouting of norms continues, we expect tsunami of patients, and no available beds. It is a scary scenario. Careless public is responsible for their health or financial hardships.” On excess charges, Dr Marar said, “Government forced private hospitals to admit Covid patients, that too at capped rates. Even at these rates, be ready to spend minimum Rs 2.5-3 lakh, and up to Rs 6 lakh. The government pays nothing. Also, even hospital staff are not getting beds. Some beds should be reserved in their own hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-taking-discharge-returning-in-critical-state-find-no-beds/articleshow/77899126.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tests on demand and at railway stations, ISBTs||NEW DELHI: In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the capital, Delhi Disaster Management Authority has directed state authorities to ensure testing facilities at all railway stations, interstate bus terminals and large construction sites, and run a pandemic guidelines campaign to make people comply with the precautionary measures. DDMA has also asked the authorities to develop on-demand Covid test facilities for those desiring to undergo tests, thus encouraging more people to opt for tests. No decision about permitting more economic activities, such as reopening of gyms and yoga centres, was taken at DDMA’s meeting on Wednesday. An official said such decisions will be taken in a couple of days. After detailed discussion, DDMA decided to restrategise testing plans, launch aggressive information, education and communication campaigns and strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour in citizens. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who heads DDMA, reviewed the pandemic situation with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev and other officials of the Delhi government and central governments besides experts. DDMA directed the state authorities to expand the Covid contacts tracing net and track more contacts of the individuals who test positive. It was disclosed at the meeting that on an average, around five contacts of the persons testing positive for coronavirus are being currently tested. The authorities were directed to increase this number to at least 15 others for each case – and the aim should be to trace whatever the number of persons who had come in contact with the infected individual, said sources. “Directions were issued to restrategise testing plans to maximise the number of tests and prevent the spread of the coronavirus. This means ensuring testing facilities at all the interstate bus terminals, railway stations and large construction sites,” said a source. DDMA also wants extensive information, education and communication activities, strict compliance of social distancing and other measures and adherence to all central government guidelines on avoiding transmission of the virus. “The emphasis was on the authorities not letting their guard down till the situation normalised and came well under control,” said sources. Delhi government is working on plans to increase the number of tests to 40,000 per day. On Tuesday, 28,835 tests were conducted in Delhi, among the highest numbers undertaken since the novel coronavirus pandemic broke out in the city. An official said the number will go up to 40,000 soon. An official said despite 2,509 new cases, the Covid situation was not back to the same alarming level that it was on July 4. On that day, the city had reported 2,505 cases, but the total active cases was 25,940, when there are currently only 16,502 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tests-on-demand-and-at-rly-stations-isbts/articleshow/77899197.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||30 more RRTs to check on home isolation cases||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday inducted 30 more rapid response teams (RRTs) that will be visiting Covid positive patients, who are in home isolation. There is a doctor in each team. More than 50 per cent positive cases in the state and 30 per cent in the city are in home isolation . Patients with no or mild symptoms are being advised home treatment. The number of cases in home isolation will increase as 80 per cent patients are asymptomatic. The number of positive cases are also rising with more tests being done. So, we have exclusively engaged 30 RRTs, which will look after treatment of people under home isolation, said BMC nodal officer (Covid management) Suvendu Sahu. He said the recovery rate of patients in home isolation is encouraging as they are getting a support system in case of any doubt in their minds. The call centre’s psychotherapists and clinical psychologists are counselling them. During the home isolation phase, the patients have been asked to update city control room in case of need so that intervention can be made accordingly. So far in the city, 3,026 patients are under home treatment out of which 1,800 have recovered and rest are active cases. On Wednesday, the city reported highest single day spike of 541 Covid positive cases out of which 220 were from quarantine (home and institutional) and rest local cases. The quarantine cases include 23 staff of a private hospital and 16 police personnel. On Wednesday, 300 patients recovered from Covid taking the total number of recoveries to 6,935. With 44 deaths and 6,935 recoveries, the city now has 4,282 active cases. The city’s Covid count has now jumped to 11,273. The BMC said active surveillance has been continuing by multiple survey teams in slum and non-slum areas. Besides tracking returnees, the survey teams are taking daily health updates from the slum residents. On Tuesday, the highest number of 70,000 people were brought under survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/30-more-rrts-to-check-on-home-isolation-cases/articleshow/77897634.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Another blast at Srisailam, co says mock drill||HYDERABAD: A video of suspected blasts in the Srisailam hydel power plant went viral on Wednesday. While rumours had flown thick and fast about another round of minor blasts on Wednesday evening, Telangana Genco and Transco CMD D Prabhakar Rao dismissed the rumours and said they were part of a mock drill conducted by a team of senior officials to check preparedness of employees at the plant. Allaying the fears, Prabhakar Rao said the mock drill was conducted by the team led by TS Genco director (civil) Ajay. “There was no fire accident or blasts in the power plant and people need not panic about it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-blast-at-srisailam-co-says-mock-drill/articleshow/77899132.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pangolin rescued, 10 arrested||HYDERABAD: Forest officials of the Kawal Tiger Reserve, busted a pangolin smuggling racket and arrested 10 persons belonging to Mancherial and Asifabad districts in Kagaznagar on Tuesday. The officials rescued a live pangolin from them and also seized a car, mobile phones and motorcycles. After a month-long investigation into the illegal trade, field director of the Kawal Tiger Reserve CP Vinod Kumar produced the accused before the media and said the alleged offenders Unlisted02Srinath-naxal review the poachers and the middlemen were attempting to hunt the pangolin for the scales to make money. “Poaching of pangolins is being practiced due to some superstitious beliefs and myths that the animal’s body parts can be used for medicinal purposes,” said Kumar. “Hunting of pangolin is a serious offence and punishable with minimum punishment of seven years imprisonment and a fine of not less than Rs 5 lakh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pangolin-rescued-10-arrested/articleshow/77899130.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gang stealing silencers from vans busted, 7 held||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand’s local crime branch (LCB) arrested five members of a gang that was curiously involved in the theft of silencers from Maruti Eeco vans. Just in the last 20 days, the gang members, all hailing from Ahmedabad, stole at least 38 such silencers from various areas of Anand city and rural pockets of the district. The gang cashed in on the price of the dust of the precious metals including platinum, palladium and rhodium that is present in the car’s exhaust system as catalytic converters. LCB sleuths started their probe on directives of Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian after reports of theft of silencers of Maruti Eeco vans started emerging from separate parts of the city. The cops started checking CCTV footage of the spots from where the silencers were stolen and noticed the movement of a white coloured SUV in most of the places. The cops came to know that the SUV was owned by one Aasif alias Rupal Vohra, a resident of Ahmedabad’s Bavla taluka, whose maternal house was located in Khambhat and was earlier involved in thefts of cattle and 20 other criminal offences. Late on Monday night, the cops received a tip off regarding the movement of the SUV on Borsad – Nisraya Road after which Aasif and his accomplices were nabbed. The other accused include Irfan Vohra, Taufiq Pinjara, Firoz Vohra and Vijay Thakor. The cops recovered 17 silencers, 15 broken parts of silencers, five mobile phones, apart from the entire kit of removing the silencers from the vehicle. The total seizure was worth Rs 10.76 lakh. “Maruti Eeco which is a commercial vehicle has very low hanging silencers. The catalytic converters of every vehicle have the presence of precious metals like palladium, titanium and rhodium. The gang used to either remove the metals and fit the silencers to the vehicles again or completely remove the silencers for these metal powder,” said Rajian. The metal dust was then sold in junk market. Just one gram of palladium powder fetches Rs 3,000. The metals make the pollutants less harmful. These metal dust/ powder which is sold by such robbers is recycled for use in jewellery, dentistry and electronics, sources said. The cops have also arrested two native of Bharuch – Sunil Devipujak and Moti Devipujak – to whom the metal dust was sold by the gang. Rajian said that the police is further interrogating the accused as the total number of thefts can be much more. The gang has confessed that in many cases it used to simply remove metal dust from the silencers and fix them back in the vehicle. The owner would not even realise about the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gang-stealing-silencers-from-vans-busted-7-held/articleshow/77896746.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty govt hosp ICU gets Rs 40L makeover||Udhagamandalam: The intensive care unit at the Ooty government headquarters hospital was upgraded at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. The upgraded ICU comes with Wi-Fi-enabled digital X-Ray facility, individual cardiac monitoring systems, video laryngoscopes, high-tech cardiac diagnostic facilities and other improved amenities for patients. The facility was upgraded by the Rotary Club of Nilgiris-West and its partners. Dr V Balasubramaniam, a member of the club, said they had procured equipment worth Rs 33.50 lakh from the US in partnership with Rotary clubs in Alabama, US. The JSS College of Pharmacy in Ooty donated Rs 5 lakh and the Ooty branch of State Bank of India another Rs 1.50 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-govt-hosp-icu-gets-rs-40l-makeover/articleshow/77899169.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tea farmers happy with intermittent showers||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiri district recorded intermittent showers for the past two days, with Kodanadu receiving the highest rainfall on Wednesday. Kodanadu registered 70 mm rain for 24 hours ending 7am on Wednesday, while Ooty and Coonoor received 39 mm and 29 mm respectively. Kotagiri recorded 29 mm while Devala registered 27 mm of rainfall. The average rainfall recorded in the hill district on Tuesday morning was 13.82 mm. “There was not much rain this monsoon in Coonoor and Kotagiri areas. However, as the monsoon season is still continuing, we hope to get a good amount of rain in the coming days. It is time to apply manure to our tea gardens and vegetable fields. Without rain, there is no use in applying the fertilizers,” said J Rajesh, a farmer in Coonoor. Ahead of the tea yield season, the late monsoon rain is proving to be a boon for tea plantations. With the hike in green leaf tea price, the rain brought cheer to small tea farmers ahead of the season. According to Ooty municipal officials, the water levels in the reservoirs, meant for water supply to the town, are filled to the brim. Due to the continuing showers, Wednesday turned out to be extremely cold, with a maximum temperature of 14 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tea-farmers-happy-with-intermittent-showers/articleshow/77899139.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight drunk driving cases among 11 mishaps in a day in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 11 accidents took place under the Cyberabad limits on August 31. In eight of the incidents, the riders were driving under the influence of alcohol. According to the data shared by the Cyberabad traffic police, two persons died in the accidents, while 11 persons sustained injuries. “More number of drunken driving accidents are reported on Sundays and festival days. We request the citizens to celebrate festival and holidays safely,” said Cyberabad traffic cops. Seven of the 11 incidents involved two-wheelers, while all were drunk driving cases. In one of the incidents, a biker travelling from Chowdariguda to Jilleda lost control of the vehicle and fell near Jilleda village outskirts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-drunk-driving-cases-among-11-mishaps-in-a-day-in-cyberabad/articleshow/77899191.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Next 6 weeks crucial to curb virus spread’||VISAKHAPATNAM: Health experts at state Covid-19 hospitals have advised strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols over the ensuing month-and-a-half in order to curb spread of the disease. In Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam districts, collectors V Vinay Chand and J Nivas have held emergency meetings with officials. Based on the opinion of medical experts that the rising trend will continue for another month-and-a-half, the collectors have circulated messages warning the public to follow guidelines until the outbreak is brought under control. “As per calculations by the World Health Organisation (WHO), we can get some relief if the Covid-19 positivity rate stands at or below 5% for a span of 14 days. At present, the state has a nearly 16 to 17% positivity rate. This rate should come down to 5%,” a senior medical expert handling Covid-19 cases at Andhra Medical College told TOI. Srikakulam collector J Nivas, who visited containment zones in Srikakulam town along with superintendent of police Amit Bardar, said, “We used to get 200 to 250 positive cases in Srikakulam town, but all of a sudden the number rose to the 1,000-mark. Since Unlock 4.0 guidelines relaxes almost all restrictions, we have to pay special attention now.” “We have distributed face shields to all ward volunteers and they visit every home to check patients under the home isolation and Section 144 imposed to control public gatherings,” Nivas told TOI. Visakhapatnam collector Vinay Chand said the government has recruited doctors, nurses and helpdesk managers to overcome the shortage of resources in Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/next-6-weeks-crucial-to-curb-virus-spread/articleshow/77897657.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Post-reval, BVM Ashti’s Saksham 2nd city topper||NAGPUR: CBSE’s paper evaluation goof-ups continue to make an impact in the city’s top three rankings. Post re-evaluation, Std X student Saksham Chawala from Bhavan’s BP Vidya Mandir (BVM), Ashti, has emerged as joint second city topper with a score 99.2%. Chawala now shares the second spot in the city with Aadya Pande from Modern School. Their common score is just behind Ojas Khamele (99.4%) and a step ahead of Vinil Mokhade (99%), both of whom are from BVM Trimurti Nagar. This puts BVM students in all top three spots for Std X. Saksham’s score in Hindi inched up to 99 after re-evaluation, up from his earlier 97. It was his principal Vandana Bisen who urged him to apply for re-evaluation for Hindi, and that worked in Saksham’s favour. “I had worked very hard for Hindi. In fact in my school prelims, I had a full score in theory and so, even my parents felt that I must apply for re-evaluation,” said Saksham. His mother is a lecturer while father is a businessman. Saksham will be pursuing science in Std XI from CBSE board itself and preparing to crack the JEE in 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/post-reval-bvm-ashtis-saksham-2nd-city-topper/articleshow/77899153.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Testing must before judicial remand of accused: Govt||Bhubaneswar: Wary of the Covid-19 infection in jails, the state government has revised its prison management plan and issued a fresh advisory on procedures need to be followed after the arrest of an accused person. The state home department has issued an 8-point standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed by the four major arresting authorities of the state government — police, vigilance, excise and forest. According to the SOP, the arresting authorities will compulsorily subject newly arrested accused to Covid-19 test — either RT-PCR or rapid antigen test (RAT) depending on the availability of testing facilities in the areas before producing the latter before court and their subsequent remand in judicial custody. “We have informed the superintendents and jailers of all prisons about the government’s new SOP. A number of steps have been taken to prevent the virus infection in jails. At least 16,789 inmates were released on bail as part of the decongestion of prisons in recent past. We have introduced e-mulakat to allow visitors to interact with the prisoners through videoconferencing,” DGP (prisons) Santosh Upadhyay said. “An accused person should be produced in court within 24 hours of his/her arrest. Since the report of the RT-PCR test comes after 24 to 48 hours, we have advised the arresting authorities to go for RAT, whose finding comes within a few hours,” a home department official said. In the SOP, medical officers have been asked to write whether an accused person is symptomatic or asymptomatic. Anybody found positive should immediately be shifted to a Covid care centre (CCC) or hospital. They will be lodged in jail after his/her recovery. Those who test negative should be brought to the jail and kept in isolation wards. Chief district medical officers (CDMOs) will depute medical staff for random testing of prisoners in designated places (to be decided by the district administrations). DCPs and SPs will provide police escort during transport of Covid-infected prisoners to the hospitals. “The home department said police guards should be deployed in Covid hospitals for the safe custody of infected under-trial prisoners (UTPs). The police escorts should wear personal protective equipment. After their discharge, the police guards shall be quarantined for 14 days (either at home or in a Covid care centre). The guards will undergo a Covid-19 test on the 14th day,” the SOP said. Around 510 inmates in different prisons have tested positive for coronavirus, while four of them died of the disease. Official statistics said the capacity of 90-odd jails in the state is 19,016. At present, the population in the jails is 16,931. The Orissa high court has directed the police to refrain from making arrests of accused in petty cases or offences where the maximum sentence is up to seven years. “All prisoners have been provided with masks, soaps and sanitisers,” a jail official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/testing-must-before-judicial-remand-of-accused-govt/articleshow/77897650.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 3, 2020||Goa||Jeweller stabbed in Margao shop, dies chasing his killer||MARGAO: A jeweller was stabbed at his shop in the heart of Margao on Wednesday. Chasing the assailant and losing blood rapidly, Swapnil Walke, 41, collapsed outside the store, and died before he could be taken to hospital. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that CCTV footage from inside and outside the shop are being examined by the police. “The culprit stormed into the shop and pointed a pistol at the deceased,” he said. “This led to a scuffle between the two, following which the accused stabbed him multiple times.” Sources said that the CCTV footage shows that the assailant fired at the man, though this couldn’t be independently confirmed. Later, when searching the crime scene, police found a country-made pistol, a magazine, an empty cartridge, three live rounds and a knife cover. Walke is the son of senior BJP functionary Krishni Walke, a former state party mahila morcha president and current member of the party’s state executive committee. The shop is located on the busy stretch leading from V Valaulikar road to Sapna Plaza. Eyewitnesses said that minutes after some commotion was heard from inside the shop at around 12.30pm, the assailant bolted out of the premises wielding a knife dripping with blood. Handheld video of the crime quickly went viral on social media, eliciting a furore from angry citizens as well as the opposition. The recording showed three persons, including the assailant, fleeing the spot. “However, investigations will reveal how many were actually involved in it,” Singh said. While it was initially presumed that an attempt to rob the shop may have led to the scuffle, police said that they are investigating all angles. A sniffer dog was pressed into service, and a team of forensic experts inspected the crime scene. “During preliminary investigations, nothing has been reported missing from the shops, but we’re exploring all angles.” Margao town police booked an offence under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. Singh said that multiple teams have been constituted to trace the accused. Meanwhile, BJP functionary Sharmad Raiturkar told TOI that “nobody knew what exactly happened, but when people saw this man running with a knife, people started chasing him, but he fled. They couldn’t venture too close to him as he had a knife, however, some then started pelting stones at him, but he managed to escape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jeweller-stabbed-in-margao-shop-dies-chasing-his-killer/articleshow/77900422.cms||Govind Maad
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||RU colleges’ cut-off per cent higher than previous year||JAIPUR: The first cut-off list of the constituent colleges of Rajasthan University released on Wednesday is much higher than last year. Except for Rajasthan College, all the other three constituent colleges – Maharani, Maharaja and Commerce — have higher cut-offs than last year. In Commerce College, the cut-off percentage for general category is over 90%, up from last year’s 70%-80%. For BCA, the cut-off for general category is 85.6%, up from 50% last year. Commerce College principal Dilip Singh said due to the removal of percentile formula, more students have applied this year. Out of 660 seats, first list comprises 398 seats in Commerce college. In Maharaja College, the cut-off for pass course is around 95%, almost 5% higher than last year. Authorities said more students are approaching the colleges as a backup option for JEE. Maharaja College principal Narendra Mahla said, “Students who are appearing for JEE Main have applied here as a backup. The examinations of JEE were postponed due to pandemic and students kept this as an option. They will take back applications once JEE results are announced.” Similarly in Maharani College, B.Com pass course have a cut-off 95%. Surprisingly for BBA, where the cut-off percentage never used to cross 70%, stands at 92% this year. In Rajasthan College, the cut-off for CBSE and RBSE students in the general category is 93.6%, which was around 85% for RBSE and 95% for CBSE last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-colleges-cut-off-per-cent-higher-than-previous-year/articleshow/77900418.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||PV Narasimha Rao’s village to be tourist spot: Goud||VANGARA (BHEEMADEVARAPALLY): Former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s hometown, Vangara village, Bheemadevarapally mandal of Warangal is going to become a tourist spot. Cultural tourism, archaeology and youth welfare minister V Srinivas Goud announced that Vangara is going to be developed with botanical gardens spread over seven acres along with a suspension bridge spanning over village lake and four-lane road linking Elkaparthy to Vangara. The minister asked PV’s family members to provide belongings used by the late Prime Minister. The famous Lord Shiva temple will also be renovated soon. The minister alleged that the Congress party betrayed PV, however, CM KCR deliberately decided to hold the birth centenary celebrations to pay tribute to his reforms. Vangara is going to be developed with botanical gardens spread over seven acres along with a suspension bridge spanning over village lake and four-lane road linking Elkaparthy to Vangara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvs-village-to-be-tourist-spot-goud/articleshow/77899147.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Tech & luck unite teen with family in Bihar||JAIPUR: A random search on Google map, a few calls and a bit of luck has united a 14-year-old kid living in Nobel laureate Kailesh Sathyarthi’s bal ashram in Jaipur’s Viratnagar with his family in Borna, a nondescript village in Bihar, after five years. Rajesh (name chaged) was separated from his father at Delhi Railway station in January 2015. He was brought to Viratnagar in April 2015 and since then efforts were on to trace his family. His Bengali accent had shifted the focus of the search in almost all districts of Bengal for five years until he met a boy, Chirag from Bihar, in the ashram who tracked his village. Chirag was rescued from a bangle-making unit in Delhi in 2009 and was brought to the ashram in 2016. One day, while cleaning the record room, he got hold of the file of Rajesh and found the name of a road against his home address column. “I met him and after listening to his descriptions, I was confident that names of such roads could be found in towns like Purnia, Kathihar, Sehersa and Khagaria. The next challenge was how to take my search ahead. I could recall that he was separated from his father at Delhi railway station which means he would have boarded the train from the station for sure,” said Chirag. There came the role of Google map and images. He started showing images of railway stations spread in all these districts and Rajesh confirmed to have visited Maheshkhunt station in Khagaria district. “The next question was what next? Rajesh gave a hint that Chhath Ghat was close to his native village. I showed the maps of all the villages around the Maheshkunt on Google Map and zeroed down few villages,” said Chirag. He reached this point in two months from November to December 2019. He took a break from his investigation due to class XII board exam. The wait extended till July due to Covid. “I resumed my mission in July. I started taking phone numbers of temples and shops in these villages and nearby towns available on Google. Calling people and asking do they know any child missing from their area or a village? Most of the time the responses were rude. But the time when I was losing hope, I hit the jackpot. One caller has given me a direct number of Rajesh’s real uncle, a resident in Borna village in August 24. Rest is history,” said Chirag. Bal ashram officials said the child is excited to be united with his family. Due to the pandemic, the family has yet to come to Viratnagar. “The near-point accuracy with which Rajesh house at Borna village in Khagaria district of Bihar was located on Google Map by Chirag is testimony to the spirit of enquiry, patience and fellow-feeling among our children at Bal Ashram. Chirag’s effort is a shining example of how given the right environment, even children who previously faced tremendous hardship, exploitation and abuse can prove their mettle just as other children,” Sumedha Kailash, co-Founder of Bal Ashram, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tech-luck-unite-teen-with-family-in-bihar/articleshow/77900409.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Teenager fails Class XI exam, ends life||NAGPUR: A 15-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house on August 31 after he failed in his Class IX exams. Mankapur police have identified the deceased as Kunal Marshettiwar (15, a resident of Plot number 78, Geeta Nagar). Police said Kunal’s father was tailor and since the lockdown was clamped, the family’s financial condition deteriorated. Already in crisis, Kunal was upset upon learning about his unsuccessful attempt in Class IX exam. Even his father scolded him about his poor interest towards academics. On August 31, when he was alone in the house, Kunal hanged himself with the ceiling fan’s hook and ended his life at around 5pm. The Mankapur police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teenager-fails-class-xi-exam-ends-life/articleshow/77899204.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Age-old sheesham trees chopped||NAGPUR: Despite serious awareness efforts taken by environmentalists, the already declining green cover in the city keeps diminishing further due to trivial reasons. On Wednesday, two age-old sheesham trees were chopped at Laxmi Bhuvan Square, apparently for better visibility of a newly-constructed building. Though permission was taken from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department for felling the trees, environment activists alleged that false reasons were put forth in front of the officials. According to them, the trees were chopped off under political pressure so that the building could be visible. “A local corporator pushed fruit sellers in the vicinity to approach NMC and highlight that the trees pose danger to their lives and can fall anytime. That is why NMC gave permission,” activists said. Environmentalist Shrikant Deshpande and honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das slammed the civic body for being lenient while granting permit. “These trees were 70-80 years old and were absolutely standing straight and solid, posing no threat to anyone. NMC officials were misinformed,” said Deshpande. Das added that permissions should not be given without proper spot inspection by a team of officials. “Trees continue to get cut rampantly for better visibility of hoardings, buildings and other nonsensical reasons. NMC officials should be very strict and careful while giving a nod to fell trees,” he said. Stating that a proper team should be formed, Deshpande suggested that more vruksha mitras should be appointed in the city. “NMC ‘s garden department is short-staffed and we understand it might not always be possible to dedicate time for spot visits. However, officials can take help of activists and experts by appointing them as vruksha mitras who can go to the spot and check the ground reality. This way, unwanted tree felling can be avoided to a large extent,” he said. NMC officials were not available for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/age-old-sheesham-trees-chopped/articleshow/77899242.cms||Manka Behl
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Action bound to happen against those found responsible for illegal stocking of ration- Ashu||Since lockdown the government machinery and elected representatived of ruling party have been under scrutiny over the issue of ration distribution among the poor and needy. Recently the BJP leaders again raised the issue of mismanagement of ration distribution when they caught ration kits at a private school of Congress leader. The Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu who was prompt to mark an inquiry into the matter however dismisses the claims about mismanagement of ration distribution. Nidhi Bhardwaj spoke to him on the issue Q: There are allegations of illegal stocking of ration kits in Congress leader' school and non-distribution among the poor, what action has been taken in this case by you? A: I had immediately marked the inquiry to DC who further constituted the committee of three members for detailed investigation. I am yet to receive the inquiry report only then I can comment about its findings. The action is certain and if officials or even Congress leader will be at fault action will be taken against them. Q: Since the beginning of lockdown the opposition always alleged mismanagement in ration distribution by your officers or leaders, is it so? It is job of opposition to raise hue and cry on everything as when they do not get solid issues, they start creating mountains out of molehills. This ration distribution is similar thing. Here in Ludhiana we left no stone unturned to reach out to the poor during lockdown and even today. We have not stopped distributing the ration among the poor but now people have stopped taking it as it’s in stock with them. We have sufficient ration in stock and ration which was received under NFSC is distributed to at least 52 percent of beneficiaries till date and till November poor people are to get ration free under Pardhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna. Q: If there is enough stock of ration with government then why there is mismanagement in distribution? A: There is no mismanagement at any level. The ration is distributed as per public demand and after verification of all facts. Now for distribution of ration at depots too we have introduced e-pos machines that ration will be distributed only when beneficiary will put his or her finger prints on the machine. This system will bring more transparency and only beneficiary will get the ration. But opposition is against these machines. I do not why they are opposing this transparent system that will help the poor to get justice and depot holders will not be able to give ration of poor people to anybody else. Q: How do you find the situation in Ludhiana when it comes to rising cases of covid 19 as despite checks many people are becoming covid positive. Are we lacking anywhere? A: No doubt the cases are rising in city every day despite several restrictions but we will have to understand one thing that administration or government cannot control this disease without support of public. People are not helping us in breaking this chain. Still you can find people roaming without face masks, ignoring social distancing or breaking other norms. Then how we will win this battle. Secondly the administration is making every possible effort to control the spreading and then arrangement of beds. Now many private hospitals have kept the beds reserved for the covid 19 patients. We have spare beds, ventilators and oxygen system etc. People can check availability of beds while sitting at home. So administration and government are doing their part but residents should also help us. Q- Despite the fact that center government removed all restrictions in unlock 4 from Sept 1, the state government has continued weekend lockdown and night curfew in state. Why? A: Instead of passing any judgement the center should have left this decision on the state governments only because the CM of any state knows the situation better than union government. And if center government wants to do anything then they should help financially but here we did not get GST or any other financial help from the union government. Q: Don’t you think these restrictions will create economic crisis in state? A: The economic crisis is all over world after this disease. As far as Punjab or Ludhiana is concerned the decisions are reviewed every day and if there will be any issue then public will get desired relief. In case of Odd even the government rolled back its decision as it was creating problems for the shopkeepers in earning their livelihood. The government is not taking decisions for its pleasure rather it is for the public safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/action-bound-to-happen-against-those-found-responsible-for-illegal-stocking-of-ration-ashu/articleshow/77896175.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Purpose of suspending employee defeated if he draws salary: HC||Madurai: The very purpose of placing an employee under suspension is defeated if he is conveniently getting 50% of his salary as subsistence allowance without doing any work, due to delay on part of the officials in initiating disciplinary proceedings, the Madras high court has said. The observation came as the court took a serious view of the delay on the part of the authorities in initiating proceedings against an employee who was suspended for failing to attend Covid-19 duty in Trichy district. Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that of late, it has become a practice among the authorities to place erring employees under suspension for months or years and even decades together in some cases. However, no disciplinary proceedings are initiated by issuing charge memo against such erring officials.The court was hearing a petition filed by P Poomani, who had challenged his suspension order issued by the district social welfare officer on April 10. The petitioner claimed that due to lack of transport facilities during the lockdown period, he was unable to attend office and hence sought to treat his period of absence on duty.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that the petitioner is permanently residing at Perambalur district and used to attend the office by taking a bus which takes a total travel time of five hours everyday. The petitioner has not thought of shifting his residence to a nearer place to reach office early or in time. If the authorities speed up the disciplinary proceedings by issuance of charge memo and conduct inquiry and complete the same in the manner known to law, the wastage of money from government exchequer could be avoided. Since for more than four months, no further action against the petitioner in this case, the judge sought explanation from the district social welfare officer on the reasons for delay in initiating disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/purpose-of-suspending-employee-defeated-if-he-draws-salary-hc/articleshow/77900436.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 3, 2020||Madurai||NEET impersonation: HC reserves orders on plea by students||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday reserved orders on a plea moved by two students who were involved in NEET impersonation, seeking to return their original certificates for them to pursue their college education.Justice R Pongiappan reserved the orders after the counsels for the petitioners sought to return the certificates on sympathetic grounds.In one of the cases, the petitioner, a resident of Chennai had obtained a medical seat in Theni Government Medical College in 2019. The petitioner, who was arrayed as first accused was arrested and subsequently released on bail.The petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to return his Class X and XII marksheets, transfer and community certificates to pursue an undergraduate course in an arts and science college in Chennai.Similarly, another student who was arrested in connection with NEET impersonation also moved the HC seeking to return his certificates. During the previous hearing, the court had directed the registry to send a letter to the Theni judicial magistrate (JM) to ascertain as to whether any certificates were produced before the JM court by the Theni district CB-CID officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-impersonation-hc-reserves-orders-on-plea-by-students/articleshow/77900449.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor contractor shot dead, 3 injured in Fatehabad; 16 booked||Fatehabad: Over a dozen persons allegedly killed a liquor vend contractor and injured three others in Daiyar village of Fatehabad district, the police said on Wednesday. The assailants, who were armed with iron rods and firearms, also damaged two cars, motorcycles and mobile phones, and also allegedly looted Rs 2.5 lakh from the vend. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep, a resident of Daiyar. Injured Anil and Jasvir, both residents of Daiyar, and Dinesh, a resident of Kaliravan village in Hisar district, have been admitted to a private hospital in Hisar for treatment. A case on the complaint of injured Dinesh has been registered at Bhattu Kalan police station against Jaivir and Ramesh, both residents of Daiyar and allegedly sarpanch’s associates, on charges of murder and illegal possession of arms, among others. Besides, Liluram, a resident of Thuiya village, Mewa Singh alias Kalu Bhadu from Jundwala Bagar village, Sahil alias Doga, a resident of Rajgarh in Churu district in Rajasthan, and 10-12 unknown persons have also been named in the FIR. In his complaint, Dinesh said he had a share in the liquor vend and had several fights with the village sarpanch’s representative Jaivir earlier. He alleged that Jaivir wanted to take revenge on him due to their rivalry. Dinesh said around 8pm on Tuesday, when he was sitting at the vend office with Sandeep, Anil and Jasbir, accused Ramesh, Liluram, Mewa, Sahil and others came in four cars and entered the office and fired with pistols and attacked with iron rods. When contacted Bhattu Kalan police station in-charge Virendra Singh said a case has been registered and they have started investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-contractor-shot-dead-3-injured-in-fatehabad-16-booked/articleshow/77899199.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Percentile formula gone, intake of CBSE students to increase||Jaipur: The removal of the percentile formula from this year has led to a rise in CBSE students getting admission in Rajasthan University constituent colleges. Till last year when the percentage of CBSE students were just 20 of the total number of seats, this year it has reversed as 80% students are from CBSE and 20% from RBSE.In Commerce College, 80% students who have taken admission are from CBSE, officials said. “From this year, CBSE students will be more in numbers. Till last year, RBSE students were more in numbers due to the percentile formula which considered the marking of RBSE tough and they do not get high percentage. Now with the percentile formula being removed, CBSE students are getting admissions,” Commerce College principal Dilip Singh said. In Maharani College, the situation is similar. Most of the seats are being filled by CBSE students reversing the uneven gap between both the boards.The government was under criticism for a long time due to the percentile formula. It was introduced as earlier as marking in the RBSE board was difficult and students were not able to get above 95% as compared to CBSE students. Hence, to get both the board students on a par, percentile was introduced.The situation, however, has changed with time as now RBSE students are also getting above 95% in almost all the subjects which made it necessary for the government to take back the percentile formula.However in Rajasthan College, out of the 308 seats, RBSE students took admission in 257 seats and only 50 seats went to CBSE students. College authorities said CBSE students are generally inclined towards science and commerce fields and do not apply in large numbers in humanities courses.Maharaja College, however, has not maintained any separate list of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/percentile-formula-gone-intake-of-cbse-students-to-increase/articleshow/77900440.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris adds 14 Covid-19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, the case tally moves up to 1,667. The district also reported one death due to the virus, pushing its official death toll to 11. As many as 29 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. So far, 1,339 patients have recovered in the district. The recovery rate stands at 80.6%. About 317 patients are still under treatment at various government health facilities and Covid care centres in the district, officials said.  The new cases, including 5 women, were reported from Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri besides villages such as Nedugula, Kannerimukku and Kadakodu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-adds-14-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77899206.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic body ropes in transgenders to collect parking fees in Berhampur||Berhampur: The Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) has roped in transgender people for collecting parking fees from different public stands in the city from Tuesday. At least 10 members of two self-help groups (SHG)s of transgenders have been engaged for the task. “They have been entrusted with at least four public stands including Old Berhampur, Arnnapurna Market, Sai Market Complex and near Girija Square where large vehicles are usually parked for collecting parking fees on a pilot basis,” BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore said. He added, “We will decide on entrusting them with more areas only after seeing the response to the existing ones.” Parking fees makes up the bulk of revenue for the BeMC. Each group has been provided with mPOS (mobile point of sale) machines for the purpose. Prior to this, they were trained in handling these machines for four days. These transgenders have to do abide by the Covid-19 regulations and wear masks and maintain a social distance while on the job. Rathore said, “The objective behind engaging the transgenders to collect the parking fees was to bring them into the mainstream and also make them self-reliant.” Sweety Sahu, president of Sakhi, an organization of the transgenders, said, “This will help us lead a dignified life. Besides, it will also help us earn at a time when our traditional sources of livelihood have been severely affected owing to the lockdown.” Silk City boasts of around 20 transgenders. Most of them make ends meet by dancing in family functions, at fairs and during festivals and by running beauty parlours. But the lockdown has dealt a blow to their sources of income. Earlier, the BeMC had provided training to at least 26 transgenders, the members of three SHGs, in shoe-making under the Odisha Livelihood Mission. Experts from a reputed shoe-manufacturing company of Kolkata had taught them to make slippers as well as market the products. Sources said some of them have already started their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-body-ropes-in-transgenders-to-collect-parking-fees-in-berhampur/articleshow/77897720.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
September 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bargarh turning into west Odisha hotspot as cases rise||Bhubaneswar: Bargarh district in western Odisha seem to be turning into another Khurda with Covid cases rising with each passing day. Bargarh has the most active positive cases (1144) among 10 western Odisha districts that include Sundargarh, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Deogarh, Boudh, Sonepur, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda and Balangir. In the past week alone, Bargarh has added 907 positive cases. It has so far registered 2,395 positive cases and 9 deaths, can be considered on the higher side when compared to Khurda which, with 18,159 total positive cases, has reported 69 deaths. “We are testing more samples as a result fresh Covid positive cases are being reported,” Bargarh district collector Jyotiranjan Pradhan said. However, on closer scrutiny it could be seen that the samples tested is far low in comparison to other western Odisha districts. On Wednesday, Bargarh reported 185 positive cases from 437 samples tested (a positivity rate of 42.33%). In comparison, Deogarh tested 976 samples and has reported zero positive case, Jharsuguda reported 60 cases from 641 samples tested, Sambalpur’s 821 samples returned 78 cases while Sundargarh reported 60 infected out of 2143 samples tested. More than 200 cases have been reported from Bargarh Sadar (on the town’s periphery) while more than hundred cases (100-200) have been reported from pockets like Sohela, Barpali and Attabira. Seven blocks of the districts have reported cases between 1 and 50. Pradhan said the recent Nuakhai festival too played a role in increasing Covid cases. “The festival brought family members together and though we stopped community feasting, it could have led to more people getting infected. Besides, the rainy season saw agricultural activities being stepped up. People in villages could have got together, resulting in further spread,” Pradhan suggested. Experts felt that the rise in Covid cases in Bargarh district – the business capital of western Odisha and a health hub in close proximity to Chhattisgarh – could have been after restriction on inter-state movement of people was lifted. Otherwise, Bargarh till June end had reported only 115 positive cases. Infections began to pick up in the months of July and August. R K Purohit, a Bargarh-based doctor said people from outside the state and neighbouring districts depend on Bargarh for health and business purposes. “People now have free movement in markets. As far as hospitals are concerned, although patients undergo Covid test before getting admitted, the relatives and others who accompany them could infect others or get infected themselves. Secondly, people still don’t follow rules on how to use mask. When one talks to another, he/she removes the mask while it is most important to keep wearing it at that time,” Purohit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bargarh-turning-into-west-odisha-hotspot-as-cases-rise/articleshow/77897691.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, migrant quarters, PGs, hostels will pay 7.5% annual rental income as tax||Ludhiana: The owners or occupants of migrant quarters, paying guests and hostels will now have to pay more property tax as local bodies department has finally notified that from this financial year people will pay 7.5% of the annual rental income as tax. The civic officials after receiving the notification has asked the staff concerned to conduct a survey in all four zones for compiling the data of such properties so that they should start recovery. According to the officials, approximately, there are 50,000 such properties and they are expecting around Rs 5 crore in property tax from them. They claimed that in the notification it is mentioned that new rates will be implemented from April 1 — so, in this financial year they will be imposing tax from these units under commercial category. Whereas, up to last year, it was done on the basis of self-declaration and most were filing tax in residential category. Municipal corporation (MC) superintendent Vivek Verma said, “We have received the notification and it has been circulated among the staff. Also, we have orders to conduct surveys in four zones so that we know the exact number of such properties.” Regarding payment, he said it will be according to the agreement between the tenants and the owners — if in agreement, it was mentioned that owner will pay tax, then he or she will have to pay. Otherwise, tax will be collected from the tenants. Notably, on September 4, 2018, the MC general house had passed a resolution that PGs, migrant quarters and hostels should come under commercial category because the owners of these units are generating good income from tenants. It took two years by the local bodies department to notify the proposal. Meanwhile, people are questioning the timing of the notification. Due Covid-19, these properties are already lying vacant and the owners are saying they are being forced to pay tax at higher rate. MC superintendent Verma, however, said, in this case, owners can simply mention that there was no occupant during lockdown or there were lesser occupants so they will adjust accordingly. He said even in case of malls, some have given in writing that malls remain closed for long time so there was no income in that period and the tax is being adjusted. Zone wise survey: Tough task for MC A survey has been ordered in all four zones for identification of such units, but in June too a survey was ordered by then MC commissioner KP Brar but due to Covid-19 cases, employees refused to conduct the survey. Even now it will be seen how officials will be able to conduct the survey as cases are still rising. These units are not registered anywhere and officials are matching data with their previous house tax and property tax collection of 2013-14 base for the survey. Before implementation of property tax, there used to be 9% house tax rate on such units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-migrant-quarters-pgs-hostels-will-pay-7-5-annual-rental-income-as-tax/articleshow/77896183.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How Rs 100 crore was siphoned off in land-pooling guise||NEW DELHI: The first set of chargesheets in the land pooling scam in which around 1,000 investors were duped of more than Rs 100 crore on the premise of being provided housing in Dwarka will soon be filed by Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police. Taking suo motu cognisance, EOW had started the probe into the alleged scam in January. A month later, three men, who were office bearers of a housing society posing as agents authorised by Delhi Development Authority (DDA), were arrested for sending bulk SMSs to people offering to sell affordable flats at minimal rates. They were identified as Satender Maan, Pradeep Sehrawat and Subash Chand. The probe agency arrested the accused by tracking down the IP addresses from which the SMSs had been sent. Six more people, including two property dealers, were arrested in August. So far, 19 FIRs have been registered and nine people have been arrested. The chargesheet would give details of how fictitious housing societies were created for this purpose even as DDA’s policy on land pooling was yet to be finalised. So far, DDA has not issued a licence to any agent with regard to this policy. It was found that the accused would claim that DDA had formed “Land Facilitation Agencies” to procure the plots from farmers and hand them over to authorised builders to avoid siphoning off the funds. However, when police contacted DDA, they came to know that the land pooling policy was still being framed. The accused came to know about the policy from their sources within DDA and decided to put up flats for sale when the land itself had not been acquired. They would send SMSs and emails asking people to transfer a token amount of Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh to book apartments. They also duped housing agents on the pretext of getting bookings from prospective buyers. DDA officials told police that provisional development licences would only be issued once the sector was qualified for development. According to the policy, a minimum of 70% contiguous land of the developable area would have to be free of encumbrances for a sector to become eligible for pooling and development. Police said an analysis of the contents of the SMSs revealed that the name of DDA’s land pooling policy was used to give an impression to people that the projects had been duly authorised. In this way, the facts were misrepresented and the material information with regard to DDA’s approval pertaining to the proposed projects had been suppressed to deceive the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-rs-100cr-was-siphoned-off-in-land-pooling-guise/articleshow/77899325.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
September 3, 2020||Coimbatore||6 factors that helped virus spread||The civic body, health department and the district administration are now perplexed with no clear solution on how to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases, which now increases by 1,000 in less than 48 hours. Though municipal administration minister S P Velumani keeps giving deadlines to contain the virus spread, a dip in the graph seems elusive as officials struggle to fix the gaps. TOI takes a look at the factors that are leading to surge in cases. Dropping testing The number of samples tested in the district, which ranged between 3,500 and 4,200 a day during June-July was reduced to hardly 2,700 a day in July-August. This was despite the district recording around 300 new cases daily. As a result, many positive cases were missed out and they infected many others. Once the number of samples was reduced, positive cases too fell, giving people in the city a false confidence that the numbers are dropping, and that the virus is receding. Crowded events, shops There is no mechanism to keep a tab on weddings and similar other events, where overcrowding has begun. There are complaints that up to 200 people are participating in such events, especially in rural areas. Visits of political leaders from every other party attract scores of their cadres, who rarely maintain social distancing. Commercial establishments are also found to violate social distancing norms. People could be seen crowding bakeries, Tasmac outlets and meat stalls, especially on Saturdays, without maintaining social distancing. Failure to keep returnees in check While the city corporation kept almost 80% of returnees from other districts and states under its surveillance, in rural areas 80% of returnees was not tracked. There were instances of health department not checking on the returnees, not affixing quarantine sticker in front of their houses or not monitoring if they remained in quarantine for 14 days. There is high possibility that asymptomatic carriers could have moved around freely. This was one of the reasons why the source of infection was completely untraceable in rural areas. Making prescription must for testing Not allowing private laboratories to test symptomatic patients without a doctor prescription discourages many mildly symptomatic patients from undergoing Covid-19 testing. As per the state government order, private laboratories could test only symptomatic patients that too if they come with a doctor’s prescription for a test. This is when people are scared to go to clinics or hospitals because of the pandemic. So, many mildly symptomatic patients don’t bother to get a prescription for Covid-19 testing. The symptoms, which often don’t involve fever, sometimes aggravate and get worse. Also, patients don’t bother isolating themselves properly until they test positive. As a result, they end up infecting others at home who in turn infect more people. Ineffective containment measures Not adopting strict containment measures in Covid-19 hotspots such as Selvapuram, Puliyakulam and Ganapathy. Earlier, containment zones were spread across 5km. Later, just the street was cordoned off and testing people there. Now, only houses with patients are isolated and testing is limited to the family members. So, many infected and symptomatic neighbours and colleagues at work are left undetected and free to spread the infection, especially since there is no restriction on people movement. Officials don’t bother tracing the patients’ movements and testing all their contacts. No wonder places such as Selvapuram saw more than 50 cases daily for more than two months. Poor implementation of mask rule Poor enforcement of mask etiquette and other precautions. Scores of people could be seen either without a mask or wearing masks below their noses. Some uncover their mouths to speak to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-factors-that-helped-virus-spread/articleshow/77899269.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Bus operator directed to pay Rs 20K to consumer for charging Rs 1 extra||Tirunelveli: The district consumer grievances redressal forum in Tirunelveli has directed a private bus operator to pay Rs 20,000 as compensation to a commuter for charging Rs 1 more than the actual fare. The petitioner, G Esakki Muthu, 30, of Palayamkottai, works in a private firm in Tirunelveli.On September 1, 2017, he took the private bus (Aravind Transport) from the Tirunelveli New Bus Stand to Tuticorin. The conductor charged him Rs 25 as fare instead of Rs 24 fixed by the government. This resulted in a heated exchange of words, following which he approached the consumer court.During the initial processes, the operator initially denied that it was pertaining to his company and pointed his finger at another private operator, which was later proved to be false. The operator also produced a GO dated January 19, 2018, with the revised fare structure according to which Rs 34 could be collected for the same route.“But the journey was months ahead of the fare revision. We got the actual fares fixed for the period through the Right To Information Act and fought the case,” Muthu’s counsel A Brammanayagam said. Along with the petition the consumer submitted a copy of the ticket, GOs in this regard and RTI replies obtained from the regional transport officer.In its direction on Tuesday, forum president K Devadass and member S Sivanmoorthi found the bus operator guilty of deficiency in service. They directed the operator to pay Rs 15,000 as compensation for mental agony undergone by the commuter, Rs 5,000 for his legal expenses and to return the excess fare of Rs 1 collected from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bus-operator-directed-to-pay-rs-20k-to-consumer-for-charging-rs-1-extra/articleshow/77900469.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Passing out parade of 131 IPS officers on Friday, PM Modi to be chief guest||Hyderabad: The lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, proved to be a good training ground for the 131 probationary IPS officers of the 2018 and 2017 batches as it helped them gain hands-on experience.  The cadets also had first-hand experience of handling large crowds as they were part of the Ganesh immersion bandobust on Tuesday. These officers, will be part of the passing out parade to be held at the SVP National Police Academy on Friday. Eleven of them were granted the Telangana cadre. PM Narendra Modi will be the chief guest and will participate in the event virtually. During their training, the cadets were taught armed combat, unarmed combat, law, investigation, cyber crime, human rights, internal security, maintaining law & order. For some time, they were also given training with the Greyhounds, the commando unit of Telangana police which deals in anti-naxal operations. “On their return for their phase-II training, they shared their experience with their peer group,” SVPNPA director Atul Karwal said in a press note. Among the 131 probationers IPS, who passed out, 121 belong to 2018 batch and the remaining 10 belong to 2017 batch. Out of them, 28 are females. DV Kiran Shruti will be awarded best all round probationer of the batch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passing-out-parade-of-131-ips-officers-on-fri-pm-to-be-chief-guest/articleshow/77899239.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Approach charity office for acting against private schools: Patole tells education department||NAGPUR: Thousands of aggrieved parents fighting against exorbitant fees charged by private schools got a big boost after Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole endorsed their grievances and flayed State Education Department officials for failure to act against erring schools. The speaker recently conducted a meeting at the collector office in Civil Lines with department officials after several distressed parents approached him to help them out. When department officials expressed inability to act against such erring schools citing excuses like stay by Bombay high court, the speaker slammed them for not reading laws for regulating fees. “You should know that a majority of these schools are running under charitable trusts and permissions were granted to them by the charity commissioner’s office here. The officials must ask school managements on what charity they had done for all these years? The schools are acting as per their will by forcing parents to buy books and other study material at highly inflated rates.” Deputy director of education Anil Pardhi told TOI that as per speaker’s orders they had launched inquiry into parents complaints against schools. “We’ve received some reports, but those had some flaws and we had told our officials to make corrections. We will take action against schools after going through reports and checking all facts and figures,” he said. Patole, the Sakoli MLA, further directed officials to thoroughly read ‘Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011’ which had prescribed a process to charge fees. “If schools are harassing parents, you have all ways and means to act against them under the laws. For that you need to go through rules and regulations, which aren’t stayed by any court. Complaints can be lodged against them with the charity commissioner’s office which can remove their permission to run,” he said while ordering the officials to act within four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/approach-charity-office-for-acting-against-pvt-schools-patole-tells-edu-dept/articleshow/77899245.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 3, 2020||Chennai||Stubborn microplastics in your water is Chennai’s trash: Researchers||CHENNAI: Microplastics, which escape Metro water’s filtering system, could end up in drinking water at Chennai homes as these particles of less than 5mm have been found in considerable quantities at the Red Hills reservoir, one of the four that meet the city’s drinking water needs. Researchers found an average six pieces of plastic in every 1litre of water and an average 27 particles in every 1kg of sediment in the lake. These tiny pieces of plastics that are not visible to the naked eye mostly come from garbage and sewage let out from the nearby residential area into the lake and from fishing nets. The study of water from the Red Hills reservoir — drinking water source for the city — found the lake had an average concentration of microplastics of 5.9n/m3 (0.6g/litre). The microplastics were mostly in the form of high density- polyethylene, low-density polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene, which are all used for packaging meat, sweets and snacks, for plastic cutleries, toys, bottles and spare parts for the automotive industry. This points to garbage and untreated sewage dumped along the water body to be major source of pollutants. Explaining there is little, a Metrowater official said people in the surrounding area let out their sewage into the lake, which is meant to store rainwater. “Every time we visit or receive complaints, we plug the sewage outlets, but the discharge continues,” the official added. Researcher Kalpana Gopinath of Institute for Ocean Management, Anna University, who conducted the study that showed presence of microplastics in Red Hills reservoir, says the team study water in other city reservoirs for the presence of plastics. “Definitely, the other city reservoirs could also have microplastics because of the densely populated areas surrounding these water bodies and the uncontrolled disposal of plastic waste by residents. We will be soon collecting samples in other reservoirs to study their concentration during rainfall season as well,” she said. “These results were from samples collected when there was less rainfall and not much water carried from upstream. It could have been a reason for less plastic. But there needs to be a study during heavy rainfall when the water carries a lot of pollution including plastic from the environment,” she added. The team collected six water samples and 32 sediment samples from an 18.21sqkm area. The study also revealed heavy metals like iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, silicon, titanium and potassium on the surface of the microplastics, which could have adsorbed them. "Chennai residents use water directly or after boiling it, which does not remove the microplastics but increases the toxicity as boiling water could release the metals into the water,” one of the researchers said. The concentration of microplastics in Red Hills Lake, however, is lower compared to many freshwater systems in other countries. Compared to an average 2.8grams per litre in the water and sediment samples in Red Hills, studies have shown the river networks in Shanghai had an average 88 particles in sediment sample, Ottawa River in Canada had 220 particles, Lake Erie in USA had 1,05,503 particles per sqkm in water sample and Thames River System, UK, had 1,398 particles in sediment samples. “Every single particle of microplastic is harmful. We don’t have any proven technology to remove microparticles. Global research is underway. The challenge is management and disposal of microplastics after it is removed through filtration. Some say it could be used to lay roads, but they could leach into the groundwater after some time. Our studies have shown microplastics in groundwater as well,” Srinivasalu Seshachalam, director, Institute for Ocean Management, Anna University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stubborn-microplastics-in-your-water-is-citys-trash-researchers/articleshow/77899253.cms||U Tejonmayam
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||GST: 138 new registrations under excise & taxation scrutiny||Chandigarh: The tax research unit (TRU) of the excise and taxation department, Haryana, has zeroed in on 138 newly registered taxpayers of the state under GST for suspicious transactions. These taxpayers were identified by the data analytic capabilities of TRU. A spokesperson of the state excise and taxation department said the suspicious taxpayers were “subjected to physical verifications by field offices of the department. They reported that 69 of the 138 cases were fake or non-existent. He said recoveries of Rs 28.54 lakh had been effected and a credit of Rs 31.63 crore had been blocked to these 69 taxpayers. The spokesperson said the verifications of records of these entities revealed that these taxpayers had passed on credit amounting to Rs 1,182.23 crore. He said cases had been referred to respective districts offices for necessary follow-up action. “A dedicated cell in TRU will be monitoring the progress of cases at regular intervals. So far, 15 taxpayers have been cancelled by the department,” he said. He said the department was digging out beneficiaries to whom the credit was passed on by fake/non-existent taxpayers. The official said, “Beneficiary entities would also be liable for recoveries arising from fake transactions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gst-138-new-registrations-under-excise-taxation-scrutiny/articleshow/77899248.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||HC seeks info on SC panel vacant posts||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has sought a reply from chief secretary and principal secretary (social justice and empowerment) why the posts of SC commission chairman, vice-chairman and members have been lying vacant for the last 22 months. The division bench of chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta asked why appointments have not been made. The court was hearing a PIL by Nishant Sharma. Tej Singh, counsel for the petitioner, said the state government had issued a notification in November 2011 for the establishment of the State SC Commission.In October 2015, the government had appointed a chairman to the post for three years. In January 2016, three-year appointments were made to the posts of vice-chairman and member.The PIL stated that the tenure of the chairman of the commission was over in October 2018 and that of the deputy chairman and member in January 2019. But the state government has not made any appointments for the vacant posts. The PIL said the problems of victims of SC community were not being resolved due to the posts lying vacant in the commission.According to the 2016 report of NCRB, the state ranks second in crimes against people belonging to SC community. According to the 2016 report of the National SC Commission, the state level vigilance and monitoring committee had not met for the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-info-on-sc-panel-vacant-posts/articleshow/77900470.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||14 lakh students attend online classes on first day in Telangana||HYDERABAD: More than 14 lakh, of the 16.5 lakh students in the state, attended online classes as the new academic year began on Tuesday, while another 60,000 students attended the classes through other modes. The academic year began late this year because of the Covid-19 situation and conducting online classes was the only option. “Try to permit one or two other students by maintaining physical distance at your homes, if they do not have the facility to attend online classes. As a rule there must be no crowding,” Adilabad district collector Sikta Patnaik said while appealing to students to help one another. As there could be issues of internet connectivity, she said arrangements were made for students to attend online classes everywhere in the district but if any student encounters an issue, other students should offer help. Patnaik said this was only the beginning and that strategies will change as the situation changes. As lessons were beamed via T-SAT on Doordarshan and cable television on the first day on Tuesday, some district collectors and district education officers went around towns and villages to get a first-hand idea of how students were coping with online classes. Nagarkurnool collector L Sharman sat with a student for some time as he remained glued to the TV watching the lessons and taking notes. Sangareddy district collector Hanumantha Rao went a step further and even turned teacher for a Class 10 student who was attending online classes. At the house of the girl, who also had a younger sister in Class 7 attending the classes online, the collector explained to them the work that farmers do and what they expect. “It is as simple as expressing your thoughts and observations,” he told the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14l-students-attend-online-classes-on-first-day-in-state/articleshow/77899263.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Workers write to Gopal Rai over registration issues||NEW DELHI: Delhi building and other construction workers’ welfare board (DBOCWWB) has written to labour minister Gopal Rai highlighting the problems that workers and labourers have been facing in getting themselves registered at camps. “These camps have been organised to facilitate registration, renewal, and verification of workers and labourers with Delhi building and other construction workers’ welfare board. We request you to note that despite these camps, the workers and labourers continue to face many problems. Even as workers forego an entire day of wages to attend these camps, they often find that the whole day was wasted for nothing,” stated the letter. “The staff have not been provided adequate facilities like laptops and internet access, and they nearly always have to rely on their personal internet data to upload forms for registration, renewal, and verification of workers and labourers, which takes up a lot of time,” the welfare board claimed. “The server is often down or unavailable or jammed,” DBOCWWB added. Also, the board said that there are frequent location changes of these camps. “In addition to the problems mentioned, the workers and labourers also continue to face the problem of inadequate awareness about these camps,” it added. The welfare board requested Rai to address these issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/workers-write-to-rai-over-registration-issues/articleshow/77899580.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra minister blames MP for floods; announces package||NAGPUR: As floods that left over 90,000 persons affected finally receded on Wednesday, the state’s disaster relief minister Vijay Wadettiwar blamed Madhya Pradesh (MP) for the crisis. Talking to TOI over phone during his tour of affected areas in Chandrapur district, Wadettiwar said authorities in MP are to be blamed for the situation. “There was no intimation from the neighbouring state about the massive water being released from dams on their side. Even as there were sudden heavy rains in MP, the concerned authorities should have intimated Maharashtra about the discharge in terms of quantity. There was no official communication whatsoever,” claimed the minister. Water released from MP led to floods in Wainganga river. The crisis worsened due to heavy rains of up to 150mm in some talukas of Vidarbha too. Wadettiwar said he will be taking up the issue and demand action against those responsible for the losses in Maharashtra. The minister also announced an immediate relief package for the affected districts. This includes Rs10,000 dole for all the affected families. This covers Rs5,000 each for food and clothing. “A large number of persons have lost money and belongings due to the flood. Also, as much as 1 to 1.5 lakh hectares of agriculture land has been damaged. A compensation of Rs18,000 per hectare will be granted for crop losses,” said the minister. Another Rs95,000 will be given for completely damaged homes, the amount will vary according to the level of damage, he said. Sources said preliminary report assessing the damage is expected to be ready in a day. The losses could have been higher had Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) not stored part of the water released from MP in Totladoh dam, said a source. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who also toured the flood-hit area, termed that it was a man-made disaster alleging that the state government did not give timely alerts to the susceptible population. There were no alerts for as much as 36 hours, he said addressing newspersons after his tour. Fadnavis also demanded a special assistance package for the flood-affected persons. Even though life returned to normalcy in Nagpur and Bhandara districts, some of the roads remained cut off in Gadchiroli district. A note shared by the district information officer (DIO) said four internal roads connecting Gadchiroli to Telangana and Chandrapur district remained cut-off. However, eight other roads connecting parts of the district were opened, said the note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-min-blames-mp-for-floods-announces-package/articleshow/77899272.cms||Shishir Arya
September 3, 2020||Trichy||Surveillance testing in Trichy to check spread of Covid-19||Trichy: With lockdown norms being further eased paving the way for increased movement of people, the district administration has taken up surveillance sampling in crowded places as a key strategy to know the extent of Covid-19 spread. Since Trichy has been reporting a positivity rate of around 6 in recent weeks (it was 5.8 on August 31), the district administration is focussed on keeping it low. Its teams have taken up surveillance sampling in markets like G-corner and bazaars in the city and rural areas since August 18. A total of 3,629 samples were lifted till September 1 at the rate of about 50 from one place. Deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr A Subramani said the samples taken so far showed low positivity rate. Sampling will be taken up at Anna arch in Thuvakudi, market area in Thuraiyur and bazaar in Manapparai in a day or two. “If we take the sample in such places, we can correlate results with the general population. If around 50 people out of 100 samples become positive, we can assume that there is widespread transmission and we should take it seriously. However, the survey sampling so far has not shown anything alarming,” he said. In the wake of the latest unlock, the public health department will undertake continuous surveillance for at least a month. “If we go ahead with the surveillance sampling further, we can figure out the trend, change our strategy like containment plan and increase our infrastructure accordingly,” he said. The public health department utilized the workforce of around 1,500 staff including doctors and other workers to fight the pandemic in Trichy. If the surveillance sampling reveals infection in people from a particular area, random sampling will be taken up. The public health department also plans to take up sampling in industries which have started allowing full workforce to check for any alarming spread. “If there won’t be more incidences of infection in crowded places and industries, we can heave a sigh of relief,” said the DDHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/surveillance-testing-in-trichy-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/77900474.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Active cases rise in Madurai over easing of e-pass curbs||Madurai: After witnessing a steady decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, Madurai city is once again experiencing a slight increase in the last few days. Officials have attributed the increase to the relaxations in e-pass norms. They say that the trend may continue for a few more days before coming down again.The easing in e-pass approval came into effect from August 17, resulting in influx of a large number of people into the city from various areas. Only those who applied from Chennai, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts were tested at the borders, while the others were allowed to proceed.Last week, the total active cases was less than 550, but it increased to more than 600 this week. There were 604 active cases in the city as on Tuesday. Zone one continues to top the four zones with 251 active cases compared to 173 in zone two, 101 in zone three and 79 in zone four.A health department official said the number in zones one and two continues to be higher as police personnel, medical workers, trading community and businessmen reside there. Frontline workers and travelling business community have high risk of getting infected. If one person is infected, a few from the family and a few others from the street also test positive, he said.Another official said that many of those who are testing positive have a travel history, or their contacts. With the e-pass system having been abolished for inter-district travel, it would become difficult to trace the travellers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/active-cases-rise-in-madurai-over-easing-of-e-pass-curbs/articleshow/77900456.cms||V Devanathan
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP holds protest demanding Dharamsot’s resignation||Ludhiana: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday held a demonstration in front of the deputy commissioner’s office at Ludhiana and demanded the resignation of social development minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. AAP MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and leaders Ahbaab Singh Grewal and Amandeep Singh Mohi said even after being accused of corruption by a probe done by his own department, the minister has “shamlessly” not resigned from his post yet. AAP functionaries said the minister is hanging on to his position only because he is being protected by chief minister (CM) Amarinder Singh. They alleged the involvement of the Capt in the racket too. Mohi and Grewal said the inquiry is just the tip of the iceberg, as big politicians who run several educational institutions have defrauded the state by hundreds of crores, by “stealing” the scholarships of hundreds of Dalit students. AAP functionaries said the inquiry ordered by the CM was a farce, as it is obvious that the chief secretary will never go against the wishes of her political bosses. AAP demanded that the probe should be either under the supervision of the high court or by a central government agency like the Central Bureau of Investigation. “AAP will not allow the loot of the rights of poor Dalit students and will ensure that this nexus is exposed.” party functionaries said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-holds-protest-demanding-dharamsots-resignation/articleshow/77896189.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||NGO to give meals at Rs 5 to poor in Ajmer||Ajmer: An Ajmer-based NGO has launched a scheme called Annapurna Rasoi to provide food to poor people at Rs 5. This comes days after the state government launched Indira Rasoi to provide meals at rs 8. The NGO said if a needy doesn’t have Rs 5, food will be serve for free.The state government had launched Indira Rasoi on August 20 and nine outlets were set up in Ajmer at various places such as the bus stand, Delhi gate, Vaishali Nagar, among others. the previous BJP government in the state also had launched a meal scheme titled Annapurna Rasoi. Interestingly local Congress leaders inaugurated the rasoi on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngo-to-give-meals-at-rs-5-to-poor-in-ajmer/articleshow/77900447.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Adopt online mode for basic poll work: Election panel chief||Jaipur: In order to ensure proper functioning in times of pandemic, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora has asked the election department to adopt online methods for basic work. The online registration of voters on the ECI’s NVSP portal needs to be scaled up comprehensively across all the target groups in the state, he said. He was interacting with the officials here on Wednesday.Arora urged the officials to adopt a comprehensive clear-cut strategy, the pre-revision activities as well as the special summary revision of electoral rolls, 2021, be carried out by undertaking a pragmatic approach in light of the present pandemic. He said the commission’s endeavour was to ensure more and more ‘Ease of Voting’ for geriatrics and the senior citizens, which fortuitously will also prove to be a boon to the 80+ senior citizens as well as physically challenged electors during Covid-19. The latest provision in this regard is the introduction of the facility of postal ballot, so that the physical presence of the aforementioned vulnerable segments at the polling station will not be warranted, he said.CEC directed to expand the SVEEP outreach, and make it more penetrative segments like geriatrics, senior citizens, PwD, women, youth and tribals, migrants etc in a focused manner. Arora said that Jaipur is set to be distinguished as being the first SVEEP regional centre of the ECI in the country. As a stepping stone in this direction, a 3,385 square metre land for construction of the SVEEP regional centre, has been allotted by the Rajasthan government in the Indira Gandhi Nagar, Jagatpura, Jaipur. The entire cost of construction of the Centre will be borne by the ECI. The regional SVEEP centre would cater as a nodal hub for conduct of all voter-awareness activities to Haryana, Punjab and MP, besides Rajasthan. CEC re-emphasized the need to ensure the maximum utilization of digital media platforms for organizing various meetings/webinars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/adopt-online-mode-for-basic-poll-work-election-panel-chief/articleshow/77900458.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 19-year-old booked under MV Act||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old student was booked for allegedly tampering his two-wheeler’s number plate to avoid traffic challans. The accused, V Kiran Pawar from Borabanda, was stopped at JNTU junction after the cops noticed the tampered number plate. The last two digits of the number plate at the front was concealed with a black-coloured sticker. The back number plate was also folded to hide the last digit to avoid the traffic e-challan. He was booked for cheating and under MV Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-yr-old-booked-under-mv-act/articleshow/77899302.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Nagpur||DBA seeks action against hospitals refusing patients||NAGPUR: In aftermath of 56-year-old lawyer’s death at GMCH, the District Bar Association (DBA) has sought strict action against hospitals refusing admission and primary treatment to patients in emergency. Its members submitted a representation to collector and commissioner of police on Wednesday . According to them, lawyer Nitin Ambilwade suffering chest pain was refused entry by three hospitals as he wasn’t carrying a RT-PCR test certificate. When he received treatment after three hours at GMCH, he succumbed due to the delay. A delegation led by deceased lawyer’s brother Nilesh Ambilwade, DBA president Kamal Satuja, secretary Nitin Deshmukh, Rajesh Nayak, Abhay Randive, Vinod Khobre and Awade met the CP and collector and demanded strict action against the erring hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dba-seeks-action-against-hosps-refusing-patients/articleshow/77899304.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Trichy||Traffic to be diverted for Karur bypass road widening work||Trichy: Trichy district administration on Wednesday announced traffic diversion from September 4 as road widening project is under way on the stretch between Kudamurutti bridge and Jeeyapuram on Trichy to Karur bypass road.In a press statement, collector S Sivarasu said that all the heavy vehicles from Karur to Trichy will be diverted through Musiri to enter Trichy via toll gate No1. The traffic diversion will not be applicable for the vehicles proceeding to Karur from Trichy. They will be allowed in the same route via Jeeyapuram. The state highways department in April this year had commenced the Karur road widening work at a cost of Rs 55 crore. The 11 km long narrow stretch prone to accidents will be widened from 7 metres to 10.5 metres. A month back, the district administration had ordered for a temporary suspension of heavy vehicle movement on Karur road. A diversion via Jeeyapuram-Kulumani-Trichy city was mooted for the heavy vehicles. But the trucks on a daily basis continued to access the narrow stretch causing inconvenience to road work besides terrorizing the two-wheeler riders.While the road work is underway on either side of the road between Kudamurutti bridge and Kambarasanpettai using wet mix macadam (WMM), a process involving compacting and earth filling works, it is the two-wheeler riders who are facing the heat from the dust emanating from the works and movement of heavy vehicles.The Karur road widening work will go on till next year as only 25% of the work is complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traffic-to-be-diverted-for-karur-bypass-road-widening-work/articleshow/77900491.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Painter attacked for removing posters, complains against minister||Madurai: A 43-year-old painter has filed a complaint against state minister R B Udhayakumar and his supporters, alleging that he instigated them for removing the party posters from a school wall. P Gajendramuthu, who is also a member of the DYFI and CPM, said that he was commissioned to remove posters on the wall of the Madurai Corporation Manimegalai Girls high school in Kamarajar Salai and beautify it by writing the Thirukkural. “I was removing the posters on Wednesday morning, when Udhayakumar, who was standing in the chamber of commerce building on the other side of the road, summoned me and demanded to know why I was removing the posters,” he said. Later, some people approached him and slapped and threatened him. Following this, he lodged a complaint. When contacted, Udhayakumar said he summoned the man as he was pained to see him tear the posters with Jayalalithaa’s photos on them. “However, when he told me he was commissioned for the job, I told him not to tear them,” he said. The minister also denied that his supporters attacked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/painter-attacked-for-removing-posters-complains-against-minister/articleshow/77900483.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Agri units of Godrej, Emami get spl package||Jaipur: The Rajasthan government has extended customized packages to Godrej Agrovet and Emami Agrotech for their plants in the state.Godrej Agrovet has already made an investment of Rs 104 crore and provided employment to 165 people. It is expected to start commercial production from October this year. In the notification, the finance department said the animal feed plant in Bundi will be eligible to avail incentives offered under special package if it makes minimum investment of Rs 132.06 crore and employs 294 people.Similarly, Emami Agrotech’s proposal for a special package for its mustard oil refinery unit was cleared by the government. In a notification, the finance department said if the company makes minimum investment of Rs 90.92 crore, and provides employment to at least 286 people, it will be eligible for the expanded incentives under the special package.The company started operation in its oil mill in November 2018. However, the commencement of operation in the solvent extraction plant is likely in March 2021, as proposed. The company has already made an investment of Rs 100 crore and has provided employment to 350 people.Naresh Pal Gangwar, principal secretary, department of industries, said, “Industrialization is the key to generate jobs and increase economic opportunities. The government is ready to offer special financial incentives to any company that meets job creation and investment criteria set by the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-units-of-godrej-emami-get-spl-package/articleshow/77900478.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||MLA urges governor to not OK bill on regulation of urban areas||Chandigarh: The independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, on Wednesday urged Haryana governor Satyadeo Narayan Arya to reject the amendment bill related to regularisation of buildings under civic bodies. The bills related to this had been passed during the recently held one-day session of Haryana assembly. Kundu expressed this in a memorandum submitted to the governor on Wednesday. He handed over the memorandum to the governor’s OSD, after speaking to Arya over the phone. “This government has patronised wrongs and illegal constructions by 60 such builders across the state, especially in NCR areas of Haryana. Though the government claims that the amendments will curtail illegal constructions, these changes will help builders in a big way,” said Kundu. During the stession, Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2020, was passed to amend Section 7-A whereby the existing provisions of ‘two kanals’ and ‘agriculture land’ requiring NOC before registration would be replaced by ‘one acre’ and ‘vacant land’ respectively. It had been done to deter unauthorised realty projects, according to the government. Kundu said there were so many such constructions wherein builders have not got any kind of relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court after buildings or constructions were held illegal. He added the government had been directed to raze buildings and initiate further action, added Kundu. To justify his point, Kundu attached the details of properties whose occupants or owners did not get any relief from anywhere. He said most of such properties existed in NCR area of Haryana. “This could be a scam of more than Rs 500 crore. We have requested the governor to return legislations,” said Kundu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mla-urges-governor-to-not-ok-bill-on-regulation-of-urban-areas/articleshow/77899329.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Adulterous’ couple forced to bathe in open||JAIPUR: Sikar police have detained nine persons for allegedly forcing a couple, accused of adultery, to strip and bathe publicly as part of a ‘cleansing ritual,’ following an order from the khap panchayat. The videos of the couple, who are related, had gone viral over a month ago. On August 21, members of the khap panchayat met and ordered the couple to pay fines and participate in such a ritual in order to be accepted back by the community, said a complaint filed by the community members based in Jaipur on September 1. TimesViewThis is a case of the 19th century trying to impose itself on the 21st century. Serious and prompt action must be taken against those indulging in such medieval practices. The police must be proactive in dealing with such cases. If it remains a disinterested party until pushed to action, it encourages more people to mete out medieval ‘justice’.Sikar police, however, have a different story to say. Sikar SP Gangandeep Singla said prima facie it has not been established in a two-day investigation that the couple was stripped and had to bathe publicly. “After carefully evaluating the available evidence by the complainant and our team, it was found that neither the couple were stripped nor they were made to bathe in public. The objectionable pictures made available to us claiming to be of the day when the couple was forced strip by the khap was actually sent by the woman to the man involved in the case. It has been confirmed by the woman during the investigation on Wednesday,” said Singla. He further clarified that pictures made available to them of a khap panchayat sitting in a circle pronouncing a judgment is being studied by the forensic team. “It appears to be an old picture but till the forensic team confirms the validity of pictures, nothing can be said,” said Singla. Police did confirm that the khap panchayat imposed penalty of Rs 11,000 on each of them. “So far, the investigation reveals a strong case of extortion against khap panchayat members for directing the couple to pay a total of Rs 22,000 fine. The matter is being investigated and those detained are being questioned for their role in extortion. If they are found to be involved in the act, they will be booked under the relevant sections else they will be freed,” said Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/adulterous-couple-forced-to-bathe-in-open-police-deny-incident/articleshow/77900485.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Education must place knowledge over marks’||HYDERABAD: Multidisciplinary approach to education that prioritises knowledge over marks is the need of the hour, said experts. They were speaking at the national webinar on ‘Strategies for Implementation of National Education Policy -2020 for technical education’ organised by National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NIT-W) on Wednesday. Anil D Sahasrabuddhe, chairman, AICTE, said that ‘access, equity, quality, excellence, accountability and affordability’ were the six key terms in the National Education Policy-2020 and emphasized on the need for greater employability, for encouraging more startups and innovation, all of which will be possible through a wholistic education policy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-must-place-knowledge-over-marks/articleshow/77899305.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH to hold PG online exams from September 16||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) will conduct end-semester examinations for final semester post-graduate students online from September 16. The decision was taken following a high-level committee meeting between heads of department and deans of schools along with vice-chancellor Prof Appa Rao Podile. Podile said that the university was compelled to comply with the Supreme Court order of August 28 upholding the guidelines of the University Grants Commission to declare results only after conducting end-semester exams for final semester students. Students who are unable to attend the exams from September 16 will have another opportunity to appear in the second spell of exams scheduled from October 5. “It may be recalled that in June the university had adopted an alternative evaluation mechanism based on continuous assessment and the cumulative grade point average (CGPA) and announced results for the batch. Those results will now stand cancelled,” read a release by UoH. The vice-chancellor explained that after the SC judgement, the university scheduled the end-semester exams so as to not jeopardize the future of students if their degrees were to be invalidated by regulatory authorities. “The heads and deans will work out a range of flexible options to administer the examinations online and minimize the inconvenience to students,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-to-hold-pg-online-exams-from-sept-16/articleshow/77899338.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Home isolation norms eased in Punjab, says health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday informed that the state government had eased home isolation norms and urged people to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid-19. He said Covid patients, who had been clinically assigned as very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases by the treating medical officer, could opt for home isolation. However, space for self-isolation and quarantining family contacts must be available at their residence. Patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease etc, will be allowed home isolation only after evaluation by the treating medical officer. He said patients needed to give an undertaking that there was adequate facility available for home isolation with them, like a separate room and toilet. The patient must procure a kit containing pulse oximeter, thermometer, and Vitamin C and zinc tabs. The caregiver should be available to provide care round the clock. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation and Cova App should be downloaded on the mobile phone and it should remain active all time (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi). Sidhu revealed that duration of home isolation was 17 days and deemed ended if no symptoms showed for three days. However, immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop. These could include difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 95%), persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion, slurred speech/seizures, weakness or numbness in any limb or face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/home-isolation-norms-eased-in-pb-says-sidhu/articleshow/77899332.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers demand opening of more DPCs as early harvest of kuruvai crops begins||Trichy: As the early harvest of kuruvai crop cultivated on hundreds of acres in Lalgudi block has begun in full swing, farmers have appealed to the district administration to open the required number of direct procurement centres (DPCs) immediately.Since private traders are hesitant to purchase paddy from farmers due to the heavy supply in the open market, they said the government must procure their paddy. Farmers from Anthanallur, Mannachanallur, Manikandam and Thiruverumbur blocks usually take up samba cultivation in Trichy, while those from the Lalgudi begin cultivation in June, even before the release of Cauvery water from Mettur. This season they have raised kuruvai on around 10,000 acres, officials said.With the crop ready, they have started harvesting it. However, they have no option but to sell their produce in the open market for a low price since the DPCs are yet to open in Lalgudi, Bharatiya Kisan Sangam’s N Veerasekaran said. “If the civil supplies department delays opening DPCs, farmers will have to approach private traders in the open market. However, this year they hardly find private traders. So, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) should open centres at the earliest”, he added.TNCSC senior regional manager G Chitrarasu said three procurement centres have been opened in Lalgudi to procure kuruvai paddy. “Seven more will be opened next week. Usually up to 15 procurement centres are opened in the block,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-demand-opening-of-more-dpcs-as-early-harvest-of-kuruvai-crops-begins/articleshow/77900501.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Three poachers held for stealing camera traps||KOZHIKODE: Kenichira police in Wayanad have arrested three people for allegedly stealing camera traps installed in vested forests under Chethalath range for tiger monitoring. The camera traps had caught the trio poaching a deer. The accused have been identified as Sumesh (41), hailing from Padichira; Rajesh (32), hailing from Pilakkavu; and Balakrishnan (34), hailing from Karakkamala. Police said the accused, who were working in an estate at Irulam, had hunted down a deer last week from the Irulam forest station limits. “While they were coming back with the hunted deer, they were caught in the camera traps and so they stole the cameras to destroy evidence,” Kenichira police sub-inspector C Ramkumar said. He added that incident came to light when the three were arrested in connection with seizure of illicit liquor from the estate. During the interrogation, they admitted to hunting a deer and stealing the camera traps, and the remains of the deer were also recovered from the estate, police said. The parts of camera traps, which were destroyed by the accused, were recovered, Ramkumar said. T Sasikumaran, Chethalath forest range officer, said the accused had used a country-made gun for hunting and one more accused remains to be arrested in the poaching case. There have been several instances of camera traps going missing from the forest divisions in Wayanad in the past as well and police had formed a special team to investigate into the incidents in 2017. Also, there have been instances of poachers getting caught in the camera traps installed for monitoring wildlife movement and officials have previously seen images of people wielding country-made gun and flash light while they were on a hunting trip in the night during the examination of memory cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/3-poachers-held-for-stealing-camera-traps/articleshow/77897737.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Amritsar||Home isolation norms eased in Punjab, says health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday informed that the state government had eased home isolation norms and urged people to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid-19. He said Covid patients, who had been clinically assigned as very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases by the treating medical officer, could opt for home isolation. However, space for self-isolation and quarantining family contacts must be available at their residence. Patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease etc, will be allowed home isolation only after evaluation by the treating medical officer. He said patients needed to give an undertaking that there was adequate facility available for home isolation with them, like a separate room and toilet. The patient must procure a kit containing pulse oximeter, thermometer, and Vitamin C and zinc tabs. The caregiver should be available to provide care round the clock. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation and Cova App should be downloaded on the mobile phone and it should remain active all time (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi). Sidhu revealed that duration of home isolation was 17 days and deemed ended if no symptoms showed for three days. However, immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop. These could include difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 95%), persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion, slurred speech/seizures, weakness or numbness in any limb or face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/home-isolation-norms-eased-in-pb-says-sidhu/articleshow/77904171.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Habitual sand miners to be detained under Goondas Act||Madurai: Madurai superintendent of police (SP) Sujit Kumar has warned habitual offenders involved in sand mining cases of detaining them under the Goondas Act. “If police personnel are found to have colluded with sand miners in the crime, they will face departmental action including suspension. We are committed to put an end to sand mining and to save water bodies in the district,” the SP said.Kumar said that several illegal sand mining activities were found taking place not only in rivers but also in other water bodies such as tanks and lakes. Miners target both sand as well as silt for various purposes. Often, they involve in the illegal activity using earthmovers and tipper trucks. While police teams have managed to stop such activities in most incidents at the spot, in some, vehicles carrying sand and silt have been stopped at district borders. Apart from seizing vehicles and arresting the accused, strict action like Goondas Act would be evoked against habitual offenders, he said. Another official from the district police said that some of the miners have links with police officers and illegal mining is taking place with their blessings. “With relaxation having been given for inter-district movement without e-pass, we are more vigilant against illegal sand mining and smuggling. During vehicle checks, attention is being given towards trucks carrying sand and silt. Only those with required documents will be allowed to proceed further,” he said. He sought cooperation from public in stopping the illegal mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/habitual-sand-miners-to-be-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/77900500.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SOPs not uniform at many JEE centres||HYDERABAD: Standard operating procedures (SOPs), owing to the pandemic, were not uniform at many joint entrance examination (JEE) centres across the city on Wednesday. While the crowd grew denser for the BTech entrance exam with many guardians and parents turning up to drop their wards, maintaining physical distance outside the centres emerged as a major challenge. According to industry experts, close to 95% candidates appeared for the exam in Telangana. Parents were seen standing outside the exam centres in Moulali and Mallapur for almost four hours. The centre was much more crowded, compared to the first day, when BArch entrance exams were held as more number of candidates appeared for the BTech exam. Many waited outside the exam centre in their vehicles, while students queued up to enter the exam hall. “I travelled from Nizamabad for four hours and had to wait outside the exam centre for another four hours as there were no arrangements for parents coming from other districts. I didn’t feel safe to enter a hotel or restaurant nearby,” said a parent. SOPs inside the exam halls were relatively better as students were made to sit six feet apart. The difficulty level of the exam was moderate for many students. “Physics was tougher compared to January session. Most questions were from NCERT textbooks so it was easy to solve. Some questions in maths were lengthy,” said Sai Kiran, an aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sops-not-uniform-at-many-jee-centres/articleshow/77899333.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Gets worse in Haryana: 1,792 test positive, 15 deaths raise toll to 721||CHANDIGARH: With Panchkula, Hisar and Kurukshetra emerging as hotspots, Haryana on Wednesday saw highest single-day spike of 1,792 cases yet again and 15 fatalities, taking the nCov case tally to 68,218 and death toll to 721. Even as 1,040 recoveries of the day took the overall total of cured patients to 54,875, the surge in cases pulled down recovery rate to 80.44%. Haryana has 12,622 active cases, of which 255 are critical, with 219 on oxygen support and 36 on ventilators. Recording 216 new patients, Panchkula not only broke its own record but also topped the daily case chart of the state. Now, the district has total 2,544 cases with 23 deaths. Gurugram came next with 184 new cases, pushing the district’s tally to 12,311 with 133 deaths and after 11,034 recoveries, it is left with 144 active cases. Faridabad reported third highest 152 cases and one death, which took the district total to 12,968 cases with 173 deaths. With 11,972 recoveries, there are total 823 active cases now. Next came Panipat with 142 new cases and two deaths. Here the overall case count has gone up to 3,938, and deaths hit a half century. CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district Karnal recorded 130 new patients and two deaths, while Kurukshetra too registered its highest-ever 126 new patients and two deaths. Here the total has gone up to 1,971 with 36 deaths. With 114 new patients and one death, Hisar became the seventh district to report more than 100 new cases in a day. With 96 new patients and one death, health minister Anil Vij’s home district of Ambala’s tally stands at 4,016 with 34 deaths. Yamunanagar reported 95 new patients and two deaths, where the total has reached 1,809 cases with 22 deaths. While Rohtak reported 90 new patients and one death, Kaithal and Bhiwani saw 89 new cases each. Rewari reported 61 new cases, Sirsa 43 cases and one death, Jhajjar listed 39 new patients and Mahendragarh 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gets-worse-in-haryana-1792-test-positive-15-deaths-raise-toll-to-721/articleshow/77907700.cms||Manvir Saini
September 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Home isolation norms eased in Punjab, says health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday informed that the state government had eased home isolation norms and urged people to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid-19. He said Covid patients, who had been clinically assigned as very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases by the treating medical officer, could opt for home isolation. However, space for self-isolation and quarantining family contacts must be available at their residence. Patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease etc, will be allowed home isolation only after evaluation by the treating medical officer. He said patients needed to give an undertaking that there was adequate facility available for home isolation with them, like a separate room and toilet. The patient must procure a kit containing pulse oximeter, thermometer, and Vitamin C and zinc tabs. The caregiver should be available to provide care round the clock. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation and Cova App should be downloaded on the mobile phone and it should remain active all time (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi). Sidhu revealed that duration of home isolation was 17 days and deemed ended if no symptoms showed for three days. However, immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop. These could include difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 95%), persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion, slurred speech/seizures, weakness or numbness in any limb or face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/home-isolation-norms-eased-in-pb-says-sidhu/articleshow/77904168.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Agra||Driver dies, four injured as car rams moving truck on Yamuna Expressway||Agra: A 40-year-old driver was killed and four others injured when the car they were travelling in from Bihar to Delhi rammed a truck on Yamuna Expressway near milestone 127 in Mathura on Wednesday morning. According to police, the accident took place around 9:40 am under Baldeo police jurisdiction when the driver, Vinod Rai, possible dozed off on the wheel and the uncontrolled car rammed into the truck moving ahead it. While the driver died on the spot, four others —Vidya Nath Kumar Singh, 25, Ram Narain Sahu, 65, Raghunath Sahu, 38, and his nine-year-old daughter Richa — sustained injuries and were rushed to a private hospital in Mathura. Talking to TOI, sub-inspector at Vrindavan police station Badan Singh said Ram Narain Sahu was referred to Delhi considering his critical condition. The deceased’s body was sent for postmortem and his family members in Delhi were informed, added the SI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/driver-dies-four-injured-as-car-rams-moving-truck-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/77896235.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Man dies after being hit by truck||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old employee with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories died after being hit by a concrete mixer truck at Bachupally on Wednesday. The deceased, Chandrakanth Reddy (35), was on his way to office at around 9.30am when the accident occurred. According to police, the rashly driven truck hit the bike from behind due to which he fell on the road and came under the rear tyres of the truck. The victim died on the spot after sustaining severe head injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-being-hit-by-truck/articleshow/77899334.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Gets worse in Haryana: 1,792 test positive, 15 deaths raise toll to 721||CHANDIGARH: With Panchkula, Hisar and Kurukshetra emerging as hotspots, Haryana on Wednesday saw highest single-day spike of 1,792 cases yet again and 15 fatalities, taking the nCov case tally to 68,218 and death toll to 721. Even as 1,040 recoveries of the day took the overall total of cured patients to 54,875, the surge in cases pulled down recovery rate to 80.44%. Haryana has 12,622 active cases, of which 255 are critical, with 219 on oxygen support and 36 on ventilators. Recording 216 new patients, Panchkula not only broke its own record but also topped the daily case chart of the state. Now, the district has total 2,544 cases with 23 deaths. Gurugram came next with 184 new cases, pushing the district’s tally to 12,311 with 133 deaths and after 11,034 recoveries, it is left with 144 active cases. Faridabad reported third highest 152 cases and one death, which took the district total to 12,968 cases with 173 deaths. With 11,972 recoveries, there are total 823 active cases now. Next came Panipat with 142 new cases and two deaths. Here the overall case count has gone up to 3,938, and deaths hit a half century. CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district Karnal recorded 130 new patients and two deaths, while Kurukshetra too registered its highest-ever 126 new patients and two deaths. Here the total has gone up to 1,971 with 36 deaths. With 114 new patients and one death, Hisar became the seventh district to report more than 100 new cases in a day. With 96 new patients and one death, health minister Anil Vij’s home district of Ambala’s tally stands at 4,016 with 34 deaths. Yamunanagar reported 95 new patients and two deaths, where the total has reached 1,809 cases with 22 deaths. While Rohtak reported 90 new patients and one death, Kaithal and Bhiwani saw 89 new cases each. Rewari reported 61 new cases, Sirsa 43 cases and one death, Jhajjar listed 39 new patients and Mahendragarh 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gets-worse-in-haryana-1792-test-positive-15-deaths-raise-toll-to-721/articleshow/77899336.cms||Manvir Saini
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Heavy rain lashes southern districts||Madurai: Rains accompanied by strong winds lashed many of the southern districts on Tuesday night leading to waterlogging, tree collapse and disrupted power. The day remained cloudy, on Tuesday and heavy showers were experienced late in the evening. Many parts of Madurai plunged into darkness as power was disrupted for more than three hours in many parts of the city and the outskirts. Madurai received an average rainfall of 24.15 mm, with Kallandiri and Viraganur receiving the heaviest showers of 42 mm in the last 24 hours, ending at 6am on Wednesday. Tallakulam in the city received 32.30 mm, and the roads were inundated in many places affecting vehicular movement. Dindigul district recorded an average rainfall of 50.5 mm, Kamatchipuram in the district received the highest rainfall of 111.7 mm, followed by Vedasandur with 51.2 mm. Widespread rainfall resulted in Dindigul receiving 41.9 mm. Many parts of Kodaikanal and its suburbs also experienced heavy rainfall of over 30 mm. Theni district received an average rainfall of 23 mm. There was a marginal increase in the inflow to the major dams due to the rains. Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 127.40 feet with an inflow of 998 cusecs and outflow of 1,500 cusecs. Vaigai dam stood at 60.07 feet as against its maximum level of 71 feet with 1369 cusecs inflow. Discharge from the dam has been increased to 972 cusecs for irrigation purpose of over 41,000 acres of land in Cumbum valley, and Periyar main channel region. Manamadurai in Sivaganga received the highest rainfall of 54 mm, followed by Karaikudi with 43 mm in the last 24 hours. Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar district also received showers late in the night on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-rain-lashes-southern-districts/articleshow/77900511.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hubballi||Yediyurappa keen on AIIMS coming up in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: It appears as though chief minister BS Yediyurappa is determined to have the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kalaburagi, which he hopes will ensure that people across Kalyana Karnataka region have access to quality healthcare services, which is affordable. At the inaugural ceremony of the trauma centre of the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari on Monday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced the central government’s objective to establish a branch of AIIMS in Karnataka, and Yediyurappa had appealed to him on the occasion to do so in Kalaburagi. Interestingly, five years ago, Yediyurappa had batted for an AIIMS branch in Raichur district. Sources in the Karnataka government admitted to TOI that Kalaburagi MP Umesh G Jadhav was lobbying spiritedly in New Delhi to get the premier institution set up in the district, counted among the most backward in the state. However, stakeholders in other North Karnataka districts are also hoping to get the Centre to establish AIIMS in their respective districts. For instance, VIMS director Dr Devanand pointed to the infrastructure that the institution boasted – reportedly the largest in South Asia – justifying its bid for an AIIMS tag. “Although the CM wants it established in Kalaburagi, we have submitted a request for VIMS to be considered to be upgraded to AIIMS. In addition to people from Kalyana Karnataka, patients from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states too will benefit if VIMS is upgraded,” Dr Devanand said. Raichur activist Razak Ustad said it was a ‘betrayal’ of the people of the district. Ustad who led the movement demanding the setting up of an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in the district, said, “Raichur district does not have advanced healthcare facilities and setting up AIIMS here would have benefitted the people. We will lead a delegation to meet Yediyurappa, Pralhad Joshi and Jagadish Shettar, all three of whom had promised to establish both IIT and AIIMS in Raihcur,” Ustad said. Furthermore, the activist said that, while Kalaburagi had many hospitals, Raichur was in dire need of advanced healthcare institutions. Former minister and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge, said he is unaware of the CM’s objective to have an AIIMS in Kalaburagi. “There has also been no official statement from the Centre to this effect. But my father Mallikarjun Kharge had been striving to have an AIIMS set up in Kalaburagi during UPA’s second term so acquisition of land should not be a problem. There is also room for upgrading the ESI hospital in Kalaburagi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/yediyurappa-keen-on-aiims-coming-up-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/77896950.cms||Shreyas HS
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||SC orders discoms to repay Adani, Rs 5k cr burden likely||Jaipur: In a major blow to the cash-strapped power distribution companies (discoms), the Supreme Court has upheld the claim of Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd (APRL) for compensation as the state government failed to provide coal as per the agreement, thereby escalating cost of production.The court gave the order on an appeal by the discoms. The discoms got some consolation as the court turned down the plea for late surcharge of 2% on the amount due. The total compensation is to the tune of Rs 5,200 crore which the apex court asked the discoms to calculate by verifying documents.The government of Rajasthan and Adani Energy Ltd signed an MoU to set up a coal-based thermal power generation project of 1,200 MW ± 10% capacity near Kawai in Baran district on March 20, 2008. The estimated cost of the project was approximately Rs 5,000 crore.It was provided that the state government was to make the best efforts to facilitate getting the coal linkage from the Centre or from any other source for the project.Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited entered into a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) on January 28, 2010, with Adani Power Rajasthan Limited ( APRL). Accordingly, APRL submitted its bid offering a total contracted capacity of 1,200 MW from the Kawai Project. The tariff after negotiation was settled at Rs.3.238/KWh for 25 years. The tariff in the bid was quoted based on domestic coal. However, the state government failed to provide coal linkage to the power company as per the agreement. In the light of the non- availability of domestic coal and the prohibitive cost of the alternate fuel, the Kawai Project became unviable for the tariff committed. As no coal linkage was granted, on April 24, 2013, AEL filed a petition before the State Energy Commission claiming compensation for high cost of coal.The Commission ultimately decided on the petition on May 17, 2018. AEL was entitled to get relief under the change in law on account of NCDP of 2013. The amount of compensation payable to AEL was not computed. Dissatisfied with the order passed by the Commission, Rajasthan discoms filed an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL). The APTEL vide judgment dated September 14, 2019, held that the bid of APRL was based on domestic coal and accordingly covered under the Change in Law event in terms of the PPA. Aggrieved by the order, the discoms filed an appeal in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-orders-discoms-to-repay-adani-rs-5k-cr-burden-likely/articleshow/77900509.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, health team kept out of village in Haryana’s Fatehabad||Fatehabad: Even as there is growing opposition to Covid-19 testing in rural areas of Punjab and village panchayats in some parts of the state are passing resolutions against forcible testing, similar reports have now started coming in from Haryana too. After the former sarpanch of Nakta village in Haryana’s Fatehabad district died of Covid, the villagers did not allow the health team, which was accompanied by cops, to enter the village and test his family and contacts. They set the team’s testing kits and other material on fire. A case has been registered on complaint of one of the doctors in the health team at the Sadar Fatehabad police station against unknown villagers under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 147 (rioting), 149 (common object of unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-health-team-kept-out-of-village-in-haryanas-fatehabad/articleshow/77899342.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Vadodara||Burglar breaks into temple, flees with cash||Vadodara: Eight days after two burglars targeted a temple in Samta area, another temple near Lalbaug was burgled late on Tuesday night. The incident occurred in the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple located near the busy Lalbaug over-bridge. Two other temples located in Chhani were also burgled on August 25, complaints of which were registered on Wednesday. According to the police, the burglar broke the lock of Kashi Vishwanath temple’s main door and then opened locks of the donation box. “The burglar stole Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 cash kept in the box,” the police said. Images of the burglar were captured on the CCTV that has been installed in the temple following which the cops have begun investigations in the case. Gangeshwar Temple and Hanuman Temple in Chhani were also burgled late on August 25. The burglars broke the door locks of these temples and fled with Rs 20,000 cash. The cops said that it is possible that the same burglary gang is involved in the crimes. Eight days ago, two burglars had broken into Amba Maata temple in Samta area and stolen some cash. The accused duo even tied up the 75-year-old caretaker who was sleeping inside the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglar-breaks-into-temple-flees-with-cash/articleshow/77896775.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Hisar wedding leaves trail of Covid +ve patients, 20 traced||HISAR: A wedding ceremony in Hisar, which defied the Covid-19 guidelines, has left at least 20 guests infected with coronavirus, health department officials said on Wednesday. The August 25 event at MG Resort along the Delhi bypass in Hisar was reportedly attended by more than 50 guests, and those testing positive include attendees from both bride and groom sides. Health department biologist Ramesh Poonia and his team conducted a contact tracing drive on Wednesday, in which records of the photographer, pandit, mehndi designer and salon operator were searched, which established the presence of more than allowed number of guests. In the past too, biologist Poonia and his team had conducted a search operation to trace the corona chain from the wedding ceremony of an eminent family of the city, from where over 150 positive cases were reported. Due to the negligence of this family, the chain of positive cases was formed in Hisar, Sirsa and in Rajasthan. 104 cases, 2 deaths in districtMeanwhile, a total of 104 new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Hisar on Wednesday, while two patients died. With this, the total number of cases in the district has increased to 2,564, out of which 778 are active cases, while the number of dead has reached 18. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said a total of 81 patients were also discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the count of cured patients to 1,768. She said that a 34-year-old youth of Chainnat village and a 60-year-old resident of Bhojraj died from the infection and added that both had comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-wedding-leaves-trail-of-covid-ve-patients-20-traced/articleshow/77899340.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
September 3, 2020||Agra||Three of family killed & girl, 8, serious as car hits their bike||AGRA: A couple and their 10-year-old son were killed and their daughter, 8, was critically injured when a car hit their motorcycle in Mathura district on Wednesday. Bhagwan Das (45), his wife Bhagwan Devi (40) and their son Dheeraj died in the accident on Dangoli Paani Gaon road in Mathura’s Maant area. The lone survivor in the family, Chanchal, was rushed to a hospital in serious condition. According to sources, the Santro car which hit the motorcycle was being driven by an army man, who was drunk at the time of mishap. He was yet to be arrested The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination and the FIR has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-of-family-killed-girl-8-serious-as-car-hits-their-bike/articleshow/77896249.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar woman +ve, son commits suicide||Nawanshahr: Residents of Ravidass Colony here held up vehicular traffic for almost two hours at Chandigarh Chowk after a Covid-19 patient was left a little distance away from her home by the health officials. The incident happened on late Tuesday evening, when the woman, whose son commited suicide on Monday night and was cremated earlier in the day, began to wail, which agitated the residents and they resorted to protest against the callous attitude of the authorities. The woman, 50, had tested positive on Sunday and was immediately taken to a quarantine centre by the health department team. The family’s request to let her stay at home was turned down as the authorities considered the house too small for all the inmates. On Monday, her elder son, 20, apparently panicked and hanged himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jalandhar-woman-ve-son-commits-suicide/articleshow/77899344.cms||IP Singh
September 3, 2020||Trichy||Rain to benefit kuruvai crops, preparatory work for samba||Trichy: Farmers in delta districts who are harvesting kuruvai and busy preparing their fields for samba cultivation have exuded confidence that the rain lashing the region will be good for their standing crops and making the field ready. Agriculture officials also said that the rain would be beneficial for the kuruvai paddy and other cash crops, which they are going to cultivate in the rain-fed areas in Trichy district. According to officials, this year they expect that around 50,000 acres would be covered for samba cultivation. Farmers from the rain-fed areas such as Manapparai, Marungapuri, Thuraiyur, Uppiliapuram will have good harvest this year, a senior official from the agriculture department in Trichy said. “Farmers can take up sowing, ploughing, and transplanting of nursery works with the help of the rain. Meanwhile, farmers who raise maize, groundnut, cotton will benefit a lot from the rain. Usually, they cover 52,000 acres utilizing the rain. As we expect good rain this year, farmers will do cultivation in more areas,” the official told TOI. Farmers in Thanjavur have raised kuruvai crop on 1.48 lakh acres during this season. Harvest in around 62,500 acres will be completed in a few days, joint director of agriculture department, Thanjavur, A Justin said. “Rain that has been lashing for the last few days will be good for the kuruvai paddy crop on around 85,500 acres in the district. The crops in around 10,000 acres are in a maturity stage, the remaining crops are in the vegetation stage. So, the recent spell of rains will help the crop gain more number of tillers, which would ultimately lead to good yield,” the joint director added. He also asked the farmers who are preparing for samba to sow short term varieties such as Ko 50, ADT 39, and CR 1,009, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-to-benefit-kuruvai-crops-preparatory-work-for-samba/articleshow/77900522.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 3, 2020||Madurai||South TN records 858 new cases, 21 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts recorded 858 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday causing a corresponding dip in active cases to below 8,000 for the first time in more than two months. The central region crossed 33,000 cases with the addition of 664 cases in the eight districts on Wednesday. There were 21 deaths in the southern region according to the state bulletin, of which nine were from Kanyakumari district. The toll touched 507 in the central districts with the addition of eight more. From 8,055 on Tuesday, active cases in the southern region dropped to 7,805, which is 8.4% of the 92,482 who tested positive so far. The 12 other deaths recorded in the region included three in Tirunelveli, two each in Madurai, Dindigul and Theni and one each in Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts. The overall death rate in the southern districts is 1.8%, against the state average of 1.7. The victims included a 39-year-old man from Dindigul with acute haemorrhagic infarct who died a little over three hours after his hospitalisation. A 46-year-old woman from Kanyakumari with chronic kidney disease, diabetes and other illnesses who tested positive on August 31 died four hours after hospitalisation in the medical college hospital. Dindigul with 136 cases recorded the highest in the region followed by Madurai (123), Kanyakumari (111) and Tirunelveli (110). Madurai recorded more than 100 cases for the sixth day in a row. Positive cases in the central region touched 33,370 while 27,305 got cured and discharged. In all, 5,558 were still active and undergoing treatment in the government, private hospitals and Covid care centres. Thanjavur topped with 147 fresh cases while Tiruvarur and Trichy districts had 133 and 120. Pudukottai recorded 76 cases only, the lowest in recent times. Of the eight deaths, six patients died at government hospitals on August 31 while two from Tiruvarur and Trichy passed away in private hospitals on Tuesday. Trichy was on top in total toll with 122 deaths while Thanjavur was at second spot with 117 deaths so far. Perambalur remained low with only 17 casualties of Covid-19 patients. The latest casualties were in the age group of 52 to 72. All of them had comorbid conditions besides being infected with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-records-858-new-cases-21-deaths/articleshow/77900505.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hubballi||We’re acting tough against drug traffickers, says K’taka DGP||Hubballi: DGP Praveen Sood said, “Drug trafficking is a constant problem and the Karnataka state police are taking tough action against it. NCB and CCB officials may reveal names of persons involved in drug trafficking and abuse.” Speaking to reporters after holding a meeting with local police officials, here on Wednesday, Sood said that drug abuse has spread to tier-2 and tier-3 cities. “We are trying to break the supply chain of drug trafficking. The CCB Bengaluru are investigating the case,” he added. When asked about the coordination between the NCB and CCB, he said, “Both the agencies will share their findings at the end. However, no police official can comment on links until a chargesheet is filed. Whatever the conspiracy, it will be brought out in the chargesheet.” He admitted that CCB teams are inactive in cities and districts other than Bengaluru. “We have discussed it in meetings held with the district police. Scarcity of staff is a major reason for pending work in all districts. All vacancies will be filled in coming months. Despite this scarcity, our personnel are working 24x7 even amidst the pandemic. Though 6,000 police personnel tested positive for the novel coronavirus and 40 succumbed to Covid-19, our functioning has continued as usual,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/were-acting-tough-against-drug-traffickers-says-ktaka-dgp/articleshow/77897776.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||55-year-old found dead in Malkajgiri||HYDERABAD: An unidentified man was found dead in Malkajgiri on Wednesday. The man is suspected to be a 55-year-old beggar. He was found dead near Venkateshwara Swamy temple, Anandbagh crossroad in Malkajgiri. The locals noticed him lying unconscious and alerted the cops. The victim is suspected to have died of illness. The body was taken for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/55-yr-old-found-dead-in-malkajgiri/articleshow/77899343.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Trichy||School education dept takes CBSE schools off RTE portal||TRICHY: Parents applying for seats for their wards in private schools under the right to education (RTE) act are a disappointed lot as the list of CBSE schools has been missing from the online portal for submitting applications. The school education department is learnt to have given oral instruction to officials in district chief education offices across the state to remove CBSE schools from the portal http://rte.tnschools.gov.in/tamil-nadu. Director of Matriculation Schools, A Karuppasamy, told TOI that CBSE schools will not be part of the centralised process for RTE admission of the state government from this year. “The admission timing of CBSE is different from state government schools, therefore they have not been included in the online admission process. However, parents can approach the schools seeking admission through offline mode,” he said. That is easier said than done as most underprivileged parents who were waiting to get their children admitted to these seats are unaware that they can apply by going in person. S Mahendran, 35, from Cantonment in Trichy was waiting to apply for RTE seats in a nearby CBSE school. He was encouraged by his neighbour who secured an RTE seat last year for his child, but now he is unsure. What has raised eyebrows is the hush-hush manner in which the school education department department has done it, effectively preventing many from applying. There are 72 CBSE schools in Trichy district alone which like all private schools have to set apart 25% of their seats for the under-privileged. Asked if the state would monitor the admission process in CBSE schools, Karuppaasamy said the regional directorate of CBSE will monitor the process, but parents can approach the district chief education office in case of any complaints. The admission process was centralised by introducing online mode from 2017. From last year, school education department had brought CBSE schools too into the admission process. Most CBSE schools are reluctant to admit students under RTE seats saying the government is not honouring its commitment to reimburse the fee for RTE seats. “The fee is also high in CBSE schools compared to state board but the state government is not willing to pay more to CBSE schools,” said a representative from the CBSE schools’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-education-dept-takes-cbse-schools-off-rte-portal/articleshow/77900507.cms||K Sambath Kumar
September 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Hisar wedding leaves trail of Covid +ve patients, 20 traced||HISAR: A wedding ceremony in Hisar, which defied the Covid-19 guidelines, has left at least 20 guests infected with coronavirus, health department officials said on Wednesday. The August 25 event at MG Resort along the Delhi bypass in Hisar was reportedly attended by more than 50 guests, and those testing positive include attendees from both bride and groom sides. Health department biologist Ramesh Poonia and his team conducted a contact tracing drive on Wednesday, in which records of the photographer, pandit, mehndi designer and salon operator were searched, which established the presence of more than allowed number of guests. In the past too, biologist Poonia and his team had conducted a search operation to trace the corona chain from the wedding ceremony of an eminent family of the city, from where over 150 positive cases were reported. Due to the negligence of this family, the chain of positive cases was formed in Hisar, Sirsa and in Rajasthan. 104 cases, 2 deaths in districtMeanwhile, a total of 104 new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Hisar on Wednesday, while two patients died. With this, the total number of cases in the district has increased to 2,564, out of which 778 are active cases, while the number of dead has reached 18. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said a total of 81 patients were also discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the count of cured patients to 1,768. She said that a 34-year-old youth of Chainnat village and a 60-year-old resident of Bhojraj died from the infection and added that both had comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hisar-wedding-leaves-trail-of-covid-ve-patients-20-traced/articleshow/77907926.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two burglaries at KPHB colony||HYDERABAD: Two burglaries took place in KPHB colony when the families had gone out of town after locking their house. In one of the instances, the burglars stole 20 tula gold ornaments and Rs 50,000 in cash. B Sudhir, a private employee from MIG III Phase of KPHB Colony on August 26, along with his wife and children went to visit a relative at Baghya Nagar Colony in Kukatpally.The clues team visited the spot and collected evidence. There are no CCTV cameras near the house,” said KPHB colony detective inspector, Saidulu. Another burglary was reported in the same locality. Veravalli Chandranarayana, along with his family went to attend a funeral at Bheemavaram village on August 16. When he came back, he found the lock at the main door was broken and 2 Tula gold ornaments and Rs 10,000 was missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-burglaries-at-kphb-colony/articleshow/77899371.cms||Nikhil J Nair
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Why didn’t PM call all-party meet: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: Upset over the suspension of Question Hour, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday pitched for an all-party meet and questioned why the Modi government can’t hold the meeting although JEE exams and standing committee meetings were being held amid the pandemic. In a series of tweets, the Hyderabad MP cited an example of the 1962 India-China war when he said the Question JHour was suspended only after consensus at an all-party meeting. In a letter to the Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, he said that the Parliament has the power and duty to question the government. He also suggested holding a single day's sitting only for questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-didnt-pm-call-all-party-meet-owaisi/articleshow/77899358.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Gambling racket: Cops stumble upon money in Hyderabad bank a/cs||HYDERABAD: When investigators were busy pursuing the online Chinese gambling racket and how the money was landing in some Hyderabad-based bank accounts, they came across a particular transaction of Rs 4 crore transferred to one bank account. They also stumbled upon a passing remark ‘international school’ made by one of the Chinese firms involved in the racket. Wasting no time, police went to the bank in Jubilee Hills. To their shock, the account was traced to an individual, who is believed to be in Manipur. Even as multiple agencies, including Hyderabad police, have started verifying the banking transactions of various Chinese-promoted online gambling companies based in India, sleuths have found money getting deposited in an MNC bank and redistributed into hundreds of accounts. These include foreign accounts in China and some accounts owned by Indian nationals. “We are probing the channels of money earned through gambling by Chinese firms getting diverted into Indian individual accounts. We questioned a bank account holder from Hyderabad about the source of money. His questioning is still going on. When we went to his LB Nagar residence, we were surprised to see him staying in a small room. He, however, claimed he was doing export business,” sources in Hyderabad police said. “The other three account holders from Hyderabad, including the one believed to be in Manipur, however, are yet to be traced,’’ sources said. The amount shared in each of the three accounts is around Rs 1 crore. Soon after Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar held a press conference on the busting of the Chinese gambling racket, several victims from across the country and abroad — latest being some persons from Madhya Pradesh — started contacting the central crime station (CCS) officials to help them get the lost money. “Had the Telangana government not banned the online gambling by amending the Gaming Act in 2017, we would not have cracked the Chinese gambling racket. In other states where there is no such Act, which bars online gambling, it is deemed that gambling is permitted and the police there cannot take any action,’’ officials said. The role of unverified bulk SMSes being shared by various service providers on the request of persons associated with these Chinese firms, which are under the radar of investigators, has also played a key role in duping gullible people, police said. A majority of them clicked on the links shared in the SMS, especially those related to dating apps, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gambling-racket-cops-stumble-upon-money-in-city-bank-a/cs/articleshow/77899375.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Memorial stone found in mutt certified Tamil Nadu’s oldest||MADURAI: The state department of archaeology has certified that the stone pillar found in a Pallipadai mutt in Kinnimangalam village in Madurai, with inscriptions in Tamil Brahmi relating to the period between second century BC and first century BC, is the oldest memorial stone to be discovered in Tamil Nadu till date. Deputy director of archaeology R Sivanandam said the pillar with inscriptions in Tamili or Tamil brahmi letters and another with ‘vatteluthu’ were found on the premises of Ekanathan mutt temple in Kinnimangalam village, about 20 kms from Madurai, a few weeks ago. Four Tamil Brahmi letters inscribed on the stone have a ‘pulli’ or dot on top. Many archaeologists have agreed that the Tamil brahmi inscriptions pertained to the period between 2nd century BC and 1st century BC. “Ekan Athan Kottam”, which means the region or territory of Ekan Athan which refers to a king or chieftain of the region, is inscribed in the pillar. Even though ‘Athan’ is a common name that appears in many Brahmi inscriptions found in Tamil Nadu, this is the first time ‘Kottam’ has figured on an inscription slab The other stone-inscribed pillar, belonging to the period between 7th century AD and 8th century AD, has the words, ``Irayili Ehanathan Pallipadai Mandali ienthar’’ in vatteluthu’. This makes it the first pillar to have the word ‘Pallipadai’ mentioned in it, a word used to describe memorials. This is cited as proof of it being the first such memorial to be found in Tamil Nadu, that too in Madurai which was part of the Pandiya dynasty. Many more inscriptions were being found on the temple premises, like a recent find on August 19 pertaining to the period of Vijayaranga Sokkanathar — 1722 AD. It has 43 lines inscribed on it, where the words ‘Pallipadai’ and ‘Samadhi’ have been used frequently. Hence, it is understood that the mutt temple was constructed in memory of a single family. Another stone inscription dated 1942 also has the words “Jeeva samadhi’’ inscribed on it. Till date this temple is known as a samadhi temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/memorial-stone-found-in-mutt-certified-tns-oldest/articleshow/77900526.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Doctors divided over administering Remdesivir to all patients in hospitals||BENGALURU: Experts in Karnataka are divided over following in the footsteps of US Food and Drug Administration, which has broadened the scope of Remdesivir use from emergencies to treatment of all hospitalised Covid-19 adult and paediatric patients. “Remdesivir has an effect in reducing viral load. I firmly believe it should be given to all hospitalised patients in Karnataka too. The US FDA has taken a good decision,” said Dr CN Manjunath, who heads the Covid expert committee formed by the government. “If it’s a life saver, why not for all,” he asked. Dr Pradeep Rangappa, consultant intensive care physician, Columbia Asia hospitals, said Remdesivir has become standard care for all symptomatic patients needing oxygen. “US FDA guidelines must be read carefully. One needs to get admitted to avail the drug and clinical stratification is needed. Else, it would create another rush for hospital admission, even for mildly symptomatic patients, leading to additional burden on the healthcare sector,” said Dr Pradeep, who also heads the team of doctors overseeing Covid critical care in 15 districts. The state government’s current stand is that Remdesivir is not required for all. It’s not used for paediatric Covid patients and is being given only to those on high-flow oxygen and patients in ICU but not on ventilator. “There’s a standard operating procedure for Remdesivir usage. Its use has helped us bring down the case fatality rate in the state. There will be no change in the SOP,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department. Doctors in the private sector who have handled thousands of Covid-19 cases in the city say admission criteria followed in the US and Karnataka are not the same. “In the US, Covid-19 cases with moderate disease and with oxygen saturation level below 93 are allowed admission. No mild or asymptomatic cases are admitted. In our hospitals too, we have used Remdesivir in 180 of 280 ICU cases and the recovery rate is more than 90%. Several studies have proven the hospitalisation period has reduced — from 15 to 11 days — with Remdesivir usage in needy patients. It holds true for those treated in our hospital too,” explained Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo Hospitals. Another senior doctor said it boils down to who’s being “hospitalised”. “The government may have said no asymptomatic or mild cases can be admitted in order to save beds for the severely ill. But we have VIP patients and politicians who have occupied hospital beds even after change in government guidelines. Some have got admitted just out of fear and have the influence to get a hospital bed. Hospitalised cases is a broad term and hence one needs to be cautious,” said the doctor. According to Mehta, clinicians have to decide who should be given the drug. “We recommend it for those with low SPO2 ( peripheral capillary oxygen saturation), which estimates the amount of oxygen in the blood. If it’s less than 93%, the usage is well suggested. The drug is to be used for those with comorbidities or significant Covid activity in other organs like in cases with gastrointestinal manifestations of the disease,” said Dr Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-divided-over-administering-remdesivir-to-all-patients-in-hosps/articleshow/77897347.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 3, 2020||Mumbai||‘Rich’ asymptomatic people occupying ICU beds, says Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: Public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that “rich people” who have tested positive for Covid-19 and are asymptomatic were occupying ICU beds, making it hard for genuinely critical patients to find one when they need it. Tope said this had to stop as it was leading to a shortage of ICU beds. “Sometimes, asymptomatic patients who can afford facilities bring pressure and get themselves admitted to the ICU when they don’t even require it. This is wrong and has to stop,” said Tope. He said district collectors and municipal corporations should be vigilant to ensure this is stopped. Tope was speaking after questions were raised about the death of a Marathi news channel journalist due to Covid-19 in Pune on Wednesday. The 42-year-old journalist did not get a cardiac ambulance in time, kin alleged. The minister said, “There have been clear instructions to collectors to requisition private ambulances and use them. The death is unfortunate and I will call for a detailed report on the incident.” Tope added that the rapid spread of the infection in rural parts of the state was worrisome and awareness about the infection was required there. “People are not reporting to hospitals in time. Many deaths from these districts were within 48 hours of being admitted to a hospital as people are people are arriving late at hospitals,” said Tope. “The delay is life-threatening, so we have constantly appealed to people to get tested when they see even slightest symptoms,” said Tope. He said that still 80% patients in the state were asymptomatic and either in home isolation or at Covid care centres, depending on the situation. “People are not fully confident of getting better, there is still a social stigma that people are yet to overcome. There are nearly six lakh patients who have fully recovered and gone home. People should take inspiration from them and report early,” he added. Senior officials said the state had always discouraged asymptomatic patients from occupying ICU beds. In fact, in Mumbai surprise visits were being conducted to check if patients in private hospitals under the 80:20 scheme needed those beds. Tope also said that the state was bringing down RT-PCR test rates. “The kits that were costing Rs850 earlier are now down to Rs400. The benefit of price reduction should be passed on to the people. We will be bringing down test rates to Rs1,200-1,300 soon,” said Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rich-asymptomatic-people-occupying-icu-beds-maha-health-minister/articleshow/77899714.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CBI to conduct second autopsy on Friday||KOTTAYAM: The CBI on Friday will conduct a re-post-mortem on the mortal remains of P P Mathai who was found dead in a well near his house on July 28. Mathai’s family has been asked by CBI officers in Thiruvananthapuram unit to hand over the body by 9am on Friday. Mathai’s body is kept in the morgue of Marthoma Medical Mission Hospital, Ranni after an autopsy was conducted on it at Kottayam Medical College Hospital. Mathai's wife Sheebamol had said the funeral will be conducted only after those who are responsible for her husband’s death are arrested. The CBI will conduct the autopsy at General Hospital in Pathanamthitta. A panel of three surgeons have been formed by the agency to conduct the post-mortem. The agency rarely conducts re-post-mortems as in most cases the corpse has to be exhumed for the process. Prior to the re-postmortem an inquest will also be conducted and the CBI sleuths have directed district police to make arrangements for conducting the inquest. The body will be handed over to Mathai’s wife after the autopsy. Meanwhile, Sheebamol expressed happiness in the progress of the investigation ever since the CBI took over the case. She has been demanding a re-postmortem right from the beginning. The first autopsy report had stated drowning as the cause of death. The high court had last month ordered a CBI probe into the death of the 41-year-old farmer, who was based in Chittar, Pathanamthitta. Mathai was taken into custody by forest officers over a missing camera trap installed in forest. His body was found in a well near his house after a few hours and it is alleged that he died in the custody of forest officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-to-conduct-2nd-autopsy-tomorrow/articleshow/77897779.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, Karnal fights shortage of doctors, health staff||KARNAL: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Karnal is facing an acute shortage of doctors, as out of 157 sanctioned posts in the district, 71 are lying vacant in the state-run facilities. Besides, there is also a huge shortage of medical staff. Owing to this, people have to turn to private hospitals, where they end up paying exorbitant charges. According to a district health department data, there is one district-level civil hospital, two sub-divisional hospitals in Assandh and Nilokheri, and seven CHCs, 25 PHCs, one polyclinic and one TB centre in the district. Out of the 867 sanctioned posts of staff, including doctors, 378 are lying vacant. The district-level civil hospital in Karnal has 30 doctors against a sanctioned strength of 42 medical officers. Similarly, in Assandh sub-divisional hospital, seven of the 11 posts are vacant. Incidentally, both health facilities are referral centres for matters related to emergency care. The health facilities in rural areas are the worst hit, as many community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) are working without doctors. The PHCs at Popra, Jalmana, Pardhana, Samanabahu, Gullarur Seori, Ballah, Salwan, Gudha, Barsat, Mirgahan and Ramba are running without regular doctors, while 10 PHCs are managing with only one doctor. Karnal civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “We have intimated the headquarters about the vacant posts and hopefully more doctors will be deployed in the district soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-karnal-fights-shortage-of-docs-health-staff/articleshow/77899376.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Trichy||SRMIST extends free education to students in Perambalur||Trichy: SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), Kattankulathur, will offer free education to 300 students in Perambalur parliamentary constituency for a second year in a row. Students from the Perambalur Lok Sabha segment, who wish to pursue engineering, arts and science, horticulture, management, and health sciences can apply for the same.It was announced by SRMIST’s founder chancellor and Perambalur Lok Sabha MP T R Paarivendhar last year and is being followed this year too. Keeping his promise of giving free seats in higher educational institutions to students from his constituency, the Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) leader launched a free higher education scheme last year. Applicants from economically weaker sections will be selected based on their performance in their respective board examinations. These 300 students, 50 each from the six assembly constituencies in the LS constituency would be given free education at the SRM Institute of Science and Technology. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, hostel facilities will not be provided this time.Paarivendhar asked students to utilize this opportunity to pursue higher studies. He assured that deserving students would get suitable placements.Those eligible in his constituency need to submit the applications online on or before September 10. For further details, applicants can contact the office of director (admissions), SRM Nagar, Potheri, Chengalpet district - 603203.Applications can be filled on www.ijkparty.org and www.srmist.edu.in. Applicants can contact helplines: 044-27417011/7006, 044-27455510/ 47437500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/srmist-extends-free-education-to-students-in-perambalur/articleshow/77900546.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Bringing vacant land under tax ambit made easier in Madurai city||Madurai: Residents, who are in possession of vacant lands and want to bring them under the tax ambit of the Madurai Corporation can now send details of their lands, addresses, phone numbers through WhatsApp and e-mail instead of visiting the office and collect the application. Once the details are collected, officials will visit the owners to get done with the application process.Earlier, people had to visit the corporation to get the application, which was a time consuming process.Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that people can send the address and phone number through mducorpvst@gmail.com or WhatsApp number 842 842 5000. He said that revenue assistants will visit the owners to initiate the process. An application can be obtained from them by paying Rs 10. Owners have to produce patta copy, copy of the registered land document and encumbrance certificate certified by a notary public. A corporation official said that many vacant plots are yet to be brought under the tax process. One of the reasons owners show reluctance is the difficulty in the process. The modification will help them register in a hassle-free way. Corporation will also get a considerable increase in revenue through the vacant lands, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bringing-vacant-land-under-tax-ambit-made-easier-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77900544.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Dyeing units warned against polluting sewer system||Ludhiana: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued warning to dyeing units in the city to either get connected with common effluent treatment plants (CETP) that are going to be completed soon, or find alternate arrangements. They will not be allowed to throw even a single drop of untreated water in the sewer system. These units have been given time till December end for reaching a conclusion. S S Marwaha, chairman of PPCB, said, “After settling the dyeing units in clusters now scattered units are at their radar and already one warning has been issued to such units. He said owners of scattered units are told to either shift their units near clusters where CETPs are already constructed or get zero liquid discharge technique for their units. He said once CETPs at Tajpur Road will come into operation, scattered units will not be allowed to discharge waste water into sewerage system. The scattered units are told to submit their plan with PPCB before December 31. Already, planning is going on for utilising treated water of these CETPs for irrigation purpose and proposal will be sent to Jal shakti ministry for approval and financial assistance. Notably, the matter of scattered units was also raised in meetings of special task force formed for Buddha Nullah cleaning. Around two months ago, a meeting took place between STF and dyeing unit owners. In this meeting, the issue of scattered units was also raised. After receiving the instructions from STF members the PPCB started asking scattered units to either come in clusters or install ZLD technique Untreated waste water is coming directly in MC sewer system Another reason behind strictness against scattered units is direct discharge of waste water from dyeing units into MC sewer system. Last week, former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal had also raised the matter of coloured water coming into seasonal drain near Shingaar cinema disposal. This is not the case of single locality as in many localities residents have complained about overflow of sewerage system because dyeing units are discharging excess water in sewerage lines. What is ZLD technique Under this ZLd technique the industry is not allowed to discharge water being used in the industry and it is told to reuse that water. At least 50 to 70% of water is reused and rest of the water is dried up to make steam according to norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dyeing-units-warned-against-polluting-sewer-system/articleshow/77896277.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan VAT on petrol and diesel highest in country||JAIPUR: It’s just not electricity rates in Rajasthan that are highest in the country. Comparative VAT (Value Added Tax) rates across states in the country show that people in the state cough up the highest VAT on petrol and diesel. People in Rajasthan pay 38% VAT on petrol and 28% on diesel which is highest in the country, while the fuels attract road development cess of Rs 1,500 and Rs 17 per kilo litre, respectively. The resentment of the people is palpable. They said they are paying for the government’s populist policies. Even though the crude oil prices are low, there is no benefit for them, many said. “Cost of living has gone up significantly because of the government’s wrong policies. I have to cut back on travelling even if it means facing hardships and inconvenience every day. This is a problem people face because petrol and diesel are a daily need,” said Ashish Tiwari, employee of a telecom company. It’s not only the common man who is facing hardship. Businesses are also suffering because of the high diesel prices. Goods carriers plying through Rajasthan are not buying diesel from the state as the rates are much higher compared to neighbouring states. “Why should transporters buy fuel in Rajasthan and pay higher prices when they can fill the tanks in neighbouring states with much cheaper rates. Moreover, businesses which use diesel are skipping Rajasthan,” said Sunit Bagai, president of the Rajasthan Petrol Diesel Association (RPDA). In fact, diesel sale in the month of June this year has fallen to 530.41 crore litre from 598.40 crore litre. Similarly, the road development cess has also decreased from Rs 128 crore in 2019 to Rs 116 crore in June this year. Tiwari said that the government has given two farm loan waivers and nobody knows if those waivers have helped farmers. “What is real is not the improvement in the condition of the farmers but the rise in suffering of the common people as everything has become dearer because of rise in fuel prices,” added Tiwari. The government has been increasing taxes like mandi levies, excise duties on liquor and power rates continuously to fill its depleted coffers, caused by its mismanagement of the finances, many said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-highest-in-country/articleshow/77900531.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||161 found infected with Covid, Himachal hits 6.4k||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported one death, 161 positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 69 patients recovered. The number of cases reported in the state has now reached 6,416, of which 1,613 are active, 4,716 have recovered, 41 have died and 44 have migrated out of state. The deceased is a 57-year-old woman from Una died on Wednesday. Also, 2,18,920 samples had been collected by when this report was filed, of which 2,11,721 were negative and 783 samples were awaited. Those who tested positive include three from Bilaspur district, nine from Chamba, 23 from Hamirpur, 41 from Kangra, 15 from Kinnaur, two each from Kullu nd Mandi, 13 from Shimla, seven from Sirmaur, 36 from Solan, and 10 from Una. Patients who had recovered include six from Bilaspur, four from Chamba, 12 from Kangra, 15 from Solan, and 32 from Una. Bilaspur has reported 361 cases, of which 138 are active. Chamba has got 441 cases, of which 84 are active. In Hamirpur, of the 598 people who have tested positive, 142 are still under treatment. Kangra has got 926 cases, of which 267 are active. Kinnaur has got 96 cases, of which 34 are active. In Kullu, 285 people tested positive, and 46 are still being treated, while 239 have recovered. Lahaul-Spiti has got eight cases and ony one of them is active. Mandi has reported 402 cases, of which 25 are active and seve have died. Shimla has got 365 cases, of which 106 are active. Sirmaur has recorded 928 cases, of which 300 are active. Solan has got 1,492 cases, of which 319 cases are active. Una has got 514 cases, of which 151. Of the total deaths reported so far, Chamba district has reported four, Hamirpur five, Kangra eight, Mandi seven, Shimla four, Sirmaur two, Solan eight, and Una three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/161-found-infected-with-covid-himachal-hits-6-4k/articleshow/77899369.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Madurai||Plea to declare pieces of land in Tuticorin as archaeological sites||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the authorities to consider a representation seeking to declare certain parcels of land situated in Kayathar taluk in Tuticorin district as archaeological sites, as ancient burial grounds are situated beneath the lands.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S K Arumairaj, a resident of Tuticorin district.The petitioner stated that in July, burial urns, historical monuments were unearthed from the Parakiramapandian Kulam/ Indrakulam, which is a water channel and from the lands situated along the Chittar riverbed at Rajapudukudi, Veppankulam and Therkku Mayilodai villages in the district. He stated that a few private individuals are attempting to put up solar power plants on the lands. If the solar plants are put on those lands, it would affect the monuments beneath. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking a direction to declare these lands as archaeological sites and to restrain the solar power plant which is to be put up at the area.However, the state government informed that the petition is being filed in order to stall the setting up of the solar power plant and hence sought to dismiss the petition. Taking into account the submissions, a division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam disposed of the petition by directing the authorities to consider the representation submitted by the petitioner and pass appropriate orders in accordance with law within 10 weeks.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-declare-pieces-of-land-in-tuticorin-as-archaeological-sites/articleshow/77900550.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Three cops suspended for accepting bribes||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat on Wednesday suspended a sub-inspector and two constables of Nacharam police station on charges of misconduct. As per the order, sub-inspector Shivakumar and constables E Ramulu and M Ashok of Nacharam Police Station exhibited gross misconduct by demanding and accepting bribes from suspects for helping them store banned guthkha products. The commissioner urged citizens to inform on WhatsApp number 949061711, in case there were any illegal demands by any police personnel. In another development, sub-inspector B Ramulu of Kohir police station in Sangareddy district was suspended for helping organisers of gambling rackets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-cops-suspended-for-accepting-bribes/articleshow/77899383.cms||---
September 3, 2020||Chandigarh||HP schools to teach even in winter break||Shimla: To ensure that teaching in schools is not impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal Pradesh government has increased the number of teaching days. Now, teaching activities will be continued even during the winter break and the second Saturday holidays by providing students teaching material through 'Har Ghar Pathshala' and other online mediums. State education minister Govind Singh Thakur said this on Wednesday after a meeting organized through videoconferencing with various experts and stakeholders on the report of the committee constituted by Himachal Pradesh School Education Board, Dharamshala, for 30% reduction in the syllabus in the current academic session. He said priority will be accorded to teaching important topics of all subjects so that the students can complete the prescribed curriculum. The examinations of schools will be held simultaneously at the end of March, followed by practical exams in April, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-schools-to-teach-even-in-winter-break/articleshow/77899401.cms||---
