September 4, 2020||Chennai||The Dhananjayans take the virtual route to stage their thematic dance programme||We had told you in June that VP Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan were planning their first virtual thematic dance production. The latest on this is that the e-performance is all set to be staged today. Talking about the production, titled Shadripu, Dhananjayan says, “I have been wanting to do this for over two years now. I had planned to do it for the stage, but this pandemic has changed the course of things. During this lockdown, Shanta sort of pushed me to work on this. It is an experimental theme that focuses on the morals for the common man that enable him to find a path to live a balanced, happy life. This Nrityopahaaram, in place of a pada-varnam, with a philosophical and moralistic value, is about getting rid of the six enemies of human mind such as kaamam (lust), krodham (anger), moham (greed), lobham (stinginess), madham (arrogance) and maatsaryam (jealous).” The dancer reveals that he has taken stories from the Panchatantra to illustrate this. On how they put the piece in place, Dhananjayan says, “We had two dancers, Uttiya Barua and Sivadas Rajan, who live closeby; it’s almost like a gurukulam for them. They came to the studio for rehearsals every day. We also got the songs, tuned by Vanathi Raghuraman, written in Tamil by Nirmala Nagarajan, with Shanta writing the swaras. Shanta has also composed the Pancha Nadai Alarippu. This will precede Shadripu.” The e-performance will also include musicians — Shalin M Nair on vocals, KP Rameshbabu on mridangam and R Kalaiarasan on violin. Dhananjayan, who informs that it was very difficult for them to adapt to virtual classes, says, “We wanted to bring the programme on a virtual platform. Dancers rehearsed every day, while we taught musicians online. Whenever they visited the studio, we ensured that we wore masks and also maintained social distancing. I am still not used to the virtual performances, but Shanta has picked up fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-dhananjayans-take-the-virtual-route-to-stage-their-thematic-dance-programme/articleshow/77917781.cms||Sharanya CR
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court puts homemaker on pedestal, ups compensation||CHENNAI: A homemaker’s job is the toughest one and they work without any time limits as they are working with love and affection, said the Madras high court, enhancing the compensation awarded to an accident victim from 8.5 lakh to 14 lakh. The court also pulled up a motor accidents claims tribunal for being unfair in assessing the contribution of a homemaker to a family. “We cannot forget that the homemakers are the nation builders. They are the source for making the family happy and happy family alone can constitute a better society and better society can lead the nation vibrantly,” said Justice S M Subramaniam. “If any earning member died in the family, there will be an impact. But if a homemaker died, then the impact would be unmeasurable and the family will get scattered. Therefore, they stand on a higher pedestal than an earning member in a family.” Justice Subramaniam made the observations while hearing an appeal from Bhuvaneshwari, 39, of Salem against the compensation awarded by a motor accident claims tribunal. The woman sustained 60% permanent disability in an accident in 2017, when a rashly driven private bus hit her at Valasaiyur Main Road. Apart from sustaining fractures and injuries to the spinal cord, the front portion of the tongue got cut and fell off, her petition said. The tribunal, computed the loss of the victim’s monthly income as 4,500, and awarded 8.46 lakh compensation. When the appeal against the awarded amount came before the HC, Justice Subramaniam noted that fixing 4,500 monthly income for a homemaker is inadequate and improper. “Considering the nature of grievous injuries, the court has no hesitation in concluding that the permanent disability to the woman would not only affect her family life, but is also a great loss to the entire family. The family is losing her effective contribution,” the court said and derided the tribunal for adopting a mechanical approach. After modifications, the high court enhanced the compensation to 14 lakh and directed the insurance firm to pay the amount within twelve weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-puts-homemaker-on-pedestal-ups-compensation/articleshow/77919537.cms||Srikkanth D
September 4, 2020||Chennai||S P Balasubrahmanyam responsive and continues to show clinical progress: Hospital||CHENNAI: Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in MGM Healthcare in Chennai, is showing clinical progress, said a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Thursday. The singer is still on ventilator and ECMO support in the intensive care unit and his current clinical condition is stable, said the bulletin, issued by hospital assistant director (medical services) Dr Anuradha Baskaran. “He is conscious, responsive and continues to show clinical progress. He is being closely monitored by our multidisciplinary clinical team,” she said. Later, his son singer and producer S P Charan said he was expecting some good news about SPB by the weekend. His father’s health condition has remained stable for the fourth consecutive day, he said in a video message on the social media page. “With god’s blessings, all your prayers, and the good wishes of so many people from around the world, I am hoping that by Monday there should be some good news,” he said. On Monday (August 31), the hospital said he participates in active physiotherapy, which is a step up from passive methods which he was undergoing. (Active physiotherapy involves the patient stretching muscles and moving joints, with or without the aid of a physiotherapist.) The 74-year-old singer was hospitalised on August 5 with mild Covid-19 symptoms. His condition deteriorated on August 13. On Friday, he wrote “Love you all” on a paper, bringing smiles on the faces of doctors and nurses taking care of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-responsive-and-continues-to-show-clinical-progress-hosp/articleshow/77919893.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Army, IAF chiefs visit forward areas as China moves more forces near Chushul||NEW DELHI: China has moved additional forces opposite the Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh after a large number of well-armed Indian troops occupied virtually all the dominating heights from Thakung to Reqin La over the weekend to pre-empt any misadventure by Chinese soldiers. “The situation all along the LAC is tense, with heavy deployments by both sides. But it’s like a tinderbox in eastern Ladakh,” a senior officer said. With thousands of rival troops, tanks, armoured vehicles and howitzers ranged against each other, Army chief General M M Naravane visited the Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh on Thursday. Gen Naravane took stock of the situation with Northern Command chief Lt-General Y K Joshi and 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh, among others. He will also visit some other forward areas to the north in the region on Friday morning before returning to New Delhi. In a parallel development underlining the heightened tensions along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria visited frontline airbases in the eastern sector, including Hashimara, to review military preparedness on Wednesday. Read AlsoMust plan for two-pronged conflict, says General Bipin RawatThe Indian armed forces are capable of suitably dealing with China’s aggressive actions along the Line of Actual Control, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said on Thursday, while sternly warning Pakistan against trying to take advantage of the ongoing troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh.Wary of any inadvertent incident making things spiral out of control, both India and China are keeping the military lines of communication open. The meeting between rival brigadiers at the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point was held for the fourth day running on Thursday. The meeting, however, was yet again inconclusive. LAC stand-off live updatesChina is seething at the way India conducted the military manoeuvre to occupy multiple heights near the southern bank of Pangong Tso, Spanggur Gap, Rezang La and Reqin La (Renchin mountain pass) at altitudes over 15,000 feet on August 29-30. Read AlsoChinese counterpart wants to meet, Rajnath non-committalAmid anger in Beijing over Indian Army occupying strategic heights in the Ladakh region, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday refrained from committing himself to a meeting sought by his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the meeting of defence ministers of Shanghai“The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was taken by complete surprise. It has moved additional forces opposite the Chushul sector in a show of force. But we are well-entrenched and well-prepared there, as elsewhere in eastern Ladakh,” another officer said. The PLA’s Moldo military garrison as well as a crucial road leading up to the southern bank of Pangong Tso are now clearly in the line of sight of Indian soldiers on the Chushul heights, which were largely left unoccupied since the 1962 war due to overlapping claims of the LAC in the area. Read AlsoLAC stand-off: Talks only option to restore peace, Delhi tells BeijingWhile holding China responsible for the deteriorating border situation, the MEA said Thursday the way forward was to hold negotiations "sincerely" and that India remained committed to resolving the issue peacefully through dialogue. The government also confirmed that foreign minister S Jaishankar“But it cannot be business as usual now,” the officer said. The proactive move represents a distinct change in India’s operational stance against China’s salami-slicing strategy along the disputed LAC. It has effectively prevented the PLA from yet again presenting the Indian Army with a fait accompli, like it did by occupying the 8-km stretch from ‘Finger-4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs) on the north bank of Pangong Tso, much to India’s disquiet in early May. “Chinese soldiers gained tactical advantage in the ‘Finger’ area. They have flatly refused to withdraw eastwards to their permanent Sirijap locations beyond Finger-8. Now, they are faced with a tit-for-tat situation in the area to the south of Pangong Tso,” the officer said. It also constitutes leverage to get China to shed its continuing intransigence during the multiple rounds of diplomatic and military talks to take forward the stalled troop disengagement on the northern bank of Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs areas as well as the de-escalation in the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sector. Watch Army, IAF chiefs visit forward areas as China moves more forces near Chushul||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-iaf-chiefs-visit-forward-areas-as-china-moves-more-forces-near-chushul/articleshow/77920284.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 4, 2020||Delhi||Cycling in the pandemic: People pre-order as stocks run out||Amid the pandemic, evening hangouts at bars have been replaced by morning cycling meets, couples are bonding over bicycle rides and cricket groups have turned into cycling groups. This has led to a bicycle boom across India, and several stores in Delhi have witnessed a greater demand than pre-lockdown. Stores across NCR say they’re either out of stock or have only a few cycles available. After the lockdown was lifted, bicycle sales went up, and manufacturers say some cities have seen a significant growth in the sale of premium cycles, ranging between 20% and 200%. With more and more people opting for cycling amid the pandemic, the demand for cycles has increased, with shops running out of stockPeople opting for expensive bicycles, tooLong-term cycling enthusiasts say that they never imagined such a craze for cycling. While most people are opting for cycles ranging between Rs 10k and Rs 25k, even those worth a lakh are unavailable in the market. Nikunj Narayan Nikhil, owner of a firm and a pro-cyclist, says, “I’ve been riding a cycle since three years. I bought my cycle for Rs 34k and spent Rs 15k to upgrade it. People who used to say ‘ yeh kya mehengi cycle  le li, koi bike ya scooty le lete itne mein, ya gym join karlete’, have now bought cycles and have been asking me about accessories etc.” Nikunj adds, “I want to upgrade my cycle now and my budget is around a lakh. But the stores I visited in Delhi and Gurgaon are out of stock and have no clue when these cycles will be back in stock.” Talking about the increased craze for cycling, he says, “Earlier, when I used to get my cycle serviced, I would get it back in a day, but now it takes about three-four days. And it’s not just cycles – even accessories like gloves are out of stock in NCR.” Cyclists enjoy a ride at India Gate Stores have hiked the prices of cycles: CustomersFrom stores with premium high-end cycles section to the regular cycle shops, this two-wheeler is out of stock almost everywhere. A staffer at a Decathlon store, which opened recently, has been receiving queries from cyclists every day. He says, “We don’t have stock, but the queries haven’t stopped.” A staff member at Avon Cycles store in Gurgaon says, “It is true that we don’t have any cycles left in our store.” Several shoppers also point out that stores have increased the cycle prices. Nimmi Gupta, a homemaker, says, “First, stores do not have cycles, and if they do, they’ve increased their prices. I’ve been to many stores. Ek baar cycle Rs 16,000 ki thi, dusri baar Rs 17,000 ki ho gayi. And even when I agreed to pay the extra amount, I was told if I’m lucky I may get it in 10-20 days.” Shoppers look for colourful cycles for better Instagram photos Cycling craze has taken over NCRNot all those who are buying cycles are fitness enthusiasts. Nikunj says, “When I see a cycle, I check the brand, and to gather information, I ask people about their cycles. Many have told me they bought it (the cycle) only because it looks good in pictures. Some even carry their cycle in the car, ride for a few minutes, take a some pictures and then put it away.” Agreeing to this, Ahmad Raza, a staff member at a sports accessories store in Noida, says, “Most shoppers prefer colourful cycles and matching colourful accessories and helmets. In fact, for trials, they even click photos with cycles to see if it suits their personality or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cycling-in-the-pandemic-people-pre-order-as-stocks-run-out/articleshow/77909404.cms||Niharika Lal
September 4, 2020||India||PM Modi pitches India as ‘trusted’ business partner at US-India Strategic Partnership Forum||NEW DELHI: Making a strong pitch for India being a “trusted” economic partner, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday invited US businesses to “join India’s journey” out of the pandemic. India had received $20 billion of foreign investment this year with companies like Google, Amazon and Mubadala announcing long-term plans, he said. In comments read in the context of unease in many parts of the world over China’s aggressive behaviour during the Covid-19 crisis, Modi said, “This pandemic has shown the world that the decision on developing global supply chains should be based not only on costs. They should also be based on trust. Along with affordability of geography, companies are now also looking for reliability and policy stability. India is the location which has all of these qualities.” Addressing the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum through video conference, the PM, who has spoken of India’s “trust factor” earlier too, brought in the “atmanirbhar (self reliant)” campaign as well. He said the campaign merged local with global and ensured India's strengths acted as a global force multiplier. Modi’s remarks were not only intended to make a case for investment but also to position India as a rule-based player. “As a result, India is also becoming one of the leading attractions for foreign investment. Be it America or the Gulf, be it Europe or Australia — the world believes in us. We have received over $20 billion of foreign investment flows during this year. Google, Amazon and Mubadala Investments have announced long-term plans for India,” he said. Read AlsoPM Modi's top quotes at US-India Strategic Partnership ForumPitching India amongst the best investment destinations worldwide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the country's political stability and policy continuity makes it the best place for global investors in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. PM Modi was addressing the US-IndiaResponding to questions about whether ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ implied a return to 1970s era socialism, Modi said, “Despite our large local needs, we did not shy away from our global responsibility. The responsibility of being the world's leading producer of generic medicines. We ensured constant supplies to the world. We are also at the forefront of research on the vaccine for Covid-19. A self-reliant and peaceful India ensures a better world.” The PM also said India had responded strongly to the Covid-19 challenge, ramping up infrastructure and ensuring proper clinical management of patients which, in turn, meant India had a low rate of infection and low mortality rate. Watch Pandemic has not impacted the aspirations and ambitions of 1.3 billion Indians: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-pitches-india-as-trusted-business-partner-at-us-india-strategic-partnership-forum/articleshow/77920570.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: India only country in worst-hit 20 with cases yet to peak||NEW DELHI: While India is setting new records for daily Covid-2019 cases, in every other country among the top 20 in terms of cases, the daily addition is now well below the peak value — the day when they reported maximum cases. The three-day average of fresh cases reported by India on September 3 was 77,387, which was 92.3% of the peak of 83,883 cases, which was itself reported on September 3. In no other country among the top 20 was this even 80%. Of the 210 countries and territories for which the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) compiles daily Covid data, this ratio was the highest for India. Coronavirus live updatesWith the exception of Palestine, Israel, Indonesia, Jordan, Paraguay and Iraq, for no other country was the average of the past three days more than 80% of the peak daily cases. And none of these six countries is among the 20 most affected.   All the countries that have reported over 5 lakh cases have significantly reduced cases in recent times. For instance, the average of cases in the past three days in the US was less than half the country’s peak cases. In Brazil, the current level is less than two-thirds of the peak. Another way of looking at the data is to see how many days have passed since the peak daily cases for each country. Among countries with the maximum number of cases, the US saw its peak 40 days back, Brazil 35 days and Russia 47 days ago. In the case of Peru and Colombia, the peak was over a fortnight ago. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of course, this does not mean that none of these countries will see daily cases ever reaching the peak levels again, or even exceeding them. Spain, for instance, has seen a recent surge after months of seeming to have put the worst behind it. Read AlsoDelhi bars, hotels and clubs can serve liquor from September 9Bars in the city’s restaurants, clubs and hotels have been permitted to serve liquor from September 9 to 30 on a trial basis by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.Watch Covid-19: India only country in worst-hit 20 with cases yet to peak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-only-country-in-worst-hit-20-with-cases-yet-to-peak/articleshow/77920640.cms||Atul Thakur
September 4, 2020||India||PM Modi’s Twitter account linked to personal site hacked, restored||NEW DELHI: The global Twitter celebrity hack hit India as an account linked to PM Narendra Modi’s personal website was crashed into with cyber criminals seeking donations in cryptocurrency for Covid-19 relief. While the account was restored soon, it is understood that India’s top cybersecurity nodal agency, CERT-In is now looking into the matter and has sought explanations from Twitter, sources told TOI. On its part, Twitter said that it is investigating the matter while assuring that it is “not aware of additional accounts being impacted”. Interestingly, the government had served a notice on Twitter in mid-July too after the global hack as the IT ministry tried to find out whether there was any breach in India as well at that point in time. In the present incident, the verified Twitter account of PM Modi's personal website @narendramodi_in was hacked in the wee hours of Thursday as the gate-crashers sought funds. “I appeal to you all to donate generously to PM National Relief Fund for Covid-19. Now India begins with cryptocurrency. Kindly donate bitcoins to (bitcoin wallet address),” the hackers tweeted from the verified handle around 3.15am. The account, which has over 2.5 million followers, has so far posted 37,000 tweets since it was created in May 2011. The account though was restored within an hour and the malicious tweets deleted. Modi functions through two more verified Twitter handles: @PMOIndia (38.4 mn followers) and @narendramodi (61.8 mn followers). “We’re aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation,” a Twitter spokesperson said, adding that it is not clear whether any other accounts have also been compromised. “At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted.” The company claims that as per its investigation, the hack was “not due to a compromise of Twitter’s systems or service”, ruling out any possible link with the July celebrity hack incidents. “There is no indication or evidence of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July,” Twitter said. In the July incidents, cyber attackers had hacked into the Twitter accounts of famous western personalities such as former US President Barack Obama, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden as well as corporate such as Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Tesla CEO Elon Musk. It was purportedly linked to a Bitcoin scam, and the incident had also seen CERT-In step in as it sought explanations from the company on any possible attacks in India. In an email, the hackers claimed that they are based in Korea and had hacked the PM's website account to “clear their name” from an earlier data breach incident. The hackers, whom TOI contacted, did not specify North or South Korea. The hackers had identified themselves as "John Wick" and posted another tweet. "Yes this account is hacked by John Wick (hckindia@tutanota.com), We have not hacked Paytm Mall," they said in a tweet, posted around 3.16am. John Wick is a Hollywood vigilante action thriller franchise with actor Keanu Reeves playing the title role. The hackers, whose name was earlier linked to a data breach in Paytm Mall app, said they wanted to “send a message” that they had not hacked the Paytm Mall database. “There is no other intention to hack this account. Recently fake news of our name saying paytm mall hacked by us, So we have sent email to all news publishers in India it’s not us, (and) no one replied, so we decided to post something (sic),” they wrote. Although the hackers did not respond to questions on how they carried out the hack, they said they “exploited a bug in the PM’s website” to gain access to his website's verified Twitter handle. “That was fun, we know zero guys pay from India,” they replied when asked if they received Bitcoins to their wallet. Watch PM Narendra Modi's personal website account hacked: Twitter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modis-twitter-account-linked-to-personal-site-hacked-restored/articleshow/77920860.cms||Anam Ajmal
September 4, 2020||India||Chinese counterpart wants to meet, Rajnath non-committal||NEW DELHI: Amid anger in Beijing over Indian Army occupying strategic heights in the Ladakh region, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday refrained from committing himself to a meeting sought by his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the meeting of defence ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Moscow. Sources here said Singh cited his “tight schedule” to avoid spelling out whether he would be able to meet the Chinese defence minister. India-China stand-off live updatesThe Chinese overture for a dialogue comes amid indications that the Army took pre-emptive manoeuvres to take control of strategic heights in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area. Interestingly, while no meeting with the Chinese defence minister was scheduled, the Indian side had expected the Chinese to seek one in the aftermath of the Army’s audacious operation on the night of August 29. Singh had a very successful round of talks with Russian defence minister General Sergey Shoigu. Sources here said the meeting, marked by “great personal chemistry” between the two, saw Shoigu reiterating Russia’s policy of not supplying arms to Pakistan in response to a request from India. Shoigu assured Singh that Russia stood by India’s “security interests”, and extended support to the ‘Make in India’ campaign. Singh thanked Russia for being a reliable source of weapons at crucial times. “Singh conveyed appreciation for steadfast support provided by Russia, consistent with the defence and security needs of India, and in this context, particularly noted the timely manner in which Russia had responded to requests for particular weapon systems,” an official statement said. The meeting coincided with the launch of two ‘Indra’ naval exercises by the navies of India and Russia off the Strait of Malacca. Singh emphasised the exercises demonstrated the common interests of both countries in maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region. “Both sides welcomed the advanced stage of discussions for establishment in India of an India-Russian joint venture for production of AK-203 assault rifles,” the statement said. Watch Chinese counterpart wants to meet, Rajnath non-committal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-counterpart-wants-to-meet-rajnath-non-committal/articleshow/77920983.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 4, 2020||Business||No loan to be termed NPA till new orders, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to individual and commercial borrowers, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked banks not to declare any loan account as non-performing asset (NPA) till it passed further orders on a bunch of petitions questioning levying of interest on loans during the six-month repayment freeze that ended on August 31. When the Indian Bankers Association offered a two-month moratorium on declaring a non-serviced loan account as NPA, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah passed this interim order restraining banks from declaring loans as NPAs to protect borrowers, who are facing difficulties in arranging funds for loan repayment. “In view of the above, the accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31 shall not be declared NPA till further orders,” the bench said. The SC will resume hearing on the petitions on September 10. Banks can declare a loan NPA if the principal or interest component is not serviced by the borrower for 90 days. Once a loan is declared NPA, banks can resort to recovery processes, including selling mortgaged property. Borrowers have argued that they earned virtually nothing from their businesses during the last six months of lockdown and yet were saddled with interest as well as interest on interest accrued on the deferred instalments. They said once the moratorium period ends, they would be saddled with all the deferred instalments along with compound interest, making it difficult to pay, and banks could declare their loans as NPAs. As representatives of several sectors narrated their woes during the lockdown period, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (Credai), through senior advocate Kapil Sibal, said the attempt of both the Centre and the RBI appeared to be solely to protect the interest of banks and lending institutions. Sibal said the economic downturn had seriously impeded activities of the real estate sector and Credai’s 1,400 members as well as 270 ancillary industries dependent on the real estate sector were badly affected. The Centre, RBI and the IBA had failed to come out with any relief package for the real estate sector, he said and supported the demand of other petitioners for waiver of interest as well as interest on interest on repayment of loan instalments during the moratorium period. Appearing for the IBA, which has 247 banks as its members, including SBI, senior advocate Harish Salve promised the court that no loan account would be categorised as NPA for the next two months, that is till October 31 whether or not the repayment default exceeded the 90-day deadline. For the Centre and the RBI, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the banking regulator, in consultation with experts, has decided that the residual tenure of loans could be extended by up to two years, with or without including the six-month moratorium period from March 1 till August 31. Mehta narrated several financial packages announced by the Union government for different industrial sectors to help revive the economy. However, he said waiver of interest would have a crippling effect on the banking industry and impact interest on deposits in 194 crore accounts. Watch Don't declare bank accounts as NPAs: Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-loan-to-be-termed-npa-till-new-orders-says-supreme-court/articleshow/77921102.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 4, 2020||India||Will meet Wang in Moscow, says Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Confirming that he would meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10, foreign minister S Jaishankar on Thursday said the solution to the current India-China crisis “has to be found in the domain of diplomacy”. Launching his book, ‘The India Way’, at a virtual event at the Observer Research Foundation think tank, Jaishankar told his interviewer and ORF president Samir Saran, “We have a situation in the western sector. I am not playing down the seriousness of the situation. Neither party should try to change status quo. What happens at the border will impact the relationship.” Jaishankar’s remarks are seen as a repeated message to the Chinese authorities that the crisis should be resolved through dialogue and negotiation. “That will happen if both sides understand it’s in their own interest. It is vital for both countries (India and China) to reach an accommodation,” he said. Expanding on the state of the world, Jaishankar said the “world of agreements is over, it is now the world of convergences. It’s a more pragmatic world, but one with a lot more hedging and balancing”. An example of this, he said, was the fact that India was an active member of the SCO, Brics as well as the Quad. “If you are looking at multipolar world and convergences, then we will look at different combinations. To be in Quad, SCO, RIC, JAI — this is a world we need to come to terms with, not a zero sum game,” he added. The most important development of late was the changed approach of the US, he said. “I regard that as the most startling and impactful shift in recent memory. The US is a key fulcrum around which international affairs revolved. From the 1990s onwards, the US had a global project,” he added. The US has “shifted” from that position, Jaishankar said, including its views on the utility of alliances, or even multilateral organisations. “This is an era when the US is disrupting the world to get a better deal from the world,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-meet-wang-in-moscow-says-jaishankar/articleshow/77921583.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Must plan for two-pronged conflict, says General Bipin Rawat||NEW DELHI: The Indian armed forces are capable of suitably dealing with China’s aggressive actions along the Line of Actual Control, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said on Thursday, while sternly warning Pakistan against trying to take advantage of the ongoing troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh. Speaking at a webinar organised by an American think-tank, Gen Rawat said India faced the “threat of coordinated action along the northern and western fronts” with China and Pakistan. This collusive threat needed to be factored into Indian defence planning, he said. “If any threat develops around our northern borders, Pakistan could take advantage of that and create some trouble for us. Therefore, we have taken adequate precautions to ensure that any such misadventure by Pakistan is thwarted. In fact, Pakistan may suffer heavy losses should it attempt any misadventure,” Gen Rawat said. Noting that Indian armed forces will have to be prepared to meet the immediate crisis and concurrently prepare for the future, the CDS said, “Our policy of engagement, if not backed by credible military power and regional influence, would imply acknowledging China's pre-eminence.” China’s continuing infrastructure development in Tibet, development of strategic railway lines and reforms in the People’s Liberation Army are being closely studied by India, he said. On the other hand, Pakistan has been conducting a proxy war, sponsoring and equipping terrorists from its soil to create trouble in J&K for years, which has blocked India's efforts at regional integration, he said. Gen Rawat also strongly backed the ‘Quad’ — a grouping of India, US, Australia and Japan — as a “good mechanism” to ensure freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific region. China, which has shown aggressive and expansionist behaviour in the region, is wary of a military construct being imparted to the Quad. The foreign ministry on Thursday said India was looking forward to hosting a meeting of the Quad later this year, the details of which are being worked out. Watch India's armed forces are capable of handling aggressive Chinese actions: CDS Bipin Rawat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/must-plan-for-two-pronged-conflict-says-general-bipin-rawat/articleshow/77921605.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||End contempt of court provision, says Prashant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, convicted and fined by Supreme Court for contempt of court, said this power is sometimes misused or abused in an attempt to stifle free speech or discussion about the judiciary. He called the contempt of court jurisdiction “very dangerous” and said it should be abolished. “Every citizen in a democracy should be able to speak freely but unfortunately that has also been treated as contempt of court by scandalising,” Bhushan said. “In this, the judge acts as accuser, prosecutor and as a judge,” Bhushan said at a webinar organised by Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia. “It is a very dangerous jurisdiction in which judges act in their own cause and that is why in all countries this power to punish has been abolished,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/end-contempt-of-court-provision-says-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77921678.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||We are not partisan, Facebook tells Congress||NEW DELHI: Facebook has responded to Congress’s allegations of bias and interference in India’s affairs, saying it is a “non-partisan” platform that takes allegations of bias “seriously” and that they “denounce hate and bigotry in all forms”. In a letter written on September 1 and addressed to Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, the social media giant’s public policy, trust and safety director Neil Potts defended its India team and said it was a “diverse team representing a varied political spectrum” that took decisions, not unilaterally, but by including different views from across teams. Potts also said Facebook’s community standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity and national origin and added that its latest transparency report had reported removing 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content from April-June in 2020, up from 1.6 million pieces of hate speech content removed in the last quarter of 2017. “We know there is much more to do and will continue to invest our efforts to combat hate speech on our services,” he said. On August 18, Congress had written to Facebook, accusing it of ‘right-wing bias’ and failure to take down hate content allegedly posted by those associated with BJP. Congress’s data analytics department head Praveen Chakravarty said Congress would wait to see concrete measures being taken by the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-are-not-partisan-facebook-tells-congress/articleshow/77921686.cms||Swati Mathur
September 4, 2020||India||PM Modi’s donations to public causes exceed Rs 103 crore||NEW DELHI: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi donated Rs 2.25 lakh towards the initial corpus of PM CARES Fund after it was set up in the wake of COVID-19 crisis, donations from his savings and proceeds of auctions have now exceeded Rs 103 crore. “PM Modi has a long legacy of contributing to public causes ranging from girl child education to clean Ganga to welfare of underprivileged. These donations have now exceeded 103 crores,” said an official, who also revealed that the PM had donated Rs 2.25 lakh towards the initial corpus of the PM CARES fund. In 2019, Modi donated Rs. 21 lakh from his personal savings to the corpus fund for the welfare of sanitation workers of Kumbh Mela. He had visited the religious congregation in Prayag and made the announcement after washing the feet of the sanitation workers as a mark of gratitude for their work of taking care of the cleanliness, which turned out to be a hallmark of the 2019 Kumbh Mela. On receiving the Seoul Peace Prize in South Korea, he had immediately announced that the entire prize money of Rs. 1.3 crore prize money for “Namami Gange”, to help clean the holy River Ganga. Modi had received the award last year, joining a pantheon of honourees that includes German Chancellor Angela Merkel and former UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon. The award was conferred on him for his contribution to international cooperation and fostering global economic growth. Recently in an auction of his mementos received by Modi during his tenure as PM, Rs. 3.40 crore were collected, which are also being donated to the cause of “Namami Gange” project, launched after he took over as country’s PM in 2014. Earlier, Modi had again initiated the auctioning of gifts he received till then in 2015. Rs 8.35 crore were raised during an auction held at Surat and the amount was donated to the Ganga cleaning project once again. Upon completion of his tenure as CM of Gujarat, Narendra Modi donated Rs 21 lakh from personal savings for educating Gujarat government staffs' daughters. Modi had raised Rs 89.96 crore by auctioning all gifts he had received as chief minister and donated this to the “Kanya Kelavani Fund”. The money was spent on the education of girl children, through the scheme. Besides, Modi has been raising funds through sale of merchandise on the “NAMO” aap, which has received tremendous response from his followers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modis-donations-to-public-causes-exceed-rs-103-crore/articleshow/77921741.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 4, 2020||India||Rajya Sabha question-hour suspended six times in the past||NEW DELHI: Opposition parties may be up in arms over suspension of question hour in the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament but records show that over 60% of question hour’s time in Rajya Sabha in the last five years was wasted due to disruptions. Besides, this is not the first time that question hour has been suspended. It had also been done on six previous occasions, the last time when Congress-led UPA was in office in 2009. “A reality check reveals that this spirit of commitment for question hour, given its importance as stated by the opposition, did not reflect in the House during the five year period of 2015-2019. As the ruling party has no majority in Rajya Sabha, opposition parties could not show the same spirit during proceedings in the House,” a senior BJP member said. The research division of Rajya Sabha secretariat, at the behest of Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, found that during 2015-19, only about 40% of the total question hour time was used to raise questions and obtain responses from the government. In the five-year period, Rajya Sabha held 332 sittings during which 332 hours were available for question hour at one hour per sitting. However, only 133 hours and 17 minutes were utilised to raise questions and obtain replies from ministers. Moreover, records showed that question hour was done away with in 1962, 1975, 1976, 1991, 2004 and 2009 for various reasons. Sources said the decision to suspend question hour was taken after presiding officers of both Houses were informed by the parliamentary affairs ministry that the government had consulted political parties and there was a broad consensus. Only TMC was against the idea. Government sources rejected the opposition’s charge that the session was too short, saying it was convened as per the constitutional provision. “The government wants members to stay in Delhi for a short period and once they perform their responsibilities, they can go back to their constituencies,” a senior member said. Moreover, the session is taking place for 18 days unlike some state assemblies which functioned for one, two and three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajya-sabha-question-hour-suspended-six-times-in-the-past/articleshow/77921753.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 4, 2020||Business||Virtual AGMs: Reduce cost and headaches for corporates||Chennai: There are some positives emerging out of the Covid pandemic, as companies come to terms with virtual shareholder meets, which lowers costs by at least half if not more, besides saving time from some pesky shareholders. Government has allowed the conduct of annual shareholders meet virtually to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Private financier Manappuram Finance said its budget came down substantially by 90% of what they had spent last year. “We have saved over Rs 30 lakh this year, which includes Rs 14 lakh on printing and postage. We have also found an increased participation of shareholders from all over the country in its AGM through the virtual mode. In a physical AGM, most of them would miss the opportunity to participate,” its MD & CEO VP Nandakumar said. As per the directives of the MCA, companies have shared the annual report with shareholders in soft copy. Due to virtualisation of the process of Annual Report distribution, companies were able to effect significant savings on account of printing and postage costs. Jindal Stainless Ltd (JSL) said it saved Rs 30 lakh in costs incurred towards printing and mailing of the Annual Reports this year. Its Company Secretary Navneet Raghuvanshi said “The advantages of conducting a virtual AGM saves significant time and resources and participation of shareholders is not limited to any geography, where all shareholders can join the meeting irrespective of their physical location.” The association for the microfinance sector, Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN) saw its expense fall by 60% to Rs 10 lakh, as against Rs 25 lakh last year. “As we were to celebrate our 10th year anniversary this year, we could not miss issuing the annual report (book),” its chairman Manoj Kumar said. Book printing costs stood at about Rs 10 lakh for 500 copies at Rs 2,000 per book. Further, no expenses were incurred on travel by the auditors and board of directors due to travel restrictions due to the lockdown. “Hospitality costs like airfare, hotel rooms rental was nil,” he added. City Union Bank has saved about 50% of the cost of conducting AGM. Its CEO & MD N Kamakodi said, “We have spent Rs 15 lakh this year on logistics and technology support and other expenses, compared to overall expense of Rs 30 lakh incurred in 2019. We sent soft copies of annual reports and saved Rs 10 lakh on book printing cost and Rs 5 lakh on hall and refreshment costs.” IOB MD & CEO Partha Pratim Sengupta agreed, “We have saved on huge expenses which is usually incurred on the cost of printing annual reports for shareholders.” However, the flip side to these tech driven virtual AGMs is that any technical glitch can hold-up the entire process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/virtual-agms-reduce-cost-and-headaches-for-corporates/articleshow/77918797.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||RTI hearings to be held over video call||Ahmedabad: For five months now, Covid has been one of the reasons many RTI applications were not heard or being processed by government departments and were left piling up. The civic body and the district administration offices are just a few examples. A recent high court order has come to the rescue. On June 30, the HC told the Gujarat government that “citizens are being put to grave hardship and inconvenience for want of video conferencing facilities.” The HC instructed the state government to ensure that such facilities be introduced so that citizen’s grievance are heard via video conferencing. The general administration department has now instructed various departments of the urban local bodies to ensure that all pending hearings pertaining to RTI applications and other pending hearings are conducted via video conferencing. A letter to this effect was also sent to the additional chief secretary, urban development, Mukesh Puri, on July 22. Following the intimation, municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar on Thursday wrote an office order to all municipal zonal offices to conduct all forms of proceedings, appeals and processing of applications made by citizens through video conferencing. It was following the oral order of Justice S H Vora on June 30 in the case of Ajitsinh Jadeja vs The State that the office orders were executed across all government departments. A similar problem was also witnessed when it came RTI applications pending in district administration offices, including civil supplies and survey offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rti-hearings-to-be-held-over-video-call/articleshow/77919293.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||Cos can make room for more gig workers amid Covid curbs||By S V NathanWhen someone asks me for my thoughts on the new concept of ‘gig workers’ and how it appeals to millennials’ ambitions, I find it best to start by clarifying that gig-working is not new. Gig, as a buzzword, has itself now been around for two decades. It’s just that using your skills to offer freelance or contract-based work — outside a formal, long-term working arrangement — has found a place on the global stage. What has changed are the kinds of skills that are going the gig way. Recent conversations have been focused on highly trained, university educated professionals offering their specialised expertise to organisations. Is the gig economy growing? In spite of my previous statement, gig opportunities are still heavily focused on the unorganised sector. According to a recent Assocham report, the gig economy is projected to achieve a market size of $455 billion by 2023, largely due to this sector. In the formal sector, India Inc has been mulling how gig workers can prove a viable alternative or supplement in many domains. However, a recent Deloitte survey on the future of work found that about 80% of surveyed organisations currently have less than 10% of their workforce based on alternative working models, largely limited to contractors. That still leaves a lot of room for the future. How has Covid-19 changed the dynamics? As the pandemic raged, affecting employment numbers across the board, the World Economic Forum reported that gig workers were among the hardest hit. This is a direct consequence of many organisations prioritising their employees and streamlining cashflows in difficult times. As companies take the first steps towards recovery, there remain two paths under consideration. One section will continue to choose reskilling or upskilling current employees and minimising the floating population. Another will earmark roles for gig workers, as this alternative workforce is a good place to get highly specialised, project-specific skills, without onboarding a full-time resource, thereby giving some flexibility. As in many situations in work and life, the middle path makes a compelling argument. Besides, the changing pace of technology and the inability of organisations to keep pace gets them to look at specialists who can do a ‘gig’. Internal career mobility, reskilling and upskilling programmes, and relying on employees’ professional networks for referrals is a great way to not only retain the workforce, but also to reward them for staying with an organisation through tough times. If the management has worked hard to safeguard their careers, they have worked doubly hard to deliver results while dealing with new ways of working, multitasking, and coping with the severe stress and health uncertainties that the pandemic brought along. In a post-Covid world, organisations are going to have to re-imagine many practices to keep pace with altered realities. For example, in the interest of customer and employee safety, a bank may choose to virtualise a significant part of the customer onboarding and servicing process. This may create the need for very specific skills for the project duration, not all of which may be required when things get operational. Upskilled employees will be well-supplemented by gig experts in such scenarios. What’s in it for gig workers? Much has already been said about how gigs offer career flexibility and variety, while still allowing for an association with established names. More gig opportunities may also give organisations the chance to rebalance their workforce since gigs can hold the answer to parents with newborns, or to caregivers, who have had to take a break due to life priorities. Those with mobility restrictions may also benefit from remote-working gig opportunities. What adjustments will stakeholders need to make? For many gig workers, the recent situation may have sharpened the feeling that their work is a tradeoff between flexibility and security. When you’re on a project-based assignment, you may not have access to the same set of benefits as a full-time employee, nor the same set of comprehensive performance management and learning pathways. Employees may also feel a sense of insecurity or resentment towards gig workers, stemming from concerns about their own careers. Organisations that invest in the gig workforce needs to walk the tightrope so that their employees don’t feel that they’ve been left high and dry, nor does the management lose out on the merits due to which they chose gig hiring in the first place. Beyond the people dynamics lie robust safeguards that will be needed to ensure information security, confidentiality, independence, and managing conflict of interest. However, if we want the gig economy to play a meatier role in India Inc, the attitudinal adjustment needs to start right from higher education. Universities will need to coach students on how to navigate a gig-based career, their placement cells will need to be more attuned to gig, and the entire ecosystem will need to evolve its success benchmarks, so that it’s not just the highest-paying, globe-trotting, corporate powerhouse job that’s the goal. I mention ‘ecosystem’ here, since (especially in the Indian context) parents play a key role in career decisions of young professionals. Convincing them that a gig-focused career is not a downgrade is as important as convincing professionals themselves. If culture-building has been difficult, creating one with a moving population is going to be even more challenging. Policymakers need to play their part in closing this ecosystem loop too. Without adequate legal protections, gig workers will continue to remain highly vulnerable to market shocks. In various geographies, Covid-19 has brought this need into sharper focus and gig workers themselves have been asking for better policy direction.Summing up, it is a given that an event as pivotal as Covid-19 will change how we work. Provided we carefully nurture it, the gig economy can give India Inc a fillip in its journey to thrive again. (The writer is chief talent officer, Deloitte India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-can-make-room-for-more-gig-workers-amid-covid-curbs/articleshow/77920682.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||KTC interstate buses toresume ops after 170 days||Panaji: After a hiatus of 170 days, interstate buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) are going to resume operations from September 5. Following the Centre’s new guideline on easing most of travel restrictions, KTC decided to restore its service on two Karnataka routes – Belagavi and Karwar. Restoration of services to Maharashtra will follow suit later. “We have spoken to the authorities in Karnataka and will operate the buses in a phased manner. Initially, only a few KTC buses will be operated on these routes. We will decide which other routes to be added based on the demand,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. “The suspension of most of our services owing to Covid-19 have resulted in a revenue loss of Rs 10 crore per month,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate told TOI. From Saturday onwards, five buses will be operational – three for Goa to Belagavi and two on the Goa to Karwar route. The 50-seater buses will operate on full seating capacity. Owing to the pandemic, MHA guidelines had instructed only 50% capacity for passengers. The five buses will start at 6.30am, 7.30am and 8.30am. Commuters will have to personally come to the bus stand and book their tickets for the travel. KTC’s online interstate bus booking continues to be temporarily suspended. There is no change in the ticket pricing. Passengers traveling to Karwar and Belagavi will have to pay Rs 75 and Rs 150 respectively. The buses are reciprocal and will return to Goa the same day. “We will observe how passengers respond to this service. If there is no demand, we will stop the operations once again,” Ghate said. Prior to the pandemic, KTC ran its buses to Karnataka, Maharashtra and Telangana (Hyderabad). The interstate services had been suspended owing to the lockdown and were limited to only pick and drop for stranded passengers across the country. Only 200 of the 500-odd buses in the KTC fleet are currently operational due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-interstate-buses-toresume-ops-after-170-days/articleshow/77920554.cms||Nida Sayed
September 4, 2020||Business||Voda Idea rallies 30% on hopes of Amazon stake-buy||Mumbai: Vodafone Idea’s stock rallied 30% on Thursday on the back of reports that suggested retail major Amazon and wireless carrier Verizon were looking to invest over $4 billion in the struggling telecom services company. The report came within days of the Supreme Court saying that Vodafone and its competitor Bharti Airtel will get 10 years to pay their legacy dues, known as AGR dues. Vodafone has to pay Rs 50,000 crore through yearly instalments, plus the accrued interest. According to analysts, the SC verdict was comparatively positive for Bharti and negative for Vodafone. Soon after the verdict on Tuesday, Vodafone stock had lost more than 10% but recovered some of the lost ground to close 6% lower. On Thursday, the stake-buy reports helped the stock on the BSE rally up to 30% to Rs 12.9 but closed lower Rs 12.6, up 27% on the day. The telco has a market cap of nearly Rs 36,100 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/voda-idea-rallies-30-on-hopes-of-amazon-stake-buy/articleshow/77920546.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Central team assesses extent of flood damage in 3 districts||PATNA: The six-member central team, which visited the state’s three districts to assess the extent of damage caused by floods, has asked the state government to prepare its own estimate of the damage caused in 16 north Bihar districts. The six-member central team has split itself in three groups, each comprising two members. Each of the split teams has been touring the three worst-affected districts – Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj. Sources in the disaster management department (DMD) said the central team would compare the data collected and make its own assessment in Delhi to quantify the extent and quantum of damage caused in 16 districts. “We only know that they have arrived for making the assessment, but cannot say when they would return to Delhi. They can stay here as per their will, but they would make their final assessment in Delhi. There is no standard operating procedure (SOP) with regard to their visits,” a DMD official said. The state government may decide to present the details of its own assessment regarding the damage caused to the central team, sources said. Sources in the water resources department said a “rough sketch” of the extent of damage caused based on the initial reports that came from the field has been prepared. The department is engaged in giving a concrete shape to its own estimate of the damage. A similar exercise was being conducted in other major departments concerned like agriculture, roads, education and DMD. Floods have damaged kharif crops, including paddy and sugarcane, besides roads, bridges, public and private buildings as well as embankment under the water resources at some points. Zamindari and ring bunds meant to give protection to the main embankment and insulate arable land from floods have also been damaged. In Darbhanga district, floods affected 20.82 lakh people in 227 panchayats of 15 blocks, resulting in the death of 12 people. Three rivers – Bagmati, Adhwara group of rivers and Kamla Balan – caused floods in the district. Muzaffarpur district witnessed floods caused by seven rivers – Bagmati, Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Lakhandei, Noon and Baya. Over 19.69 lakh people in 287 panchayats were hit in the district. Similarly, the floods caused by Gandak had affected 4.15 lakh people in 66 panchayats of five blocks in Gopalganj district. Overall, the floods affected 83.62 lakh people in 1,333 panchayats of 130 blocks of 16 districts this year and claimed lives of 27 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/central-team-assesses-extent-of-flood-damage-in-3-districts/articleshow/77917457.cms||Abhay Singh
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Seer objects to portrayal of Jainism in PU textbook||Mangaluru: The II PU history textbook in Kannada, has upset the Jain community who claim that there are inconsistencies and discrepancies regarding Bhagwan Mahaveer and the Jain religion in the textbook. Noticing these mistakes, the Moodabidri seer has requested primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar to withhold the textbook till corrections are made. Interestingly, the text book has been prescribed for PU since 2015-16 academic year. Swasti Sri Charukeerthi Panditachayavarya Maha Swamiji of Jain Kashi Mutt, Moodbidri, told TOI the discrepancies were brought to his notice only recently. The Seer said that certain paragraphs that have appeared in the textbook pertaining to Bhagwan Mahaveer’s history and message are not accurate and they are not in accordance to the beliefs held by the community. The seer said references to Bhagwan Mahaveer appear in 'India History – with special reference to Karnataka’ section wherein the text gives the meaning that Bhagwan Mahaveer was married. "In Shwethambara sect there is a belief that Mahaveer was married before becoming Bhagwan, but Digambara sect believes that he was celibate from childhood (Bala brahmachari)," said the seer suggesting the textbook draft committee sit with experts in the field of religion and make necessary corrections. The seer also pointed out that the textbook states that Jainism was limited only to Kosala, Vanga and Magadha, which is incorrect. Jainism was followed in 'Akhanda Bharatha' and it is `a religion which does not have a beginning nor end’’ which is not only the belief of Jains, but a historical fact. As per Jain calculation, the first Tirthankara was born in the fourth era, but it has been wrongly mentioned in the text book as Shalivahana Shaka, said the seer. He said brahmacharya (celibacy) was one of the sacred vows added by Bhagwan Mahaveer and the rest of the vows – namely ahimsa (non-violence), satya (truthfulness), asteya (not stealing) and aparigraha (non-acquisition) --were propagated by the earlier 23 Tirthankaras. The text puts this under `panchasheela’ but it should be under `pancha anuvrata’, noted the seer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/seer-objects-to-portrayal-of-jainism-in-pu-textbook/articleshow/77917801.cms||Stanley Pinto
September 4, 2020||Patna||Nabard CGM assumes charge||PATNA: Sunil Kumar, who assumed charge as chief general manager (CGM) of Bihar regional office of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) here on Tuesday, has to his credit vast experience in the area of his activity. Earlier, he was CGM in the department of financial inclusion and banking technology at the Mumbai head office of the bank. Dr Kumar joined Nabard in 1988, and has worked in various capacities at its regional offices located in Lucknow, New Delhi and its head office, Mumbai, before taking the charge of the office at Patna. An MA in economics, MBA in finance and PhD holder from Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, Kumar has also been faculty member of Banking Institute of Rural Development, Lucknow, and has got training at various institutions both within India and abroad. That apart, his forte of knowledge and experience is in rural credit, project appraisal, policy development, micro credit, institutional development, consultancy services and human resource management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nabard-cgm-assumes-charge/articleshow/77917640.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||20-25% cured patients have weak or no Covid antibody: AIIMS-Patna finding||PATNA: AIIMS-Patna doctors have found that around 20- 25% of cured patients did not develop antibodies against the Covid-19 virus or it was less than the required level, which can protect them from reinfection. The randomised finding came to light after a group of around 400 cured patients, who had voluntarily come forward to donate convalescent plasma, were tested using the IgG Elisa Test, to detect the presence specific antibodies against the SARS-CoV2 virus. AIIMS-Patna experts observed that there is a stark difference in the Immunoglobulin G (IgG) level in mild, moderate, critical and asymptomatic Covid-19 recovered patients. “Of the 400 cured patients, around 80-100 did not show the presence of specific antibodies against the virus or it was less than 1.12 AU (arbitrary unit)/ ml,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid- 19 at AIIMS-Patna. As per ICMR-Delhi guideline, cured people having a minimum of 1.12 AU/ ml antibody can donate blood for the convalescent plasma therapy. Antibodies guard against repeat infections. Dr Sanjeev told this newspaper on Thursday that a low level of IgG was measured in those suffering from mild symptoms or asymptomatic cured patients while IgG levels spiked in recovered patients with more critical, severe and moderate symptoms. “Several studies conducted by scientists and researchers also revealed the same in their study,” Dr Sanjeev said. The nodal officer underlined that there are three reasons behind the difference in antibody level in cured patients. “Immune response that produces antibodies to protect against the virus is high in people, who are more infectious to the disease. Secondly, some people have recovered before the ideal time (28 days) for the development of antibody after cessation of symptoms. Lastly, the IgG level depends on the immune system of individuals. So, the cured asymptomatic and mild symptoms patients need to be careful, because of chances of reinfection,” he said. Dr Sanjeev added, “Covid antibodies and proteins that help humans fight off the virus last for at least 4-6 months. Several studies findings have shown that there are possibilities that the people would reinfect again.” A study done by researchers at King’s College, London, says that antibodies do start to wane off and lose their potential after some months. Another study published in Nature Medicine suggests that antibodies formed against SARS-CoV-2 begin to decrease in number, just two-three months after infection. A city-based immunologist told this newspaper that the novel coronavirus is an intracellular organism, which remains inside the cell. “The virus developed itself by using human enzymes and cell machinery. The antibody in human raised when a cell burst and thousands of virus spread and entered into other cells. More exposure to the virus with G-cell, the more the antibody would develop,” the immunologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-25-cured-patients-have-weak-or-no-covid-antibody-aiims-patna-finding/articleshow/77917647.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Lockdown gives infrastructure push for tourism sector||KOCHI: The district tourism department is using the restrictions imposed as part of Covid-19 as an opportunity to rebuild its infrastructure. The department is preparing plans to improve infrastructure in 11 major tourist spots in the district and complete the works before mid-October. It is very difficult for the department to carry out works to enhance the infrastructure when tourism is active. “Now, the government has asked us to identify infrastructure development and maintenance projects and complete the works soon. We would be completing estimate preparation soon and expect that the works could be started by mid-September,” said a district tourism department official. Renovation of Fort Kochi beach walkway, boat cruise terminal at Marine Drive, Maritime Heritage Museum at Willingdon Island, Kuzhippally beach, Cherai beach, Munambam beach, Harithavanam Park at Aluva, Manappattuchira boating and facilitation centre at Malayattoor, Kadambrayar ecotourism walkway, Indranchira Park at Kolenchery and Nedumparachira Park at Kodanad will be included in the project. “Tourism operations may be started anytime. So, we have to complete all the works, including construction of walkways, lightings, CCTC cameras and toilet facilities, on a war footing,” said an official associated with these projects. “In Maritime Heritage Museum, we have to complete some interior works and at Harithavanam, we have to clear the silt accumulated in the floods along with other works,” the official said. As the pandemic is expected to stay here for quite some time, the department has included Covid-19 control facilities in their projects. “In all the tourism locations, there will be Covid-19 control measures like facilities for sanitization, thermal scanners, disinfection equipment, etc. There will be measures for crowd control at all these locations. Moreover, we are giving training for our staff to ensure Covid-19 protocol. Carrying capacity indications at destinations based on its area will also be fixed and regulated through appropriate mechanisms using both software and hardware,” the official said. Other major works by the district tourism department are tourism facilitation centre at Valanthakkad near Maradu and pilgrim facilitation centre at Thiruvairanikkulam. “We have awarded the works at Valanthakkad to Wapcos. The Rs 90-lakh project includes construction of a walkway and a floating tourism facilitation centre with amenities including resting rooms and lighting. The work will be over by March next year,” an official said. “The cost of the project at Thiruvairanikkulam is Rs 4 crore. It includes a three-storeyed accommodation facility for pilgrims who arrive at Mahadeva temple. The work is expected to be completed by December,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-gives-infra-push-for-tourism-sector/articleshow/77919186.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 4, 2020||Patna||Grand Alliance seat-sharing talks gather pace||PATNA: Ahead of the likely announcement of dates for the state assembly polls, hectic parleys are on within the Grand Alliance (GA) partners on seat sharing. The Left parties have exerted pressure on RJD, the biggest GA partner, to reach an amicable solution on seat sharing at the earliest. RJD president Jagadanand Singh said senior leaders of GA are in regular touch with him and the top leadership of the party. “Whenever the seats get finalised you will be officially intimated,” the former RJD MP from Buxar told TOI over the phone on Thursday. Sources said RJD was considering to fight 135-140 seats leaving 45-50 seats for Congress. Congress state in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil dismissed the talk about 45 to 55 seats. “Do not go by the rumours. Exercise on deciding the seats to be contested by each alliance partner is still going on, and we will let everyone know about it at the appropriate time,” he said. However, state Congress research committee chief Anand Madhab said his party would not compromise for anything less than 80 seats. Sources said Congress has sent a list of 100 seats to the party high command as well as former president Rahul Gandhi on which it intends to contest. However, VIP chief Mukesh Sahni has stunned everyone by revealing that his party intended to fight 25 seats. “This is technically important for us. If we don’t contest on these seats, we will lose our party symbol in the coming election. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has assured to give a respectable number of seats to the VIP,” the party president said. Sources, however, said that RJD was keen to give only 8-10 seats to the VIP. “We have staked a claim for more seats as HAM(S) has already left the alliance, and the seats which were supposed to go to HAM(S) should get distributed among small parties in the alliance,” another leader of VIP said. Similarly, RLSP is to get 23-25 seats. Upendra Kushwaha, who appeared not unsatisfied with the number of seats said, “Hum NDA ko harane ke liye jahar ka ghut bhi pine ko taiyyar hai (I am ready to drink poison to defeat NDA).” The left parties—CPI and CPI(M)--have exerted pressure on RJD to sort out the issue of seat-sharing at the earliest. CPI state secretary and former MLA Ram Naresh Pandey said, “Both the CPI and CPI(M) have submitted separate lists of seats (they wished to contest) to RJD state president Jagadanand Singh.” The list wrapped in a closed envelope was handed over to the RJD chief on August 27, two days after the leaders of the two parties called on him and announced to fight the elections in alliance with GA. The list contains the names of seats where the Left parties have vote base. “We hope that a respectable number of seats will come into the kitty of the Left,” Pandey added. Sources, however, said the CPI and the CPI(M) are likely to get three to five seats each. The CPI-ML (Liberation) may get 12-15 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-seat-sharing-talks-gather-pace/articleshow/77917474.cms||Ramashankar
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Air India applies for West Bengal nod to operate flights between Kolkata and London twice a week||KOLKATA: Air India has applied to the Bengal government for clearance of the proposed twice-a-week direct flight between Kolkata and London. The civil aviation ministry had on Wednesday announced the flights from September 16 to October 24 under the aegis of Vande Bharat Mission. Buoyed by the AI flight proposal, Emirates on Thursday announced relief flights between Dubai and Kolkata on September 16, 23 and 30, which are subject to approval by the state government. An AI official said the airline had submitted the schedule for the London-Kolkata and return flights to the state and had sought its clearance to operate the 12 pairs of flights. Though the state has not reverted yet, sources said the flights were likely to be approved with the rider that all arriving passengers test negative prior to boarding. The travel-trade industry is also hopeful that the state will approve the Vande Bharat flights as they view them as a precursor to restoration of regular AI flights on the sector. “Everyone, right from the CM to the chief secretary to travel agents’ associations in Kolkata have been pushing for a direct flight to London for years. We hope the opportunity is not squandered,” said a travel agent. The airline has already started getting bookings for the flights in both Kolkata and London. Bengalis living in the UK are particularly excited about the prospect of a direct connection and many are considering a quick trip to Kolkata ahead of Durga Puja. While the London-Kolkata flights are proposed on Wednesday and Saturday, the return flights are on Thursday and Sunday. Emirates said it wanted to operate three relief flights between Dubai and Kolkata in September. The flights have to follow the SOP of all Kolkata-bound passengers testing Covid-negative before boarding the flight. With the airline providing links to all parts of the world from its hub in Dubai, the airline is hopeful that it will help Indians stranded elsewhere to fly to Kolkata and also help students and others with long-term visa to travel to Europe or America.  AI has also announced its decision to launch twice-a-week direct services linking Kolkata and Surat from September 9. The flights will operate on Monday and Wednesday and the airline will deploy a 162-seater Airbus A320neo on the sector. This will boost domestic air traffic and meet a demand for better connectivity between Bengal and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ai-applies-for-state-nod-to-operate-flights-between-kolkata-and-london-twice-a-week/articleshow/77919016.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 4, 2020||Pune||YCM hospital to get non-Covid status back after review||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Civic officials will review the Covid situation in Pimpri Chinchwad before taking a call on converting the coronavirus-dedicated Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital into a non-covid facility. Additional commissioner of PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI that they were giving a thought to converting YCM hospital back to non-Covid facility, but would wait for a month before taking a final call. Times ViewThe Pimpri Chinchwad civic body should not rush in to free up YCM hospital from Covid duties. The experience of the jumbo facility in Pune is not very encouraging, with various complaints. The Covid unit at the YCM hospital is a settled facility with expert doctors readily available to attend to serious patients. When the number of cases are rising, it will be prudent to maintain the existing treatment facilities, especially because there is already an alternative arrangement for treatment of non-Covid patients.Rajendra Wabale, dean, YCM hospital, said, “The manpower, infrastructure and equipment at the new facilities (jumbo unit in Pimpri and health hub in Auto cluster) are quite new. They should be given ample time to settle. In fact, the YCM hospital will have to act as a helping hand in some cases for them.” Pawar’s surprise visitNCP chief Sharad Pawar paid a surprise visit to the PCMC office on Thursday evening. He also visited the Covid war room and donated 50 Remdesivir injections for the treatment of poor patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycm-hosp-to-get-non-covid-status-back-after-review/articleshow/77920534.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Ban on PUBG: Youngsters heartbroken, but parents elated in Bihar||PATNA: The ban on PUBG, a popular multiplayer digital battle game, has left thousands of youngsters disappointed in the state capital. Believed to be a household name, it is one of the 118 Chinese apps banned by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Wednesday. Immediately after the announcement, Sheikhpura resident Pratyush Raj called up his friends to confirm the news and hoped it was not true. “This is unbelievable. How can playing a harmless game on our cellphones jeopardize national security?,” he asked. IT professional Aditya Singh had started playing PUBG during his office breaks, but while working from home amid the Covid-19 lockdown, he became “addicted” to the game. “My colleagues and I had created a WhatsApp group where we discussed everything related to PUBG. Now, we do not know how we will kill time.” Earlier in June, the government had banned 59 apps followed by 47 others in July. While some gamers accepted the “bad news” silently, others have started exploring hacks to bypass the ban. “I will not give up easily and am trying to play PUBG by switching to a foreign server with the help of a virtual private network,” said Harsh Kumar, a Boring Road resident. Parents, on the other hand, have heaved a sigh of relief. The mother of a 20-year-old PUBG addict, Rani Singh from Punaichak, could not contain her happiness after the ban. She said, “My son used to stare at his cellphone screen constantly and avoided taking his meals while he was playing the game. I was really worried about his eyesight.” Another mom, Riya Sinha, decided to play it safe. “Although I was extremely happy with the ban, I did not express it in front of my 15-year-old son,” she told this newspaper. Meanwhile, psychologist Nandini Sinha pointed out that the sudden ban had left youngsters hooked to PUBG staring at a void. “Many of them were dependent on the game psychologically. There are chances that they may experience withdrawal symptoms such as irritability, fatigue and disturbance in sleeping pattern,” she said and urged parents to take utmost care of their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ban-on-pubg-youngsters-heartbroken-but-parents-elated/articleshow/77917799.cms||Arunima Lal
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Untreated sewage being released to 17 rivers in Karnataka: Pollution board||MYSURU: Untreated sewage water and effluents are being released directly to rivers in the state, reveals a letter by the Karnataka Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department. According to the letter, 17 rivers considered the lifeline for crores of people, are severely polluted. According to the authorities, in its letter to the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department, KSPCB has listed 17 rivers — Cauvery (Mysuru), Kabini (Kapila) in Mysuru, Lakshmana Tirtha (Mysuru), Tunga (Shivamogga/ Chikkamagalur), Bhadra (Shivamogga/ Chikkamagalur), Yagachi (Hassan), Shimsha (Hassan), Arkavati (Bengaluru), Kali (Uttara Kannada), Netravati and Kumaradhara (Dakshina Kannada), Malaprabha (Belagavi), Tunga Bhadra (Shivamogga, Davanagere, Ballari), Krishna, Bhima, and Kagina river in Kalaburgi district. The pollution control board has advised the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department to set up Sewage Treatment Plants ( STPs) in areas where these effluents are being directly released to rivers. Based on the communiqué, the department has asked the district panchayats concerned to take immediate action. Speaking to TOI, rural drinking water supply and sanitation department commissioner R Vishal said the chief executive officers (CEOs) of districts where this problem has been reported by KSPCB are advised to come up with Liquid Waste Management (LWM) plans to treat the effluents. “We are working on this issue,” he told TOI. According to the KSPCB report, 50km stretch of Cauvery river is polluted in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts while 9km stretch of Kabini (Kapila) river is polluted due to the sewage water in Mysuru district. The report pointed out that several town and rural administrative bodies are releasing the untreated effluents directly to the rivers causing water pollution. The KSPCB has shared drain locations, drain length and other details with the department which requires immediate attention to ensure untreated water is not released into the rivers. The board has also asked the department to submit a time bound action plan to resolve the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/untreated-sewage-being-released-to-17-rivers-in-ktaka-pollution-board/articleshow/77918447.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 4, 2020||Pune||Sealed zones in Pune municipal corporation limits increase by 8||PUNE: The corporation on Thursday increased the number of micro containment zones in the Pune civic limits to 74 from 66, declared on August 17 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The 74 micro containment zones over about 6sqkm is less than 3% of the total area in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s jurisdiction. The zones have been identified based on the detection of positive cases. The civic authorities and police will seal the identified areas. Of the 15 civic ward offices, the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has 11 micro containment zones. The Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward has eight micro containment zones as against two in the previous revision, while the Aundh-Baner ward has nine zones against one in the previous list. The micro containment zones in the Sinhagad Road ward increased to three from one. At the beginning of August, there were 87 micro containment zones in the PMC limits, which finally came down to 66. The shops in the containment zones would be open from 8am to 12pm and 5pm to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sealed-zones-in-pmc-limits-increase-by-8/articleshow/77920531.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||PUBG ban will do more good than harm, say experts||MANGALURU: The Centre’s decision to block 118 mobile applications, including popular gaming app PUBG will do only good to the Indian gaming industry and the youth, said cybersecurity expert Ananth Prabhu. “When TikTok was banned, we noticed a rise in withdrawal symptoms. This is likely to increase further with the PUBG mobile application ban. However, the ban will help to control unethical practices,” said Prabhu. “I have had several parents reaching out for help on realising that money — in some cases nearly Rs 20,000 — was debited from their credit cards, without their knowledge. On checking, we found that the many were utilised for in-app purchases made by their children. Most students don’t own credit cards and end up stealing credit card numbers and passwords from their parents and make purchases that would help in crossing game levels faster,” he said. Further, in PUBG, the dopamine rush happens when they are rewarded for each level. “The gaming industry is a multi-billion-dollar industry which is mostly controlled by China. Cybersecurity is a major challenge, as a player ends up giving certain critical permissions of the device he/she is using and at the same time talking to strangers. Since most of the games are highly violent and has an impact on the brain in the long-run, a ban is welcome, said Prabhu, adding that there is no problem in engaging in neuro exercise or games or those that improve students’ overall performance. Welcoming the government move, Indian gaming and sports video app Rooter’s CEO and founder Piyush said, “We welcome this move by our government to safeguard Indian users’ data and protect the country against the potential threat these apps pose to our national security. This ban opens up tremendous opportunities for the Indian gaming ecosystem to align their businesses with the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat strategy and also enable gaming and eSports platforms to grow faster.” Stating that the company anticipated the ban and kept investing in games, he said, “Most of the users and content creators on our platform engage in games other than PUBG. In the last two and a half months, Rooter has witnessed unprecedented growth by adding nearly 3 million users. This ban will further fuel the growth,” he added. Sanjay Kaushik, managing director, Netrika Consulting India Pvt Ltd, said the move is primarily due to increased concerns over data security. It’s a long awaited and welcome step by the government and most parents will be happy with the ban of mobile PUBG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pubg-ban-will-do-more-good-than-harm-say-experts/articleshow/77918379.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Medical, dental colleges to give priority to final year students||MANGALURU: Medical colleges in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada have decided to give priority to final year MBBS and BDS students once campuses resume academic activities. The pandemic has affected calendar of events of a dozen medical, dental colleges in undivided Dakshina Kannada. Once the centre allows the resumption of academic activities at higher education institutions, the colleges will give priority to final year MBBS, BDS students. “This is to make sure that final year students’ internships or their future study plans such as taking NEET-PG or higher education abroad are not affected,” said an official of a private medical college. Dr Dr Dilip G Naik, pro-vice chancellor, MAHE (Mangaluru campus), who earlier served as dean of Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Mangaluru, says, “Once the college reopens, examinations will be conducted for final year BDS students based on Dental Council of India guidelines, mostly likely before the end of this year. At present they are our priority.” The final year BDS students (2016 batch) were supposed to complete their final examinations in August and commence the one-year mandatory internship in September. This is delayed as students have returned home due to the pandemic. A few BDS students (2015) batch, who were interning have also returned home when the lockdown was announced in March. A final year MBBS student from MAHE, who started a new academic year in March said they have already spent six months with online classes, where theory portions were completed last week. “We have hardly four months left for the final examinations - scheduled in February. Before which, we are required to finish our practical quota, which is crucial in final year MBBS. We request Medical Council of India to give some relaxation and make amends to help student fraternity,” said the student, who is eager to return to the campus. Dr Venkataraya Prabhu, dean, Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru told TOI there was no issue for students who are currently doing internships, which will go on smoothly. Final year students who commenced their academic year in March are likely to face trouble in case college reopening is further delayed. A controller of examination official of a private medical college said the Medical Council of India and Dental Council of India must relax some norms this academic year including that of internship. “If not, the future of budding medicos will be jeopardized,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/medical-dental-colleges-to-give-priority-to-final-yr-students/articleshow/77918683.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Administration to collectively crackdown on unscientific transportation of debris||MANGALURU: Disparate wings of district administration are collectively set to crack down on a seemingly innocuous practice of vehicles transporting construction debris, especially mud. Part of this collective effort are the revenue department, Mangaluru City Police and Mangaluru City Corporation who have decided to join hands in addressing the issue that poses danger to lives and limbs of motorists and is a potential source of dust pollution. Acknowledging concerns in this regard, deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra told TOI that he will instruct commissioners of city police and City Corporation to check the practice. “We will collectively put in place a verifiable mechanism where transportation of debris is done as per norms,” Dr Rajendra said adding the urban local bodies and the city police and even DK district police will play their role in addressing the issue. Vikash Kumar Vikash, city police commissioner said once a vehicle is on the road, police will take action against traffic violations, including transportation of construction debris that spills onto the roads. When the attention of Akshy Sridhar, commissioner, MCC to the lapses in unscientific transportation of debris from both private and government construction sites was drawn, Sridhar said he too will get the issue checked at the earliest. Former mayor Diwakar Kadri said there are well-laid out norms for transportation of debris of all types, construction debris included. However, with no proper supervision by the authorities concerned in place, builders and contractors flout the same with impunity, he said. “City police should spot and initiate action against violators using their network of CCTV cameras and this should not be used merely for general traffic violations,” he said. Mud that spills on to the roads turns slushy during rains and is a potential driving risk for motorists, especially two-wheelers. “I almost skidded when driving my scooter on one such mud splattered stretch of road from Urwa Market junction to Lady Hill,” said Sharath Kumar, resident of Gandhinagar. The mud that dries up when sun is out, throws up copious amounts of dust when vehicles pass over it or when scattered by gust of wind, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/admin-to-collectively-crackdown-on-unscientific-transportation-of-debris/articleshow/77918594.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 4, 2020||Hubballi||Excise department to crack down on illicit liquor biz||DHARWAD: The district administration and excise department are determined to end the menace of illegal liquor business in the district, said deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil. Chairing a meeting of district-level standing committee to tackle the illicit liquor business here on Thursday, he said continuous raids on hooch producing kilns by excise officials has resulted in a drastic reduction in illegal activities and action against them will continue. He said there were 29 hooch producing units in the district a decade ago and now the number has come down to two. The business is still alive in Annigeri and Tadasinakoppa and that needs to be curtailed, he said. The DC said measures should be taken to identify the families engaged in illicit liquor business and they should be rehabilitated with alternative legitimate sources of income. Deputy commissioner of excise Shivanagouda Patil said Rs 284.4 crore has been collected in the district till the end of July 2020 in the financial year from liquor sales from 276 licence holders. Police officials present at the meeting said the department will provide necessary assistance to the excise department in curbing the illicit liquor business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/excise-dept-to-crack-down-on-illicit-liquor-biz/articleshow/77918789.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||Garment companies shift from China to India||CHENNAI: When German leisure wear brand Marc O’Polo called its Indian vendor Warsaw International to place an order for supply of some jerseys, proprietor Raja Shanmugam knew this order was different. The same product was supplied by his competitor in China to Marc O’Polo all these years. “We have a huge order. It’s a litmus test for us and the country. If we crack it, then gates open for more global brands to increase their India sourcing,” Shanmugam said. “This season (normally begins September 1), we expect a lot more sourcing from India as brands realise that they need to look at alternatives. We only wish that the 6-month moratorium is extended as we are in very early days of restart and we need handholding and support from the government,” Shanmugam, who also heads the Tirupur Exporters Association, said. “I expect a 25% increase in sourcing this season.” Read AlsoIndo-China trade relations in focus as border face-off intensifiesIndia banned 118 more mostly Chinese apps on Wednesday, a move that could intensify simmering tensions between the two countries following a recent clash at a disputed Himalayan border site, and raising concerns about the longer-term impact of $82 billion of trade.P Nataraj, MD of KPR Mills, a leading garment exporter and among the largest yarn exporters from India, echoed similar views. “Our buyers have told us that this year sourcing from India will be much higher than last. We will know about the actual size of increased orders in a couple of weeks. We are just opening up after the lockdown,” he said. Similarly, Carter’s — once the world’s largest baby wear brand — has asked SP Apparels in neighbouring Avinashi in western Tamil Nadu to work on developing a new fabric (using man-made fibres) as it wants to shift significantly from China to India. “Carter’s is working with us to develop a new fabric. If it clicks, then it’s a huge opportunity,” said P Sunder Rajan, MD of SP Apparels. “Beating China is tough as they have the scale, but looks like a beginning has been made this time. We will need a lot of support on labour, financial and infrastructure from the government,” Rajan added. Industry body Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) too is chipping in. Read AlsoSituation along China border serious, Indian Army taken ample precautionary steps: Army Chief MM NaravaneArmy chief MM Naravane, who is visiting Leh to review the ongoing border tension with China, on Friday said the situation along the LAC is "serious" and added the precautionary steps taken by the Indian Army will help in maintaining the situation. Naravane, who arrived in Ladakh on Thursday said the“We are in negotiations with Taiwanese and Korean entities for a joint venture, which will work on developing the fabric with man-made fibre. We are very strong in natural fibres, but the opportunities in man-made fibre is humongous. We need assistance, which is why we are looking at joint ventures for fabric development. The talks are progressing well,” said A Sakthivel, chairman of AEPC. The contours of the discussion are to get the fabric ready for sports wear and lounge wear. Garment exports from Tirupur dropped to Rs 25,000 crore for the year ended March 2020 from Rs 26,000 crore in the previous year as the Covid pandemic wiped away most March exports. The target was to export garments worth Rs 28,000 crore. Domestic sales were flat at Rs 25,000 crore for the fiscal. The town employs 6 lakh workers, half of whom are from other states. Watch Garment companies move over from China to India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/garment-cos-shift-from-china-to-india/articleshow/77918700.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
September 4, 2020||Patna||Lalu Prasad’s nephew accused of demanding extortion money||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s nephew Nagendra Yadav has been accused of demanding Rs 15 lakh extortion money and stopping construction work of an apartment in Ranjan Path off Gola Road in Patna. The builder, Manish Kumar Singh, has lodged a written complaint with Rupaspur police station on Tuesday. Yadav has also submitted a written application against Singh alleging that he was illegally constructing an apartment on plot of land belonging to a housing society in violation of its rules. SHO Chandra Bhanu said the matter was being investigated. He said Yadav’s residence is near the construction site. “We are waiting for instructions from senior authorities to take further action. I have asked Singh as well as Yadav to furnish additional documents to understand the matter,” he said. SHO, quoting Singh, said he had purchased 5 kattha land from a resident of Ranjan Path for building an apartment. “Singh alleged that Yadav was not allowing him to construct the apartment and demanded Rs 15 lakh extortion money,” he said. “Yadav said only a private house should be built there. That’s why he, along with others, got the construction work stopped,” the SHO said. Body recovered: Police on Wednesday recovered the body of one Deepak Kumar alias Golu (23) from road number 23 of Rajeev Nagar. He was missing from his residence at Haripur under Digha police station area since August 30. Digha police station SHO Manoj Kumar Singh Deepak was murdered and his body was hidden under the pile of grass. He said Golu worked as a driver in a private school. FIR against Pappu: Former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav and 150 others were booked on a written complaint of executive magistrate AK Singh submitted with Gandhi Maidan police station for taking out an unauthorized procession from Kargil Chowk on Tuesday. SHO Sunil Kumar said a procession was taken out by unaided teachers and Yadav joined it. He said the procession was stopped at Children’s Park near Gandhi Maidan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalus-nephew-accused-of-demanding-extortion-money/articleshow/77898310.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Record 7 Covid deaths in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: The district registered record seven Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the toll past the 100-mark. Of the seven deceased — six men and one woman in the age group of 40-82 — three came from the city while one each from Babhlgaon, Pusad, Ner and Wani. The day also saw 124 fresh cases — 76 men and 48 women. The highest number of 76 cases — 45 men and 31 women — came from Digras. Twenty-four patients have recovered and discharged. According to sources, there are 695 patients in Covid care centres, 243 in home quarantine while 196 are admitted to GMC isolation wards. A total of 186 swab samples were sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-7-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77916754.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Record 4 Covid deaths in Wardha, 89 new cases||Wardha: The district reported record four Covid deaths in a day, while 89 fresh cases were detected on Thursday. The day also saw 27 patients getting discharge from hospitals. Two men (58 and 46) from Wardha, a 70-year-old man from Ashti and 62-year-old man from Hingani village in Selu tehsil died during treatment. A total of 771 reports were received. The patients who tested positive included 51 male and 38 female. Cases came from Wardha (38), Deoli (11), Ashti (10), Hinganghat (8), Selu (7), Samudrapur (6), Karanja (5) and Arvi (4). The Covid count of the district reached 1,294. After 808 recoveries and 29 deaths, there are 357 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-4-covid-deaths-in-wardha-89-new-cases/articleshow/77916759.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man run over by speeding AMTS bus at Iskcon Crossroads||A young biker dead after accident with AMC bus near Isckon circle in ahmedabad on Thursday,03,September,2020 PHoto Yogesh ChawdaAhmedabad: A 26-year-old man from Dhrangdhra taluka of Surendranagar district died after being run over by a speeding AMTS (Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service) bus at Iskcon Crossroads, SG Road, on Thursday morning.Bashitkhan Pathan, resident of Rampuri Road near Kumbharpara in Dhrangdhra, was riding his motorcycle when the accident took place. The collision was so severe that Bashitkhan, whose head came under the front wheel of the bus, died on the spot. His helmet was shattered.An FIR filed by the accident victim’s father, Bahadurkhan, 58, who works in a private firm, states that he learned about the accident from his brother-in-law, Isu Chauhan, who asked Bahadurkhan to rush to the Iskcon Crossroads as Bashitkhan had met an accidentBahadurkhan and his family found the broken motorcycle of Bashitkhan near the AMTS bus number 501 which runs between Ujala Circle and Vaishnodevi Circle. He came to know that Bashitkhan was moving from Pakwan Crossroads to Iskcon Crossroads on his motorcycle at around 10.15am when the AMTS bus ran over him.SG Highway-2 division traffic police registered a case of negligent driving and causing death along with charges of rash driving and relevant provisions of Motor Vehicles Act against the driver of bus number 501 and began an investigation.The accident raised questions about the way AMTS buses are driven. On August 28, an AMTS bus on the same route had fallen into a construction pit near Vaishnodevi Circle and lives of nearly 50 passengers were put at risk and three suffered injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-run-over-by-speeding-amts-bus-at-iskcon-crossroads/articleshow/77919175.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||Tencent stock dips 2% after India bans PUBG||Bengaluru: Chinese internet giant Tencent saw its shares trading down by over 2% on the Hong Kong stock exchange following India’s ban on its popular game PUBG, along with 117 other Chinese apps. Tencent shares closed at just over $69 per share on Thursday, some 2% down than nearly $71 the day before. This would translate into a market cap loss of $13-14 billion for the Chinese internment major. The drop in share prices is linked to India being PUBG’s largest market in terms of user base. India is not a high-revenue market for the game, but the large base of users here is an advantage for the game and its investors. Tencent owns around 10% stake in PUBG’s parent firm Bluehole. July data from Sensor Tower, which tracks app data, showed India was the largest country for PUBG Mobile downloads, generating about 175 million installs or 24% of the total. Among the newly banned apps, others of Tencent have also been blocked, including PUBG Mobile Lite, WeChat Reading, Tencent Weiyun, and WeChat Work. This is the second time Tencent’s share pieces have taken a hit recently due to geopolitcal tensions resulting in large economies banning its apps. Last month, its shares initially tanked 10% on the Hong Kong stock exchange when the US government announced its ban on WeChat, a super-app which is used for various use-cases like messaging and payments. “It’s (the PUBG ban) is having a good effect on local gaming startups. They are getting a chance to grow and innovate currently, but it wouldn’t have a noticeable impact on China’s economy. The recent developments are good for India, but won’t hit China as hard just yet,” a venture capital investor, who has invested in gaming firms, said. Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at market research firm Forrester, said the Tencent share price drop was linked to India’s ban and the country being a large mobile gaming market, which has been growing strongly. “This is something users are willing to pay for, over a period of time and don’t think of it as free-like content,” he said. But he cautioned over how the government actions might play out in the coming months. “Earlier, there was a hope that things might settle down in a few months. There is even more concern around the (Chinese) hardware companies now, if the government shifts the direction towards them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tencent-stock-dips-2-after-india-bans-pubg/articleshow/77920577.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||Bank boards to clear loan rejig by Sept 15||MUMBAI: The government has asked banks to obtain board approval for restructuring of corporate loans by September 15 after the K V Kamath-led committee submits its report in the first week. This was communicated to bank chiefs in their review meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Most banks have obtained board approval for restructuring of retail loans. The finance minister held a review meeting with the heads of all leading banks and finance companies through video conferencing on Thursday to review their preparedness for restructuring loans of borrowers that have come under stress related to Covid-19. In the meeting, the FM said that Covid-related distress must not impact the lenders’ assessment of their credit-worthiness. Banks have also been asked to be proactive and reach out to stressed borrowers who are eligible for restructuring. According to lenders, the eligibility of corporate borrowers can be determined only after the Kamath committee submits its report on the extent to which a loan in a particular sector can be restructured. Banks will soon upload on their websites FAQs on the resolution framework, and regularly update the same. In the meeting, lenders said that they have put their retail resolution policies in place and are in the process of identifying and reaching out to eligible borrowers. According to banks, loans in hospitality, toll road projects and retail malls are facing maximum stress and some may require deep restructuring. In a statement issued after the meeting, the government said that lenders have been advised to try and extend the maximum possible relief to borrowers before the festive season. It added that an amount of nearly Rs 1.6 lakh crore has been sanctioned as on August 31 under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, out of which more than Rs 1.1 lakh crore has also been disbursed. Under the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 2.0, bonds/CPs (commercial papers) of Rs 25,055 crore have been approved for purchase by public sector banks. The FM also exhorted the lenders to proactively respond to needs of companies and businesses, as well as those of individual borrowers, and to spearhead the efforts for rebuilding businesses desperate for help owing to Covid-19 distress, the statement added. Sitharaman appreciated the efforts of banks and NBFCs during the lockdown in effective implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and the Aatmanirbhar Bharat-related measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-boards-to-clear-loan-rejig-by-sept-15/articleshow/77920442.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ISBT likely to become operational by October||PATNA: The state-of-the-art interstate bus terminus (ISBT) at Bairiya Chak on Patna-Gaya road is in its final stage of construction and would become operational by October. “Of the four blocks, construction of arrival (block A), departure (block B) and connector between the first two blocks (block C) is almost complete. We are now giving finishing touches to these blocks. Construction of block D, which will house commercial and entertainment facilities for the passengers, would be completed soon,” Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCO) managing director Raman Kumar said on Thursday. He added, “We are currently in the process of installing electrical lines and setting up fuel stations inside the premises. In order to avoid overcrowding, separate terminals for arrival and departure have been established. There will also be a lift facility.” The construction work of the luxurious terminal had started in December 2017 on an area of 25 acres with an estimated expenditure of Rs 300 crore. The nodal agency for the project is BUIDCO and it is being executed by Mumbai-based Shapoorji Pallonji Private Limited. “We have expedited the construction work since lockdown with all the precautionary measures. Our aim is to make the bus terminal operational as soon as possible,” Raman Kumar said. The terminal will also have modern facilities like high-speed Wi-Fi, multilevel car parking, premium waiting lounges and shopping complex. The terminal will also have dormitory facilities for accommodation of bus drivers. The dormitory-cum-workshop station for drivers will accommodate 200 drivers at a time. Transport department officials said the ISBT would handle 1,500 buses per day. While there are 73 bus bays for departure, 70 bays are allotted for arrivals. Additionally, 51 parking bays have also been added for idle vehicles. Three workshops will also be there for the cleaning, maintenance and servicing of the buses. For the convenience of passengers, there will also be separate pickup and drop zones for private, prepaid private vehicles, prepaid autorickshaws and app-based cabs. According to sources, the ISBT will act as a transit point for buses running between Bihar and neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/isbt-likely-to-become-operational-by-october/articleshow/77917864.cms||Arunima Lal
September 4, 2020||Patna||Patna accounts for 15% of total Covid-19 cases in Bihar||PATNA: Patna has accounted for over 15% of the total Covid-19 cases in the state so far, according to data shared by the health department. Overall, 12 districts in the state have so far accounted for 50% of total Covid cases in the state. The caseload on north Bihar districts has increased manifold in the last few days. Of the 1,42,156 Covid cases registered in the state till Thursday, 21,833 were from Patna. Other districts with large number of cases included Muzaffarpur (6,226), Bhagalpur (5,782), Begusarai (5,486), East Champaran (5,269), Madhubani (4,905), Gaya (4,779), Katihar (4,723), Nalanda (4,699), Rohtas (4,496) Saran (4,460) and Purnia (4,263). Asked about rising cases in Patna, divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said, “Patna has high population density and it is also an urban centre. Even other urban centres of the country have witnessed large number of cases. Testing has been increased manifold in the district to detect Covid cases.” Patna DM Kumar Ravi said despite rise in Covid cases, essential activities could not be suspended. “Transportation and services offered by police, civic body and administration employees are essential services. Many of these people also visit hospitals and are at the risk of contracting the virus and passing on to others. Also, Patna is the hub of commercial activities where movement of people is large. We just cannot stop activities at fruit markets or wholesale medicine market,” he added. Officials said Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur districts also witness large scale commercial activities, leading to increase in number of cases. Of late, north Bihar districts are also registering large number of Covid cases. The last one week’s data shows that after Patna, districts like Araria, Madhubani, Purnia, East Champaran and Kishanganj account for large number of cases. For instance, Araria, which had 736 active cases till Wednesday, registered 673 cases in the past one week. Same goes with Madhubani, which witnessed 698 cases in a week, Purnia 570 cases and East Champaran 687 cases. These districts are among the top 10 districts with the highest number of active cases in Bihar. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said since testing has been ramped up in the state, cases are being reported from all districts. “The idea is to test more samples and curb the spread of the virus,” he added. Madhubani Medical College principal Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said thanks to awareness even in the rural areas, people are voluntarily coming up for tests. “As a result, number of cases has increased in the region,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-accounts-for-15-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-bihar/articleshow/77917839.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 4, 2020||Patna||Fish trader shot dead in Bihar's Vaishali||PATNA: A fish trader, Amarjit Sahni (42), was shot dead by criminals at a tea stall at Patepur village under the Kartaha police station area in Vaishali district around 8pm on Wednesday night. Another villager, Vijay Sahni (25), who was sitting beside Amarjit, also received gunshot injury in the attack. The two were rushed to a local hospital were the doctors declared Amarjit brought dead. Vijay is still undergoing treatment. Police said Amarjit was the secretary of Fish Traders’ Association of Lalganj block. “Amarjit was a former Maoist who had joined mainstream of society more than a decade back,” the police added. SHO of Kartaha police station Santosh Kumar Pankaj said two motorcycle-borne criminals reached the tea stall and opened fire on Amarjit. “Vijay received bullet injury on his right thigh,” he added. The SHO said Amarjit had an old enmity with another former Maoist, Rakesh Sao, of Patepur. “He was probably killed over the old rivalry. Rakesh has fled the village along with his family members,” the SHO said. Pankaj said earlier also, Rakesh had hatched conspiracy to kill Amarjit. “An year ago, criminals had attacked Amarjit in Vaishali. Rakesh’s involvement had come to light that time too,” he said. The SHO added Amarjit’s body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. “No written complaint has so far been registered by Amarjit’s family members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fish-trader-shot-dead-in-vaishali/articleshow/77917702.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Now, use govt app to report waterlogging||PATNA: The urban development and housing department (UDHD) recently launched a mobile app, ‘Jal Jamao Jankari’, to help people send pictures of the area hit by waterlogging in Patna to the department. The app is also available on Google Playstore. UDHD secretary Anand Kishor said through this mobile app, the civic body would solve the waterlogging-related problems. “People will have to register on this app to give information about waterlogging. They can upload photographs of the affected area. The complaint will be forwarded to officials concerned through the combat cell of the civic body and the complainant will get SMS on their registered numbers,” he said. He added, “The officials will update the complainants about the action in phase manner and they would also upload the picture once the water is drained out from the area. This app is specifically for the residents of Patna.” Besides complaints, people can also give suggestions on ways to end waterlogging. Residents of the city appreciated the initiative. Rashmi Gupta, a resident of Rajvanshi Nagar said, “Whenever it rains, we face waterlogging problem. The water remained stagnant for more than eight hours after the downpour on the night of September 1. Thanks to this mobile app, we can now register complaints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-use-govt-app-to-report-waterlogging/articleshow/77917657.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 4, 2020||Patna||Pupils make digital cards for teachers||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, schoolchildren in the city are planning virtual surprises for their mentors on the occasion of Teachers’ Day which will be celebrated on Saturday. Class XII student of Notre Dame Academy, Manaswita Verma, told this newspaper on Thursday that all the students had prepared a 17-minute video for their teachers with photographs, videos and speeches. “We will also perform a skit, dance and song and conduct a question-answer session. Our principal Sr Mary Jessi AC will upload a 40-minute video, christened ‘Virtual Extravaganza’, to the school website on September 5,” Manaswita said. Students of St Michael’s High School will organize a formal attire live party for their teachers. “We will make the teachers play a game in which they will identify the names of films with the help of clues. There will also be a rapid round game whose winners will get free Netflix subscription,” Alina S Joe, vice-president of the students’ council, said and added that the students of the primary wing would recite poems. The students of Litera Valley School will connect with their teachers through a mobile app and organise live games for them. Virtual celebrations have begun at St Xavier’s High School with a ‘Teachers’ Appreciation Week’ programme. According to principal Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ, videos about the struggles and success stories of teachers are uploaded as part of the event. On Teachers’ Day, the students will present an array of live shows through a mobile app. International School directress Farhat Hasan said, “Our students have planned a surprise for their teachers and are compiling a video that will be uploaded to the school website.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pupils-make-digital-cards-for-teachers/articleshow/77917825.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Early entry, faster flyer screening ensure better airport experience||KOLKATA: A concerted effort by multiple agencies on Thursday streamlined the passage of flyers through Kolkata airport and prevented a repeat of Tuesday’s chaos when massive queues at the entrance had led to nearly 200 passengers missing their flights. A few — all migrant labourers — did miss flights on Thursday, but it was because they did not come in early enough for the web check-in prior to entering the terminal. Altogether, 94 flights operated on Thursday and 16,000-odd people flew out of Kolkata airport, up from the 93 flights and 13,633 passengers on Tuesday. The airport operator improvised and converted an entrance to the international wing for use by domestic passengers. It also allowed passengers who arrived way before time to enter the terminal. Manpower was deployed to manage the queues and weed out those who were not carrying sufficient documents required to enter the terminal. Additional help-desks were set up to guide those without smartphones to fill up a declaration form that they weren’t from containment zones. Airlines staff helped passengers with web check-in and CISF personnel processed two flyers at a time at each gate instead of one. The average peak-hour wait time per person outside the airport dropped from 45-60 minutes on Tuesday to 5-10 minutes on Thursday.The measures were chalked out at a brainstorming session on Wednesday. “I had heard many passengers were stuck in queues and missed flights on Tuesday. I didn’t want to take a chance and came four hours before my fight at 11.30am. But I was pleasantly surprised as there was hardly any queue. It took me just five minutes to enter,” said Vikas Singh from Barrackpore who flew to Ahmedabad on Thursday. Like Singh, several others had turned up at the airport with time to spare, and nearly all of them breezed through. “Generally, we allow a passenger to enter the terminal a maximum of three hours before the departure. But on Thursday, passengers whose fights were at 7am started arriving from 2am. Seeing so many passengers outside, we started allowing them from 2am itself,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. The only problem happened with a handful of first-time flyers who had arrived without the Aarogya Setu app and e-boarding pass. Though airline staff were deployed to help complete the formalities, there wasn’t sufficient time to complete the process before the check-in was shut. Crowding inside the terminal was also better managed on Thursday with deployment of additional people to act as floor marshals. “All stakeholders played their part in ensuring smooth functioning on Thursday. AAI duty managers were vigilant from the night to ensure there was no crowding and passengers were not harassed. Airline officials deployed manpower outside the terminal to help passengers in the queue and keep the movement smooth. CISF personnel worked faster. In addition, two automatic tray retrieval system (ATRS) machines commissioned from Wednesday helped in speedy screening of bags,” Bhattacharjee said. Airline officials said all major flights flew out with capacity load. “We will have to follow the same model in future,” said an official of a private airline in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/early-entry-faster-flyer-screening-ensure-better-airport-experience/articleshow/77918994.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Panchayat polls: Postal ballots for Covid-19 patients to vote||Bengaluru: The State Election Commission (SEC) on Thursday issued the SOP for conducting elections to 5,800 gram panchayats with a specific mention of a postal ballots for all those who are positive for Covid-19, because of which they would be unable to cast their vote. With the terms of 3,000 GPs ending in July and of 2,800 GPs in August, an administrator was appointed to each of the GPs. The elections to the GPs was initially postponed due the pandemic. With the Central Election Commission (CEC) deciding to conduct the polls, the SEC is going with it. The poll dates and calendar of events will be released late next week. The 10-page SOP of the SEC reads: “As Covid-19 patients are unable to exercise their rights — they may be under home quarantine or in a hospital — the SEC will be issuing a separate guideline for postal ballots to allow them to vote.” The SOP also directs the candidates against having public gatherings or using loudspeakers to canvas during their campaigning, “but can pay door-to-door visits with least number of people around”. On the polling day, the SEC said, the voters will have to mandatorily wear face masks and be screened for temperature and follow other Covid-19 norms, including the use of sanitisers. People will be asked to maintain social distancing while standing in queues to vote. On the results day too, the SEC has banned processions or crowding of people to celebrate candidates’ victory. It has asked the candidates to take their certificates and leave the counting centres immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/panchayat-polls-postal-ballots-for-covid-19-patients-to-vote/articleshow/77916836.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Doctors turn innovators to fight Covid-19||MANGALURU: In the wake of the pandemic, several young doctors attached to the Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) have turned innovators. They showcased their skills at the Manipal Covid Challenge, organised by the Innovation Centre, MAHE and in collaboration with KMC, Manipal and Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT). Dr Aayush Poddar, intern, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Mangaluru, supported by a team of experts, has developed a digital triaging system, which is a Quick Response (QR) code that provides patients immediate access to a digital screening form. This is an attempt to reduce the crowd at the hospital entrances and waiting areas. Speaking to TOI, Dr Poddar said, “A patient can use their smartphones and scan this QR code and subsequently fill in the form. The QR code provides a portal to screen patients based on their symptoms and travel history. Individual responses generate a unique outcome in the form of a colour-coded gate pass. The QR code linked triage system solves the problem of crowding and congestion, limiting unnecessary interactions and thereby the spread of Covid-19. We introduced the system to the dental college fraternity, who wanted the forms to be available in local languages and to check whether the user has logged on to the Aarogya Setu app.” The team includes Dr Ramya Shenoy and Dr Madhura Sen, faculty, MCODS, Mangalore; Dr Prashansa Bansal, intern, KMC Manipal; Ramya Lokesh, faculty; Sushant Lenka, Kush Gupta, students, Manipal Institute of Technology and Rakesh, deputy manager KMC Hospitals, Mangaluru. Device to fight cross contamination of infection Dr Mahima Mishra, intern, MCODS, Mangaluru, currently stuck in Siliguri in West Bengal due to the pandemic was selected as the winner for her project Aerovacuator in the apps, devices, and web category of the Manipal Covid Challenge. Aerovacuator is a low-cost negative pressure, extra-oral, and an aerosol suction device to effectively capture and safely eliminate the aerosols. Dr Mahima said, “The portable device aims to reduce the risk of cross-contamination of infection between dental auxiliaries and patients in a dental office. Aerovacuator filters the captured aerosols through primary high-efficiency particulate air and disinfects with UV-C light. The waterline is also flushed with 70% isopropyl alcohol for decontamination. Components of the Aerovacuator are detachable and made up of stainless steel, which is easy to autoclave.” Mentored by Dr Arun Shanbhag, chief innovation officer, MAHE, she said as research on the device continues, she hopes to present the idea before the ministry of human resource development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/doctors-turn-innovators-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/77918723.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Academy formally approaches consortium for Tulu Unicode script||MANGALURU: In a renewed focus on releasing Tulu script in a universally acceptable Unicode, Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy has moved the Unicode consortium. The move comes at a time when various independent efforts are on to develop a computer adaptable script. Once it gets the nod from the consortium, the academy will convene a meeting of scholars to sort out vexing issues over how letters in the existing script need to be presented. The academy has appointed UB Pavanaja, a Bengaluru-based specialist in Indian languages and IT as its point man to deal with the consortium to take forward the process. Pavanaja, who has extensive interactions with the consortium since he attended their conference in 2001 had mooted the Tulu Unicode project in 2006 and explained its relevance to then academy president Vaman Nandavar. Pavanaja told TOI that he has sent a preliminary character set of the Tulu script to the consortium, which in turn has sought detailed documents for verification. Since most of these documents are in Kannada, the process of drafting the same in English is on, Pavanaja said, acknowledging the mandate given by then president Janaki Brahmawar to initiate the project during her tenure in 2014. Extensive meetings held then with scholars, past presidents of the academy had helped arrive at a broad consensus on the shape of alphabets of the language, Pavanaja said. The character list so finalised has been submitted to the Consortium, which incidentally way back in 2004 had blocked the pre-character set for the language, he said. AC Bhandary, who succeeded Janaki and Dayanand G Kathalsar, his successor too has contributed their mite, he noted. Unicode effort has received independent backing from Kerala Tulu Academy, department of Kannada, University of Mumbai and scholars who have worked for Tulu. Even Dravidian University, Kuppam too will be brought on board this effort, Pavanaja said. Dayanand told TOI that the academy has taken the lead in ensuring Tulu is on the Unicode platform. “The academy thus far depended on individual efforts with mixed results,” he said, adding the academy has brought Tulu organisations, scholars and all stakeholders on board. The effort could take at least a year to materialise, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/academy-formally-approaches-consortium-for-tulu-unicode-script/articleshow/77918668.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Sri Krishna vesha competition to take place online||MANGALURU: From purely local to national to global—this summarises the way in which Sri Krishna vesha competition— that Kalkura Foundation is organising on September 10, will pan out this year. A simple event of getting young children to dress in the likeness of Lord Krishna, that started 35 years ago in Kadri area of the city with eight children, will go global, given the dictates of the new normal that the world lives in due to the pandemic. Organised with the intention to develop religious and cultural awareness and to highlight hidden talents in children, the foundation has been organising this event in the city for the past 35 years. A big ticket event that people across faiths awaited eagerly, which used to be held at the Sri Manjunatha Temple precincts in Kadri, has been moved online with individual homes replacing the dozen-odd stages set up at the temple for the event. The foundation has created 30 Gmail ids for as many categories it has announced this year, with ‘Vriksha Krishna’ and ‘Thottila Krishna’ being the latest additions to the list of competition categories. Contestants should email videos not exceeding 3 minutes to the respective category email id on or before September 7. A panel of judges will shortlist 10-15 winners per category, and these will be woven into the live telecast of the event on September 10. Pradeep Kumar Kalkura, president of the foundation, said the core organising committee debated about cancelling the event which has been held successfully for the past 3 decades, this year, to organising it with a limited number of people at the temple. With the medical fraternity advising against the latter choice due to the prevalent situation, the entire event will take place online, and will give an opportunity for people to create Kadri Rajangana in their homes, he said. “The new competition categories – Vriksha Krishna and Thottila Krishna—will give a fillip to environmental conservation and recreate the family atmosphere of an infant frolicking in a crib, to mellifluous tunes of lullaby,” said Kadri Navaneeth Shetty, the organiser of the event. The first category requires one to plant a sapling donning Krishna costume, and latter to capture antics of a toddler in a crib, he said. The new format will enable people to participate globally, he noted. Call: 9845083736/0824-2492239.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sri-krishna-vesha-competition-to-take-place-online/articleshow/77918520.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||35% suicides in Gujarat were of daily wagers||VADODARA: Maximum suicides in Gujarat during 2019 were committed by daily wagers. The report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India shows that of the total 7,655 suicides in Gujarat, 34.6% (2,649) were that by daily wagers. Experts believe that the high numbers of suicides among the daily wagers are because of the increasing economic disparities and the lack of social security for them which pushes them to the edge. “The unorganized sector, not just in our state, but in the entire country is very large and this sector does not have social security or minimum wage guarantee. If a daily earner falls sick, he or she will not be able to earn that day and spending on health will also become a question,” said Jagdish Patel, director of Vadodara-based People’s Training Research Centre. Patel also blamed the contractual system in industries that do not provide any social securities. “The government keeps supporting the system, so more industries are encouraged to hire people for perennial jobs on contract,” he added. “Due to economic slowdown the average employment days in a month have reduced to 20 days. While the wage has reduced, their expenses have increased due to changing living habits like not carrying food but eating at small eateries, chewing tobacco, using smartphones among others,” said Dr Jayesh Shah, policy strategist. He suggested counselling centres for daily wagers by Gujarat Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The other largest group of people that took their own lives is that of homemakers. As many as 1,689 homemakers ended their lives in 2019 which also questions the popular belief of home being a safe place. “There has not been any decline in violence on women over the years,” said Johanna Lokhande of Sahiyar (Stree Sangathan), an organization for women. “The pressure on women as a wife is immense because of the socio-economic condition and other reasons,” Lokhade said. Suicides among the professional or salaried persons particularly among those getting salary from private sector enterprises is also high (776). On the other hand, among the self-employed persons those having their own businesses (559) committed suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/35-suicides-in-guj-were-of-daily-wagers/articleshow/77917390.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||50 days to go, Kolkata pandals chant self-regulation mantra||KOLKATA: The city police, which had invited controversy with some Puja organizers across Behala, Chetla, Shyampukur and Muchipara by suggesting they “go slow” with their pandal constructions, has now decided to only monitor them. Local police stations will keep an eye on construction of Durga Puja pandals, but will not step in unless there is a major violation. With less than 50 days left for the Pujas, cops withdrew their advisory on the rules to build a pandal. “Like everything else in life now, we need to celebrate Durga Puja with due precautions. But once constructions begin, it might be difficult to make last-moment changes. For example, this year, we need space inside pandals to maintain social distance. We had expected that a broad guideline could be decided on after talking to all stakeholders, but the organizers are in a hurry. They said they were aware of the challenges and hence, the advisory has been revoked. Unlike what is being claimed in certain quarters, there was no pressure,” said an officer. Among organizers who received some advice, either over phone or directly from cops, were Kumartuli Sarbojanin, Chetla Agrani, Bhowanipore Bakulbagan and Haridevpur Ajeyo Sanghati. “The police asked us to wait for a couple of days, but did not directly ask us to stop construction,” said Samir Ghosh of Chetla Agrani. Thakurpukur SB Park organizers said the communication from cops left them in a quandary, especially since this is the 50th year of their Puja. But another call on Wednesday helped soothe nerves. “We have changed the theme and made several changes to our original plan. Any break in work now will be a major blow,” said one of the organizers. The cops said that in any other year, the directives for Durga Puja are ready by this time. “This year, the Covid situation has changed a lot of things. We do not even know what precautions the pandal makers are taking. It is important to keep everyone’s needs and safety in mind. For that to happen, we can only plead with the organizers to bear with us till the final guidelines are ready,” said an officer. Lalbazar has already asked all traffic guards to report if new parking arrangements can be made outside important pandals after maintaining necessary social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-days-to-go-kol-pandals-chant-self-regulation-mantra/articleshow/77919063.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: 316 more cases push Dakshina Kannada to 4th spot in state||Mangaluru/Udupi: Despite the fact that Dakshina Kannada (DK) district on Thursday reported 316 new Covid-19 cases as against 414 on Wednesday, this steady surge has placed DK fourth among districts with most cases in Karnataka. Bengaluru Urban with 1,38,701 cases, Ballari with 22,591 cases and Mysuru with 19,828 cases are the top three districts in terms of total positive cases reported in the state. Neighbouring Udupi with 228 new cases has 12,156 total cases of its own. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said fresh cases included 121 people who were primary contacts, 68 people had influenza like illness (ILI), source of infection in 27 patients is being traced, eight had severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and one case each was reported in a domestic and international traveller. A majority of the cases at 118, including 68 men, were symptomatic. Udupi taluk accounted for 137 of the total reported cases. In Dakshina Kannada, there were 129 ILI cases, which contributed to 40% of total fresh cases, while source of infection in 120 patients (37%) is being probed. A total 54 of the new cases were reported in primary contacts and 13 patients had SARI. Symptomatic patients (182) contributed to 57% of the total cases. Mangaluru taluk accounted for 190 of the new cases, Bantwal-40, Puttur-21, Belthangady and Sullia 16 each and 33 cases were patients from outside DK. DK discharged 208 patients including 116 in home quarantine to leave authorities with 2,705 active cases. Three Covid-19 related deaths, two from Mangaluru taluk and one from outside DK saw the death toll in the district go up to 384. Authorities in Udupi on the other hand discharged 328 patients to leave them with 2,115 active cases. Four Covid19 deaths – two in Udupi and one each in Karkala and Kundapura— saw Udupi’s death toll climb to 106.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-316-more-cases-push-dakshina-kannada-to-4th-spot-in-state/articleshow/77917230.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Allahabad||BHU student goes missing: Varanasi SSP files affidavit||Prayagraj: As per direction of the court, SSP Varanasi appeared before the Allahabad High Court on Thursday and filed his affidavit in connection with a PIL regarding a missing BHU student. Besides, he also filed certain documents in a sealed cover before the court. Taking the SSP Varanasi’s affidavit on record, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed directed the petitioner’s counsel to file a reply in response to the affidavit. SSP Varanasi, Amit Pathak, was present in the court and was asked by the court to remain present, again on the next date of hearing which was fixed as September 22. The court passed this order in a letter turned into PIL by advocate Saurabh Tiwari, a BHU alumnus. It was alleged in the letter that Shiv Kumar Trivedi, a BSc II year student of BHU, was picked from amphitheatre ground of the university on February 12 on the basis of a call made on 112 by a fellow student, who reported that Trivedi was there in an unconscious/unusual way since then he was missing. On August 26, additional government advocate, who represented the state government, stated that the boy who was at police station ran away on the next day and no details in relation to him were available. However, later, one mentally retarded person was brought by the police and the police is having apprehension that he may be Shiv Kumar Trivedi and, therefore, a DNA and biometric tests are proposed to be conducted to determine his identity. The court on this had observed, “We fail to understand why the police authorities instead of placing on record all the details relating to the facts that happened on and after February 12 and more specifically after the boy ran away from the police station, which facts must have been recorded in the general diary, have filed a vague affidavit.” The court directed SSP Varanasi to remain present on September 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bhu-student-goes-missing-varanasi-ssp-files-affidavit/articleshow/77918519.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to hold key meet on poll preparedness today||PATNA: The state authorities are gearing up to adhere to the Election Commission’s (EC) strict guidelines issued last month to ensure adequate protective measures at all the polling booths during the forthcoming state assembly polls in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The office of the state chief electoral officer (CEO) issued directives to the officials of the disaster management department and the health department last week to make preparations for the same. The assembly polls are scheduled to be conducted in October-November. “A meeting will be held with the chief secretary on Friday to discuss the issues pertaining to the EC’s guidelines about the safety measures during the upcoming polls,” disaster manager department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit told this newspaper over the phone on Thursday. The meet is being conducted in the wake of the EC’s guidelines to maintain social distancing norms and provide PPE kits, masks, face shields, gloves, thermal scanners and sanitizers to the polling personnel, who will take part in the election process. “We will get down to the nitty-gritty of the problem at the meet. The requirement of the materials for the safety of the polling and security personnel as well as the electors will also be discussed,” Pratyaya said. According to the EC’s guidelines, soaps, water, sanitizers and masks will be made available to the electors at the entry points of the polling booths. Hand gloves will also be provided to them while signing on the voter register and pressing buttons of the EVMs. According to sources, extra masks will be kept for those not carrying one and thermal scanners used. During the identification process, the voters will be required to lower their masks. Besides, the polling booths will be sanitized properly. Additional chief electoral officer Baijunath Prasad Singh said on Thursday, “CEO H R Srinivasa took up the matter related to the safety of the polling personnel and the electors with the high-ups of the state administration recently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-hold-key-meet-on-poll-preparedness-today/articleshow/77917616.cms||Ramashankar
September 4, 2020||Patna||Valuables worth Rs 10 lakh stolen from 4 Patna flats||PATNA: Unidentified thieves decamped with valuables worth around Rs 10 lakh from four flats in three apartments located near Ramnagri and NTPC Colony under the Rajiv Nagar police station area in Patna in the wee hours of Thursday. SHO (incharge) of Rajeev Nagar police station Yogendra Ravidas said the theft was committed at the flats of Sanjay Kumar in Goswami Apartment, Mehendi Raza in NTPC-II and Ashish Tiwari and Amit Singh in Azad Enclave. He said the thieves targeted the apartments one by one within few hours. “Gold and silver jewellery along with cash kept inside almirahs were stolen from all the four flats,” he said, adding the movements of the thieves were captured in CCTV cameras installed in Azad Enclave, where the incident took place between 2am and 3am. The SHO said all the flats were locked and the thieves entered there by breaking open the main doors. He said the matter came to light after neighbours raised an alarm in the morning after finding the doors of the flats open. He said Ashish had gone to his native place Prayagraj. Amit, on the other hand, had left for Ranchi on Tuesday. “Police have received a written complaint in connection with the incidents. We are going through the footages of CCTV camera to identify the criminals and arrest them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/valuables-worth-rs-10l-stolen-from-4-patna-flats/articleshow/77917775.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 4, 2020||Patna||‘Darshan’ at Gaya temple from September 7: DM Abhishek Singh||GAYA: Gaya DM Abhishek Singh on Thursday said Pitrapaksh Mela, per se, has been cancelled and ‘darshan’ at the world famous Vishnupad temple will resume on September 7. “From September 7 onwards, Vishnupad Temple will be opened for the general public with the caveat to maintain social distancing and sanitisation norms as per the Covid-19 protocol,” the DM said. Responding to the criticism being made by the Gayawal pandas that the Pitrapaksh Mela should have been allowed in an abridged form with certain regulatory measures, the DM said he invited suggestions on several occasions during interactive sessions with the pandas to reformat the event without compromising with the ongoing fight against Covid 19, but the pandas did not come out with any alternative event management format. “Though some shrines have been opened, no religious congregation has been allowed anywhere in the country. The Shrawani Mela in Deoghar also was not held this year. Ram Navmi and Muharram processions were also not allowed. Haj pilgrimage too was cancelled. It is wrong to create a hue and cry over the issue of Pitrapaksh Mela,” Singh said. Acharya Kishore Kunal, former chairman of Bihar State Religious Trust Board, said Gaya ‘pindadaan’ was preferable but not mandatory. “Pindadaan can be offered anywhere near a water body and as it is a once in a lifetime ritual, it can be deferred on account of the pandemic,” he said. Kunal has also disapproved the e-version of pindadaan on the ground that physical presence of the ‘yajman’ was essential for religious rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darshan-at-gaya-temple-from-sept-7-dm/articleshow/77918013.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD launches ‘coordinated’ attack over unemployment||PATNA: Main opposition RJD on Thursday attacked the ruling NDA and chief minister Nitish Kumar over the issue of rampant unemployment in the state. Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and other RJD leaders have been relentlessly attacking the government over mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods in north Bihar, but on Thursday RJD trained its guns at Nitish over the unemployment issue. In what appeared to be a coordinated attack on the state government using social media, Tejashwi first posted a tweet in Hindi asking Nitish as to why the latter is silent over the issue of unemployment and attacked the government for closing down small industries in Bihar. It was followed up by former CM and his mother Rabri Devi, who too jumped in the fray calling out the government over unemployment and migration from the state increased to its highest level in 15 years of Nitish Kumar-led NDA rule in the state. It was then the turn of various district and youth wings of RJD to take to social media. Senior leaders like Tanweer Hasan, Shailesh Kumar, Shiv Chandra Ram and Mohammad Nematullah tweeted with the hashtag #PMModiRozgarDo. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been recently attacking the Modi government over job losses, unprecedented fall in GDP growth and Covid-19 mismanagement. Rahul on Thursday uploaded a three-minute video on his social media accounts, criticizing the government’s demonetization move. A day earlier, he had talked about the highest employment in the country in 45 years, and 12 crore job losses. “India is reeling under Modi made disasters,” read a part of his tweet. When asked if this was a coordinated campaign of RJD and Congress ahead of the polls in the state, RJD national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha said, “It is not a crafted one, but natural coordination. These are the real issues which need addressing and have nothing to do with the election. GDP has fallen to its all-time low and there is high unemployment.” However, BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RJD was trying to set an agenda against the government and was failing every time. “They had earlier made floods an issue, but the Bihar government did its best to provide relief and helped a large number of people. Then they tried to make Covid-19 an issue, and again the state government did its best to curb this pandemic. Now they are trying to use unemployment as an issue, but let me tell you that the state government has identified various sectors to promote industries here,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-launches-coordinated-attack-over-unemployment/articleshow/77917489.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 4, 2020||Patna||Modernization of Patna airport by March 2023||PATNA: The construction work on the new terminal building is underway and the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport in the city is likely to get a complete makeover with a futuristic design and modern facilities by March, 2023. According to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the development work are being carried out with an estimated cost of Rs 1,216.90 crore. According to the AAI officials, it is one of the country’s fastest growing airports in terms of annual passenger growth in the last five years with the existing terminal handling almost 4.5 million passengers per annum. The ambitious modernization project includes construction of new terminal building, cargo complex, multi-level car parking (MLCP), air traffic control-cum-technical building, fire station, apron with 14 aircraft parking bays. Once the work is completed, the annual handling capacity of the airport will be increased to 8 million passengers per annum with total area of 7,00,000 sqft. The terminal building would have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. The upcoming building will be 4-Star GRIH- rated energy efficient building equipped with 52 check-in counters, in-line baggage handling system, five conveyor belts for arriving passengers, well connected with lifts and escalators, centrally airconditioned, five aerobridges and interiors depicting the art and culture of Bihar. Provision of commercial space of 62,000 sqft has also been kept for world-class shopping facilities for passengers’ delight. A G+5 MLCP building in 3 lakh sqft area would manage 750 passenger vehicles and top floor will be for commercial purpose. The parking will be connected with the departure level of the new terminal building through link bridge for pedestrian movement. As an interim measure to meet the passenger movement, the existing terminal building of the airport is also being extended and modified to de-congest and enhance passenger experience. With the completion of extension work in September, new areas over 2000 sqm will have additional check-in counters, arrival conveyor belts, hand baggage scanning machines, frisking booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modernization-of-patna-airport-by-march-2023/articleshow/77917784.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Rupani, DyCM take virtual tour of Rajkot civil hospital||Gandhinagar/Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel on Thursday interacted with doctors and nursing staff of the Rajkot civil hospital through video conferencing.Praising the measures being taken for prevention of Covid-19 transmission, Rupani said that besides providing the facility of 104, the state government is also providing medical facilities to corona patients at their doorstep using the `Dhanwantari Raths’.During the video conference, Dr Sanjay Kapadia of Rajkot civil hospital briefed Rupani and Patel about ventilators, oxygen, beds, medicines and other facilities being provided to coronavirus patients.Interacting with patients, the CM and DyCM inquired about the health and medical facilities being provided to them, and they expressed satisfaction.The video conference was also attended by principal secretary Jayanti Ravi, secretary Milind Torwane, industries commissioner Rahul Gupta, collector Remya Mohan, RMC Commissioner Udit Agrawal and others.During the video conference held from Gandhinagar, the CM reiterated that the state government is determined to prevent transmission of Covid-19 and to provide the best treatment to citizens. For this, besides making available all medical facilities in the government hospitals of the state, a stringent surveillance is also being done through ‘Dhanwantari Raths (medical vans)’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rupani-dycm-take-virtual-tour-of-rajkot-civil-hospital/articleshow/77917975.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Allahabad||Sero-survey starts today in Prayagraj & Kaushambi||Prayagraj: In a move to contain the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state, 90 medical teams will be roped in for a five-day a sero-survey in Prayagraj and Kaushambi district Friday onwards. The health department has identified 45 spots each of the two districts for the survey. As part of the plan, the teams would collect swab and blood samples of 32 residents — 16 men and 16 women — from each of the spots. Apart from a rapid antigen and blood tests, the participants’ blood samples would also be tested for hepatitis B and C. The health department teams will collect 1,440 samples each from Prayagraj and Kaushambi districts from September 4 to 8. Additional director (health) Dr Sudhakar Pandey said, “As per the directives of the state government, we have chalked out a plan for the seroprevalence survey in Prayagraj and Kaushambi to assess the extent of spread of the Covid-19 and the immunity against it in the community.” Pandey said that 90 medical teams have been constituted to conduct the survey. “Each of the teams would comprise a medical officer, auxiliary nurse midwife, accredited social health activist (ASHA), a lab technician and a lab assistant,” he added. Pandey said while the teams would cover both rural and urban areas during the survey, but the number of rural areas exceeds that of urban ones. Officials said the sero-survey uses serology tests to identify people who have developed antibodies against an infectious disease. The presence of antibodies in blood signifies an immune response to the infection. The antibody test results are especially important for detecting any previous infections in people who did not experience the usual symptoms. The sero-survey will help in monitoring the trends of infection and the spread of the virus, they added. The results will be useful in drafting a strategy to contain the spread of the disease. The samples collected by the teams would be sent to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow for testing. In August, the state government had announce a sero-survey in UP 11 districts — Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Gorakhpur, Agra, Baghpat, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sero-survey-starts-today-in-prayagraj-kaushambi/articleshow/77918531.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Third rural cop dies||PUNE: An assistant sub-inspector (56) attached to the Pune rural police succumbed to coronavirus-induced complications on Wednesday night in a private hospital at Jejuri, taking the total number of fatalities in the force due to the contagion to three. The assistant sub-inspector tested positive on Wednesday after testing negative initially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/third-rural-cop-dies/articleshow/77920539.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||KTC interstate buses to resume operations after 170 days||PANAJI: After a hiatus of 170 days, interstate buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) are going to resume operations from September 5. Following the Centre’s new guideline on easing most of travel restrictions, KTC decided to restore its service on two Karnataka routes – Belagavi and Karwar. Restoration of services to Maharashtra will follow suit later. “We have spoken to the authorities in Karnataka and will operate the buses in a phased manner. Initially, only a few KTC buses will be operated on these routes. We will decide which other routes to be added based on the demand,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. “The suspension of most of our services owing to Covid have resulted in a revenue loss of Rs 10 crore per month,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate told TOI. From Saturday, five buses will be operational – three for Goa to Belagavi and two on the Goa to Karwar route. The 50-seater buses will operate on full seating capacity. Owing to the pandemic, MHA guidelines had instructed only 50% capacity for passengers. The five buses will start at 6.30am, 7.30am and 8.30am. Commuters will have to personally come to the bus stand and book their tickets for the travel. KTC’s online interstate bus booking continues to be temporarily suspended. There is no change in the ticket pricing. Passengers traveling to Karwar and Belagavi will have to pay Rs 75 and Rs 150 respectively. The buses are reciprocal and will return to Goa the same day. “We will observe how passengers respond to this service. If there is no demand, we will stop the operations once again,” he said. Prior to the pandemic, KTC ran its buses to Karnataka, Maharashtra and Telangana (Hyderabad). The interstate services had been suspended owing to the lockdown and were limited to only pick and drop for stranded passengers across the country. Only 200 of the 500-odd buses in the fleet are operational due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-interstate-buses-to-resume-ops-after-170-days/articleshow/77920560.cms||Nida Sayed
September 4, 2020||Allahabad||AU final yr UG exams to start from Sept 14||Prayagraj: Allahabad University (AU) on Thursday released a detailed schedule of final year exams of undergraduate (UG) and law courses. Exams for final year students of UG courses will be held from September 14 to October 21. Whereas, exams for final year law students will be conducted from September 15 to September 19, followed by viva on September 21. The schedule for exams of postgraduate courses is expected to be released by next week. After the final approval of the exam schedule by the examination committee, the officiating vice chancellor, Prof R R Tiwari, has also given his approval to the schedule. Public relations officer of AU, Shailendra Mishra said the examination of UG courses will be conducted in 31 working days, and that of law in five working days. The examination will be conducted in two shifts through online mode. The first shift will be held from 10 am to 2 pm, and the second shift from 1 pm to 5 pm. The first shift question papers will be uploaded on the university website at 10 am and those of second shift at 1 pm. The examination process must be positively completed within four hours of the commencement of examination, that, latest by 2.00 pm for the first shift examination, and by 5.00 PM for the second shift. Candidates must first click on the URL: http://onlineexam.allduniv.ac.in. From here, they will be able to select their respective courses and access the question paper. Examinees will have to use either black or blue pen and write the answers on the A-4 size paper. They will be required to enter their class, subject, paper, serial number and enrolment number on each page. On the front page, they also have to mention the total number of pages used by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-final-yr-ug-exams-to-start-from-sept-14/articleshow/77918523.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid bail for prisoners now till October 31||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday extended temporary bails by two more months for prisoners released on recommendations of the high-power committee on account of Covid-19 pandemic. The HC has extended the bail periods of more than 1,200 such prisoners till October 31. Earlier, the court had on three occasions extended the bail deadlines for such prisoners after consultation with the committee. The high-power committee was set up in each state upon the Supreme Court’s order. In Gujarat, it recommended release of those undertrial prisoners whose offences were punishable with maximum seven-year imprisonment. This was to reduce the burden on prisons and density inside the jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-bail-for-prisoners-now-till-october-31/articleshow/77919285.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Former mayor succumbs to contagion||PUNE: Dattatray Ekbote, former mayor and socialist leader-thinker, succumbed to Covid-19 at Sassoon General Hospital at midnight on Wednesday. He was 85. His grandson, Gaurav Ekbote, told TOI that his father also died due to complications arising from Covid-19 on August 31 and so did his aunt after testing positive in July. He said his grandfather had also been infected later. Ekbote was diagnosed Covid-19 positive in July and had not been keeping well ever since. Initially, he was admitted to a private hospital and was later discharged in August when his health improved, said Gaurav. However, a couple of weeks ago he was admitted to Sassoon hospital with the help of local political leaders as he complained of weakness and other health issues. Family members tried to get Ekbote admitted to the same private hospitals but could not get a bed. Active in politics for almost three decades, Ekbote was elected as a corporator in 1979. He became the city mayor in 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-mayor-succumbs-to-contagion/articleshow/77920556.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||More MBA, MCA admissions likely this year||Ahmedabad: The number of students seeking admission to MBA and MCA courses is likely to increase this year going by participation in the Common Management Admission Test (CMAT). The entrance test for admissions to B-schools saw about 12,026 examinees from Gujarat this year. Last year 10,646 students had taken the exam. There are over 20,000 seats for MBA and MCA students across the state. The admission process will soon be started in Gujarat based on the CMAT results. Last year, as many as 50% of seats remained vacant. With so many seats vacant, some students have been demanding that the entrance test be discontinued. This year, 74,486 students took the CMAT across the country. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) recently released a circular saying that colleges and higher education institutes be allowed as to provide admissions to students in MBA or PGDM courses without CAT, XAT, CMAT, ATMA, MAT, GMAT scores as a one-time measure. However, first preference will be given to candidates who have taken these entrance tests. If vacant seats are still available, candidates shall be selected based on the merit in the qualifying UG exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-mba-mca-admissions-likely-this-year/articleshow/77919289.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Wife accuses man of forcing her to follow his religion||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Vastrapur area of the city on Thursday filed a complaint against her husband at Vastrapur police station, alleging that he was forcing her to follow his religion. Vastrapur police filed a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act even though the FIR does not mention any physical harm. In her complaint, the 26-year-old Hindu woman, a resident of Lad Society, states that she married a Muslim man, a resident of Dudheshwar, on February 23, 2017 in court. At the time of their wedding, they decided not to interfere in each other’s’ religion . During Ramzan in 2018, her husband picked fights with her over religious issues and once abandoned her. After his elder brother intervened, he returned. They began and living together at a flat in Sarkhej and had their first child on January 16, 2020. Under continuous domestic pressure due to her religion, she finally approached cops to lodge a complaint against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-accuses-man-of-forcing-her-to-follow-his-religion/articleshow/77919190.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: Over 83,000 cases, India sees new high; recoveries cross 30 lakh||NEW DELHI: Led by a massive jump of more than 18,000 cases in Maharashtra, India’s Covid-19 daily tally touched another new high on Thursday, with fresh infections topping 83,000 for the second consecutive day. The day’s reported deaths from the virus too rose to 1,088, the second highest single-day toll so far. With 83,065 new cases reported on Thursday, slightly higher than Wednesday’s count of 83,029, India’s coronavirus caseload went past 39 lakh to 39,28,110, as per TOI data collated from state governments. The day’s death toll of 1,088 was the second highest after 1,099 fatalities reported on August 18. With this, the pandemic has so far claimed 68,501 lives in the country. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Meanwhile, overall recoveries from the infection crossed the 30 lakh milestone, with 30,28,172 people having been declared cured till Thursday night. This accounts for 77% of all cases. However, active cases continue to rise sharply in conjunction with the huge spurt in fresh infections. The pool of active cases stood at over 8.3 lakh, having risen by more than 14,000 on Thursday. Read AlsoCovid-19: India only country in worst-hit 20 with cases yet to peakWhile India is setting new records for daily Covid-2019 cases, in every other country among the top 20 in terms of cases, the daily addition is now well below the peak value — the day when they reported maximum cases. The three-day average of fresh cases reported by India on Sept 3 was 77,387, whichAs many as 10 states/UTs recorded their highest spike in infections on Thursday, led by Maharashtra where the jump was 18,105. The other states/UTs were Odisha (3,631), Haryana (1,881), Madhya Pradesh (1,672), Rajasthan (1,553), Gujarat (1,325), J&K (1,079), Uttarakhand (946), Goa (713) and Tripura (590). Fresh cases in Maharashtra crossed 18,000 just a day after the state had added over 17,000 cases for the first time. Let alone other states, only three countries across the world currently have a higher count of daily cases than Maharashtra. The first is India, and the other two, US and Brazil. Cases are spiking in Delhi as well. The national capital recorded 2,737 fresh cases, its highest count in 66 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-over-83000-cases-india-sees-new-high-recoveries-cross-30-lakh/articleshow/77921767.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Surat||Athwa zone continues to be a hot spot||Surat: As many as 255 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in Surat city and 179 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, 14,320 Covid-19 patients recovered till date and the city’s recovery rate is now 84%.Surat city’s Athwa zone reported the highest daily Covid-19 cases with 47 cases on Thursday. The Athwa zone now has second highest Covid-19 cases in the city at 2,488 after Katargam which has 3,191 cases.Two more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 623 in the city.In Surat district, 93 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases to 4,768 in the district. One patient succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 207 in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/athwa-zone-continues-to-be-a-hot-spot/articleshow/77917990.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctors save voice of man who slit his own throat||AHMEDABAD: A team of doctors at LG Hospital here not only successfully operated on a patient who had slit his throat, cutting off his trachea (wind pipe) and major arteries and nerves, they also re-linked the nerves of his voice box, enabling him to speak again. After a fortnight in hospital, the patient recovered fully and will be discharged in a couple of days. Thirty-year-old Rajunath Yogi was brought to LG Hospital on August 19, bleeding profusely from his throat. Facing financial difficulties, he had cut his own throat, severing his trachea, jugular and recurrent laryngeal nerve. Without wasting time on a Covid test, which is mandatory before a surgical procedure, a team of ENT department doctors wheeled the patient into the operation theatre and conducted a high risk procedure which involved suturing the two ends of his trachea and blood vessels. “This kind of procedure involves a lot of release of aerosols since we are directly dealing with the trachea, but sensing the urgency of this case, we were ready to perform this emergency surgery after taking as many precautions as possible,” said Dr Atul Kansara, HOD, ENT of the hospital. He was assisted by a team of doctors including Meeta Bathla, Hiren Doshi and others. A tracheostomy was performed to ensure Rajunath Yogi could inhale and exhale without much difficulty. Dr Kansara said that when vocal cords are severed, there is a huge risk of the patient not being able to speak again, as the recurrent laryngeal nerves get cut off. “Fortunately, in this case, the patient is now able to speak properly, his tracheostomy has been removed and he will be discharged in a couple of days,” said Dr Kansara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-save-voice-of-man-who-slit-his-own-throat/articleshow/77919282.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Crocodile slips into Phulhar lake, trapped after preying on endangered turtles, swans, fish||Pilibhit: In the first-ever operation, a team of forest and wildlife division on Thursday rescued a crocodile from Pilibhit's Phulhar lake in Madhotanda village in Kalinagar tehsil. The river Gomti originates from the lake and a temple dedicated to the Goddess is situated on its banks. Its priest, Ratan Giri, 65, had a close shave with the reptile on Tuesday when he went to fetch water from the lake. Neither he nor any local could remember a previous invasion of a crocodile in the lake. Foresters surmise that the creature may have come from downstream of Gomti or a feeder canal of river Sharda, a kilometre away, due to flooding. It took three days to capture the crocodile, said range officer, Ayyub Hassan. A group of children had spotted it first a week ago. The 1.82-metre-long reptile was assessed to be aged between 2.5 and 3 years. An identification mark was put on its tail before its release into river Mala in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve's Mala range, he said. It is feared that the crocodile devoured a large number of turtles of Indian soft-shell species during its week-long stay in the lake. This species of turtles and crocodile are both listed as endangered in Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Dhani Ram Kashyap, a member of the Gomti trust, said the crocodile killed and consumed a large number of the lake's swans, fish and turtles. The crocodile population in rivers flowing through the district is increasing rapidly, said Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer. During monsoon when the rivers are in spate, crocodiles enter village areas and reservoirs from the rivers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crocodile-slips-into-phulhar-lake-trapped-after-preying-on-endangered-turtles-swans-fish/articleshow/77916792.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Eight held for attack on youth in Kochi||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police on Thursday arrested eight people, who were part of a goonda gang, for allegedly attacking a youth on Sunday. According to police, the accused had hacked the youth, inflicting grievous injuries on him, at Angamaly on the night of Uthradam day. The accused has been identified as Ansan Vadakkanveetil (23), Krishnaprasad Thalekulam (23), Eliyas Paalkuttathil (24), Kurishinkal Martin (23), Midhun Appathil (24), Sreejith Vattatheril (23), Tony Thelappilly (24) and Vaishanv Kariattuparamabil (23). All the accused hail from rural areas of Ernakulam district. One among the accused, Abhijit, was arrested on the night of the attack itself. Police said the rest of the accused were hiding at the forest regions of Mularingaadu, Idukki, and they were arrested by a special investigation team formed by rural SP K Karthick. Police said most of the accused were history-sheeters. They were picked up by a team led by DSP G Venu and comprising of Angamaly CI Sony Mathayi, SI Sufi T M, SI Ajesh, ASI George P V, SCPOs Rony Augustine and Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/eight-held-for-attack-on-youth/articleshow/77919202.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: CoEP hospital to get additional agency; bid to operate 300 more beds||PUNE: The civic and district administration on Thursday decided to rope in one more agency and make another 300 beds operational to improve the functioning of the 800-bed makeshift Covid-19 jumbo hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds. Presently, only half of the 800 beds are functioning at the facility. The new agency will be brought in within the next couple of days. The administration also decided to set up a separate section for the patients’ relatives at the facility. Staffers will ensure regular health updates of patients to their relatives. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI they would appoint the agency operating at the jumbo facility at Magar stadium in Pimpri Chinchwad to run half of the CoEP facility. “We had a detailed and fruitful talk with the agency, Medbro. Lifeline Services, which is operating the CoEP facility, has agreed to the arrangement. The entire operations should commence within two days. A pharmaceutical outlet will also come up on the premises,” he said. Pune Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said steps were being taken to improve the functioning of the CoEP facility. “The administration is looking to operate more oxygen-supported beds. Updates on the condition of patients will be provided at least 3-4 times a day.” Relatives of many patients had complained about mismanagement at the facility. They claimed that access to the facility was restricted and that they had to wait for hours to get information about the patients. Some also claimed that bouncers were stationed at the entry point. According to the sister of a TV journalist who died at the facility on Wednesday, food and medicines given by the family did not reach him on time. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admin-to-rope-in-another-agency-to-boost-coep-covid-hosp-functioning/articleshow/77920564.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 4, 2020||Goa||‘Lifting of entry curbs good sign, tourism will pick up’||Panaji: Tourism stakeholders say it will take at least 10-15 days to see the impact of the state government’s recent decision to lift entry restrictions for tourists. On August 31, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that the state has dropped all restrictions on entry and that tourists will no longer need to present a Covid-19 negative certificate or take a test on landing, to enter the state. Responding to a query on whether hotels have seen an increase in bookings since the announcement, Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), president, Nilesh Shah, said, “It is a positive sign that the restrictions have been lifted. Business will pick up gradually. But we need to do more. We will get the correct figures next week.” Former TTAG president Savio Messias said that one will have to wait, at least till next weekend, to gauge the impact. Until last week, hotel bookings ranged between 4-5 %. Since introducing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the hotel industry in July, the tourism department has granted around 500 hotels permission to resume operations. Nearly 300 hotels were granted permission in July itself, but only few started operating. Others remained closed as they felt that it was uneconomical to operate with below-average bookings. They plan to resume operations in October-November. Shah said hotels have been receiving queries and though all might not translate into business, there is now better scope for travellers to plan holidays to Goa. In states like Rajasthan, which had no entry restrictions, hotels did good business on weekends, he said. For business to pick up, he said, the nationwide Covid-19 figures, which are “alarmingly high”, should come down. Post Ganesh Chaturthi, the number of positive cases in Goa increased sharply. On Thursday, Goa recorded the highest single-day spike of 713 cases. Meanwhile, a family of five that came in from Shirdi on Thursday, said that they have chosen Goa for their holiday as the Covid cases here are much lower than in their district in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifting-of-entry-curbs-good-sign-tourism-will-pick-up/articleshow/77920572.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 4, 2020||Surat||6 mill workers donate plasma, 15 this week||Surat: After diamond units, employees of textile sectors have also come forward to donate plasma in the city to help Covid-19 patients. According to sources, six employees of a textile firm, Sahiba Textile Ltd in Kadodara taluka of Surat, donated their plasma at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER Hospital. Textile firm owner Aman Saluja said that a total 21 employees have pleaded to donate their plasma of which six of them have donated and remaining 15 will donate in the coming week. ‘We conducted antibody tests of 500 employees of which 21 were diagnosed with Covid-19 positive. As convalescent plasma is being used to treat Covid-19 patients. So, we encourage our employees to donate their plasma and help patients who are undergoing treatment,” Aman Saluja added. “We are also preparing a list of relative of employees who may have tested positive and recovered and will also encourage them too to donate plasma,” Bishvanath Singh, Head, H R division of Sahiba Textile Ltd, said. “I donated my plasma as it will help two Covid-19 patients in their recovery. I am a regular blood donor and so far donated blood on 25 occasions,” said Shailesh Rathod, driver with the firm. Over 520 people have donated their plasma at SMIMER Hospital till now. According to sources, in total, over 900 people have donated their plasma in four blood banks in the city which got nod for plasma collections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/6-mill-workers-donate-plasma-15-this-week/articleshow/77918010.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plea for remand to be reheard||Ahmedabad: A sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus on Thursday ordered the magisterial court to hear afresh Vastrapur police’s application for further remand of six days of owners of Popular Builders in connection with an attempt to murder and domestic violence case. The sessions court has said that the earlier remand period, 15 hours, was too short for the investigators to collect evidence and go to Rajasthan with the accused. After granting remand for a day, the magisterial court had on Sunday rejected police’s remand application for six-day further remand for Monang Patel, his father Raman Patel, uncle Dashrath Patel and cousin Virendra Patel. The police approached the sessions court for further remand, which partly allowed the application and asked the lower court to hear and decide afresh the application within two days. The four accused persons were arrested last week on basis of a complaint filed by Monang’s wife, Fizu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plea-for-remand-to-be-reheard/articleshow/77919216.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Signature Bridge leaves black mark||NEW DELHI: Touted as a modern emblem for the city, the neon-lit Signature Bridge has instead turned into a commuting blackspot with eight fatal car accidents in 2019. It is a new entry in the list of the capital’s most notorious traffic points, such as Mukarba Chowk, Nirankari Chowk and Azadpur Sabzi Mandi. The road design changes at these spots due to the construction of flyovers or underpasses are being attributed for the rise in fatal accidents. Police officers said that the city’s traffic blackspots were located mostly in north and northwest Delhi, with design changes of the arterial routes determined to be behind the drawbacks. For example, Nirankari Chowk, which has the two colonies of Sant Nagar and Bhalaswa Dairy on either side of Ring Road, became an accident hotspot after the construction of a pedestrian bridge. Due to its height, people hardly use the bridge, instead increasing the risks by crossing the road at surface level. Last year, at the Signature Bridge, drivers travelling at high speeds could not control the momentum at the ramps that had sharp turns on the Timarpur side. In one accident, two bikers fell off the ramp and landed on the road below. According to Piyush Tewari of Save Life Foundation, who studied some of the spots marked by the cops, black spots need to be seen not only from the perspective of driver behaviour, but engineering design faults. “As observed and documented by us, a large number of accidents take place across India due to poor road design and engineering. In many cases, enforcement protocols are entirely missing,” said Tewari. “Delhi government has addressed these issues at blackspots, and we expect it to do the same at the Signature Bridge.” Meenu Choudhary, joint commissioner of police (Traffic), said that apart from booking rule violators, the traffic police were educating youngsters on traffic norms whenever they are flagged down. “At every location where a fatal accident takes place, the ACP and traffic inspector inspect the area and submit a report within 24 hours. This helps us understand the problem about that specific location,” Choudhary said. “We then even get in touch with civic authorities if there are changes that need to be made or better street illumination is required. Last year, we noticed a lot of pedestrian movement in some location, and consequently many accidents there. We asked for pedestrian bridges to be installed at such places.” Watch Delhi: Signature Bridge turns into commuting blackspot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-signature-leaves-black-mark/articleshow/77919274.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||HUL to replace fossil carbons in cleaning range||MUMBAI: India, which is among the leading laundry markets for Unilever, is central to the global consumer product company’s goal of replacing 100% of the carbon derived from fossil fuels in its cleaning and laundry product formulations with renewable or recycled carbon by 2030. At a time when the company is witnessing increased demand for its cleaning products globally following the outbreak of Covid-19, Unilever said on Wednesday the move to replace 100% carbon derived from fossil fuels with renewable carbon will transform the sustainability of global cleaning and laundry brands, including Surf, Sunlight, Vim and Domex. All these brands form part of Hindustan Unilever’s (HUL’s) home care portfolio, which contributes around 35% to its annual turnover of Rs 39,000 crore. The new target is part of Unilever’s ‘clean future’ programme. MD & CEO Sanjiv Mehta told TOI, “Clean Future is about looking at a more holistic solution to our current dependence on fossil-based ingredients by looking at environment friendly alternatives such as plant-based or recovery from waste-streams. This latest commitment builds on Unilever’s existing commitments on climate, plastics and nature. In India, water conservation and plastic reduction have been core elements of our sustainability plan, inspiring several innovations. I believe that with this step, we will further reduce pressure on our fragile ecosystem and help us restore nature.” In Tuticorin in the south, Unilever is sourcing soda ash, an ingredient in laundry powders, made using a CO2 capture technology. The soda ash is made with the CO2 emissions from the energy used in the production process. Both technologies are expected to be scaled significantly under the programme. Most cleaning and laundry products available today contain chemicals made from fossil fuel feedstocks, a non-renewable source of carbon. Unilever said its move to renewable or recycled sources of carbon for these chemicals is a deliberate shift away from the fossil fuel economy. Clean Future embeds the circular economy principles into both packaging and product formulations at the scale of global brands to reduce their carbon footprint. It is also a key step towards Unilever’s pledge of net zero emissions from its products by 2039. The chemicals used in Unilever’s cleaning and laundry products make up the greatest proportion of their carbon footprint (46%) across their life cycle. The company said by transitioning away from fossil fuel-derived chemicals in product formulations, it will unlock novel ways of reducing the carbon footprint of some of the world’s biggest cleaning and laundry brands. Unilever expects this initiative alone to reduce the carbon footprint of the product formulations by up to 20%. The company is ring-fencing 1 billion euros for Clean Future to finance biotechnology research, CO2 and waste utilisation, and low carbon chemistry, which is expected to drive the transition away from fossil fuel derived chemicals. This investment will also be used to create biodegradable and water-efficient product formulations, to halve the use of virgin plastic by 2025, the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-to-replace-fossil-carbons-in-cleaning-range/articleshow/77911139.cms||Namrata Singh
September 4, 2020||Madurai||HC directs CBI to file counter in cop’s bail plea||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the CBI to file a counter on the bail plea of suspended inspector of police, S Sridhar, who was arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks. Sridhar, who was among the 10 policemen arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of father-son duo moved the HC Madurai bench seeking bail. Sridhar’s earlier bail application was dismissed by the Madurai principal sessions court on August 13. After the CBI sought time to file a counter, justice V Bharathidasan adjourned the case to a further date for hearing. It maybe recalled that three suspended policemen - head constables S Murugan, X Thomas Francis and constable Muthuraj, who were arrested had moved the high court seeking bail in August. Since the court said bail could not be granted to the petitioners during this stage of investigation, the petitioners withdrew their petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-cbi-to-file-counter-in-cops-bail-plea/articleshow/77920584.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kingpin of Rs 285 crore fake billing scam arrested||AHMEDABAD: The alleged kingpin of the Rs 285 crore fake billing scam in the textile sector, Lalit Sharma, was arrested by the enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Thursday. Sharma was involved in making and circulating fake bills without physical movement of goods, to evade taxes. Explaining the modus operandi, an SGST department official said, “Sharma obtained GST registrations and floated four bogus firms in his and his family members’ names. Without any movement of actual goods, fake bills were generated to show transactions cumulatively worth Rs 285 crore. These bills were used and further circulated to other firms to evade taxes. A total of Rs 19.08 crore tax was evaded.” The four bogus firms were Lakshmi Silk Mills, Suman Textile, Bhavesh Enterprise and Shree S-Tex. A statement issued by the SGST department also says that Sharma supplied fake bills to some six companies owned by Yogesh Chalthanwala and Manish Shah. Both were arrested for their involvement in the bogus refund scam by the department. It has also come to the fore that Sharma transferred payments to various creditor firms and later collected it from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kingpin-of-rs-285-crore-fake-billing-scam-arrested/articleshow/77919260.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Saini’s wife seeks review of security ‘withdrawal’ move||Chandigarh: Punjab’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s wife, Shobha Saini, has written to the incumbent state DGP Dinkar Gupta and chief secretary Vini Mahajan to “most immediately review” the decision to withdraw her family’s security as the family faces threat from terrorists and criminals. However, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted, “Totally incorrect that security of ex-DGP Sumedh Saini & family has been withdrawn. Fact is they have all gone underground after he was charged with murder in extra-judicial killing case, leaving behind the security personnel. His security cops still present at his residence.” A spokesperson of the SIT probing the extra-judicial killing case said, "the fact of the matter was that Saini seemed to have left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab police security personnel and security vehicles, including Jammer vehicle, on his own, thus jeopardizing his own security." In her letter, Saini’s wife wrote, “He (Saini) was provided Z+ security. The security also extended to his family. The security to him and to his family has been suddenly withdrawn today.” The former DGP’s wife has brought to the notice of incumbent Punjab DGP “if an officer who did his job without fear or favour, and who refused monetary reward in any of his anti-terrorist actions, and who fought a battle which was for the nation and for public good, and which was not his own, is harmed in this manner, it will deter others from taking up national interest in future.” The letter added that “a false mischievous FIR, emanating from a bomb blast on him (Saini) in 1991, in which a number of police personnel were killed and maimed, and in which he (Saini) too was wounded, was registered against him in Mohali, Punjab, in 2020. The process of law apropos the same is in progress.” After the police added murder charges in the FIR against Saini in the 29-year-old Balwant Singh Multani abduction and murder case, he has stayed away from his residential properties in Chandigarh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi. The Punjab police special investigation team had on August 28 raided Saini’s properties in all these states but could not trace him. The Mohali trial court had on September 1 dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail petition in the Multani murder case. He has now approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the Mohali court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sainis-wife-seeks-review-of-security-withdrawal-move/articleshow/77920578.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Justice Tripathi new SHRC chairman||Gandhinagar: The state government on Thursday appointed former Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Ravi Kumar Tripathi the new chairman of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC). According to a government release, Tripathi, who also served as a member of the Law Commission between March 2016 and August 2018, assumed office on Thursday. Earlier, Chief Justice of the Manipur high court, Abhilasha Kumari, was appointed chairperson of the commission. She resigned after being appointed member of the Lokpal Committee of India.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/justice-tripathi-new-shrc-chairman/articleshow/77919273.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Shimla||Pics: When Narendra Modi enjoyed paragliding in Manali||MANALI: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit Manali to inaugurate the Atal tunnel in Rohtang this month, Roshan Thakur of Manali’s Burua village, who had taught Modi paragliding some two decades ago, has bought a brand new paraglider hoping the Prime Minister will be able to take time out of his schedule and ask him to fly again. “Whenever Modi visited Solang valley, he asked me to arrange for a flight. He still remembers me and talks about his old days in Solang so often. He will pass through Solang valley to inaugurate the tunnel. There is a possibility that he might express his desire to fly again. I’m ready with all the equipment. I’ve even bought a new paraglider for him,” Roshan said. Modi first tried his hand at paragliding with Roshan in 1997.During political public meetings in Kullu on November 5, 2017 and in Mandi on May 10, 2019, the Prime Minister had talked about how he used to go paragliding at Solang with the help of Roshan. Modi, who was BJP in-charge of Himachal at the time, first tried his hand at paragliding with Roshan in 1997. He returned the same year for another session and then in 2000. Modi visited Manali along with former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee many times and used to go paragliding in his leisure time. Roshan has preserved many photographs of Modi while flying at Solang. Till he became the chief minister of Gujarat in 2001, Modi visited Solang thrice for paragliding. After his election, Modi had invited Roshan to Gujarat to search for possibilities of paragliding at Saputara. A test flight was carried out in Saputara in 2012 which was successful. Since then, paragliders from Himachal fly there during the annual paragliding festival. Roshan is the first trained paraglider who obtained the first commercial paragliding licence in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-paraglider-buys-new-equipment-for-pm/articleshow/77920582.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 4, 2020||Kanpur||30 migrants injured in e-way accident in Kannauj’s Taalgram||Kanpur: As many as 30 migrant workers were injured in an accident in Kannauj’s Taalgram area on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway on Thursday morning. The passengers, further had a narrow escape after the engine of the private bus that overturned caught fire. Police and UPIEDA personnel swung into action and doused the fire. They suspect overheating of the engine triggered the fire. The private bus was heading from Bihar to Delhi when the incident occurred. The injured passengers of the bus were admitted to Tirwa Medical College and a nearby Community Health Centre. According to police, the incident took place while a private bus carrying migrant labourers from Bettiah in Bihar to Delhi turned turtle after climbing up road divider at mile stone 149 in Taalgram area. Circle officer Chhibramau Shiv Kumar Thapa said the bus, coming from Bettiah district of Bihar, was ferrying nearly 125 migrant workers to Delhi. “A police team and UPIEDA personnel reached the spot and doused the fire and sent the injured persons to Tirwa Medical College and a nearby Community Health Centre,” he said. The officer added that the passengers who escaped unhurt or had sustained minor wounds were sent to their destination in another vehicle. “They had got the private bus booked from Bettiah district in Bihar to Delhi. The incident took place in the early hours when the driver dozed off and lost control and the bus collided and climbed on the road divider and turned turtle and caught fire leaving 30 migrants injured. The fire was doused soon by Police and UPIEDA personnel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/30-migrants-injured-in-e-way-accident-in-kannaujs-taalgram/articleshow/77920450.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Allahabad||UP should use dispensaries, PHCs for Covid testing: HC||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday directed that the state may revitalize its primary health centres (PHCs) and other dispensaries in urban, suburban and rural areas to ensure that collection centres of samples for testing the novel coronavirus be there in all such health centres all over the district. Hearing a PIL seeking better facilities at quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar also directed the state government to take all necessary steps to establish a dedicated Covid hospital as early as possible and place before this court a blue print for the project within 10 days. The court directed to put up this matter on September 7 for the next hearing. The court directed the district administration may, within the municipal limits of Prayagraj, install sufficient number of high-end CCTV cameras in addition to the ones which have been already installed in all such places where normally it is known that crowd of more than 100 accumulates. “When the CCTV footage is seen/reviewed by the zonal officers of the Nagar Nigam then they shall report the matter to the senior superintendent of police, Prayagraj who shall immediately take action against the police official posted in the area where it is found that people were conglomerating and were violating the Covid-19 regulations of maintaining physical distancing and wearing of masks,” the court added. The court further direct the State Legal Services of Uttar Pradesh to appoint advocate commissioners in consultation with the municipal commissioner, Prayagraj Nagar Nigam, for overseeing the work of the corporators of the 80 wards of the municipal limits of Prayagraj. Each advocate commissioner must be a resident of one of the wards in respect of which he shall be making the inspection. “Each advocate commissioner shall have four wards under him/her and the advocate commissioner shall on a regular basis go around his/her area and see if any crowd is there and also see if anyone is avoiding the wearing of mask in public. The advocate commissioners shall report any violation of the Covid-19 guidelines immediately to the zonal officer of the Nagar Nigam who shall in his turn take suitable steps as per the orders of the district magistrate,” the court directed. “Since now people are likely to get affected in large numbers on account of the Unlock-4 as they are taking the Covid-19 directives casually, health issues would be of paramount importance. Under such circumstances the sate government may take measures to act in accordance with the provisions Section 112-B of the U.P. Municipal Corporations Act, 1959 and under similar provisions of the Municipalities Act, 1916 as well,” the court said. As and when we find that the scheme which we are trying to implement through our order succeeds in Prayagraj, it shall be gradually implemented in all other districts of Uttar Pradesh, the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-should-use-dispensaries-phcs-for-covid-testing-hc/articleshow/77918562.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 4, 2020||Surat||Runaway 7-year-old rescued after 10-hr search||Surat: After over 10 hours of efforts by at least 250 cops, the seven-year-old girl who had run away from her house, was found on Thursday. The girl, who was rescued from the Limbayat area, refused to return to her home despite staying away from her parents for over 17 hours. She will be sent to a children care home, said cops. The girl reportedly told police that she left her home as her father used to beat her after tying her with a rope. She had run away from her home in April too. Angry at being thrashed by her father, Mira (name changed) ran for at least 3km after leaving her home in Jalaram Nagar of Pandesara on Wednesday morning and then walked for over 9km to reach Vesu. She then took a bus to reach Parvat Patia 12km away and again walked for 2km to reach the area where she lived with her family few months ago. Daughter of Dagdu Ranshinde, 50, a labourer, left home at around 7am on Wednesday and did not return home for a long time after which her family started searching for her. She was not found till 2pm after which family members approached police and filed a missing report. Police inquired around her home and in CCTV footage she was seen running away alone. Police then started announcements in adjoining areas. The girl’s photos were also circulated on social media and prints were put up on rickshaws and at public places. From CCTV footages police found that she might have gone towards VIP Road in Vesu after which senior police officers H R Muliyana, additional commissioner of police, Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police and J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, division F, started foot patrolling on the stretch till late night. Meanwhile, police got a tip that the girl was spotted with a woman balloon seller near S D Jain School. Police traced the woman and she identified the girl from the photo and also confirmed her name. She told police that the girl informed her that she lives in Parvat Patia. The woman sent her son who helped her board a bus to Parvat Patia. Buying a ticket of Rs12 the girl then reached Parvat Patia where she lived with her parents a few months ago. She first went to a raw peanut seller where she used to go often when she lived in Limbayat. Later she went to a hut of a medicine seller on the road side whose daughter was her friend. After eating food at night she went to sleep. Police found her at around 12 midnight. “Police put hard efforts to trace the girl to prevent any unfortunate incident. She doesn’t want to live with her father currently and she will be admitted to children’s home,” said Ajay Tomar, Surat CP .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/runaway-7-year-old-rescued-after-10-hr-search/articleshow/77918079.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||219 jobless people in state end lives||Vadodara: Two faces of the same coin paint opposite pictures in Gujarat — one of dreams and the other of desperation. Amid all the promises of generating lakhs of jobs in the state, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data published recently unveils a grim picture of unemployment and haplessness in the state. According to the 2019 figures, Gujarat stood fifth in the country with its 219 people having taken their own lives owing to unemployment. Of them, 216 were males. Karnataka topped the chart with 553 suicides, Maharashtra followed closely with 452 persons ending lives due to lack of opportunities in these highly industrialised states. “Unemployment rate in the state must have increased as availability of jobs have shrunk in the informal sector too. Also, with increased access to education, every year we churn out hundreds of graduates who have degrees but no suitable jobs. This is another reason behind the suicides due to unemployment,” said Dr Ghanshyam Shah, former director of Centre for Social Studies, Surat and ex-professor of social sciences in JNU. In February this year, the Gujarat government told the Assembly that 4.58 lakh educated youth are registered with various state employment exchanges. Of these, 4.34 lakh are educated and 23,433 are semi-educated. Interestingly, according to union ministry of statistics and programme implementation’s National Statistical Office’s Periodic Labour Force Survey report, Gujarat has the lowest unemployment ratio of just 3.4 per cent. NCRB data on poverty suicides also challenges the image of Gujarat being a prosperous state as it ranks third in overall suicides due to poverty. In 2019, 106 persons committed suicide due to poverty. Of them, 83 were males and 23 females. In 2018, the government had admitted in the Assembly that the number of families below poverty line (BPL) rose by 18,932 in the previous two years. However, the data also has a silver lining with the total number of suicides marginally reduced in the state. In 2019, 7,655 ended their lives for various reasons, while in the previous year 7,793 committed suicide in Gujarat in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/219-jobless-people-in-state-end-lives/articleshow/77917410.cms||Tushar Tere
September 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: Fasten your masks, mind the gap from Monday||NEW DELHI: Commuters should be prepared for a completely different Delhi Metro experience from Monday, ensuring first of all to add at least half an hour to their normal travel time. To prevent the urban train system becoming a super spreader, there will be meticulous implementation of measures such as thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry point itself, and no one can rush to or crowd the platforms since physical distancing will be enforced. On Thursday, TOI visited the Rajiv Chowk metro station to find the staff readying for resumption of train services, suspended since March due to the Covid outbreak. It is easily evident at Rajiv Chowk that entering the station will require people to undergo thermal screening, where those who do not show symptoms of the coronavirus infection will be allowed through, while others will be directed to a medical facility. Frisking spots have been made more secure, and CISF personnel on duty will don protective gear like masks, gloves and face shields. All baggage will be disinfected at special points near the entry gates even before they are placed on the x-ray machine. Once the passengers collect their baggage, they can cross over to the concourse only by paying with a smart card, not tokens. The floors across the station have been marked, and the travellers have to queue up in their demarcated spaces on the platform. Inside the metro coach, available space is denoted with stickers prohibiting occupation of alternate seats to enable social distancing. The usual announcements that prescribe travel etiquette in the coaches now have additional exhortations, a few of them being “Please sit on the permitted seats” and “Please maintain social distancing”. DMRC officials informed that a gap of a metre was to be maintained between commuters, with the aim being not only to ensure protection of a particular passenger, but also all those around him or her. Any contravention of this rule will attract punitive action. In extreme cases, the officials said, the train service might be terminated at the next station. With many offices only partly functional, an official did not expect heavy crowds like in the pre-Covid days. “People are also anxious, so many metro users may choose to use personal transport at the moment,” the official said. Monday will be the 170th day since train services were halted. With resumption coming at a time when Covid cases are again showing an increase in the city, DMRC is being extra careful. It will not only allow only those with no signs of infection to travel, but also keep a hawk-eyed vigil for those contravening masks and physical separation requirements. Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, reiterated, “Initially, entry and exit of passengers will be permitted only through one or two identified gates at each station. Face masks will be mandatory for all commuters during entry into the stations and further into the coaches.” Dayal also confirmed that all passengers would be required to undergo thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry/frisking point. Till now, 45 major stations have been provided with automatic thermal screening-cum-hand sanitising machines. The rest of the stations have been given automatic hand sanitiser dispensers and thermal screening at these stations will be done manually with thermal guns. Officials revealed that trains wouldn’t be stopping at stations located in containment zones. In fact, such stations will be closed to the public. Halts at some stations will be skipped if passengers are deemed not to be adhering to social distancing norms. Instead of the 10-20 seconds stoppage time, the trains will now halt for 30-40 seconds at most stations and 60 seconds at interchange stations to facilitate distancing while boarding or deboarding. The trains will be thoroughly disinfected after each trip, increasing the turnaround time at the terminal stations. Watch Covid-19: Delhi Metro gears up to open on September 7 with precautionary measures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-fasten-your-masks-mind-the-gap-from-monday/articleshow/77919364.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 4, 2020||Amritsar||Facing resistance, medical officers in Catch-22 situation in Punjab||BATHINDA: Even as people in more and more villages are refusing to be tested for Covid-19, in view of the rapid pace of increase in the number of cases, the health department officials have asked the medical officers (MO) and paramedical staff to revisit those villages to convince them about the need for testing, sources said on Thursday. According to some Bathinda MOs, they and the paramedical staff have been ordered to try and prevail upon 30-40 persons from every village for tests, so that mobile teams could be sent to collect samples. The number of samples from each village would be evaluated and if the count of tests conducted in a village is less, the MO concerned would be held responsible, they said. Given the apprehensions of villagers about the tests, it is turning out to be a tough task for them, the MOs said, adding that in many villages, the residents forcibly stopped health teams from conducting tests and at some places, they were even besieged. However, in view of the hostile atmosphere, now they have asked to take police personnel along, if required. An MO preferring anonymity said, “Amid the villagers’ opposition and village panchayats even passing resolutions against the tests, how are we supposed to ask them to get tested? We don’t think we will be able to obey the department’s orders.” Another medical officer said it is not justified for the officials to issue such orders, wherein they are virtually threatening that the MOs would be held responsible for the shortfall in test counts. “How can we compel any person with sound health to give a sample unless the person shows some Covid symptoms? And how the MOs can be held liable if a specific number of tests is not done when villagers have resolved to not allow the health teams into their villages?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/facing-resistance-mos-in-catch-22-situation-in-pb/articleshow/77920583.cms||Neel Kamal
September 4, 2020||Delhi||GST dues: Manish Sisodia urges Centre to borrow for states||NEW DELHI: On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to consider a legally viable option to provide Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states to help them tide over the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. On the same day, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also sent a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging the Centre to borrow and disburse GST compensation to the states. Under the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years (2017-22). The GST council had on August 27 offered states with two options to tide over their GST revenue shortfall as the GST cess collected from items, such as cars and tobacco, was not adequate to compensate them this financial year. The Centre specified that the state governments could borrow either via a special window it would facilitate through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or raise debt from the market. In his letter, Sisodia has said that the two options of borrowing that have been suggested by the ministry of finance don’t reflect the sense of the House that emerged during the deliberations in the 41st GST Council meeting. Sisodia has written that states, which are already reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, are not in a position to borrow on their own and that is why a majority of states have requested the Government of India to borrow and disburse the compensation to states. “GST is a unique experiment in the federal structure of our country and has presented a model of Centre-State cooperation, which has the potential to be replicated beneficially in other sectors. However, for this experiment to succeed, both the Centre and the states have to remain steadfastly committed to the spirit of GST, which for me is to get over individual interests and challenges to achieve larger common good,” he has written. “The options presented by the ministry of finance clearly reflect the concerns of the government of India but sadly do not take into account similar concerns of the state governments,” Sisodia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gst-dues-sisodia-urges-centre-to-borrow-for-states/articleshow/77919334.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Gurgaon||CBI detains 2 accused in Hisar honour killing case||HISAR: A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) reached Hisar on Wednesday to investigate a case of honour killing, which dates back to February 2017 and is linked to an inter-caste marriage in Hisar. The deceased, Rajesh, a resident of Mirzapur Road, Hisar, belonged to the scheduled caste community. District police confirmed the arrival of the CBI team in Hisar. Sanjay Chauhan, chairman, Sanatan Dharma Charitable Trust and victim’s elder brother, Rakesh, who took the case to the Punjab and Haryana high court to seek a CBI probe, said the central agency team arrested the woman’s father, Shamsher, a resident of Mill Gate in Hisar and a person identified as Kalia on Thursday. Chauhan said Rajesh married Poonam in 2015 with the help of the Sanatan Dharma Charitable Trust. Poonam’s family was unhappy with the marriage and had threatened the couple many times. Rajesh’s family often complained to the police about it, Chauhan said. “Rajesh went missing on February 2, 2017 and Hisar City police station registered a case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code on February 4, 2017 on the complaint of Om Prakash, a resident of Mirzapur Road in Hisar, father of the deceased, Rajesh,” he said. Chauhan said Om Prakash stated in his police complaint that his son went out with his wife, Poonam on February 2, 2017 but did not return. “Rajesh did not answer the phone and later, his mobile was switched off. His bruised body was found near Mirzapur railway line, Om Prakash had stated,” he said. He alleged that the police tortured elder brother of the deceased, Rakesh on the pretext of investigation and did not arrest any of the accused. Narco test of Poonam, her father and brother was also conducted, he said. Chauhan said he filed a petition in high court, which, on December 3, 2018, ordered that the investigation be handed over to CBI. Rakesh said the CBI team detained Shamsher and Kalia, who took the contract for the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cbi-detains-2-accused-in-hisar-honour-killing-case/articleshow/77920585.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Empower police to prevent wildlife crimes, says plea in HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought to empower police officials to also prevent wildlife crimes in the state. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice on the public interest litigation filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai. The petitioner stated that though the forest officials are taking steps to prevent poaching activities in the state, they are unable to tackle the same due to lack of sufficient manpower. He stated that forest and police officials should work together in order to prevent such crimes. Rajamanickam stated that the Supreme Court in a verdict had held that police officials are empowered to investigate and take action in incidents of wildlife crimes under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In an attempt to tackle poaching activities, states such as Karnataka and Assam have authorised the police to take action in connection with offences under the Act. However, in Tamil Nadu only the official at the rank of forest ranger is empowered to take cognizance of the offences, due to which several offences go unnoticed. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking for a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to notify that police officers could also take steps to prevent, detect and file complaints under the Act. He also sought to constitute a special wing at district and state level to prevent poaching activities in the state. The case was adjourned to October 7 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/empower-police-to-prevent-wildlife-crimes-says-plea-in-hc/articleshow/77920586.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Train cops in emergency treatment: ATCC||Ahmedabad: Better coordination between agencies for better roads and training to constables and TRB jawans deployed at crossroads on emergency treatment were some major points put forth by members of the Ahmedabad traffic consultative committee (ATCC) to city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava in a meeting earlier this week. “The RTO must be in communication with the AMC, so that road humps, footpaths, signs, markings, and roads are properly erected and maintained. For anything that is non-standard or illegal, RTO officers and designated AMC officers must be held responsible… The size of footpaths must be of national standard. The pedestrians crossing signals must be erected at all crossroads at zebra crossings and must work 24x7,” states one of the suggestions. The members also asked city police to improve interaction of senior officials with community leaders to understand traffic patterns, blind spots and areas that require more attention to prevent traffic violations. “Every school and college must have a traffic management committee where students and parents can participate. The groups can help manage traffic outside their premises. Lessons in road safety can also reduce accidents and road fatalities,” said a senior ATCC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/train-cops-in-emergency-treatment-atcc/articleshow/77919298.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||ASP, four cops hurt in mob attack on Ballia police outpost||Varanasi: Four policemen, including an additional superintendent of police (ASP), suffered injuries when a mob of villagers attacked Dakshini police outpost of Rasda police station in Ballia district on Thursday in protest against alleged torturing of a youth by the police on Wednesday night. Police used force to bring the situation under control after which district magistrate Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi and SP Ballia Devendra Nath also reached there and took stock of the situation. Nath said, “ASP Sanjay Kumar and three other policemen including his gunner have suffered injuries in brick-batting. An outpost and many articles in its campus have been ransacked and damaged by the mob.” “Following initial investigation, the outpost in-charge Dharmendra Singh and a constable have been suspended. FIR is also being lodged against the assailants after identifying them for attacking policemen and the outpost,” he added. Giving details of the incident, Nath said, “A woman of Dhobahi Mohal locality of Kotwarimod township had given an application alleging that she had given a room to a youth Panna Rajbhar (35) to live but now he was not vacating it. To investigate the matter, police brought Panna to the police outpost on Wednesday. Villagers alleged that the outpost in-charge Dharmendra Singh and a constable Rajbali brutally thrashed Panna and when his condition deteriorated in custody, the cops rushed him to the local hospitals from where doctors referred him to the district hospital.” As the news spread, hundreds of natives of Kotwarimod township blocked the road and staged a massive demonstration. “The ASP reached the spot and after talking to the protesters, he succeeded in pacifying them by assuring them to initiate necessary action. The issue had been solved but some anti-social elements provoked the crowd after which the mob of protesters indulged in violence and brick- batting,” said Nath. The ASP suffered head injuries in the attack while his gunner sustained grave injuries on his eye and forehead. Apart from them, two other policemen suffered injuries. They were all rushed to the local hospital for treatment. Later, the mob of protesters attacked the outpost. It first damaged a post outside the outpost and later entered the main campus and started ransacking movable barriers, vehicles and other articles. In the meantime, heavy police force from adjoining police stations reached there and dispersed the crowd. Nath said the situation had been brought under control and a police force was deployed in the township as a precautionary measure. Identification of protesters who indulged in violence, attacked policemen and the outpost has also been started, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/asp-four-cops-hurt-in-mob-attack-on-ballia-police-outpost/articleshow/77920532.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kanpur||Couple hang selves after man loses his job due to lockdown||Kanpur: A married couple died by suicide at their house in Shiv Katra area of Chakeri on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The man’s mother said her son was depressed as he had lost his job at a mobile phone shop during the lockdown. Neighbours too said the couple had been depressed owing to financial constraints in the recent past. According to the police, the man and wife ended their lives by hanging themselves in the same room. They had apparently torn a bedsheet for the same. Cops are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the exact reason behind their death. According to sources, Rakesh (40), who used to work at a mobile phone shop in the city, lived in Shiv Katra area of Chakeri along with his wife Archana (38), two children Aditi (10) and Ansh (5), and mother Shakuntala Devi (70). “Initially, the couple was leading a happy life and there had been no fights between them. But we came to know that Rakesh had been desperately looking for a job after he had lost his previous job due to the lockdown,” said a group of Rakesh’s neighbours. “It is not clear what prompted them to end their lives as no suicide note was found from the spot, but going by the preliminary findings, the couple used to fight over financial issues ofter after Rakesh had lost his job,” said chakeri inspector Ravi Srivastava. “On Wednesday night, Rakesh and Archana had a verbal spat over the issue. When their neighbours intervened and pacified them, they went to another room on the first floor of their house. Later, the two hanged themselves to death in the same room. When Rakesh’s mother, who lives on the ground floor, went upstairs and peeped through the room’s window, she found their bodies hanging. On being informed, the police rushed to the spot and took the couple to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead,” said the official. “We are investigating the case and awaiting the autopsy report,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-hang-selves-after-man-loses-his-job-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/77920497.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Vector-borne diseases: Pkl MC starts 2-week fogging drive||Panchkula: The Panchkula municipal corporation has started a two-week special fogging drive to curb the spread of dengue and malaria. The MC officials said from September 3 to September 5, fogging will be done in Rajiv Colony; on September 6 and 7 at Fatehpur village; on September 8 and 9 at Kundi village; on September 10 and 11, fogging will be done at Maheshpur village. In urban area, fogging will be done in Sector 18 on September 3; in Sector 19 on September 4; in Industrial Area Phase I on September 5; Industrial Area Phase-II on September 6; on September 7 and 8, fogging will be done in Sector 20, on September 9 and 10, it will be done in Sectors 21 and 3. On September 11, Sectors 22 and 23 will be covered. On September 12, Sectors 24 and 25 will be covered. Fogging will be done in Sector 16 on September 13 and in Sectors 27 and 28 on September 14. Officials said the malaria department has formed multiple teams, which are working on a regular basis and carrying out door-to-door awareness, checking of water coolers at various departments, dumping ground inspections and holding meetings with the departments concerned. Apart from this, Gambusia fish will be left in the water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vector-borne-diseases-pkl-mc-starts-2-week-fogging-drive/articleshow/77920598.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for killing 4 of a family||KOLHAPUR: Satara police have arrested a man on the charges of allegedly killing four members of a family — an elderly couple and their two sons — in two separate incidents. Identified as Yogesh Madhukar Nikam (38), a resident of Somardi village in Jawli tehsil of Satara district, the suspect has been remanded to seven days police custody. Preliminary investigation indicates that Nikam had borrowed some money from the deceased family on the pretext of getting military jobs for the two sons. Police suspect that Nikam might have committed the crime as the family was demanding their money back after he failed to get jobs for their sons. The deceased have been identified as Tanaji Vithoba Jadhav (55), Mandakini Tanaji Jadhav (50), Vishal Tanaji Jadhav (26) and Tushar Tanaji Jadhav (20). The Jadhav family hails from Dattanagar in Kupwad from neighbouring Sangli district. A missing complaint was lodged by the family’s relatives last month, police said. The incident came to the light when police found the body of an unidentified person on August 11 near Marle ghat in Jawli tehsil of Satara district. A few days later, a woman’s body was fished out. The police also found some papers along with woman’s body, after which she was identified, leading to tracing of her family members. Investigating officer PI Sarjerao Patil told TOI that they suspect’s involvement was determined after taking statements of Jadhav’s family members. Nikam was initially detained, but was later arrested after he confessed to the crime. He also informed police about the location where the couple’s sons were killed and dumped. Police, with the help of local trackers, fished out the deceased’s bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-killing-4-of-a-family/articleshow/77899821.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Meerut||Cattle smugglers steal cow from roadside, force it into car, escape||Bareilly: In an incident of cattle theft, some unidentified men, who came in a four-wheeler, forced a cow – sitting along the roadside near Lodhi Nagar crossing of Bhitora station road, Fatehganj West – into a four-wheeler. The incident occurred late on Wednesday when the road was deserted and two men in a car forced the cow on the backseat and fled. The video of the incident, that was captured in a nearby CCTV, has been making rounds on social media. An FIR has been registered and police are scanning the CCTV footage. The incident came to light after locals in the area noticed one of the stray cattle, that usually loiters in the area, went missing on Thursday. A resident, on suspicion, checked the footage from a CCTV installed outside his house facing the main road and spotted the miscreants committing the theft at night. Station house officer (SHO) of Fatehganj West Chandra Kiran told TOI, “A case has been registered against unknown persons under theft. According to the footage, there were three persons who came in a four-wheeler. One of them forced the cow into the vehicle, the second person helped him, while the third was on the driving seat. We have gathered the CCTV footage for further investigation. The accused shall soon be apprehended.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cattle-smugglers-steal-cow-from-roadside-force-it-into-car-escape/articleshow/77915897.cms||Maria Khan
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Division no. 3 of UT engg dept gets Rs 10cr tax notice||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh municipal corporation has served Rs 10 crore property tax recovery notice to the division number 3 of the engineering department of the Chandigarh administration. The engineering department has a total of six sub-divisions throughout the city, the first recovery notice has been sent to the division number 3 of the department to settle their tax amount. The calculation of the recovery tax amount of other divisions is also going on and they will also be asked to pay up in the coming few days. According to the records, the sub-division number 3 of the engineering department of the Chandigarh administration is the caretaker of all the government buildings, falling under the jurisdiction of the UT administration. Since their amount is already calculated and the same has been conveyed to them, they will have to pay the property tax of all such buildings by October end to the tax branch of the civic body authority. According to the information, all the major UT buildings namely Punjab and Haryana secretariat, secretariat building of the Chandigarh administration, Chandigarh police headquarters etc falls under the jurisdiction of the sub-division number 3 of the engineering department of the Chandigarh administration. All these buildings are maintained by them and the said division number 3 is their custodian. An official of the civic body authority said, “Since we had started serving recovery notices of property tax to residential as well as commercial buildings a couple of weeks ago, we have also been preparing a list of the government departments and thus the first notice has been sent to the engineering department. Soon, the departments of the central government and Punjab government will also be served notices for paying their tax amount.” Sources in the Chandigarh municipal corporation revealed that all the six sub-divisions of the UT’s engineering department had settled majority of their arrears last year, which were pending from last many years, but some amount was still pending and details regarding the same is being prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/division-no-3-of-ut-engg-dept-gets-rs-10cr-tax-notice/articleshow/77920590.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Coronavirus and dengue co-infection may be risky’||Mohali: Coronavirus and dengue co-infection may prove risky. The health department has detected dengue mosquito larvae at many places in the Mohali district after which the civil surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, appealed to the district residents to protect themselves from the dengue fever, especially during these unprecedented times. “It is not only coronavirus, but also the dengue fever that we all should protect ourselves from as co-infection of both these diseases may prove to be risky for life,” he said. He said the larvae of the deadly mosquito, which spreads dengue fever, has recently been found at various places in the district. He said while the teams of the health department have been fully active for more than six months to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, they are also going door-to-door to check the presence of dengue larvae and sensitise people about the same. While issuing an advisory, Dr Manjit Singh said at this hour of Covid-19 pandemic, when we all are engaged in a battle against the deadly virus, it is equally important and essential to save ourselves from getting infected with dengue. The civil surgeon said people should clean desert coolers, flower pots, fridge trays, water tanks and other containers, which are breeding ground for the deadly mosquito. He said every Friday should be observed as a dry day as this practice has been going on for long. District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh said residents, while understanding their own responsibility, must not allow storage of water anywhere in their homes and surroundings. Dr Singh said dengue fever was a treatable disease and if symptoms appeared, the nearest health facility should be visited or people must call on the 104 helpline for medical guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coronavirus-and-dengue-co-infection-may-be-risky/articleshow/77920592.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||Patient goes missing from BHU, traced||Varanasi: High drama ensued at Banaras Hindu University’s Sir Sunderlal hospital after another patient was found missing from a Covid ward on Thursday morning. The family members gathered at BHU main gate in Lanka and staged a sit-in, demanding action against hospital. The patient was later found in Assi area. SSL hospital medical superintendent Prof S K Mathur said Asadhu Yadav, a 62-year-old patient from Misirpur village, Rohania, repeatedly requested to be allowed to go home after his condition improved. The hospital discharged him on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning, when Asadhu’s family came they were unable to find him. They said Asadhu was rushed to BHU trauma centre four days ago for chest injury, but was declared Covid-19 positive. Later, Mathur issued a statement, claiming the patient was found at his relative's houses in Assi area. He said Asadhu was shifted to the Covid ward after testing positive. He was discharged on Wednesday night after his condition improved, Mathur added. BHU had witnessed protests when a missing patient was found dead on August 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/patient-goes-missing-from-bhu-traced/articleshow/77920524.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||After 5 months, Jaipur Metro to run again from Sept 7||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Metro will resume operations from September 7, after almost five months of lockdown due to the pandemic. According to the guidelines issued by the Central government on Unlock-4, the Metro can start functioning in various stages. Initially, the Central government had ordered to start one line for four hours, both in morning and evening, before starting the full process by third week of September. Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, government had shut down the Metro rail services on March 22, 2020. Jaipur Metro administration is learning from the measures taken by Delhi Metro and preparations made by them before implementing the same in the city. Central government has formed a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to operate the Metro which includes – two-feet distancing, face masks, hand sanitisers, thermal screening and disinfection of Metro stations everyday. Principal secretary UDH Bhaskar A Sawant said, “The Metro will start functioning fully by the end of third week of this month. Moreover, Commission of Railway Safety, Mumbai has approved the functioning of trains on extension of Chandpol to Badi Chaupar Metro line that would take the commuters to Mansarovar. Soon, CM Ashok Gehlot will inaugurate the line after which Jaipur residents will be able to commute from Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar. It would only take 26 minutes for people to reach from Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar after the line will start functioning. Due to the pandemic, the commuters will be allowed to travel only through smart cards, which can be recharged online.” The Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar Metro line will be of 2.4 km length and commuters will be charged Rs 22. At present, around 20,000 people travel in Jaipur Metro every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-5-months-metro-to-run-again-from-sept-7/articleshow/77920591.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Mahasabha for OBC quota in NEET exam||All India Year Youth Yadav Mahasabha wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday demanding compliance of OBC reservation in medical education institutions in all states and Union territories. Mahasabha president Dinesh Yadav has demanded that till their demand was fulfilled, NEET should be postponed since Supreme Court and Madras High Court had instructed central government to give OBC reservation in NEET. “Because of non-compliance of OBC reservation norms from 2017, 11,000 OBC students have been denied the benefit. Under All India Quota, 15%, 7.5% and 10% seats are reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and economically weaker sections in central and state medical educational institutions. However, reservation for OBC students under the All India Quota is limited to central institutions only. We want governemnt to take this issue seriously,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mahasabha-for-obc-quota-in-neet-exam/articleshow/77920597.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kanpur||Probe panel visits Vikas aide Bauwa encounter site in Etawah||Kanpur:A three-member inquiry commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd) B S Chauhan, set up by apex court to probe Vikas Dubey encounter and the circumstances that led to it, on Thursday visited Mahewa area of Etawah, the encounter site where Bauwa alias Praveen Dubey, an aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, was gunned down by the police on early July 9 morning. Police sources informed TOI that the commission headed by Justice (retired) Chauhan, former DGP (retired) KL Gupta and Justice (retired) Shashikant Agarwal, accompanied by Etawah district and officials reached the spot amid tight security and began investigations. The encounter scene was recreated and the authorities had already cordoned off the encounter spot. “The commission questioned policemen involved in gunning down Bauwa, besides also inquiring about the latter's three other aides who managed to flee the site. The members also questioned cops as to from where did they receive tip-off about Bauwa’s movement, besides how did they corner the alleged criminal,” said police sources. The Commission also recorded statements of the villagers including Manoj Kumar Chauhan, Jitendra Kumar and Durgesh, who live in the vicinity of the encounter site, besides were the first to witness the encounter spot, amid the presence of district and police officials including SSP Akash Tomar. “Thereafter, the commission also asked police about videography, photography and postmortem report of Bauwa Dubey and spent nearly half-an-hour at the encounter site,” said the SSP. Bauwa was gunned down around 3 am on July 9 on the highway near Mahewa under the limits of Bakewar police area of Etawah. A Swift Dzire car DL-1ZA-3602 was looted by four armed SUV borne assailants. At around 4.30 am, however, they were intercepted at Kachaura road under the limits of Civil Lines police station by the police. It was when the police parties chased them, the Swift Dzire collided with a tree and criminals sprayed bullets on the police team. In the retaliatory action, one criminal identified as Bauwa Dubey sustained critical injuries. He was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. One pistol, a rifle and several cartridges were recovered from his possession. Three others however had managed to escape on the SUV. To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed and killed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Vikas Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter on the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/probe-panel-visits-vikas-aide-bauwa-encounter-site-in-etawah/articleshow/77920513.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||PU int’l hostel to serve as paid Covid care centre||Chandigarh: The UT administration has decided to convert the Panjab University International Hostel in Sector 25 here into a paid Covid care centre. Earlier, on August 16, a similar arrangement was made at James Hotel in Sector 17, but later on the hotel’s request, the Covid care services were withdrawn from there. Now, it has been decided to turn the Panjab University International Hostel as a Covid Care Centre on payment basis. At the hostel, doctors and nurses will be deputed by the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, as per requirement. Besides, GMSH-16 will also take care of sanitisation and medical waste disposal there. The ambulance will be provided by the Chandigarh additional deputy commissioner. Catering services will be taken care of by the contractor of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, on payment basis and the laundry services will be offered by Hotel Shivalik View. The collection of money will be done by the staff members deputed at the hostel and deposited in the Covid Care Fund. Charges for a single room are Rs 1,500 per person per day and Rs 500 for per person for three meals. For sharing a room twin basis, Rs 1,000 per person per day per bed will be charged and Rs 500 per person will be charged for three meals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-intl-hostel-to-serve-as-paid-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77920601.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kanpur||PPIUCD champion scheme showing good results: CMO||Kanpur: The health department is expecting undesired pregnancy and population boom in coming months, besides birth of malnourished children a push in mortality rate of mother and child due to lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra said the health department was mindful of the situation and had started providing quality family planning services to people. “Our department has decided to pay special attention to promoting various modes of family planning, especially postpartum IUCD and Chaya tablets immediately after delivery,” Dr Mishra added. The return of migratory labourers in huge numbers and restricted movement of people and their forced stay in homes for long to corona pandemic is the reason for expected population boom, said health officials. People could not use family planning due to lockdown and Asha workers too could not visit homes to distribute contraceptives, they added. CMO Dr Mishra said the department had launched a PPIUCD champion scheme. The object of this scheme was to encourage doctors and nurses involved in delivery to tell the benefits of family planning to the new mother and her family and encourage them to adopt some family planning method, and preferably send them home with one, he added. The doctor or nurse who encourages maximum women for PPIUCD are adjudged PPIUCD champion of the month under the scheme, he added. Under the programme, family planning experts collect the progress from all delivery centres every Monday and forward the same to CMO and ACMO. The results have started showing and the data is corroborating the fact that family planning is working and more women were adopting it with better counseling. The data shows a rise of 7.5% in August 2020, the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ppiucd-champion-scheme-showing-good-results-cmo/articleshow/77920506.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Salem||Police seize 210kg of ganja from truck, 3 arrested||Namakkal: The Namakkal district police arrested a truck driver and his two accomplices and seized 210kg of ganja from their possession on Wednesday. The Cuddalore police got a tip-off that 210kg of ganja was being smuggled to Theni district from Chilkur in Telangana on Tuesday night. Based on the information, they were chasing the truck at Andhra-Telangana border. “The Cuddalore police missed the truck in their district border and the truck reached Salem district border,” Namakkal district SP S Sakthi Ganesan. He said the Cuddalore police later alerted Salem district police. However, the truck crossed the Salem district border and reached Namakkal district on the same night following which Salem district police alerted the Namakkal district police. Based on the information, the Namakkal district SP formed a special team comprising Namakkal town police inspector Selvaraj. The team attempted to stop the truck at the district border. “But the truck driver did not stop the vehicle,” the SP said, adding that the special team managed to catch the truck near a bridge at Paramathi-Velur town on Salem-Madurai national highway. The team seized 210kg of ganja worth Rs 21 lakh from the truck. “Truck driver M Krishnaperumal, 42, of Theni district, his accomplices O Kumar, 43, of Theni district and R Balaiah, 43, of Dindigul district, were arrested,” the SP said. A sum of Rs 2 lakh was also seized from the accused. Sakthi Ganesan said the district police arrested 17 ganja peddlers and seized 620kg of ganja worth Rs 62 lakh since July 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/police-seize-210kg-of-ganja-from-truck-3-arrested/articleshow/77899866.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Vehicles of Mukhtar Ansari’s henchman seized||VARANASI: Mau police on Thursday seized SUVs and other vehicles of over Rs 1 crore from Bhiti area in the district under a drive to destroy economic empire of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his henchmen by confiscating their movable and immovable properties procured with the help of illegally earned money. These vehicles belonged to one Suresh Singh, who had been booked under Gangster Act on May 31 and is currently lodged in jail. Earlier, his four buses of Rs 86 lakhs had also been seized on September 1. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said that Suresh belonged to a gang involved in extortion trade. During the action of Mau police in June, he had fallen in police net and was booked under the Gangster Act. Later, police collected details of his assets created with the help of money earned from illegal sources. After collecting the details, initially his four buses were seized and on Thursday police completed the process of seizure of three buses, two SUVs, a car and three two-wheelers worth of Rs 1.05 crore. Ansari’s henchmen in east UP region are facing the heat of police action especially after May 31. The men in khaki have not only targeted persons involved in extortion trade and grabbing contracts in government departments, but their monopoly in fish and meat trade has also been challenged. Lands of government and individuals grabbed by the family members and henchmen of Mukhtar have also been freed. As per police records, before the action initiated against Suresh Singh in three days a loss of Rs 111 crores had already been caused to Mukhtar in the series of actions took place in the last three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vehicles-of-mukhtars-henchman-seized/articleshow/77920553.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Armed with SC order, railways gears up to remove squatters||NEW DELHI: A day after the Supreme Court ordered removal of nearly 48,000 slum dwellings located along railway tracks in Delhi within the next three months, railways and other agencies on Thursday said they were ready to execute the order. While efforts to remove encroachments have failed in the past because of political interference or squatters securing stay orders from courts, the apex court has now stated that any previous stay orders from lower courts will be henceforth ‘non-effective’. It has also asserted that no political interference will be tolerated. Delhi’s major encroachments along the railway tracks are part of the Ring Railway network, with these stretches notorious for snatching incidents as well as jaywalking. Incidents of people getting run over by trains also increase when the settlements are located along the tracks, railway officials said. To ‘secure’ the tracks, the railways has been undertaking a drive to fence the encroached areas using old sleeper beds. In addition, Northern Railway has been geo-tagging each location, which gets cleared from dumped waste. SC Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi told TOI that while the drive had been impacted during the lockdown, work resumed in May. “This is a two-pronged approach. Not only will this prevent further encroachment on either side of the tracks, but also prevent waste from reaching the rail tracks. Special teams have been deployed,” said Jain, adding that they are looking to remove encroachments going forward. Deepak Kumar, CPRO of Northern Railway, said a detailed order was awaited, but all agencies were ready to execute the top court’s order. While Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board has identified three high priority areas on railway land, which includes the JJ cluster at Sanjay Camp in Chanakyapuri, a JJ cluster at Dayabasti railway station, and a JJ cluster along the tracks at Wazirpur, railways says stretches along the Ring Railway, including Hazrat Nizamuddin to Okhla, Okhla to Lajpat Nagar, Lajpat Nagar to Naraina, Patel Nagar to Delhi Cantt, Sabzi Mandi to Azadpur, Kishanganj to Dayabasti, Dayabasti to Shakurbasti, Anand Vihar to Mandawali and Tughlaqabad to Faridabad, are all problematic sections. Northern Railway officials say so far, they have fenced nearly 50 kilometres of land along the railway tracks using old sleeper beds. Former president of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, Subhash Chopra, however, blamed the Centre and the Delhi government for such a situation along the railway tracks. “Delhi government had promised pucca houses to dwellers in place of jhuggis, but it failed to keep its promise. The Centre, which has the railway ministry under it, has been equally a mute spectator,” he alleged. “Under the prevailing pandemic circumstances, how can these poor people be rendered homeless?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/armed-with-sc-order-railways-gears-up-to-remove-squatters/articleshow/77919408.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||‘Sanskrit important for entire human race’||Gorakhpur: Sanskrit literature is not only important for India but for the entire human race. Sanskrit language connects us with our roots, said UP Hindi Sansthan’s acting chairman in Gorakhpur on Thursday. “Sanskrit literature is not only important for India but for the entire human race. From the last 7,000 years, many books on Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism have been written in Sanskrit language. Around 3 crore manuscripts of science and literature are in Sanskrit language, which is 100 times more than those in Greek or Latin. Sanskrit language connects us with our roots,” Prof. Gupta said. He was speaking in a seminar ‘Sanskrit Evam Bharatiya Sanskriti’ during week-long programme organized by Gorakshpeeth to mark the 51st death anniversary of Mahant Digvijaynath and sixth death anniversary of Mahant Avaidyanath. UP legislative assembly speaker Dr Hriday Narayan Dixit said Indian thought and philosophy is inclusive. In Indian philosophy, earth is called Dharti Mata (mother) and sky is considered father due to its vastness. We consider the entire world as one unit. Our national feeling is reflected in our culture, and forms the basis of our country. Sanskrit has helped us preserve our Vedic culture and has helped maintained its continuity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sanskrit-important-for-entire-human-race/articleshow/77920567.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Lack of oxygen beds a worry in Mysuru||MYSURU: The paucity of high-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) beds, which play a key role in keeping the oxygen saturation level among patients with pulmonary disorders, across Mysuru district has become a cause for concern against a backdrop of a recent upsurge in the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities. What is more, the lack of sufficient HFNO beds in the district is being cited as one of the reasons for the spike in fatalities in Mysuru. HFNO treatment is vital to Covid-19 patients with pre-existing respiratory disorders. As on September 2, Mysuru has reported 467 Covid-19 fatalities, and is second only to Bengaluru Urban, where more than 2,000 have succumbed. Reports indicate that there are fewer than 20 HFNO beds available across Mysuru district. Most patients who have succumbed to the infection in the district complained of respiratory distress towards the end of their battle. Most fatalities reported in both government and private hospitals in Mysuru had pre-existing respiratory conditions, sources said. Meanwhile, data from the Mysuru district health department indicates that only five HFNO beds are available with government hospitals, while there were 86 beds with ventilator facility. Furthermore, keeping the Covid-19 tally in Mysuru in check has been made difficult by the failure of many private hospitals to reserve 50% of their available beds for Covid patients. Kin of several infected patients have had to run from pillar to post to get a bed. However, private healthcare institutions have set up Covid Care Centres (CCCs) at hotels and other such facilities where asymptomatic and those exhibiting mild symptoms are being treated. As on September 2, Mysuru has more than 5,700 active cases, but the number of beds available stands at 3,871. Of the 5,700-odd patients, more than 2,000 have chosen to isolate themselves at home, while 2,361 people are receiving treatment at designated hospitals and the care centres. Mysuru deputy commissioner B Sharat admitted to the shortage of beds with HFNO equipment. He said he had taken charge only last week, and had learnt about this gaping lack. “I have directed the authorities concerned to ensure facilities in the district are commensurate with the number of patients,” said Sharat, adding that he had recently learnt about the amount of oxygen being supplied not being sufficient. “I have asked the additional DC to ensure sufficient supply of oxygen to hospitals. I am convening a meeting with representatives of private hospitals to talk about reserving beds for Covid-19 patients,” he said, expressing hope of such remedial measures helping the district administration offsetting the shortage in HFNO beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lack-of-oxygen-beds-a-worry-in-mysuru/articleshow/77918054.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Retired cop accused of molesting daughter-in-law||AHMEDABAD: A woman,24, from Odhav, filed a complaint with Women’s police station (east) on Wednesday accusing her father-in-law of molesting her repeatedly. Her father-in-law has retired from city police two months ago. She also alleged that her husband, 31, also beat her after her father-in-law provoked him against her. She stated in her FIR that she married a Makarba-based man, who worked with postal department, on February 20, 2018. She has been preparing for GPSC exams and after having some problem in her ears she had to visit a hospital in the Odhav area. Whenever she went to the hospital on her scooter, her father-in-law sat on the pillion as if to accompany her, but molested her when she drove the vehicle, she alleged. She said that her father-in-law once told her that he wanted to have sex with her and he would reveal it to anyone but if she refused, he will provoke his son against her and leave her without support. In August 2019, when she was cooking food at home, her father-in-law rushed into the kitchen and tried to rape her. She pushed him away and ran out of the house that day, she states in the FIR. On October 13, 2019, she went to take exams of GPSC and her father-in-law again molested her while sitting pillion on her scooter. This time, she slapped him and went to her parents’ place in Odhav. After that, she narrated everything to her parents who organized a meeting with her in-laws in the presence of community elders and they decided that she and her husband should live separately. But her husband’s behaviour changed and he began beating her over petty issues. He abandoned her on August 15 and since then she has been living at her parents’ place. She finally approached police and filed a complaint of domestic violence and molestation against her father-in-law and husband. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retired-cop-accused-of-molesting-daughter-in-law/articleshow/77919383.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||Gita Press refutes closure rumours||Gorakhpur: Gita Press has alerted the public against some fraudsters seeking donations for it by spreading rumours on social media that the press is facing closure due to financial crunch difficulties and appealed to people not to believe them nor part with their money. Gita Press used its twitter handle to share a letter of press management alerting its patrons, readers and public. The letter states, “Gita Press is not closing down neither is it facing any financial hardships. Gita Press does not accept any kind of donation or financial aid.” Press trustee Devidayal Agarwal said, “Few people are spreading rumours about Gita Press closing down due to its poor financial condition. They are also asking for donations in the name of the press. I want to tell everyone that Gita Press does not accept any kind of donation and these are fake rumours as the press is working smoothly.” Established in 1923, Gita Press has been propagating and promoting morality and spirituality through its literature. It’s main objective is to promote the principles of Hindu religion among public through its publications sold at highly subsidised prices. “In 2015, employees demanded an increase in wages and the press was locked for a few days due to their strike. The issue was resolved and the press started running smoothly, but some fraudsters spread fake news of closure on social media and started asking donations,” said press manager Lalmani. Now, some people are again spreading the same message and trying to fool people and are asking for donations, he added. “Gita Press denies these rumours and requests people not to forward such fake messages on social media. We appeal to people through you to share and spread this correct information among people and not to donate a single penny in the name of Gita Press,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gita-press-refutes-closure-rumours/articleshow/77920562.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||TNPCB chief summoned in illegal cement mixing unit case||Madurai: Taking a serious view of the lapse on part of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) officials, which led to the functioning of a cement mixing unit for several months without any permission in Madurai district, the Madras high court on Thursday directed the chairman of TNPCB to appear before it.The court was hearing a petition filed by Thomas, who sought to close the unit. Since the Madurai district collector who had powers to close down the unit including the disconnection of electricity supply had not taken any steps, the court during an earlier hearing had directed him to appear before the court through video conferencing. Pursuant to the direction, the collector appeared before the court on Thursday. The additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that the electricity connection was cut off and the unit was completely dismantled. A division bench observed that a perusal of the status report submitted by the Madurai district environmental engineer of TNPCB says that the unit has been functioning from September 2019 and the permission sought for functioning of the unit was rejected by the TNPCB in November 2019. The judges said that the report also says that when the TNPCB officials inspected the unit on August 19, they found that it was functioning, after which they had taken action. The judges observed that if at all the district environmental engineer had taken follow up action, the unit would not have functioned for several months without any permission. The judges observed that due to the deliberate lapse on part of the district environmental engineer his insensitivity towards pollution caused by the unit, it was functioning even after permission was rejected. Hence, the judges directed the chairman of TNPCB and the Madurai district environmental engineer to appear before the court through video conferencing to assist the court .TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnpcb-chief-summoned-in-illegal-cement-mixing-unit-case/articleshow/77920614.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||HUL to replace fossil carbons in cleaning range||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: India, which is among the leading laundry markets for Unilever, is central to the global consumer product company’s goal of replacing 100% of the carbon derived from fossil fuels in its cleaning and laundry product formulations with renewable or recycled carbon by 2030. At a time when the company is witnessing increased demand for its cleaning products globally following the outbreak of Covid-19, Unilever said on Wednesday the move to replace 100% carbon derived from fossil fuels with renewable carbon will transform the sustainability of global cleaning and laundry brands, including Surf, Sunlight, Vim and Domex. All these brands form part of Hindustan Unilever’s (HUL’s) home care portfolio, which contributes around 35% to its annual turnover of Rs 39,000 crore. The new target is part of Unilever’s ‘clean future’ programme. MD & CEO Sanjiv Mehta told TOI, “Clean Future is about looking at a more holistic solution to our current dependence on fossil-based ingredients by looking at environment friendly alternatives such as plant-based or recovery from waste-streams. This latest commitment builds on Unilever’s existing commitments on climate, plastics and nature. In India, water conservation and plastic reduction have been core elements of our sustainability plan, inspiring several innovations. I believe that with this step, we will further reduce pressure on our fragile ecosystem and help us restore nature.” In Tuticorin in the south, Unilever is sourcing soda ash, an ingredient in laundry powders, made using a CO2 capture technology. The soda ash is made with the CO2 emissions from the energy used in the production process. Both technologies are expected to be scaled significantly under the programme. Most cleaning and laundry products available today contain chemicals made from fossil fuel feedstocks, a non-renewable source of carbon. Unilever said its move to renewable or recycled sources of carbon for these chemicals is a deliberate shift away from the fossil fuel economy. Clean Future embeds the circular economy principles into both packaging and product formulations at the scale of global brands to reduce their carbon footprint. It is also a key step towards Unilever’s pledge of net zero emissions from its products by 2039. The chemicals used in Unilever’s cleaning and laundry products make up the greatest proportion of their carbon footprint (46%) across their life cycle. The company said by transitioning away from fossil fuel-derived chemicals in product formulations, it will unlock novel ways of reducing the carbon footprint of some of the world’s biggest cleaning and laundry brands. Unilever expects this initiative alone to reduce the carbon footprint of the product formulations by up to 20%. The company is ring-fencing 1 billion euros for Clean Future to finance biotechnology research, CO2 and waste utilisation, and low carbon chemistry, which is expected to drive the transition away from fossil fuel derived chemicals. This investment will also be used to create biodegradable and water-efficient product formulations, to halve the use of virgin plastic by 2025, the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-to-replace-fossil-carbons-in-cleaning-range/articleshow/77912404.cms||Namrata Singh
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Recovery & mortality rates improve in Maharashtra's Marathwada||AURANGABAD: The average recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in the Marathwada region has improved from 65.54% by the end of July to 71.4% in August-end. At the same time, the region's mortality rate has declined from 3.6% in July-end to 3% now. Eight districts of Marathwada have collectively reported 1,761 Covid-related deaths till Thursday morning, whereas 41,126 patients have been cured of the viral infection so far. The region has 14,709 active cases in all. Of them, the highest number of cases is from Aurangabad district (4,844), followed by Osmanabad (1,927), Latur (1,913), Nanded (1,907), Parbhani (1,454), Jalna (1,258), Beed (1,215) and Hingoli (191). Indian Medical Association (Aurangabad) president Santosh Ranjalkar said multiple reasons were associated with the improved recovery rate and declined mortality rate among Covid-19 patients. “The treatment protocol has evolved now with certain drugs being administered at an early stage. Also, the population below 50 years of age is beating the viral disease easily," he said. Among different measures aimed at containing the spread of Covid 19, Nanded district administration has declared a fine of Rs 1,000 for not wearing a face-mask or spitting in public. The district administration has allowed reopening of shops or commercial establishments only between 9 am to 7 pm, whereas there is a blanket closure on Sundays till the end of September. State health minister Rajesh Tope has appealed to citizens to visit the hospital immediately if symptoms of Covid-19 develop. “The practice of self-medication or taking over-the-counter medicines must be discouraged during the current pandemic. Besides different precautionary measures, continuous check of oxygen saturation level in the body is advisable,” said Tope, who is also the Jalna district guardian minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/recovery-mortality-rates-improve-in-marathwada/articleshow/77916900.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Kafeel Khan moves to Rajasthan, says will go to court if UP doesn’t return job||JAIPUR: Suspended Uttar Pradesh paediatrician Kafeel Khan, who was assured of a safe stay in Rajasthan by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, on Thursday said he would appeal to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to revoke his suspension so that he could join work, or else, he would challenge it in the high court. He also termed the charges against him under the National Security Act (NSA) as “state-sponsored victimisation” by the UP government and “fictitious”. “I came to Jaipur because my family had apprehensions that the UP government could frame me in other false charges and put me behind the bars. We were assured of a safe stay in Jaipur by Priyankaji, who spoke with my mother and wife. She said the UP government may slap other charges against me. We feel safe here in Rajasthan as the Congress party is running the government. I would like to thank Priyankaji, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, communist leaders and leaders of other political parties who raised my issue. I will be here for a week,” said Khan, who was released from Mathura prison on Tuesday midnight on the orders of Allahabad High Court that set aside the NSA charges imposed on him. He has also sought an appointment with chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Asked about joining politics, he said, “Though it is very difficult to say anything at this moment, it did cross my mind when I was in jail that I should be a part of it to fix the rot in the system. I don’t wish to join politics now, but don’t know what will happen in future. Have not received offers to join any party.” Khan, who was a lecturer at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur said, “I shall write to UP CM urging him to revoke my suspension and give my service back so that I can work as a corona warrior. I want to get involved in research to find out medicine to fight Covid. I also want to volunteer in the vaccine research programme. If it is not revoked, I shall challenge the matter in the high court.” “Despite court’s order to release me, the state government delayed it. Mathura jail superintendent said he would only follow district magistrate’s (DM) order and the DM was waiting for orders from Lucknow. They released me around midnight as they were looking for an opportunity to slap another false charge against me,” Khan added. He was charged under the NSA for his alleged inflammatory statement in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) by UP government. He walked free after seven months in jail. “In jail, following my arrest on January 29, they didn’t offer me water or food for 72 hours and tortured me physically. They flung a glass of water on my face and didn’t let me sleep. I used to cry out loud in jail out of hunger. I had to survive with two chappatis for 3-4 days. They also asked me weird questions like - “if I used a powder to treat people that led to deaths of millions and, also, “if I went to Japan to topple the government”. In the barracks, Covid norms were not followed, there was no social distancing.” “They have ruined our family (brothers’) businesses. We have been crippled financially. My 65-year-old mother kept running from Aligarh lower court to Allahabad High Court to Supreme Court for justice for 7.5 months.” “I don’t have a problem with the Citizenship Amendment Act (Act). Our home minister (Amit Shah) says it doesn’t take away anyone’s citizenship, in fact it grants citizenship. But, when he talks about understanding the chronology – that NPR and NRC will follow CAA – I have a problem with that. They are only trying to divide people in the name of religion,” he added. He termed the death of 70 kids due to shortage of liquid oxygen supply at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur as a “man-made massacre”. “It happened because the state government didn’t make a payment of Rs 78 lakh. Those in the position of power in Lucknow were demanding a commission of Rs 10%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kafeel-to-move-high-court-if-suspension-is-not-revoked/articleshow/77920617.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds record 18,000+ cases; spike in toll (391)||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Thursday added 18,105 fresh Covid cases, the highest surge in a day so far. This came a day after adding over 17,000 cases for the first time with the total caseload at 8,43,844. The state also reported a spike in deaths with 391 casualties, its third-highest toll so far, taking the total fatalities to 25,586. Mumbai, too, added 1,526 cases and 37 deaths on Thursday, taking its overall caseload to 1,50,095 and toll to 7,764. The previous bulky addition to Mumbai’s cases was on August 26, when it reported 1,854 cases. “The addition seen over the last two days was expected to some extent following Ganeshotsav and unlocking. However, there are enough beds to accommodate patients,” a civic official said. The only positive news for the city was that there was no significant jump in deaths. The voluminous addition of cases at the state level has started increasing the load of active cases. The Union health ministry on Thursday said Maharashtra, along with Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu account for 62% of the active cases in the country. Maharashtra now has 2,05,428 active cases and Mumbai, 21,439. On Thursday, Pune circle added 5,121 cases and 118 deaths, while Mumbai region added 4,330 cases and 82 deaths. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the Pune circle, which is adding large numbers of cases and was also grappling with shortage of beds, is on its peak and it is likely that cases will stabilise in the next few days. “It is seen that when cases are on the peak, they stabilise in 8-10 days,” Tope said, adding that is what happened in Mumbai, Malegaon and even Aurangabad. The MMR areas saw a mixed trend on Thursday. Thane city, that was adding cases and deaths in big numbers at one point, achieved a zero death count on Thursday even as cases saw a gradual rise over the last few days. Civic officials attributed the zero fatalities to regular tracking of all suspected patients in the city and ensuring they get timely treatment before cases turn critical. 329 new cases were reported in Thane city on Thursday, taking the tally there to 26,375. The toll remained at 851. Thane city’s recovery rate is 88%, one of the highest in the state. Officials said it had only 2,153 active cases. Thane has also carried out tests higher than several cities. However, in a worrying development for MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli, the second-worst area in the region, crossed 30,000 cases on Thursday. It now has the second highest cases in MMR after Mumbai and the highest in Thane district. Officials said the twin cities have seen a jump in cases since the Ganesh festival. It took only 14 days to add the last 5,000 cases as compared to 20 days taken to add the previous 5,000. There were 335 cases from within NMMC areas on Thursday, taking the total count there to 27,112. Of these, 85% patients have recovered. Seven deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the toll to 611. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation areas reported 248 cases and 6 deaths, taking the count to 12,475 and toll to 301. For the second day in a row, the state discharged over 13,000 patients. A total of 13,988 patients recovered on Thursday, taking total recoveries to 6.12 lakh and the state’s rate of recovery to 72.5%. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri and Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-adds-record-18k-cases-spike-in-toll-391/articleshow/77921325.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn to rope in volunteers for containment drive||Coimbatore: Following in the footsteps of its counterparts in Chennai and Madurai, the city corporation has decided to involve volunteers in Covid-19 containment activities. The civic body has sought applications from interested students and others for the same. A source with the city corporation said, “Volunteers would be involved in door-to-door survey to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. In addition, they would also collect details about people with comorbidities and pregnant women.” Explaining that volunteers would be deployed in all the 100 wards of the city corporation limits and the first preference would be given to the people residing in that particular ward, the source said they would be asked to monitor a certain number of houses daily. The volunteers would be paid an honorarium of Rs500 a day, the source said. The city corporation had conducted a meeting a with members of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and residential welfare associations on Tuesday and sought their help to carry out containment activities more effectively. “We have requested the city corporation to explain the steps that one needs to be followed if tested positive for the virus. Not many seem to be aware of that and they have been struggling without knowing what to do further. It would be useful if the city corporation explains the procedures that need to be followed and make that available for the public,” said a volunteer, who attended the meeting. In June, both the Chennai Greater Corporation and Madurai Corporation had appointed volunteers to monitor people within their limits. The move was reportedly effective in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. In Madurai Corporation, volunteers were asked to monitor a certain number of houses once in three days. This helped them identify people at the early stages of infection. Primary focus was on vulnerable areas that had reported highest number of Covid-19 cases in 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-to-rope-in-volunteers-for-containment-drive/articleshow/77899934.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 4, 2020||Madurai||American College campus swarming with butterflies||Madurai: In the heart of the bustling Madurai city lies The American College, one of the oldest colleges in the district. Surrounded by Tamukkam grounds, the busy Goripalayam junction, Government Rajaji Hospital and Madurai medical college which are mostly devoid of any greenery, the campus is now swarming with butterflies in a hue of colours and sizes giving a feast to the eyes. The campus has nearly 1,400 trees of which many are over 100 years old. It is a digitized green campus, where the trees have been barcoded. It also boasts of a baobab tree. A butterfly garden was established in the year 2014. But, this year the faculty have been enthralled by the thousands of butterflies. Assistant professor of Zoology, M Rajesh says that they had so far documented 40 species of butterflies in their campus. Now 15 new species have thronged the campus during the lockdown. Apart from thousands of blue tiger and dark blue tiger butterflies, the campus is also filled with species such as crimson rose, common banded peacock, plain tiger, striped tiger, danaid egg fly, lime butterfly, lemon pansy, peacock pansy, chocolate pansy, common crow, common immigrant, common mormon and blue jay butterflies. The butterflies have come for the nectar in flowers of trees like divi divi and also for reproduction. Principal of the college, Dr M Davamani Christober, says that the greenery of the campus is something that he takes pride in, and not even a branch can be taken out without his permission.  “If a tree has to be removed for some reason, I ensure that two more are planted. As of now, we have added 180 trees in the last three years,” he said. The absence of students may be the reason for these butterflies to fly around so freely. But their beautiful presence is also making up for the absence of the students, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/american-college-campus-swarming-with-butterflies/articleshow/77920623.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||Doctors, staffers attend mock fire drill at SSGH||Vadodara: To check the preparedness of the hospital staff, the SSG Hospital (SSGH) and fire and emergency services department of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) held an elaborate fire safety mock drill at the hospital campus on Thursday. A training was earlier organised at the hospital in wake of the recent incidents of fire at Covid-19 hospitals in Ahmedabad and elsewhere and the drill was part of the test. Officials said that the idea was to check how the 350 staffers who were trained handled situations on their own. The staffers were to tackle the fire and evacuate the affected ward or floor in case of an emergency. They even made arrangements to shift the patients to another hospital. Sources said that a key aspect that needed to be checked was teamwork and coordination amongst the staffers in a critical situation. They added those present at the hospital at the time of the drill did well. While the fire drill was about a ward on the ground floor, the fire brigade mobilised a hydraulic elevated platform to check its reaction time. Officials said that it reached the hospital in three minutes from Dandia Bazaar where it is kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/doctors-staffers-attend-mock-fire-drill-at-ssgh/articleshow/77917441.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Delhi||JNU student alleges attack by ABVP members||NEW DELHI: A JNU student has alleged that he was attacked in his hostel room by drunk members of ABVP early on Thursday. The international relations student, Vivek Pandey, resides in Mahi-Mandavi hostel. While an FIR has been filed at Vasant Kunj police station, ABVP has called the allegations baseless. Pandey told TOI that he heard a knock on his hostel room door around 1.30am. “When I opened the door, I found 6-8 people standing there. They started to abuse me and push me around. They then punched me. They were joined by six more students. When I asked why they were hitting me, they said ‘zyaada neta ban raha hai’. One of them was wearing a steel bracelet, which gashed my face. Soon, a friend intervened and the attackers dispersed. I called an ambulance and went to Safdarjung Hospital where I got four stitches,” he added. In his FIR, Pandey, a native of Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow district, said, “I fear for my safety. I was attacked without any kind of provocation. I need protection either by police or JNU security. I don’t know the people who attacked me. But they are ABVP activists. I have been attacked multiple times, even during the violence on January 5.” ABVP JNU unit president Shivam Chaurasia in a statement said, “It has been reported that there were some clashes between students last night in a hostel. We don’t know anything in this regard, but Left-leaning organisations are raising baseless allegations to malign ABVP-JNU. If something really has happened, then the university administration must conduct a fair inquiry. Any allegations with an intention to defame ABVP will lead to legal action.” A JNU official said, “Till 3pm, the administration had not received any complaint from the student. The JNU security is likely to report on this soon. We will take action according to the rules.” Chief security officer Naveen Yadav said, “We are yet to get a complaint, but we are investigating the matter and will submit a report soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-student-alleges-attack-by-abvp-members/articleshow/77919450.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Outbreak helps Aurangabad slash festive waste by 1.5 tonne||Aurangabad: With the Covid-19 outbreak forcing citizens to stay indoors and letting only a handful of Ganesh mandals to celebrate Ganeshotsav this year, the nirmalya (floral offerings) and other solid waste generated in the city during the festival reduced by a significant 1.5 tonne this year as compared to last year. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), in association with CARPE and others, had collected nirmalya and solid waste on Visarjan day from four immersion points in the city. “Every year, we run ‘Nirmalyadaan-Swachhata Hich Seva’ campaign during Ganeshotsav to collect nirmalya and other decoration material, which otherwise are immersed along with the idols. We collected around 7 tonne of nirmalya and other solid waste, which was 1.5 tonne lesser compared to last year,” said Vrashabh Kapta, solid waste programme manager at CARPE. Civic authorities said the nirmalya collected during the campaign was used for making compost while solid waste was segregated and processed accordingly. “Besides drop in public celebrations, processions were banned this year on the day of immersion. This too helped in lesser generation of waste,”said a senior civic official said. Kapate said setting up 23 idol collection units this year also served the purpose of environmental protection. As per official data, over 37,000 idols were collected from these drop-off points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/outbreak-helps-aurangabad-slash-festive-waste-by-1-5-tonne/articleshow/77916931.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||MP: 90-year-old Chhatarpur man beats Covid-19||BHOPAL: In yet another good news amid the raging pandemic and deaths, a 90-year-old man from Chhatarpur has defeated the deadly virus. After being detected positive on August 21, he was admitted to the medical college of Sagar. He was under treatment at the hospital for 10 days. The man’s family had shaky hope during the trying time as he falls under the vulnerable age group for Coronavirus. The man reported symptoms of breathlessness, coughing, restlessness after which he was taken to the doctor. He was tested for Coronavirus and on August 21 his reports came back positive. After battling the virus for 10 days, the man was discharged from Bundelkhand Medical College on September 2. His son told TOI, “He was determined to beat Covid-19. We are very happy that my father has recovered. The son attributed his father’s recovery to his disciplined lifestyle. “We were very worried for him. But, my father lives a very disciplined life with a proper routine for exercise,” he said, adding, “He takes care of his diet and takes food in moderation.” “Every day for decades I have seen him go for walks in the morning to keep himself fit. Even at the age of 90, he does not have any disease like blood pressure or diabetes,” he said. “These days people recommend taking hot water for better health — as everyone has become conscious amid the pandemic, but my father has been taking it for as long as I can remember. He is as fit as one can be, which is what gave him the strength to fight the Coronavirus.” Last month, an elderly couple in Panna had tested positive. A day after the 90-year-old Chhatarpur man tested positive, the Panna couple — 90-year-old husband and 86-year-old wife — were discharged from a local Covid care centre and put into home isolation for 10 days. Eldery people are more at risk for Coronavirus. Some of the reasons older people are greatly impacted by Covid-19 include the physiological changes associated with ageing, decreased immune function and multimorbidity which expose older adults to be more susceptible to the infection itself and make them more likely to suffer severely from Covid-19 disease and more serious complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/90-year-old-chhatarpur-man-beats-covid-19/articleshow/77919415.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hubballi||Kalaburagi MP Jadav, kin recover in government hospital||KALABURAGI: In contrast to various Covid-19 infected politicians preferring to get admitted to private hospitals, Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadav and about 11 members of his family and staff underwent treatment at a government hospital in Bengaluru. Jadav, who was admitted to Bowring Hospital on August 19 has fully recovered and is currently resting at home along with his son Chincholi MLA Avinash Jadav and family members. His son and family members were admitted to the hospital on August 21. All of them were discharged on August 31. Meanwhile, his three personal assistants and two car drivers who also contracted the virus are being treated at the same hospital. Jadav said he wanted to send a message to the public that treatment at government hospitals are on a par with private ones. He said treatment at the hospital was top class, and appreciated the nurses who attended to him and his kin. He said the treatment for 12 members of his family for 10 days would have costed Rs 1 crore in a private hospital. He urged the public to make use of government Covid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kalaburagi-mp-jadav-kin-recover-in-govt-hosp/articleshow/77918133.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Atmanirbhar panel’s focus on trade, industry||Ahmedabad: Barely a day ahead of the polls at Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), the newly formed Atmanirbhar panel on Thursday released its agenda with a promise to focus on retail trade along with industries. A statement issued by the panel’s spokesperson, Kailash Gadhvi, read “In an institution like GCCI, there must be a better and equal representation of retail traders in various sectors as well as the services sector along with industry and we will make efforts in that direction.” Members of the Atmanirbhar Panel include Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation, who is in the fray for the post of senior vice president; along with Bhavesh Lakhani, convener of BJP’s Business Cell for Gujarat, who is in the fray for the post of vice president. CA Kailash Gadhvi, Meghraj Dodwani, Jagdish Modi, Amit Shah and Arvind Gajera are also on the panel. Atmanirbhar panel members in their agenda, also mentioned of plans to support and mentor startups and ensure that maximum women entrepreneurs benefit from government schemes. They also laid emphasis upon encouraging skill development initiatives and promised to ensure that benefits of government schemes are extended to trade and industry members to help recover their businesses post lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atmanirbhar-panels-focus-on-trade-industry/articleshow/77919414.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Varanasi||MMMUT gets 12B status, now eligible for fin aid from UGC||Gorakhpur: Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology (MMMUT), Gorakhpur has been included by University Grant Commission (UGC) under Section 2(f) and has been declared fit to receive UGC grant as central assistance under Section 12 (B) of UGC Act, 1956 as per approved pattern of assistance under various schemes. MMMUT vice-chancellor J P Pandey said on Thursday, “UGC under-secretary Kundla Mahajan has sent a letter to the university informing about the decision. As per the letter, the report of university was presented in the meeting held on May 29, and UGC approved inclusion of MMMUT in section 12B UGC.” UGC provides financial assistance to only those universities, colleges which are in its list under Section 2(f) and Section 12 B of the UGC Act, 1956, he added. “Now, MMMUT will be benefited by various schemes run by the Union government and other central bodies for higher education and research work. After getting ‘12 B’ status, MMMUT is eligible to get financial assistance from UGC for minor/major research projects, organizing seminars, posts of teachers under various schemes, scholarship for research scholars, construction of women hostels, new study centres and other student welfare schemes,” the VC said. “The status will enable us in increasing facilities and improving the quality of education. We had been trying for 12 B status since last 1-1.5 years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mmmut-gets-12b-status-now-eligible-for-fin-aid-from-ugc/articleshow/77920574.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||Mandi strike may jack up veggie prices||Bhopal: With the mandi board employees going on an indefinite strike from Thursday, crisis of vegetables and fruits is likely to grip the state capital. Traders and farmers have also extended support to the mandi employees who are protesting against the model Mandi Act. A joint forum of employees and labourers related to the mandi board said they are striking “to save the Mandi Act 1972 and to ensure economic security of employees.” Over 35,000 employees across the state and over 50,000 labourers and others involved in running the mandi operations are on strike. A spokes person of the agitating employees said, “Peaceful agitators was caned by police near the state secretariat on Thursday.” In May this year, Shivraj government had amended the Mandi Act “to provide farmers maximum value of their crops. With its implementation, farmers will be able to sell their crops to private traders from home and will not have to go to the market,” the government had said. Besides, the farmers will continue to have the option of going to the mandi to sell their produce and sell their crop at support price. “Income of the mandi employees is linked with that of the mandis and the amendments will affect our future,” said the spokesperson. The farmers have also extended support to the employees as they start “ indefinite agitation from Thursday”. Following the strike, there will be no auctioning of fruits and vegetables in the mandis and this may lead to a crisis, say experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mandi-strike-may-jack-up-veggie-prices/articleshow/77919446.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Surat||Missing girl was tied to fan, thrashed by her father||Surat: While investigating into the case of the missing girl, cops have found out that Mira (name changed) was being thrashed often by her father Dagdu Ranshinde, a labourer. The girl’s mother had separated from him around a year ago and went to live in Mumbai. Dagdu has been living with another woman for the past few years and has three children from this woman. They earlier lived in Limbayat area. In April, Mira stole some jewellery from a young child and gave it to her stepmother. The woman then sold it to some other person. Meanwhile, the parents of the child came searching for Mira and asked her to return the jewellery. Ultimately they were forced to get back the jewellery from the buyer and return it to the owner. Following that, the Ranshinde family was put under pressure to leave the rented accommodation in Limbayat. Angry with Mira, her father then tied her with a long rope, one end of which was tied to the ceiling fan so that she could move around in the room but cannot go out. She was locked up in the room for a day, said police. But the next day, when she was freed by the mother to give her a bath, Mira escaped from home. “She was found loitering on Limabayat road by the police and when they asked her about her parents, Mira told them she was an orphan. Police then got her admitted in a children’s home on April 13,” said a police officer in Pandesara police station. Around 10 days ago, Children Home officials questioned her when she informed about her home in Limbayat. When officials reached there to check, they were told that the Ranshinde family has shifted to Pandesara. After locating the family, the girl was handed over to the father. “The girl ran for nearly two km on Wednesday morning. It seems the father continued thrashing the girl even after she was brought back to the family after a long time. Police suspect that she was tortured again and was slapped on the previous night by the father,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, division F.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/missing-girl-was-tied-to-fan-thrashed-by-her-father/articleshow/77918168.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Court grants anticipatory bail to RTO officer||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted anticipatory bail to an assistant regional transport officer accused of re-registering stolen vehicles in Aurangabad. Earlier, the sessions court had rejected the official’s bail plea. The accused, Shrikrishna Nakate, was booked on January 23, 2020, l under IPC sections 120-B, 406, 420, 468, 471 and sections 47, 48, 49, 50, 50(1) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, along with sections 42, 51, 52, 54, 62 and 63 of Central Vehicles Rule, 1989. After getting information from sources, police had initially seized two trucks with fake registration, insurance and other documents. Further investigation revealed many such vehicles with fake addresses and details were re-registered at the Aurangabad RTO. Police communicated these details to the authorities concerned and found that Kakate had allegedly indulged in re-registration of these vehicles without verifying the facts even when he didn’t have any authority to do so. Following these developments, deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Maitrewar lodged a police complaint.  Justice M G Swelikar granted conditional anticipatory bail to Nakate while observing: “Custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary, as the only allegation is that the applicant did not follow proper procedure while effecting re-registration”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-rto-officer/articleshow/77916970.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||6th phase of Vande Bharat Mission starts from Jaipur||JAIPUR: The sixth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission started from Jaipur on Thursday. This time however, it will have both inbound and outbound flights. People from Jaipur will be able to travel to Dubai and Abu Dhabi and Indians or citizens of any other country can fly to Jaipur via Delhi. Airports Authority of India (AAI), Jaipur, officials said at least 11 flights would be operated from the city to Dubai and Abu Dhabi till September 27. “Since India now has an air bubble system with these countries, we can also have outbound flights to these countries. People from Jaipur or any parts of Rajasthan can visit these countries via Jaipur,” said a senior officer of Jaipur airport. As per the schedule, some of the flights will directly land in Jaipur while some will operate via Delhi. Earlier, Vande Bharat mission only brought home stranded Indians. However, this time people from India would be able to visit various countries. “All the SOPs related to Covid will be strictly followed. Passengers need not to register themselves as we have air bubble pact with these countries,” said an officer. On the domestic front, 22 out of the 29 flights were operarted from Jaipur airport on Thursday. “The flight Jaipur to Agra remained suspended for the 12th consecutive day on Thursday due to poor passenger load,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6th-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission-starts-from-jaipur/articleshow/77920632.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Run service on September 13 for NEET, West Bengal government urges Kolkata Metro||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has requested Metro Railways to run their service on September 13 for the benefit of NEET candidates. A meeting between the state government and Metro authorities was held on Thursday to discuss the modalities of crowd control, which the latter is keen on having in place before resuming services after a five-month hiatus. The meeting at Nabanna, the state headquarters, started at 11.30am. Among those present were home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, transport secretary Prabhat Kumar Mishra, police commissioner Anuj Sharma, ADG (traffic) Vivek Sahay, state health secretary N S Nigam and KMC commissioner Vinod Kumar. Metro Railway principal chief operations manager (PCOM) Satyaki Nath led the three-member Metro team. Crucial logistical and planning details were discussed at the meeting, which lasted an hour. When services do re-start, passengers may have to furnish an e-pass or a smart card to a police officer to enter a station. The policeman would perhaps let them enter only after getting a green light from RPF personnel that passengers already at the station have moved to the platform to board a train. In other words, the state and Metro will have to work together as a team to ensure anti-Covid distancing protocols are stuck to. Another meeting is scheduled at noon on Friday for the technical committee, which was formed on Thursday with officials from Kolkata Police, the state transport department and Metro Railway. “The committee will deduce how to control access to stations and implement graded services, considering that 3.5 lakh people may have smart cards,” a senior state official told TOI. Metro wants to allow only smart-card holders; no token will be sold from counters. It also hasn’t been decided yet whether the Kolkata Metro would run just for that day, or whether September 13 would mark the resumption of regular services. Whether it will be e-passes or smart cards to ensure legitimate access is something that will be clinched in the next few days. “Initial discussions took place today. There will be some more to finalize the modalities. For elaborate SOPs, two or three more meetings may be required,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI. The focus of Thursday’s meeting, he added, was crowd control. It would be the starting point of Friday’s meeting as well. Joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar and transport commissioner Biswajit Dutta, members of the technical committee, will thrash out the standard operating protocol with their Metro counterparts at Friday’s virtual meeting and decide whether e-passes can be issued to commuters through an app. The draft SOP also includes 8am-to-8pm services, with a third of Metro’s existing fleet of 288 trains, that may be run seven days a week, at a 12- or 15- minute gap. Frequencies will reduce further during weekends. Standing passengers may be allowed in a Metro coach. “The seats are only on the sides. So, it will be possible for commuters to maintain some distance, even if some of them stand,” a Metro official explained. One thing that emerged from Thursday’s meeting was that while the onus of implementing distancing inside stations and coaches was on the RPF, crowd control at the entries was the state police’s responsibility. While Bengal Police and Kolkata Police would keep guard outside north-south stations, for East-West Metro, the job will be done by the Bidhannagar Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/run-service-on-sept-13-for-neet-govt-urges-kol-metro/articleshow/77921334.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||NWR starts trains for JEE & NEET aspirants||Jaipur: In order to help the students appearing for JEE and NEET exams, north western railway (NWR) has started four pair of trains to ferry the aspirants. Students boarding these trains will have to follow the Covid-19 protocol. NWR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Abhay Sharma said that two of the trains were notified on Wednesday. “The trains — Jaipur to Udaipur and Jaipur to Bikaner — will be operated till September 14 to ferry the students appearing for NEET and JEE exams.” On Thursday, NWR announced two more trains — Jhalawar to Sriganganagar and Kota to Sriganganagar. “These two trains will not just help the students from Kota to Sriganganagar but will connect students having examination centres in various cities like Sawai Madhopur, Nagaur, Jaipur, Bikaner, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-starts-trains-for-jee-neet-aspirants/articleshow/77920636.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||South, central dists report 11 deaths each||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 895 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Thursday. The deaths include two each in Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts and one in Tenkasi district. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases in the central districts dipped to 600 on Thursday taking the number of positive cases to 33,976, which include 5,445 active cases. The region also recorded 11 more deaths taking the toll to 518. No deaths were reported in Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai and Tuticorin. The only person in the region who died without comorbidities is a 55-year-old man from Virudhunagar who tested positive on August 27. An 84-year-old man from Tirunelveli admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Tenkasi on Tuesday with symptoms of fever, cough and breathing difficulty. He was admitted at 5.25 pm he died at 7.50 pm the same day and tested positive on Wednesday. Tirunelveli (163) recorded the highest number of cases in the region on Thursday, followed by Dindigul (133) and Virudhunagar (125). The seven other districts in the region recorded less than 100 cases, with Sivagangai (29) recording the lowest. Madurai (87) recorded less than 100 cases a day for the first time in the last seven days. Tirunelveli (1,289) has the highest number of active cases in the region, surpassing Theni (1,122) that is the only other district in the region with more than 1,000 active cases. For the last 14 days the average number of active cases in Tirunelveli district has been in the range of 1,200 to 1,300. Positivity rate in Theni district was 7.4% with 80 people testing positive from 1,080 samples. It includes 42 men, 36 women and two children. A day after registering an increase of 18 fresh cases, the central region tally has dipped by 64 cases. For the second consecutive day, Thanjavur (136) recorded the highest number of daily fresh cases in the region. Thursday’s fresh cases pushed the district tally of the positive cases to 7,026. Trichy registered 114 new cases, the second highest in the region taking the number of positive cases to 7,799. Pudukottai district came third with 103 fresh cases taking its tally to 6,350. The district has the highest number of active cases (1,043) among other districts due to the steady flow of fresh cases every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-central-dists-report-11-deaths-each/articleshow/77920637.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Surat||Man rapes minor after offering work, booked||SURAT: Kapodra police on Wednesday booked a 32-year-old mason for allegedly raping a 16-year-old minor girl after keeping her locked in room in Puna area of city. The accused took the girl with him promising to give her labour work and raped her. Police booked Lekhraj Gurjar, a resident of Punagam area, on charges of sexually assaulting the minor on August 28. A complaint was lodged by the elder sister of the survivor and the accused disappeared after raping the minor. On that day, the minor was standing on a spot in Kapodra area where construction labourers wait to be picked up labour contractors after finalising wages. The girl used to accompany her two elder sisters daily, but on that day one of the sisters fell sick and did not come. So, the minor was standing with one sister when Gurjar came and offered her labour work. He took the minor in an auto rickshaw to his home in Punagam. He locked her up in the room and raped her and also threatened to kill her if she complained. Later Gurjar dropped the girl back in an auto rickshaw at the same spot from where she was picked up. On returning home, the girl informed her elder sisters about the ordeal. Later they approached police and lodged a police complaint. “We are yet to nab the accused who is on the run. Police teams are in search of him,” said a police officer of Kapodra police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-rapes-minor-after-offering-work-booked/articleshow/77918178.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Woman among two found hanging in separate incidents in Pilibhit dist||Pilibhit: Two persons — Ugrasan (45) of Laxmanpur village under Deuria police station and Lilawati (27) of Bithaura Kalan village under Gajraula police station — were found hanging in separate incidents in PIlibhit district on Wednesday evening and both bodies were sent for postmortem, said police. Lilawati was married to one Chhote Lal of Bithaura Kalan village five years ago, the couple had no child, said her father, Moti Ram of Santoshpura village under Sungarhi police station.According to SHOs of Deuria and Gajraula police stations Sanjeev Upadhyay and JP Singh, respectively, kin of both the victims said “family dispute” as the reason behind their taking the extreme step. The SHOs said as they did not receive written complaints in both the incidents, so far, further action would be taken based on the post-mortem reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-among-two-found-hanging-in-separate-incidents-in-pilibhit-dist/articleshow/77916066.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nashik||HC confirms life term given to Latur man for murder||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently confirmed the life imprisonment granted to a murder convict from Latur district by the additional sessions judge, Latur. In 2011, the appellant/accused had axed to death an acquaintance who had been asking him to return an amount he had taken for his daughter’s wedding.The appellant, Narayan Shivaram Kavale, and his son Sitaram, both residents of Tungi (Bk) in Ausa taluka of Latur district, were booked by the police for hacking Tanaji (another villager) to death with an axe in the night of March 10, 2011. They had picked up a quarrel over the money matter when Narayan asked his son to bring the axe from the house. His son brought the axe and Narayan inflicted multiple serious wounds on Tanaji’s face and other parts of his body killing him on the spot. The police patil and other people had rushed to the spot following the commotion and had witnessed the murder.The additional sessions judge, Latur, had acquitted Sitaram while handing over life imprisonment to Nayaran (55) under section 302 of the IPC. Which he had challenged in the high court citing that the murder was the handiwork of some unidentified assailants.While dismissing the criminal appeal, the bench comprising Justice T V Nalawade and Justice Mangesh S Patil observed: “The evidence points finger only to accused No.1 (Narayan). This Court holds that the prosecution has proved the offence or murder as against accused No.1 beyond all reasonable doubts... In view of the nature of defence taken, number of injuries found on the dead body, site chosen for giving blows and the weapon used for the assault, the only inference, which is available is that there was either intention of murder or there was intention to cause such bodily injury, which would be sufficient to cause the death in ordinary course of nature. This Court holds that the Trial Court has not committed any error in giving conviction for the offence of murder to accused No.1.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hc-confirms-life-term-given-to-latur-man-for-murder/articleshow/77917003.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Incomplete road works around Meenakshi temple hit traders hard||Madurai: Unfinished road works have come to adversely impact the business prospects of commercial establishments near the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai. People are keeping off the streets surrounding the temple as the road works under way have made them almost inaccessible. There are many shops selling items ranging from textiles, jewellery, construction materials and hardware to paints and groceries on the four Masi streets-North Masi, South Masi, West Masi and East Masi. At present, all roads, except South Masi street, are under repair. Business has dried up for the shops on these streets which used to attract a lot of customers.Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association secretary Ashraf Tayub says the bad condition of the roads has dealt a blow to their hopes of revival, with the festival season round the corner. ``They dig up roads, and also damage our drainage and pipeline connections, and we have to shell out anything from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 for repair. To make matters worse, our business is also affected,’’ he said. The roads are no longer pedestrian-friendly and walking without watching one’s step could prove to be dangerous. ``They have placed wooden planks across ditches on these roads, but after the rain we are not sure of the strength of the planks,’’ said S Satish Kumar of Simmakkal.With the city experiencing rain for the past few days, things have gone from bad to worse. ``I think the government should lay a temporary road till the festival season ends, and then resume work,’’ said Suresh, a trader. Tayub says they fail to understand why movement of four-wheelers has been banned on East Masi street. ``It is nearly nine months since these roads were dug up and the lockdown period could have been used to expedite the work,’’ he said. The traders say that Town Hall road, considered to be the gateway to the city, is in terrible condition. ``It is the Masi streets that help people to reach Meenakshi temple and hence this work should be completed at the earlist,’’ said Dhanasekharan, a shopkeeper. However, city engineer S Arasu said that the roadworks would be completed only by the end of March next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/incomplete-road-works-around-meenakshi-temple-hit-traders-hard/articleshow/77920639.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||With government Covid facilities full, patients look at private hospitals||HASSAN: Unavailability of beds in the designated Covid hospital and Covid care centres has allegedly made Covid patients go to private hospitals in the city. There are 400 beds at the designated Covid hospital. As on Wednesday, almost 300 beds were occupied by patients and 50 more beds are occupied by those who are awaiting test results. While 50 beds are set aside for Covid warriors, they too are occupied by Covid patients, Dr Krishnamurty added. Sources said 256 out of 270 beds at Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Ayurveda Hospital were occupied on Wednesday. District surgeon Dr Krishnamurty said, “The designated Covid hospital is for only those who have moderate to severe symptoms. If one showing mild symptoms is admitted, it would affect serious cases. If any Covid patient with a temperature of 98 degrees Fahrenheit or below is admitted at 5pm, the patient is evaluated the following day. If the conditions remain same the next morning, he or she is referred to home care or CCC. Peripheral staff should check whether the patient has sufficient facilities at home or should be sent to CCC. Our duty is to treat those in the hospital.” DHO Dr Sathish said there are nine Covid care centres in Hassan district with each of them at every taluk, but Arsikere has two Covid care centres. CPI(M) district president Dharmesh said, “On Sunday my Covid infected friend suffering from fever was admitted in the designated Covid hospital. On Tuesday morning, he was discharged suggesting home isolation or to go to the Covid care centre. But he went to a private hospital.” “ If a poor Covid patient is asked to go home even if they do not have a separate room and toilet, senior citizens and children in their family would get affected. As a solution, the administration should look at strengthening government hospitals or take private infrastructure on lease to convert them into Covid hospitals and temporarily hire private hospital staff for them”, he added. 252 new cases reported in Hassan On Thursday, 252 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, taking the total cases to 9,026. While there are 2,901 active cases including 51 in ICU, 5,916 patients have been discharged including 190 on Thursday. Five people died due to the infection on Thursday, taking the toll to 209.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-govt-covid-facilities-full-patients-look-at-private-hosps/articleshow/77918199.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rains lash state, forecast for more in next 24 hours||Jaipur/Jaisalmer: Mild to moderate showers were witnessed across the state on Thursday. Good and widespread rainfall was also witnessed in Jaipur after a long time. Many city roads in the state capital here were waterlogged while many areas witnessed abrupt powercuts. Dungla (Chittorgarh) recorded a rainfall of 54mm, the highest in the state In the evening, good raiinfall was witnessed at Pokaran, Lathi, chandhan, Badoragoan, Bodana, Eka, Dudhiya, and other places in Jaisalmer district. Earlier, during the day People in Jaipur woke up amid cloudy conditions followed by rain from 11.15 am onwards in Sodala, Shyam Nagar, Malviya Nagar, Bajaj Nagar, Mahesh Nagar, colonies near Ajmer Road and Sikar Road. Many areas in the Walled City also witnessed rainfall that led to rampant waterlogging. After the rain stopped around 12.30 pm, traffic on the city roads was chaotic due to waterlogging and potholes. It was troublesome time for commuters especially for people with two-wheelers. According to the Jaipur Met office, the city received almost 30mm. In Jaipur district, rainfall varying from 10 mm to 40 mm was recorded at several places including Pragpura, Chomu, Bassi, Bagru, Ramgarh, Dudu and Bhankrota areas. Moderate showers were also witnessed in the districts such as Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Dholpur, Karauli, Pratapgarh, Kota, Bharatpur and Sikar. “Southwest monsoon is in its sixth and last phase. Good rainfall activity was witnessed in almost every district. Hopefully, almost every district in will get normal to excess rainfall,” said an officer. In its forecast, Met office said mild to moderate showers will continue at many places in the eastern Rajasthan and some places in the western Rajasthan in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rains-lash-state-forecast-for-more-in-next-24-hours/articleshow/77920641.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC begins services to UP; MP trips from Sept 7||JAIPUR: After a gap of six months, Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) has restarted its inter-state bus services to Uttar Pradesh. From September 7, the corporation will also start sending its buses to select cities of Madhya Pradesh. On Thursday, RSRTC started its services to limited destinations in UP. “We are operating at least 40 buses to various cities of UP including Agra, Mathura, Soroji, Aligarh, Hathras, Etawah, Farukhabad and Firozabad and to Gwalior in MP. People of these cities, too, got connected with Jaipur after a gap of almost six months,” Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC, told TOI on Thursday. Apart from this, services will be launched for various Madhya Pradesh towns and cities from September 7. “The time table and online tickets of all these routes are being made available on the website of Rajasthan roadways. Passengers booking tickets online can also avail 5% cashback. Those who are unable to get a ticket online, can get it from the counter or from the bus conductor,” he added. RSRTC authorities added that passengers will be accommodated only up to the permitted seating capacity. Buses to Agra and Aligarh on Thursday got a good passenger load and response. “I tried to visit Agra twice where my parents live, but failed as I could visit up to Bharatpur by road. Now it is better and I can visit my parents,” said Anirudh Singh, a native of Agra who works in a private telecom company in Jaipur, before leaving for Agra. On a query about the corporation’s talks with the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), a senior officer of RSRTC said, “Though the Union home ministry has specifically asked the states to start inter-state bus movement, we are yet to get a nod from them. As soon as we get the final confirmation we will start our services to Delhi as well.” RSRTC is already running its buses to Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-begins-services-to-up-mp-trips-from-sept-7/articleshow/77920644.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Lightning strikes fireworks making unit in Tenkasi||Tenkasi: A fireworks manufacturing room was completely razed to the ground while four other rooms on the premises were damaged in a lighting strike at Varaganur village in Tenkasi district on Tuesday evening. On Thursday, officials from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (Peso) conducted an inquiry and suspended the unit’s licence. Nobody was injured as the workers had left for the day. There was no damage to the transit shed for storing semi-finished goods on premises as it had a lightning arrester. Unused white (primarily aluminium) powder stored in an unsafe manner was found to be the cause of the accident at the manufacturing unit of Jayaram Fireworks. The lighting struck room 11, which is a concrete structure measuring little over 120 sqft around 6.30pm on Tuesday. “The explosion razed the building and its mound walls to the ground. Concrete and bricks that flew from the damage building also damaged the mound walls, room and concrete roof of rooms 10 and 12, which are 60 feet away from room 11,” Peso deputy chief controller of explosives, K Sundaresan told TOI after the inquiry. Rooms 15 and 16, 120 feet away from room 11, were also damaged. The suspension of licence will be revoked after the sheds are reconstructed and inspected by Peso. This is the third accident in which a building have been destroyed in lighting strikes in the region this year. Firework units have been asked to completely destroy leftover powder by dumping it in the burning pit and soaking it in water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lightning-strikes-fireworks-making-unit-in-tenkasi/articleshow/77920643.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: Positive sign in five high caseload states||NEW DELHI: While active cases of Covid-19 are rising on a daily basis led by rapidly rising positive cases across the country, the health ministry data show that the trajectory of average daily active cases in the five high burden states have declined during the last week (August 27-September 2), as compared to the week of August 13-19. Five high burden states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu - account for 62% of active cases in the country. The data also shows that Tamil Nadu saw an almost 24% decrease in average number of daily active cases during Aug 27-Sep 2 as compared to August 13-19. In Maharashtra, it dropped by 6.8%. UP, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh also showed a decline by around 17%, 16% and 13.7% respectively. However, Maharashtra has recorded high numbers on a daily basis and has a worrying positivity rate that hovers around 20%.   There have been fluctuations in the week of August 20-26 where the number has gone up as compared to the August 13-19 week, but over all, in the three week period, the states have registered a decline. Overall, active cases across the country are increasing consistently despite high number of recoveries on a daily basis. On Wednesday, 68,584 Covid-19 patients were discharged from either home isolation or hospital taking the total number of recoveries to nearly 30 lakh. Despite this, the active case-load of the country stood at 8,15,538, up from 8,01,282 a day ago. Not too long ago, the number was in the 7 lakh region.   More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In case of deaths, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of the total Covid-19 deaths in the country. However, only Karnataka and Delhi saw a surge week-on-week between these three weeks. "On a week-to-week basis, there has been 4.5 per cent decrease in average daily deaths reported in Andhra Pradesh, 11.5 per cent decline in Maharashtra and 18.2 per cent decline in Tamil Nadu. On the other hand, Delhi has seen 50 per cent and Karnataka 9.6 per cent increase in average daily fatalities," he said.           The government said though the overall positive cases are increasing, it has to be seen in the context of India's population. Bhushan said India has 2,792 cases of Covid-19 per million population which is amongst the lowest in the world. Brazil has 18,802 cases, whereas US has 18,986 cases per million population. He added that in India, deaths per million population is 49 whereas the world average is 111 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-positive-sign-in-five-high-caseload-states/articleshow/77921757.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 4, 2020||Agra||Agra dist to undergo sero-surveillance||Agra: To assess the spread of Covid-19 in Agra district and to be able to control it, the health department is all set to conduct sero-surveillance from Friday onwards. Around 45 spots have been identified for the exercise. Twenty four samples will be randomly collected at each spot. Total 1,080 people will be tested in three days. According to the doctors, the objective of this study is to estimate the level of community transmission. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Around 10 teams have been constituted to conduct sero-surveillance in three days. Each team will include a doctor, a lab technician, a nurse and an Asha worker. Teams have been trained by the experts. Samples of 1,080 people collected will be sent for lab testing to the ICMR.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Serology tests will be conducted in Agra district for surveillance of Covid-19 in the Agra district. It looks for antibodies in blood. If antibodies are found, that means there has been a previous infection.” Principal of SN Medical College Dr Sanjay Kala said, “When antibodies are found (a positive test result), it may mean that a person was infected with Covid-19 and their body’s immune system responded to the virus at some point in the past. People develop antibodies when their body’s immune system responds to an infection. These antibodies can be found in the blood of people previously infected whether or not they had symptoms of the illness.” CMO said, “Sero-surveillance will provide a clear estimate of the spread of Covid-19 in Agra district. Till Thursday, there were 3,116 Covid-19 positive patients in the district. Of these, 2,494 (80.04%) people were cured and discharged.” What is sero-surveillance Sero-surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered crucial for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination. It is an important component of disease surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dist-to-undergo-sero-surveillance/articleshow/77917042.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 4, 2020||Agra||Booked for anti-CAA clashes, ex-student leader of AMU comes out of jail after 2 months||Agra: After over two months in jail, a former student leader of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) came out on Thursday. Sharjeel Usmani was booked under several IPC sections, including attempt to murder, soon after violent protests erupted in the varsity during anti-CAA protests in December 15 last year. While granting him bail on Wednesday, a court observed that Usmani has been a bright student and has a good academic record. Usmani is the son of a senior faculty member of the varsity. He was arrested on July 9 by Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) from his Azamgarh residence. According to police, Usmani was one of those who had led the protests against the CAA and NRC at AMU campus last year on December 15. He was accused of throwing stones at police personnel and of violating prohibitory orders. He was also accused of damaging public property and posting inappropriate posts against BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani on social media. Usmani was booked under various sections of IPC, including 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting) and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/booked-for-anti-caa-clashes-ex-student-leader-of-amu-comes-out-of-jail-after-2-months/articleshow/77917025.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Surat||Woman unable to bear child tries to end life, rescued||Surat: A 54-year-old woman, who wanted to end life as for not being able to bear a child, was rescued by the 181 Abhyam team (women’s helpline) in Navsari on Thursday. “We received a call that a woman was going to end her life near a water body in Navsari. So we immediately rushed to the spot and rescued the woman before she took any extreme step,” said a senior executive from 181 Abhayam. “The woman did not want to reveal her identity to us. She informed us that she wanted to end her life because she was sterile. She also said that she was not facing any kind of harassment from her family,” said an official. “However, she did not want to go to her in-laws place, so we sent her to a women’s shelter home where she is being counselled,” said another Abhayam official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-unable-to-bear-child-tries-to-end-life-rescued/articleshow/77918220.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Marriage halls in Madurai told to follow SOPs||Madurai: Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan on Thursday convened a meeting of the owners of marriage halls in Madurai and informed them of the SOPs to be followed when they reopen for business again. Marriage hall owners must ensure that only 50 people are allowed to participate in marriage functions. Handwashing facilities should be provided at the entrance of the halls and it should be ensured that all those attend the functions wear masks. Seating arrangements should be made ensuring a six metre distance between each person in the audience and the halls should be disinfected before and after the functions, he told them. The commissioner also said that the civic body is taking all steps to ensure that the spread of Covid-19 was controlled in the city. As many as 1,400 field workers appointed by the corporation were continuing with their door-to-door survey. Fever camps are also screening people in various parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/marriage-halls-in-madurai-told-to-follow-sops/articleshow/77920647.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Fake offer of best credit card services robs man of Rs 32,400 in Maharashtra||NASHIK: The Panchavati police have registered a case of cheating against an unidentified person for duping a man of Rs 32,400 on the pretext of offering credit card services.  According to police, the victim received a call from an unknown caller in April who claimed to be calling from a credit card company and offered to help with the card’s services. The 56-year-old victim told the caller that he was vexed with the card’s services. The caller asked the victim for the 16-digit number on the credit card. The caller also asked the victim to provide OTP sent to his mobile phone. While the complainant was hesitant, she convinced him saying that it was the most important part of the request to close the credit card after which the complainant shared the same and in turn was duped of Rs 32400. The matter came to light when the credit card company issued a bill to the victim who maintained that since the card was closed he would not be paying a penny. The company told him that the card was active and that it has received no request for closure of the same. The victim told the company about the caller and the conversation that took place between the two, but the company refused to buy the argument. The victim then approached the police and lodged a complaint on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fake-offer-of-best-credit-card-services-robs-man-of-rs-32400/articleshow/77917032.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||1,360 schools in Aurangabad not on govt scholarship site||AURANGABAD: Many schools in the Aurangabad district are still not registered with the national scholarship portal. The fact came to light while evaluating their proposal for enrolment under RTE Act 2009. As per official data, around 1,360 schools from Aurangabad district do not have necessary linkage, highlighting poor awareness about student welfare measures of the government among stakeholders. The defaulter schools also include government and aided schools, exposing laxity in the overall functioning. Primary education officer of Aurangabad zilla parishad Suraj Prasad said that the schools failing to register with NSP would be deemed as closed officially. “The NSP is a vital government platform not only for accessing scholarship for minority students, but also other scholarships. All schools have been requested to show necessary compliance at the earliest,” he said. As a corrective measure, the education department authorities have asked schools to submit proof of linkage with scholarship portal concerned while submitting proposals for admissions under RTE Act 2009 for year 2020-21. The national scholarships portal is a one-stop solution through which various services starting from student application, application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal of various scholarships to students are enabled. The initiative aims faster and effective disposal of scholarship applications and delivery of funds directly into beneficiaries account without any leakages. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said that a large number of non-linkages of schools with the portal concerned implies towards lack of awareness about different scholarships. “It is ironic that parents as well as schools still do not have knowledge about different government scholarships. The government agencies must take concerted efforts for spreading necessary awareness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-3k-schools-in-aurangabad-not-on-govt-scholarship-site/articleshow/77917050.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Youth elopes with minor, mom thrashed||VADODARA: A video of a woman being thrashed brutally at Dhaniya Umrav village in Chhota Udepur district surfaced on Thursday. The video, recorded on September 1, was of a woman who was being thrashed by two men and a woman after her son eloped with their minor girl. Police booked Suresh Rathwa and the mother and brother of the minor girl for assaulting and threatening Kokila Rathwa outside her home. The trio was camping outside Kokila’s home since the morning on September 1. When Kokila’s husband Mahendra questioned them, they got enraged and pulled Kokila out by her hair. The girl’s brother and mother pushed her on the ground and beat her up mercilessly. Suresh too slapped the woman before pushing away the girl’s kin. A minute later when a profusely bleeding Kokila went inside her home, Suresh and the girl’s brother brought a spade to hit her. Kokila was saved, but Mahendra and his father Bhailal were injured. After villagers started to gather, the trio left from there threatening to kill them if their girl was not found. Kokila, Mahendra and Bhailal were later taken to the health centre in Naswadi. The entire melee was video recorded on the phone by an unknown person who later uploaded it on social media. After Mahendra lodged a complaint against the trio, the girl’s father too registered a complaint of kidnapping against Mahendra’s son alleging that Harishchandra lured the 16-year-old girl with marriage and took her away on March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-elopes-with-minor-mom-thrashed/articleshow/77917459.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata scientist in global black hole discovery team||KOLKATA: The head of the Centre for Excellence in Space Science (CESS) at the Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER), Kolkata, is among a team of scientists, who have discovered a previously undetected massive black hole located 17 billion light years away from Earth with a mass 142 times that of Sun. A black hole is a region of spacetime, where the matter is so dense and gravity so strong that nothing, no particles or even electromagnetic radiation such as light, can escape from it. If the matter of the sun, whose diameter is 1.4 million km, were to be compressed to just 3km, it would turn into a black hole, from which light would not be able to escape. The merger of two such black holes leads to the release of powerful gravitational waves that are detected on Earth by two US-based Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) and Europe’s Virgo detector in Italy. The latest detection is significant because a black hole this size had never been detected before. “Black holes less than 100-times or more than 10,000-times the size of Sun have been recorded earlier. But there was a problem with those that did not fit into either size. Before now, it was felt we did not have the ability to detect them. But following the detection made on May 21, 2019, we can now probe into a gap we did not understand in Astrophysics,” said Rajesh Nayak of CESS at IIESR Kolkata. He was part of the team that analysed the gravitational waves that led to the finding. Stellar mass black holes are typically created when a large star runs out of its nuclear fuel and generation of light and heat stops. Without that outward pressure, the star’s outer layers collapse under its own gravity, triggering a massive supernova and leaving behind a compact object. In bigger stars, the collapse is more catastrophic, that destroys the star and leaves behind a black hole, explained Nayak, who has been working on gravitation wave detection in LIGO since 2001. After returning to India in 2011, he has been part of the LIGO India project that envisages setting up a gravitational wave detector in Maharashtra. Though the gravitational waves of the latest black hole merger were detected well over a year ago, the analysis of the curious gravitational wave that consisted of just four up and down wave cycles lasting a tenth of a second took time with scientists to calculate and be sure that it was definitely a black hole the size that had never been detected before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-scientist-in-global-black-hole-discovery-team/articleshow/77919516.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Public cannot pay tribute to Immanuel Sekharan||Madurai: General public would not be allowed to pay tribute to Immanuel Sekharan at his memorial in Paramakudi this year, only five members of a political party would be allowed to pay their respects at a time. The meeting on the preparations for the Immanuel Sekharan memorial day on September 11 was held at the Ramanathapuram district collectorate on Thursday. Collector K Veera Raghava Rao presided over the meet. Members of political parties should obtain permission from the district collector on or before September 7 to pay tributes. They should wear masks, maintain social distancing norms and come in their own vehicles. Taxis, open vehicles, vans, two-wheelers and bicycles would not be allowed. Bursting fireworks en route to the memorial and travelling on the hood of vehicles is strictly prohibited. They would be allowed to travel only on the permitted routes. Placing photographs of the departed leader on the route and garlanding it would not be allowed. Processions would not be allowed on that day, the collector has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/public-cannot-pay-tribute-to-immanuel-sekharan/articleshow/77920649.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||UP man cheats Morbi bank of Rs 8 lakh, arrested||Rajkot: A 25-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh was arrested in Morbi for conning State Bank of India (SBI) to the tune of Rs 7.6 lakh.The accused Puran Singh Nishad used to withdraw money using ATMs of State Bank of India, but he would deliberately make the transaction failed by inserting a finger in the ATM when the cash comes out. Police said that although the transaction would show error, Nishad used to collect the dispensed cash and then lodge complaint to the bank’s helpline number about transaction failure. The bank used to then credit back the ‘failed transaction’ amount in the account of the accused.Last year, when the transactions of the ATM were being audited, bank discovered a difference of Rs 7.6 lakh. “The difference was because of failure of transactions which lead to bank officials to lodge a police complaint,” said inspector V G Sarvaiya, investigating officer of Morbi police. As the failed transaction complaints were repeatedly registered by a single person, cops zeroed down on Nishad and nabbed him. He was found in possession of 17 ATM cards.During preliminary interrogation, Nishad told cops that he is just one of the 15-member gang from Uttar Pradesh that cheats banks. He also admitted of having withdrawn Rs 80,000 from one ATM in Rajkot. “There are other gang members too who often travel to Morbi and withdraw money using the same tricks and return back to Uttar Pradesh. The other members collectively have withdrawn Rs 30 lakh sofar,” Sarvaiya said. He added that all gang members had received training back in their home state and are active in other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/up-man-cheats-morbi-bank-of-rs-8-lakh-arrested/articleshow/77918252.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Palani encroachments: HC summons Dindigul collector||Madurai: Pulling up officials for delay in removal of encroachments around the Dhandayudhapani Swamy temple at Palani, Madras high court on Thursday directed the Dindigul district collector and Palani municipal commissioner to appear before the court.The court was hearing a batch of petitions with regard to expansion of Railway Feeder Road at Palani and seeking removal of encroachments around the temple. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that though an advocate commissioner appointed by the court had submitted a detailed report on the encroachments, no worthwhile progress had taken place. Lakhs of devotees visit Palani town to pray at the temple, but non-removal of encroachments has been a menace for them. It is high time the officials woke up from deep slumber and took immediate steps to remove the encroachments. The judges asked the collector and municipal commissioner to appear through video conferencing to render assistance to the court and submit a detailed status report in this regard. The case was adjourned to September 15 for further hearing.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/palani-encroachments-hc-summons-dindigul-collector/articleshow/77920652.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar ranks third in Covid recovery rate||PATNA: State minorities department minister Firoz Ahmad’s wife was among six persons, who died due to Covid-19 on Thursday. She was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. The death toll reported by the health department now stands at 728. However, in a silver lining for Bihar, there has been a significant jump in the number of patients recovering from the Covid-19 virus. The state now ranks third in the country in terms of recoveries. Data shared by the Union health ministry has placed Dadra and Nagar Haveli/Daman and Diu at the top of the list with a recovery rate of 88.90%, followed by Delhi at 88.50% and Bihar at the third position with 87.90%. Tamil Nadu is ranked fourth with a recovery rate of 86.20%. In the past 24 hours, altogether 1,572 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state, taking the tally of cured people to 1,24,976 people. Talking about the death of the minister’s wife, AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said she was 54 years old and was admitted on August 18. “She had a medical history of hypertension, diabetes and was hypothyroid. She also had a renal injury and was on a ventilator and died today in the afternoon.” Chief Minister Nitish Kumar extended his condolences and prayed for the departed soul. Meanwhile, 1,922 new cases reported on Thursday took the total Covid-19 caseload to 1,42,156. However, active cases in Bihar stand at just 16,450. In the past 24 hours, 1,40,931 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to over 35 lakh. The state health department on Thursday reported one death each from Bhagalpur, West Champaran, Samastipur, Saran, Vaishali and Nalanda. AIIMS-Patna reported five deaths on Thursday, including two from Patna. One was a 61-year-old man from Aparna Bank Colony and another was a 62-year-old man of Lohiya Nagar locality. No death was reported by Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Thursday, while 12 new patients were admitted and eight were discharged. The state health department reported 255 new cases in Patna, taking the tally to 21,833. However, with 19,538 recoveries, active cases stand at 2123. The number of cases reported from other districts is Araria (121), Madhubani (121), Muzaffarpur (113), Bhagalpur (103) and East Champaran (81).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-3rd-with-high-covid-19-recovery-rate/articleshow/77917830.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Four Covid deaths in Amravati, over 200 cases for second day in a row||AMRAVATI: Four Covid deaths and a double century of cases for the second successive day (third overall) took the district’s toll to 140 and caseload to 6,321. Against 205 new cases, as many as 177 patients recovered to take the number of recoveries to 4,763, a CS office report said. Those succumbing to the virus included two women, both aged 70, from Paratwada and Murtijapur in Akola district and two men, aged 62 and 60, from Paratwada and Achalpur respectively. The rural belt accounted for 66 cases to take its count to 1,824. Anjangaon Surji reported 10 cases, Daryapur (8), Achalpur (6), five each came from Dharni, Shirala, Morshi, four cases each came from Talegaon Dashasar and Warud while Rajura (3). Two cases each were reported from Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Paratwada, Nandgaon Peth and Chandur Railway. Eight villages reported a case each while three cases came from outside district. In city, Rampuri Camp reported six cases while five patients from district general hospital too tested positive. Four cases each came from Vilas Nagar, VMV Road and Saraswati Nagar. Adivasi Colony and Dastur Nagar contributed three cases each while two cases each came from Ghanshyam Nagar, Nawathe Plot, Kanta Nagar, Chhabda Plot, Maya Nagar, Dwarkanath Nagar, Chhaya Nagar and Baku Colony. One case each came from 86 other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-in-amravati-over-200-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77917071.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||‘Consider Giving Rs 1k ex gratia to all Divyang pensioners’||Jaipur: The court of chief commissioner for persons with disabilities (Divyangjan) has directed the ministry of rural development to consider giving Rs 1,000 ex gratia amount to all Diyang pensioners under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, including the ones who are - less than 80 per cent disabled, below 18 years of age and are above BPL line. In Rajasthan, there are 3.5 lakh Divyang pensioners. Of the total, only 28,000 were benefitted by the scheme, said Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, national vice-president Hemant Bhai Goyal, who was also the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/consider-giving-rs-1k-ex-gratia-to-all-divyang-pensioners/articleshow/77920676.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||25 blackbucks rescued from flood waters in two days||Rajkot: At least 25 blackbucks have been rescued from floods waters in Bhal region near Velavadar in Bhavnagar district since Wednesday morning. However, carcasses of eight blackbucks were recovered from the same region during the same period. While five were found on Wednesday, three others were recovered on Thursday, said forest officials. According to forest officials, most of the animals fell prey to stray or wild dogs. Six of the eight found dead were killed by dogs, they added.The rescues operations began on Wednesday as the flood waters started receding. A team of 25 from the forest department were involved in the operation. Assistant conservator of forest M H Trivedi said, “Our staff had to wade through waist-deep waters to rescue the blackbucks. Our main concern was to protect them schedule I animal (under Wildlife Protection Act) from dog attacks.”“We got good cooperation from local villagers who also helped us in protecting the blackbucks, that were under trauma,” he added.The blackbucks that had suffered injuries due to dog attack were given medical treatment in the nearby farms soon after rescue from flood waters. Flooding of government wasteland near the Velavadar Wildlife Sanctuary has become a regular feature during the monsoon. It is mainly because of the bunds created by salt pan owners to store seawater. Forest officials said that because of the bunds the rain water does not naturally flow into the sea and gets accumulated in the wasteland area where many blackbucks are found.Nearly 20,000 acres of government wasteland is being used for salt cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/25-blackbucks-rescued-from-flood-waters-in-two-days/articleshow/77918306.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Property registrations in Tamil Nadu see an uptick in August||CHENNAI: Revenue generated through property registrations in the state during the month of August has surpassed the figures for the same period last year, signalling a resurgence in realty sector in the state. As per data accessed by TOI, of the Rs 793 crore generated through property registrations across Tamil Nadu in August, the share of Chennai zone comprising sub-registrar offices in the city and in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts was 35% at Rs 278 crore. From Rs 5 crore in April, Chennai zone’s revenue went up to Rs 70 crore in May, Rs 155 crore in June and Rs 180 crore in July this year. The total revenue collected in August 2019 was Rs 787 crore. Normally, Chennai zone accounted for 45% of the total revenue generated through stamp duty and registration fee in TN. Hit by the restrictions on inter-state travel due to the pandemic, the zone’s revenue went down by Rs 64 compared to last August. “Unlike the rest of Tamil Nadu, more people and firms from other states invest in properties in and around Chennai. They were unable to travel to the city due to restrictions during the lockdown,” a registration department official said. At least 17,000 more transactions were done in August compared to the same period last year. According to sources, the nature of trasaction was mostly large land parcels and plots, and registration of apartments and houses was relatively less. Inspector General of Registration Jothi Nirmala said high-value transactions in Chennai properties was the reason for spike in revenue in August. The user-friendly online service was also a factor, she added. Revenue through property registration was Rs 30 crore in April this year, Rs 300 crore in May, Rs 655 crore in June and Rs 644 crore in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/property-registrations-in-tn-see-an-uptick-in-august/articleshow/77919526.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Kisan special train from Nanded division soon||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has plans to start Kisan special train from Nanded division, which is expected to boost the agricultural sector in the Marathwada region. SCR’s chief public relations officer Ch Rakesh said Nanded and five other divisions have been asked to start Kisan special train. “SCR general manager Vijay Mallya has asked the divisional and zonal officials to regularly review the loading of agricultural products in consultation with stsate Government and representatives of food corporation units. He held detailed discussions with regard to the feasibility of running more Kisan special trains from important locations from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to the northern parts of the country,” said Rakesh. Railway activists and famer leaders have welcomed the plans being mooted by the railway authorities. Railway activist Omprakash Varma said divisional authorities at Nanded must take quick steps to start Kisan special train. “Marathwada has a wide variety of agricultural and floral produce. A dedicated train for transportation of the same would be a boon for farmers,” said Varma. Farmers activist Jayaji Suryawanshi said the railway authorities should consult farmers’ groups and set reasonable fares for Kisan special train. In August, the Indian Railways started the maiden Kisan special train from Devlali station in Nashik to Danapur in Bihar as a means of rail transportation for perishable and other agricultural item. As per this initiative, the Kisan Rail will run through public-private-partnership mode to provide a seamless supply chain of perishable goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kisan-spl-train-from-nanded-divn-soon/articleshow/77917064.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: 11.7 lakh tests done in a day; total crosses 4.5 crore||NEW DELHI: There has been an exponential rise in daily testing with 11.72 lakh samples to detect Covid-19 tested on Wednesday, which helped the daily positivity to remain low at 7.2% even as 83,065 fresh cases — the highest in a day — were reported. While the increasing number of cases has raised concerns about the government’s next phase of unlocking economic activities, the health ministry defended the Centre’s decision and said “lives are important, but so is livelihood”. While more than 4.5 crore tests have been conducted and the cumulative positivity rate is at 8.4%, the ministry said testing did not present a uniform picture across states. Many states are showing sustained high testing numbers but the breakup of rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests vary from state to state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-11-7-lakh-tests-done-in-a-day-total-crosses-4-5-crore/articleshow/77921930.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 4, 2020||Mumbai||400 builders in Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune to waive stamp duty till October 31||MUMBAI: Realty developers affiliated to the National Real Estate Developers Council (Naredco) will waive stamp duty completely for buyers in Maharashtra. The association has 400 members across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Nashik who will bear the stamp duty registration cost. This offer is available till October 31 for at least 1,000 housing projects. From September 1 till December end, the state government has announced a stamp duty of 2% to revive the real estate industry. Rajan Bandelkar, president, Naredco–West and convenor, housingforall.com, said, “This decision to charge no stamp duty on housing sales will bring a new wave of home buying in the short run and change the demand-supply dynamics positively.” The housing industry is the second largest employer in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/400-builders-in-mmr-pune-to-waive-stamp-duty-till-oct-31/articleshow/77921374.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Within 24 hours, cops crack Margao jeweller’s murder case||MARGAO: Goa police achieved a major breakthrough in the murder case of Margao-based jeweller Swapnil Walke within 24 hours. Police apprehending three accused, including the one who had intruded into the shop and attacked the deceased. A night-long combing operation led to the crime branch nabbing Omkar Patil and Edison Gonsalves from their hideouts in St Cruz, near Panaji, in the wee hours of Thursday, Mustafa Shaikh surrendered before the Margao town police in the afternoon. A night-long combing operation led to the crime branch nabbing Omkar Patil and Edison Gonsalves from their hideouts in St Cruz, near Panaji, in the wee hours of Thursday. Third accused, Mustafa Shaikh surrendered before the Margao police in the afternoon. Police are on the lookout for two more of their accomplices. While Patil and Shaikh are learnt to have a criminal background, police are verifying the antecedents of Gonsalves. The three accused were interrogated by a team of South Goa police officials led by superintendent of police Pankaj Kumar Singh throughout the day, which continued until late night. Though police succeeded in nabbing three accused quickly, they were tight-lipped over the motive behind the murder, as also about any significant revelations during the interrogations. Despite the early breakthrough, there was no police briefing about the progress of the investigation. However, sources said that a SUV without a number plate parked near Walke’s shop after the murder, provided a crucial clue during the investigations, which otherwise could have led police to a wild goose chase. Sources said Patil was the first to be picked up by the crime branch sleuths in the intervening night of Wednesday-Thursday. As Shaikh was identified in the CCTV footage, they kept a tab on Patil, who they knew was associated with the former. He was nabbed from a place in St Cruz. During interrogations, he tried to evade questions about his involvement in the murder, but admitted to having committed the theft of the SUV. This proved to be central to the investigation, as further interrogation put the police to Gonsalves’ trail, who was finally nabbed. Meanwhile, Shaikh, in an attempt to give the police a slip, boarded a bus to Margao from the Panaji bus stand. However, the crime branch sleuths were hot on his trail. Upon alighting from the bus a stop before the Margao bus stand, Shaikh hired a motorcycle taxi, but on realising that he was being followed, went to the Margao town police station and surrendered. The crime branch team was led by inspector Dattaguru Sawant and included head constable Dinesh Pikulkar and constables —Vinay Shrivastava, Irmaya Gurraiya, Naveen Palyekar, Kalpesh Shirodkar and Kiran Parab. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has complimented Goa police for arresting the three accused in a short time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/within-24hrs-cops-crack-margao-jewellers-murder-case/articleshow/77920719.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Sahariya students sans merit manage gen seats, sparks row||Jaipur: The Government PG College at Shahbad Tehsil in Baran district is allegedly giving non-meritorious Sahariya tribe students admission in almost all general category seats. This has led to protests by students in the college. Of 200 seats for admissions, 72 were reserved for general category on which 66 seats have been given to students from the Sahariya tribe. The remaining seats are for other categories – defence, Kashmiri students and others. “The seat matrix has been done by the college education department. In the circular released recently based on Rajasthan government’s admission policy for government and private colleges 2020-21, admission of Sahariya tribe to Shahbad college will be given outrightly even on low percentage. Hence, this tribal students have got admission not just in ST category, but also in general category,” college authorities said while refusing to be named. Students of the college have protested against the process and locked the college premises. Kapil Bharghav, a second-year MA student of the college said, “I agree that students from backward tribes should be encouraged to study, but to outrightly give away all the general seats to one tribe students is injustice. Students who studied hard and scored high percentage now have to take admission in other districts, but students with 45% will be able to study near their homes.” Students have given a memorandum to additional district collector Mohammad Abuakbar who said they have written to the College Education Department. Prateek Kasliwal, a lawyer of Rajasthan High Court said, “Upon bare reading of the admission policy 2020-2021, it can be inferred that the policy does not provide for giving admission to the specific category in general category seats. Though the mechanism has been provided in 6.1.10 of the policy, if seats of any category remains vacant, advertisement will be published again and subsequently the candidates could be admitted on the seat of the different category. It is imminent to mention that the Supreme Court in Tripurari Sharan and Another vs Ranjit Kumar Yadav and Others (2018) categorically stated that in the competitive exams, the meritorious students can be selected on the seats of the General Category.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sahariya-students-sans-merit-manage-gen-seats-sparks-row/articleshow/77920715.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Unlock 4.0 pushes Madurai district positivity rate to 4%||Madurai: The marginal rise in fresh Covid-19 cases after ‘Unlock 4.0’ in Madurai has led to a rise in the positivity rate from around 2.5% during August end to 4% this past week. This is being attributed mainly to people with travel history from other districts and their contacts.Officials say the district has tested a total of 2,62,347 samples so far with as many as 2,733 tested on Thursday, of which 87 tested positive. The corresponding positivity rate is 3.2%. On average, around 2,500 samples are being tested now and around 100 fresh cases are being reported. However, last month, though the number of samples tested was 3,500-4,000 a day, the positivity rate had dipped to as low as 2.5%. “Enough samples are being tested. Depending on the number of those with travel history, their contacts and ILI cases, samples of all those suspected of Covid-19 are being collected and tested every day,” said a city health official.More than 200 fever screening camps continue to be conducted across the district every day. However, health officials said the number of Influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) cases testing positive has considerably come down. In July and August, when Covid-19 cases were at its peak in Madurai, the share of ILI and SARI cases among the total cases was well above 50%. However, now, the percentage of ILI and SARI cases among the total cases in the district is around 30% or less. Contacts of Covid-19 patients and those with travel history instead form a major percentage of the total cases now.“There is no change in the way of functioning of fever clinics and camps. In fact, as more people are coming into the district with relaxations in e-passes, there is a need for active fever surveillance. People with symptoms are urged to attend the fever camps,” said the health official. Officials further said that as of now, among the 813 active cases, more patients continue to need oxygen support than those who are asymptomatic. With 360 deaths so far, the district’s death rate continues to be on the higher side, well above the state average, at 2.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/unlock-4-0-pushes-madurai-district-positivity-rate-to-4/articleshow/77920706.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||MNS demands recruitment of teachers||Aurangabad: Maharashtra Navpradhyapak Sanghatana, the teachers’ wing of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), has demanded the government to immediately lift the ban on recruitment of assistant teachers and opt for 100% recruitment for vacant positions across the state. The sanghatana officers bearers, including Sandeep R Pathrikar, said they have submitted memorandums to the chief minister, the deputy chief minister, the higher education minister and other officials in this regard. Pathrikar said there were 1,171 aided non-agriculture colleges in the state and about 16,000 teachers’ posts were vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mns-demands-recruitment-of-teachers/articleshow/77917081.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Covid patient seeks Rs 1cr for ‘poor care’, MCH rejects claims||Madurai: A 35-year-old man from Tirunelveli has sought Rs 1 crore compensation from the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, alleging poor quality care and for being issued ‘wrong’ discharge summary. However, hospital dean Dr M Ravichandran has rubbished the claims. K Sivasubramanian had tested Covid-19 positive on July 8 and got admitted to the Tirunelveli MCH the same day. “Though I was asymptomatic, I was admitted in the Covid-19 ward with other symptomatic patients and was given treatment with various medicines. On July 12, I was discharged without any explanation though the discharge policy mandates 14 days of quarantine and treatment. On receiving the discharge summary, I was shocked to see that my date of testing positive was given as July 3,” he said in his notice to dean and other officials. He added that as per the corporation sticker pasted on his house, the date of testing positive is mentioned as July 8. Sivasubramanian also alleged that he was not even given a bed for the first two days and not provided food properly. Speaking to TOI, Ravichandran said that Sivasubramanian had diabetes, a comorbid condition and hence needed to be admitted. “He himself had got admitted. to the hospital. He was given necessary medicines and was mostly asymptomatic after the first day. Claims of him not being Covid-19 positive just because he didn’t have any symptoms, are false. Lab reports clearly mention him as testing positive. As for the discharge summary, it is likely a human error when writing down the date. Even then, as per protocol, such asymptomatic patients can be discharged and advised 14 days of home isolation,” he said. The dean further said that there could be some delays in providing beds or food considering the high number of patients at the hospital, but no one was denied any service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-patient-seeks-rs-1cr-for-poor-care-mch-rejects-claims/articleshow/77920732.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||PIL against salt pans pending in HC||Rajkot: A public interest litigation against the allotment of the wasteland around the Velavadar Wildlife Sanctuary to salt pans owners was filed in the Gujarat high court in 2018 which is still pending. According to that petitioner, the villages near Velavadar like Savainagar, Nava-Juna Madhiya, Paliyad, Kardej, Sanes, Kala Talav, Narmad, Ganeshgadh, Kotada, Bhadbhid, Gundala, Adhelai and Khetakhatli are most affected during monsoon. Advocate Rajesh Gidiya, who is representing the petitioners in the high court said, “Last year we had submitted a reply before court where we mentioned that the district authorities have violated their own guidelines for allotment of the land to the private parties for the production of the salt.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pil-against-salt-pans-pending-in-hc/articleshow/77918344.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||President to award RPF braveheart||AHMEDABAD: Railway Protection Force constable Shivcharan Gurjar, who saved nine lives on August 10 last year will receive the Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak. He will be given the award by President of India Ram Nath Kovind. Divisional railway manager, Deepakkumar Jha, said Gurjar, while performing train escorting duty on train 12959 from Dadar to Bhuj on August 10, 2019, noticed people trapped in heavy flood on a tree and shouting for help. When the train stopped due to waterlogging on the tracks near Shymkhayali Railway station, without caring for his own life Gurjar rushed to their rescue and saved nine people including a woman. In spite of the darkness, Gurjar managed to swim across almost 20 feet of water flowing in a rush and took the stranded people to a safe place. Gurjar has been felicitated at national level by the director general of Railway Protection Force, Railway Board with ‘Certificate of Merit & Medal’ for his presence of mind, bravery and indomitable courage. He has also been felicitated by the district administration of Gujarat as well as by Western Railway for his courageous act. Railway officials said during the rescue, Gurjar somehow found a truck which was also in the water. He tied one end of a rope to the tree and another end to the truck and had brought all nine stranded people onto the half-sunk truck when he realized the water had started receding. Since he felt it was not possible to take every one to the safety of the station, he called up the station master and asked for boats. But by then, the National Disaster Rescue team reached and rescued him and the nine labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/president-to-award-rpf-braveheart/articleshow/77919597.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: A first in past 20 days, Chennai cases drop below 1,000||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 infections in Chennai (968) dropped below 1,000 for the first time in 20 days on Thursday when Tamil Nadu added 5,892 cases. Two districts, Cuddalore and Coimbatore, reported nearly 600 cases each. The cumulative toll rose to 7,608 with 92 more deaths. There are 52,070 active cases in the state, including 12,059 in Chennai. Chennai had first reported fresh cases in four digits on June 3 and its highest single day tally of 2,393 on June 30, which was 61% of the 3,943 fresh cases in TN that day. For a week, between August 7 and 14, cases were below the 1,000 mark. Since August 14, the city has been reporting between 1,000 and 1,200 fresh cases a day. The hotspot’s neighbouring districts, Chengalpet (378), Tiruvallur (258) and Kancheepuram (150) together reported 786 cases and 16 deaths – seven each from Chengalpet and Tiruvallur. Chennai saw 29 deaths. In the seven other northern districts fresh cases increased to 1,371 cases from 1,247 on Wednesday, while deaths came down to 11 from 16 during the last 24 hours. Cuddalore reported 590 cases, followed by Ranipet (157), Villupuram (150), Tiruvannamalai (146), Vellore (141), Kallakurichi (121) and Thiruppattur (66). Together the northern districts added 53% of the fresh cases and 60% of deaths on Thursday. The active cases in the northern zone were 27,189. The eight districts in the west had 1,264 cases, with 593 from Coimbatore, 214 in Salem, 112 in Tiruppur, 120 in Erode, 85 in Krishnagiri, 58 in Namakkal and 61 in The Nilgiris (61). Salem reported three deaths, while Coimbatore and Tiruppur reported three each. The 10 southern districts together added 895 cases, while the central zones added 600 cases. While Thanjavur added 136 cases, Trichy had 114 and Pudukottai 103. Perambalur (21) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases in the region. In the South, Tirunelveli (163), Dindigul (133) and Virudhunagar (125) reported cases in three digits. Kanyakumari had 92 fresh cases, Madurai 87 and Theni 80. Among 92 deaths reported on Thursday nine people had no comorbidities. In the last 24 hours, the state has tested 80,864 people and discharged 6,110 patients. The number of people who have been cured of the infection is now 3.86 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-first-in-past-20-days-city-cases-drop-below-1000/articleshow/77919581.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Overcoming the language gap with laws that bridge it||By R S Raveendhren Recently a widely circulated video of an online Ayush ministry programme showed the Union ministry secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha asking non-Hindi speaking delegates to leave the platform, if they wished to, when they asked him to converse in English. His reason was that since he was not fluent in English he would continue speaking in Hindi. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-india-can-use-law-and-tech-to-bridge-language-gap/articleshow/77926958.cms(The writer is an advocate at Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/overcoming-the-language-gap-with-laws-that-bridge-it/articleshow/77919584.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic body seeks govt fund for road repairs||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation authorities have sent the proposal of a Rs 140 crore road repair and maintenance scheme to the state government for its approval and funding. The condition of several stretches in Salt Lake and Rajarhat has deteriorated in the past few months as the civic authorities could not take up any repair work due to the pandemic. Craters or potholes have developed on the roads in several blocks like FD, GC, IA, CB. Besides, some other stretches have been lying in tatters for a long time like the one from Tank number 13 to Anindita bus stand and another from Tank No. 13 to Bijon Bhavan. Many of the roads inside the blocks across Salt Lake and the stretches in Rajarhat under Bidhannagar civic authorities are also in a deplorable condition. The main thoroughfare moving inside Kestopur off VIP road, where buses ply towards New Town, is ridden with large craters in several places. “The condition of roads in many places of Salt Lake has worsened after the monsoon rains. The civic authorities need to repair the roads before Durga Puja,” said Tamal Pal, a resident of HB block. The cratered roads are posing a risk to motorists, especially bikers. Civic officials said patch work would be done on the roads now while they would take up thorough repair work after the monsoon. Ready hot mix bitumen mixture will be brought from outside to prevent pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-body-seeks-govt-fund-for-road-repairs/articleshow/77919586.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Covid safety norms go for a toss on crowded TNSTC buses||Trichy/Madurai: Two days after intra-district bus services resumed, there has been significant improvement in patronage from passengers in Trichy and Madurai region. However, buses that connect the borders of neighbouring districts were overcrowded in Trichy despite inter-district services not resuming. Passengers have been taking the buses plying within the district to reach the border and then walking a certain distance to the other districts. Though services resumed after two months from September 1, TNSTC had been blaming the poor patronage on absence of inter-district operations. However, the last two days saw more people, particularly women, taking buses to reach their workplaces. In Trichy, Pettaivaithalai which shares borders with Karur district and Thuvakudi that has a border with Thanjavur district saw a surge in footfall. In Madurai, buses connecting Melur and Thirumangalam witnessed overcrowding in peak hours. Between 8 am and 10 am, safety measures such as wearing of face masks and social distancing have been going for a toss on these buses. “During peak hours, nobody maintains social distancing. Certain buses connecting Trichy city with Pettaivaithalai were overcrowded, facemasks were absent on many people,” P Aiyarappan, a resident of Allur added. “We heard complaints of crowding only during peak hours on these two routes (Melur and Thirumangalam). Additional buses are being deployed as and when necessary to ensure social distancing is maintained,” said a TNSTC official in Madurai. The official said that flying squads are also in place to identify routes where crowding happens and take necessary action.  In Coimbatore, the situation was not alarming. TNSTC Coimbatore officials said that buses that were operated to places abutting the district borders had more passengers than city buses, but even in those vehicles masks were worn by almost all passengers. But, buses plying in Coimbatore city had fewer passengers. The poor patronage was such that TNSTC Coimbatore division reduced the number of buses on Wednesday.(With Inputs from A Subburaj from Coimbatore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-safety-norms-go-for-a-toss-on-crowded-tnstc-buses/articleshow/77920776.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Students prefer honours subjects over pass this yr||Jaipur: Unlike last year, when the first choice of students seeking admission in Rajasthan University (RU) was for a pass course subject, this year the applications for honours subjects have increased. Till last year, there used to be tough competition to get into pass course which is reverse condition as compared to any big universities in the country where getting admission in honours is most difficult. Honours subjects are study of one subject in depth but students from Rajasthan used to prefer pass course. Vice-principal of Maharani College Rashmi Jain said, “Last year, on 660 seats, we got around 1,300 applications for honours and this year we got around 2,500 forms. The trend has changed and students are interested in taking up honours.” Authorities said that the rise in the number of CBSE students was the reason for it as students are now interested in studying a subject in depth. “Students from RBSE are majority from rural background and have a mentality to prepare for government jobs. So, they prefer pass course which helps them to manage classes with their coaching. This year with removal of percentile formula, more CBSE students have gotten admission, who are more interested in getting better in-depth knowledge of course,” said a university professor. In Maharaja College and Commerce College as well, there has been a rise in the applications in Honours subjects. As compared to last year, the cut off percentage has increased in all the constituent colleges of Rajasthan University. The percentile formula which benefited RBSE students more is now been removed after which CBSE students have now gotten admission on more than 80% of the seats of the colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-prefer-honours-subjects-over-pass-this-yr/articleshow/77920759.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Angry with wife, man strangulates son||PALANPUR: A casual labourer killed his four-year-old son in a fit of rage in Aravalli district six days ago. The incident came to light on Wednesday when the boy’s grandfather spotted his body lying in a field in the village. The cops have begun search for the accused identified as Nainesh Ninama. Investigators also suspect that Ninama may have killed his child for some tantric ritual. The police said that for the last seven years Ninama had been working as a casual labourer in Ahmedabad. Some days ago he visited his home at Antoli village in Meghraj taluka. According to the police, this was the third marriage of Ninama and he often quarrelled with his wife. During his stay, he had a bitter fight with his wife on August 28. An angry Ninama strangled his son to death and then disposed his body in an open field. When the boy’s grandfather spotted the body on Wednesday, he rushed the child to the hospital but he was already dead. The police registered a complaint against Ninama on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/angry-with-wife-man-strangulates-son/articleshow/77918373.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Four from UP held with 4 pistols, 16 live cartridges||Palanpur: Police arrested four persons with four pistol and 16 live cartridges from near Amirgadh-Rajsthan border in Banaskantha on Thursday. The accused who were going in a car were stopped for checking near Amirgadh check-post following direction of border range IG J R Mothaliya and SP Banaskantha, Tarun Dugal. “The car was coming from Uttar Pradesh and going towards Ahmedabad. There were four persons in it. We recovered four country-made pistols and 16 live cartridges from the car,” said Amirgadh PSI T J Desai.Those arrested were identified as Vinod Jat, Prmaod Jat, Ishvar Sharma and Adanbi Athmabad. All residents of Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-from-up-held-with-4-pistols-16-live-cartridges/articleshow/77918359.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Charter airlines from Russia, UK apply for landing slots in Goa||PANAJI: The Covid-19 pandemic has done little to diminish Goa’s allure as an international tourist destination, with Russian and British charter airlines already approaching the Union ministry of civil aviation and the Airports Authority of India for permission to land in the coming months. According to sources, Moscow’s Royal Flight and TUI have shown keen interest in bringing tourists to Goa on chartered flights beginning from October 26. “Royal Flights has requested for 169 slots from October 26 and TUI is asking for three to five slots per week,” said an official, adding that the Centre would decide on the slots. Though India has travel arrangements with a handful of countries, including UK, scheduled international flights have not been permitted. Read Also‘Covid tourism’: Mt Abu sold out on weekendsTry booking any hotel or resort in Mount Abu on weekends, the answer is invariably going to be, “It’s sold out.”In Goa, the Covid curve is yet to show any signs of flattening with cases continuing to rise by 500-600 per day. Though chief minister Pramod Sawant permitted the tourism sector to open up in July, the percentage of tourists visiting the state is in single digits.  The government has also lifted all restrictions on entry into the state with testing or quarantine no longer mandatory. The state depends on tourism to keep its economy running and the arrival of charter flights, which make up the bulk of Goa’s foreign tourist arrivals, will provide a boost to the local economy, said a state government official. “The interest is there. The British are our traditional market and the demand from their side is there, but it all depends on the permissions from the Centre and the Covid-19 situation,” said Martin Joseph, managing director at Freedom Holidays Pvt Ltd. Though domestic tourists form the chunk of Goa’s tourist arrivals, hotels and shacks prefer foreigners as they stay longer and spend more during their stay. “Charter tourists will spend a fortnight to a month in the state. If charters are permitted, it will benefit the state and people’s livelihood,” said Joseph. On August 28, science and technology minister Michael Lobo said that the state government would allow beach shacks along the coastal belt to open from October for the tourist season. Tourism stakeholders want the Centre and the state government to put in place the standard operating procedures (SOP) for charter tourists. “The charter flights already have 30-40% booking and if there is more clarity regarding Covid, and the protocols, then bookings will pick up,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/charter-airlines-from-russia-uk-apply-for-landing-slots-in-goa/articleshow/77920841.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 4, 2020||Agra||BSF jawan in judicial custody for ‘killing’ three persons in road accident in Mathura||Agra: A 35-year-old BSF jawan, Anil Kumar, posted in Gautam Buddh Nagar, was booked by Mathura police in connection with the death of a couple and their 10-year-old son in a road accident at Dangoli Paani Gaon Road on Wednesday.Kumar, who was driving a car in an inebriated condition, had rammed into a motorcycle on which Bhagwan Das was travelling along with his wife Bhagwan Devi, son Dheeraj, and daughter Chanchal - the lone survivor of the accident. Chanchal’s condition continues to be critical. Her left leg has been amputated.Kumar has been booked under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 279 (rash driving ) of IPC, according to the police.Mathura SSP Guarav Grover said that the medical report of the jawan had confirmed that he was in an inebriated condition while driving on Wednesday evening. He said that the jawan was remanded to judicial custody on Thursday.Meanwhile, agitated local residents blocked the Pani Gaon crossing on Thursday for half an hour by putting bodies of the deceased on the road. They demanded "justice for the family". They opened the road only after getting an assurance from the administration that appropriate compensation would be given by the government. The bodies of the deceased were later cremated by their relatives.Talking to TOI, Ramveer, a relative of the deceased , said that Bhagwan Das, who worked as a mason, was heading towards his home after buying medicines for his wife when the accident took place.“We are demanding financial help for the minor girl from the administration as she only has her grandmother left with her now," Ramveer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bsf-jawan-in-judicial-custody-for-killing-three-persons-in-road-accident-in-mathura/articleshow/77917102.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur man posts woman’s morphed photos on FB, held||Jaisalmer: Barmer police have arrested a man from Jodhpur accused of blackmailing a woman by making a fake Facebook ID and uploading her morphed photos, around four months ago. The police got the details from the Facebook office in California. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that a woman had lodged a case at the Barmer police station, in which she said that somebody had called her on her phone and told her that her photos were edited and morphed with some vulgar images and had been posted online. When she checked, she found a lot of morphed obscene images, of which she took screenshots. When she enquired with the accused about the matter on Facebook messenger, he allegedly asked her to have physical relations with him and that he would then delete the photos. He told his name to be Ajaypal Singh Bhati. The investigation was started after the lodging of the case. Sharma, taking a serious note of this, got the post on Facebook studied by the cyber cell. Police had correspondence with Facebook office at California, USA and got the desired information, based on which one Parvat Singh (24), a resident of Manak under Soorsagar police station area in Jodhpur, was found to be the culprit. A special team was formed under women’s police station to nab the culprit. The team arrested Parvat Singh and seized his mobile used for publishing the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-man-posts-womans-morphed-photos-on-fb-held/articleshow/77920832.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||How long do antibodies of Covid last? Jury’s still out||NEW DELHI: The health ministry and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday said some studies indicated that immunity or Covid-19 antibodies can persist in the body from 5-6 months to many years but there are no concrete conclusions. “Various scientific studies across the world suggest that a person may possess antibodies from 5-6 months to many years,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The comments were significant in the light of animated discussions in expert and scientific circles over how long anti-bodies are found in recovered patients and the period of immunity a vaccine may provide. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the Council is looking into the question but since it is a new disease, not much is known about it, advising people to continue with Covid-appropriate behaviour including use of masks, following hand hygiene and maintaining physical distance. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The comments assume significance amid concerns about scope of re-infection among those who have recovered from the disease and whether even vaccination can lend life-long immunity. So far there have been almost no cases of “true” reinfection and in a case detected in Hong Kong, the patient did not show symptoms. Bhargava also said 50 out of 70 districts have completed the second round of sero-survey. The results of the entire country’s sero-survey should be available within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-long-do-antibodies-of-covid-last-jurys-still-out/articleshow/77921936.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Thief who stole 43 mobile phones nabbed||MYSURU: A 22-year-old man who allegedly made away with a whopping 43 mobile phones, cumulatively worth Rs 6.5 lakh from a finance company at Helavarahundi in T Narasipura taluk on the night of August 29, was arrested on Thursday. T Narasipura police said that the suspect, Harish, was a resident of Mudalakoppalu in Hunsur. Cops said that Harish had been an employee at the very same finance company he looted the phones from before quitting his job there sometime ago. “However, he had stolen a few keys when he quit the job. He managed to enter the building with one of the keys and made away with the mobile phones,” police said. Mysuru superintendent of police CB Rishyanth announced a cash reward for the team of cops that nabbed Harish. All the stolen phones and bike he used have been confiscated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/thief-who-stole-43-mobile-phones-nabbed/articleshow/77917121.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Covid safety norms go for toss on buses in Trichy and Madurai region||TRICHY/MADURAI: Two days after intra-district bus services resumed, there has been significant improvement in patronage from passengers in Trichy and Madurai region. However, buses that connect the borders of neighbouring districts were overcrowded in Trichy despite inter-district services not resuming. Passengers have been taking the buses plying within the district to reach the border and then walking a certain distance to the other districts. Though services resumed after two months from September 1, TNSTC had been blaming the poor patronage on absence of inter-district operations. However, the last two days saw more people, particularly women, taking buses to reach their workplaces. In Trichy, Pettaivaithalai which shares borders with Karur district and Thuvakudi that has a border with Thanjavur district saw a surge in footfall. Besides locals travelling to reach Trichy city, inter-district travellers constitute a sizeable number of the passengers. In Madurai, buses connecting Melur and Thirumangalam witnessed overcrowding in peak hours. Between 8 am and 10 am, safety measures such as wearing of face masks and social distancing have been going for a toss on these buses. “During peak hours, nobody maintains social distancing. Certain buses connecting Trichy city with Pettaivaithalai were overcrowded, facemasks were absent on many people,” P Aiyarappan, a resident of Allur added. “We heard complaints of crowding only during peak hours on these two routes (Melur and Thirumangalam). Additional buses are being deployed as and when necessary to ensure social distancing is maintained,” said a TNSTC official in Madurai. The official said that flying squads are also in place to identify routes where crowding happens and take necessary action. K Anbarasan, a passenger commuting from Periyar bus stop in Madurai said more passengers were seen on board compared to previous days. “All were wearing masks but social distancing was difficult in some cases, especially when boarding,” he added. TNSTC officials in Trichy said the situation will improve once inter-district bus services resume. “Inter-district passengers are also a reason for overcrowding in certain routes. We have been insisting repeatedly but adherence is poor,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-safety-norms-go-for-toss-on-buses/articleshow/77920851.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 4, 2020||Madurai||12.5K TN villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister||Madurai: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages.Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said.“Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said.BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender.While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77920853.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Covid mass screening resumed in Trichy city||Trichy: The second round of mass screening has been initiated by the Trichy Coporation at vulnerable spots following the relaxations announced by the government, and subsequent increase in public movement. In the last two days, 141 samples were collected from commercial and market areas in Ariyamangalam market. Forty-one of these samples were collected at the Gandhi market. A screening-cum-testing camp was also held on Thursday in view of the surge in public movement. “Owners and employees in grocery shops, mutton and fish stalls near the market were screened. Out of the 187 screened, samples from 100 symptomatic persons were collected,” a health official said. Shops on EB Road, Thanjavur Main Road and Nelpettai Road were covered. The civic body will cover the hotspots in K Abishekpuram and Srirangam zones. Woraiyur market area and Big bazaar streets are to be covered under random RT-PCR testing. “Massive containment zones will be established if a bulk number of samples test positive. With normalcy returning, containment measure is the only choice for us to prevent the spread and avoid new clusters from emerging,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-mass-screening-resumed-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77920849.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Schoolboy suicide: Police talk to classmate’s mom||Kolkata: Two days after a 13-year-old boy — a student of Class VIII at a reputable English-medium school — reportedly committed suicide at his Bansdroni home, police spoke to a classmate’s mother and the boy’s school teachers on Thursday. “We have come to know that the classmate’s mother had called him up last weekend and warned him against talking to her daughter. “We are tracking the mobile phone details for this reason,” said an officer. Police confirmed that the boy had hanged himself even as his online classes were going on. He was present in the class from 9.40am to 10.20am, his teacher confirmed, adding that this class continued till 11am. The child, cops estimate, ended his life around 10.30am. Police are now analysing the CDR details for leads. The police said the boy’s parents were not at home when the incident took place. His father, a railway contractor, had gone to drop his wife to the hospital where she works. He came back after half an hour and found the boy hanging. The mobile phone was lying on the bed. “We do not think that at his age he had planned this out. It happened at the spur of the moment,” said a police officer. “We are still trying to find out if he had recently been scolded by any of his family members or relatives or had a fallout with friends. We will also ascertain if anybody had been bullying him. Also, we are trying to find out if he had been depressed because of the lockdown,” said an investigating officer. In a separate incident, a 39-year-old man, Asish Chakraborty, a resident of Shyamsundar Pally in Sakuntala Park, allegedly committed suicide at his home by hanging himself from a grille with the help of a gamchha. The incident took place around 6.15pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schoolboy-suicide-police-talk-to-classmates-mom/articleshow/77919596.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Agra||Rs 4 lakh looted from retired railway employee||Agra: Two unidentified men snatched a bag containing Rs 4.15 lakh from a retired railway employee while he was leaving a bank in Mathura’s Saunkh area on Thursday. Police said that the incident took place when 60-year-old Ramesh Chandra Meena was returning home after withdrawing the amount as a loan from the bank. Mathura senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gaurav Grover said that CCTV footage is being screened and soon the accused will be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rs-4-lakh-looted-from-retired-railway-employee/articleshow/77917114.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars who broke into temples nabbed||Vadodara: Crime branch sleuths have arrested two men for burglaries at five temples in the city over the last 15 days. The duo will now be handed over to the police stations where complaints have been registered against them. According to the police, the duo used to keep an eye on temples in different areas and break into them late at night. The cops recovered Rs 89,000 from the duo, identified as Jitendra Panchal and Jignesh Parmar. Panchal already has five cases of theft and burglary against him. The duo had targeted the Kashi Vishwanath Temple on Lalbaug Road, Amba Mata Temple on Samta Road and three other temples in different areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-who-broke-into-temples-nabbed/articleshow/77917483.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||Covid safety norms go for toss on buses in Trichy and Madurai region||TRICHY/MADURAI: Two days after intra-district bus services resumed, there has been significant improvement in patronage from passengers in Trichy and Madurai region. However, buses that connect the borders of neighbouring districts were overcrowded in Trichy despite inter-district services not resuming. Passengers have been taking the buses plying within the district to reach the border and then walking a certain distance to the other districts. Though services resumed after two months from September 1, TNSTC had been blaming the poor patronage on absence of inter-district operations. However, the last two days saw more people, particularly women, taking buses to reach their workplaces. In Trichy, Pettaivaithalai which shares borders with Karur district and Thuvakudi that has a border with Thanjavur district saw a surge in footfall. Besides locals travelling to reach Trichy city, inter-district travellers constitute a sizeable number of the passengers. In Madurai, buses connecting Melur and Thirumangalam witnessed overcrowding in peak hours. Between 8 am and 10 am, safety measures such as wearing of face masks and social distancing have been going for a toss on these buses. “During peak hours, nobody maintains social distancing. Certain buses connecting Trichy city with Pettaivaithalai were overcrowded, facemasks were absent on many people,” P Aiyarappan, a resident of Allur added. “We heard complaints of crowding only during peak hours on these two routes (Melur and Thirumangalam). Additional buses are being deployed as and when necessary to ensure social distancing is maintained,” said a TNSTC official in Madurai. The official said that flying squads are also in place to identify routes where crowding happens and take necessary action. K Anbarasan, a passenger commuting from Periyar bus stop in Madurai said more passengers were seen on board compared to previous days. “All were wearing masks but social distancing was difficult in some cases, especially when boarding,” he added. TNSTC officials in Trichy said the situation will improve once inter-district bus services resume. “Inter-district passengers are also a reason for overcrowding in certain routes. We have been insisting repeatedly but adherence is poor,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-safety-norms-go-for-toss-on-buses/articleshow/77924054.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district records 1,195 cases, highest in a single day||Kolhapur: The district reported 1,195 fresh Covid-19 cases and 27 deaths due to the contagion on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 25,614 and the death toll rises to 785. There are 8,405 active cases.  This is the highest number of Covid cases recorded in a single day in the district. On Tuesday, the district had reported the highest number of deaths in a single day-35.  Meanwhile, Kagal Municipal Council has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing masks, or for additional passengers in two-wheeler and four-wheeler and a fine of Rs 5,000 for violating home isolation. Sangli reports 1,503 cases in just 2 days Sangli district reported 1,503 fresh Covid cases and 47 deaths in the last two days. The total number of cases in the district has reached to 13,897, of which 542 have succumbed to the infection and 5,428 are undergoing treatment. More facilities on cards Sangli district administration is soon going to start two treatment facilities—one with 110 beds and another with 50 beds— to cope with the rising number of cases. The administrationwill add 30 ventilators in the existing facilities. Saurabh Rao, the Pune divisional commissioner held a meeting with the district authorities through video conference. He said, “The administration should soon acquire private hospitals for Covid treatment. If possible retired doctors should be recruited for treating patients.” The death rate is around 4% in the district. Lockdown in Sangli towns Lockdown has been imposed in the three towns of Sangli district—Islampur, Palus and Tasgaon— for several days due to the rise in covid cases. The local vigilance committee has taken the decisions on the lockdown. All offices and shops except essential shops will remain shut. Team to deployed for testing A team of 200 staffers including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff will be deployed in Sangli district to carry out testings and treatment. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-records-1195-cases-highest-in-a-single-day/articleshow/77897162.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur farmers denied compensation protest||Thanjavur: Farmers from 33 village panchayats of Ammapettai union in Thanjavur district alleged that despite paying insurance premium for kuruvai crop for 2019-20, no compensation was disbursed to them stating that crops cultivated in areas under the union were not eligible for it as they incurred no loss. They have demanded that insurance companies sanction compensation on a par with neighbouring villages. Farmers from 33 village panchayats had paid their insurance premium with Agriculture Insurance Company for kuruvai season in 2019-20, R Senthilkumar, the CPI-affiliated union’s secretary, said. Farmers remitted their insurance premium through cooperative credit societies and some of them online before the last date. However, they were not disbursed their compensation, Senthilkumar said. “When a farmer from a village was given compensation, the owner of his neighbouring field was denied it. A bund alone is the difference between the two fields,” he said. The aggrieved farmers gathered in front of the agriculture office at Ammapettai and carried out a protest raising slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-farmers-denied-compensation-protest/articleshow/77920862.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||2-hr exam for UG, PG students in MLSU||Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU) is set to conduct the examinations of final year students of various faculties. Approximately 43,000 students will appear for the examinations which begins on September12 and will be held in 65 centres. Instead of three hours, duration of the exams would be two hours and will be held in three shifts. MLSU vice chancellor America Singh held an online meeting with centre superintendents and took updates on the preparations. Spokesperson Kunjan Acharya said both regular and private students would appear in the exams and timetables have been uploaded on the university’s website. Since the exam duration has been curtailed by an hour, examinees would need to answer only two sections from the question paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-hr-exam-for-ug-pg-students-in-mlsu/articleshow/77920861.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism needs revival, act on new policy measures: Travel biz to govt||Jaipur: The travel trade and hospitality industry in the state wants the government to act first on provisions in the new tourism policy that will have immediate impact on revival. They said a large section of the industry is still under severe pressure to survive and there are areas in the policy that can bring immediate benefits if acted upon with urgency. Sunil Mehta, member of Rajasthan Wildlife Board and MD of World Wilderness Congress, India, said that the policy has rightly identified the need for promoting certain locations of the state as weekend gateways for travelers in neighbouring cities but there is no mention of promoting tourism in and around Sariska. “As a weekend tourist destination, few places can beat Sariska. The national park is part of National Capital Region with easy access from Delhi and Agra. The park is home to ruins of ancient and medieval temples, castles and is rich in flora and fauna. It can be best promoted also for mythological tourism as several areas in and around Sariska find mention in Mahabharat. But not a fraction of attention is given to this park it deserves. There is nothing wrong in promoting new wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves but the one which has proved its potential in the past and is still the best of the lot is being neglected,” said Mehta. The tourism units have been demanding that they be allowed to pay electricity charges at the same rates that industry does. But the policy remains silent. “We request the chief minister to include electricity and water rates as industrial rates because tourism has been declared an industry. Surprised to see that there was no mention of tour operators or excursion agents who bring tourists to Rajasthan. There should have been some relief to this part of the industry,” said Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR) and Rajasthan Association of Tour operators (RATO). The policy decision to extend stamp duty exemption for integrated MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) infrastructure struck a chord with the industry given the growing potential of the segment in the state. Apurv Kumar, former chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said, “It is a move in the right direction. Stamp duty relief will make it attractive for investors to set up such infrastructure. But the existing facilities need demand. Since people won’t be going out of the country for events and weddings anytime soon, there would be competition among states to attract them. That’s why it is important to extend subsidy or incentive for MICE events and weddings like the government has given for film shootings. Similarly, the current chairman of CII-Rajasthan Vishal Baid said the policy should have looked at the seasonal nature of tourism in Rajasthan because of the harsh and prolonged summers. “Summers in Rajasthan cover nine months of the year during which tourism activities remain subdued. We would request the state government to include night tourism in policy which can be promoted in summers and help the industry,” Vishal Baid, chairman, CII-Rajasthan. Industry body FIICI-Rajasthan said that since there is no clarity as to when the international tourists would start coming again, the focus needs to be on promoting domestic tourism. Randhir Vikram Singh, co-chairman, FICCI Rajasthan State Council, said “Domestic tourism should be the focus for next two years covering weekend, rural and heritage tourism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-needs-revival-act-on-new-policy-measures-travel-biz-to-govt/articleshow/77920859.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t crowd Jaipur to greet me on birthday: Sachin Pilot to workers||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who turns 43 on September 7, has appealed to party workers and supporters not to congregate in Jaipur to wish and greet him on his birthday. Pilot will be doing a live session on his social media platforms where people will be able to connect with him personally on September 7. A statement issued by his office said, “The consistent love and affection that people of the state have showered upon him remains a source of strength for him in his public life. But given the continuous rise in the Covid cases in the state and the country, he said asked his supporters to keep the safety of people as the top priority.” Pilot has requested that there be no large public gatherings to mark his upcoming birthday. “It is our collective responsibility to reach out to people in these most difficult times. Many blood banks and hospitals have repeatedly stated that because of the virus threat, the number of blood donors has decreased drastically. It is becoming more and more difficult to keep the minimum blood reserves. Let us come together and pledge to donate blood on the birthday,” he appealed. Congress party workers and volunteers have set a target to break all previous records for conducting such camps and collecting donated units of blood on any one occasion in the state. According to sources, they had set a target of collecting 43,000 units of blood coinciding with his 43rd birthday. He appealed to workers that “instead of any other celebration or some other wasteful expenditure, let us work to organise blood donation camps in all 33 districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-crowd-jaipur-to-greet-me-on-bday-pilot-to-workers/articleshow/77920854.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Teacher detained for ‘raping’ live-in partner in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: A teacher of a government school in Jamnagar was detained on Wednesday for allegedly raping and beating up his live-in partner. Yogendra Makwana, who teaches at a school in Kalavad, has separated from his wife and has been staying with another woman since 2017. The woman, who is divorcee, accused Makwana of raping and beating her up. She told the police that Makwana assaulted her on September 1 when she refused to dissolve their friendship contract. Police said that Makwana recently met another woman with whom he wanted to sign a friendship contract. However, the new contract was not possible without ending the existing one. Makwana therefore told the woman to put an end to their relationship and dissolve the contract. On September 1, after he assaulted her physically, the woman went to A Division police station and lodged a complaint against the accused Makwana. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teacher-detained-for-raping-live-in-partner-in-jamnagar/articleshow/77918443.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Smart city projects in Trichy overcome hurdles to make steady progress||Trichy: Smart city infrastructure projects in Trichy city have made the desired progress despite lockdown woes. Alternative plans to replace migrant workers who had left after the outbreak and availability of raw materials despite logistics constraints have allowed the corporation to continue work on the projects.Although work was impacted in April, the contractors were quick to replace the shortfall with local workforce. In the meantime, by obtaining special permissions from the district administration, Trichy Corporation continued work on the projects by ensuring precautionary measures. Rallying on poor public movement, the civic body had managed to complete many works in congested areas. “Around 70% of the bus stand redevelopment work is completed in Chathiram. We are planning to finish the project by February 2021 as the lockdown did not affect the progress much as the workers stayed at the site with their families,” an corporation official said. Similarly, Thillai Nagar commercial complex project that was taken up in October 2018 is in the final phase of execution. During the lockdown, the civic body completed the structural work on the commercial complex, only the flooring and electrification works are left. “Replacing migrant labourers with the local workforce through our contractors helped all the smart city projects to progress amid the pandemic. Raw materials were available on time, while a part of Uyyakondan riverfront development project will be completed in a few weeks,” said G Kumaresan, corporation executive engineer. Similarly, the biomining project in Ariyamangalam on fastrack as around 95% of the work to erect a plant for processing and recycling the waste is complete, officials said. Having completed four smart cities mission project, Trichy Corporation said that at least two major projects will be ready in the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/smart-city-projects-in-trichy-overcome-hurdles-to-make-steady-progress/articleshow/77920855.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Railway approval push for Majerhat ROB work||Kolkata: The state PWD has got Eastern Railway’s permission to install bearings in the Majerhat ROB. After a detailed inspection of Metro’s Howrah unit on Wednesday, ER engineers gave the permission for installation of the bearings. TOI on August 23 reported that construction of Majerhat bridge, which is actually and rail overbridge (ROB) that falls under ER’s ambit, has stopped because of the pending clearance. Bridge bearings extremely crucial — there are structural equipment installed between the substructure and superstructure (girder) to transfer the load resulting out of vehicular traffic movement, earthquake, wind speed or the superstructure’s self-weight. Unless the bearings along the girder are in place, the deck slab cannot be cast. Following the TOI report, ER cleared the bearings’ design on August 26 and asked the state public works department (PWD) to seek its inspection so that it could give permission for the installation. A span of the ROB fell on September 4 2018, cutting off New Alipore, Behala and beyond from the rest of the city. PWD wants to commission the new bridge before Durga Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/railway-approval-push-for-majerhat-rob-work/articleshow/77919668.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Spike in Covid cases to continue for some more days: Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday said that the spike in Covid-19 cases will continue for a couple of days and that by the end of the month, Goa will have around 25,000 to 30,000 cases. From Tuesday, there has been a consistent rise in cases, with each day hitting a new high. “My prediction is that the spike will continue for a while,” Rane told TOI following a meeting called to assess the pandemic situation. On Thursday, Goa’s tally of active cases rose by 713, with total cases touching 19,355. “Our priority is to reduce mortality. A lot of patients are coming late for treatment. It is important that patients are treated with the right medication before they get pneumonia and pushed into a cytokine storm when it becomes difficult to treat them,” he said. Some patients get admitted in the morning and die in the evening, he said. Goa’s Covid-19 death count shot up to 212 on Thursday. “That is why the government has been consistently telling people to immediately come to the hospital on developing Covid symptoms,” he said. At the meeting it was also discussed whether protocols for admitted patients are thoroughly followed. Rane said that there are Covid patients who need to be managed for other ailments too. He said that though Covid facilities fill to capacity every day, they are managing. “The patients with mild symptoms are sent to the Covid hospital in Ponda, and other patients are managed between the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao and the Goa Medical College,” the health minister said. He added that arrangements will be made if the situation demands, but did not spell out the plan of action. “We will figure out what’s to be done,” he said. A proposal to recruit more health staff for management of Covid patients, he said, shall be moved to the chief minister Pramod Sawant urgently. “We need more staff and a file will be put up before the chief minister,” he said. Stating that despite the rise in cases people still do not follow social distancing and also do not wear masks, Rane said, “Some wear masks under the nose. How will it help to contain the spread? We appeal to people to strictly follow protocols in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-spike-in-covid-cases-to-continue-for-some-more-days/articleshow/77920858.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang dupes Tirupur bizman of Rs 7.5 lakh||Tirupur: Police are on the lookout for a five-member gang that duped a garment unit owner of Rs 7.5 lakh.Complainant Mohamed Rafick, 39, of Naranapuram near Palladam, had received a phone call from a man, who introduced himself as a client a few weeks ago. Fifteen days ago, the man called once again and told Rafick that a wealthy person from Karaikudi known to him has black money worth crores of rupees. Since he was desperate to convert the black money, the man was willing to give Rs 10 lakh black money for Rs 7.5 lakh of legitimate cash.After a bit of coaxing, Rafick agreed and reached Vellakoil on September 1 carrying Rs 7.5 lakh, a police officer said. “He was asked to get into a car and give the money to a man, who identified himself as the Karaikudi millionaire. In a short while, the car was intercepted by another vehicle and three more men posing as police officers got into the vehicle. They took away the cash box and left the place. The Karaikudi man and his car driver also fled the spot.”Police are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-dupes-tirupur-bizman-of-rs-7-5-lakh/articleshow/77919680.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Erode||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77923911.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Salem||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77923915.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Gravel thieves open fire at cops, escape||Alwar: Unknown assailants allegedly associated with illegal gravel mining on Thursday fired at a police patrol team when they were asked to stop near Roopwas police station area in Bharatpur district. While the cops had a narrow escape, the assailants managed to flee. According to police, a patrol team of three police station areas were at various places to check illegal gravel mining activities on directions of senior police officers of Bharatpur district. “While a policeman asked the driver of a tractor, the persons sitting in it started firing. Thereafter, cops of three different police stations chased them,” said a senior police officer. To prevent police from chasing the assailants, they also spread gravel on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gravel-thieves-open-fire-at-cops-escape/articleshow/77920871.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in road accident in Dhoraji||Rajkot: Two brothers in Jetpur taluka were killed after a tractor knocked them down on Wednesday night in Dhoraji when they returning home.Vallabh Antada (65) and Gopal (58), who run a provision store in their village, were returning from Jetpur town on their bike. Police said that they had gone to buy stocks for their store from Jetpur. While returning a tractor coming from the opposite direction knocked them down due to which both brothers suffered grievous injuries.Locals took them to a nearby hospital, but both succumbed during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-road-accident-in-dhoraji/articleshow/77918449.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Sex with ‘trusted partner’ safest in Covid times: Docs||Nagpur: With increasing number of cases, many households have Covid-19 patients, either infected or recovered. Covid-19 restrictions have thrown many challenges, especially for couples struggling with 24X7 stay-at-home orders. On the other hand, some couples may be depressed because of distance, living apart due to health concerns or quarantine measures.According to doctors, the best way to prevent Covid-19 is by avoiding close, physical contact, including sex, with anyone who doesn’t live with you.Indian Medical Association (IMA) national headquarters has launched ‘Initiative on Sexual Health’. IMA national president Dr Rajan Sharma and honorary secretary general Dr Asokan, IMA HQ, New Delhi, have constituted a standing committee for the initiative. Dr Balasubramaniam from Chennai is its chairman while Dr Sanjay Deshpande from Nagpur is the convener.In a meeting held on August 31, the committee decided about implementing ‘Doctor as a sex educator’ concept from this year.“The field of sexual medicine is dominated by quacks. Hence, this year MBBS doctors will be trained by IMA’s expert panel in sexual medicine. IMA branches will educate and create awareness among parents and teachers on adolescence, puberty and its psychosocial effects and make everyone aware about child sexual abuse and its prevention,” said Dr Sanjay Deshpande.“After almost six months of lockdown, many sexual habits might have changed,” he said. Doctors also answered some questions on sex life in Covid-19 times, which are and will become common with increasing number of cases in Maharashtra.“For preventing the spread of Covid-19, the safest sex partners are those who already live with you and are at low risk of infection. If you and your partner are healthy and feeling well, staying at least 6 feet from other people outside the house, washing hands often, and wearing face masks or cloth face coverings in public settings, sex is likely to be safe,” said Dr Deshpande. Sex in Covid-19 times: FAQs shared by expertsMy partner and I both tested positive for Covid-19. Are we immune, and is it safe to have sex? Although the immune response to Covid-19 is not fully understood, there is some evidence of at least short-term protective immunity. It is likely safe for partners to have sex as long as you continue to follow preventive safety guidelines to protect yourself and others.I think I had Covid-19 based on my symptoms but did not get tested. Is it safe to have sex? If you think you had Covid-19 and recovered, you may go for antibody test. A positive result means you have antibodies that likely resulted from an infection. This means you and your partner are likely safe to have sex as long as you continue to follow preventive safety guidelines. What if antibody test is negative? It means you probably did not have a previous infection. However, you could have been very recently infected but antibodies don’t show up for 1-3 weeks after infection. In such case, wait to have sex until you are sure that you have recovered. I tested positive for Covid-19 but have recovered. When can I have sex with my spouse/partner? If you tested positive for Covid-19 and you have not had a test to determine if you are still contagious, it is not safe to have sex unless these three things have happened: (1) You have not had a fever for at least 72 hours (2) Other symptoms have improved and (3) 10 days have passed after symptoms first started. Only after all these three things have happened, you can be considered ‘recovered’ and safe to have sex with your partner.I am an older adult and/or have underlying health conditions. What should I do about sex right now? If you are over 50 years of age and have one or more underlying health condition that puts you at risk for severe illness from Covid-19, you should be extra careful. Consider measures like avoiding kissing, and use face mask, condoms to reduce your contact with saliva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sex-with-trusted-partner-safest-in-covid-times-docs/articleshow/77919684.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Man, disabled daughter take poison, die in Pudukottai||Trichy: A 75-year-old man and his 48-year-old disabled daughter committed suicide by consuming poison on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Sellaiah and Santhi from Panankulam village near Keeramangalam in Pudukottai. According to police, the man consumed poison dejected after being scolded by his daughter for being an alcoholic. Learning that her father became unconscious, she also consumed poison. Both were rushed to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital where they were declared brought dead.  According to police, Sellaiah was living with his daughter after the death of his wife a few years ago. His two sons are working in Chennai. Neighbours said that Santhi used to scold Sellaiah for his drinking habit. On Wednesday night, they had a wordy quarrel and were found unconscious in the morning. The Keeramangalam police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-disabled-daughter-take-poison-die-in-pudukottai/articleshow/77920870.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops on alert after truck mows down woman||Coimbatore: A 36-year-old woman died after a speeding truck mowed her down at Hope College in the city on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as Mahalakshmi, of Sukrawarpet. The truck driver, A Mohammed Nafiq, 40, of Palakkad, was arrested by the traffic investigation wing (TIW-east) police.Following the accident, the traffic police have tightened their grip on movements of trucks in the city. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) R Mutharasu said that the traffic cops are instructed not to allow any truck in the city between 8am and 11am and between 4pm and 7pm. “If any truck enters the city during peak hours, heavy fine will be imposed by the traffic cop. Action will be taken against traffic cops if any truck was found on the city roads during peak hours,” Mutharasu said.During the lockdown, many trucks laden with m-sand and bricks were plying on the city roads without any traffic hindrance. However, after the relaxations in the lockdown, the city traffic police have started to follow peak hour schedule as number of two-wheelers and four-wheelers increased manifold. “We have curtailed the truck movement within the city during the peak hours. If any truck drivers violated the peak hours and involved in fatal accidents, the driver will face severe action,” said Mutharasu.Further elaborating on traffic problems in the city, Mutharasu said those visiting regional transport office park their vehicles on Dr Balasundaram Road. Many vehicles belonging to driving schools are also parked on the roadside hampering vehicular movements. “Those who are going to RTO office, have to park their vehicles inside the RTO office premises and vehicles coming for FC (fitness certificate) also should be parked at the office premises. The driving school cars should not be parked on the roadside and it should be parked near the test track. Otherwise, fine will be imposed on the motorists,” Mutharasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-on-alert-after-truck-mows-down-woman/articleshow/77919704.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Youth, aides who fled with Rs 80L from Mum held in Chittor||Udaipur: A youth who whisked off with Rs 80 lakh which he stole from a Mumbai-based jeweller was arrested along with his five aides in Chittorgarh on Wednesday night. A joint team of Mumbai and Chittorgarh police detained the gang. Deepak Bhargava, SP, Chittorgarh, said the Mumbai police team had sought assistance in nabbing the criminals for which a special team was constituted under the supervision of ASP Sarita Singh. The accused Manish Jain, 22, a resident of Vijaynagar in Ajmer, worked with a jeweller Arihant Jain who owns a showroom on Thakur Marg, Mumbai. The accused stole Rs 80 lakh rupees from the office and took a taxi to Gujarat from where he reached Pushkar in Ajmer. The accused kept some money with his mother and left for Bhilwara where he met some of his old friends and sought their help to flee to Nepal. “His friends found out the jeweller’s number and called him to tell about Manish. They demanded Rs 10 lakh in lieu of giving details about him and not letting him leave the country,” Bhargava said. Manish and his aides reached Chittorgarh where they reportedly indulged in a quarrel over the money. The Kotwali police detained his friends Mohit Sharma, Pankaj, Jai Kishan Mali, Manish Pandey and Vishal Singh for breaching peace and aiding the accused. Manish told the police that he had kept Rs 70 lakh at the home of an acquaintance in Mumbai while he spent some money partying with friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-aides-who-fled-with-rs-80l-from-mum-held-in-chittor/articleshow/77920865.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77923913.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77923910.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Hubballi||ABVP wants drug menace checked||HUBBALLI: The members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest near the entrance to the police commissioner’s office in Navanagar here on Thursday, urging him to take action against ganja peddlers and to check drugs menace in the twin cities. The protesters alleged that the police refused to take their memorandum. Sources in the department said that they later left the memorandum at the commissioner’s cabin as a token of protest. But higher officials have denied it. The staff had allegedly forced the protesters to go out of the commissioner’s office premises as they were raising slogans against the commissioner and also the DCP (crime and traffic). DCP R B Basaragi said the protesters offered to submit the memorandum in a group. “Not allowing that in line with Covid-19 protocol, we allowed any two of them to come and submit the memorandum. But the protesters did not heeded our request,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/abvp-wants-drug-menace-checked/articleshow/77915111.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Madurai||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77924241.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Puducherry||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77923909.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Chennai||12,500 Tamil Nadu villages will have broadband in 18 months: Minister R B Udhaykumar||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhaykumar has said over 12,500 villages in the state will have broadband internet connectivity in about 18 months, as part of the BharatNet project to empower villages. Addressing the 27th Tiecon virtual conference, in which over 4,500 participants and investors including those from Silicon Valley joined, on Wednesday night, the minister said Tamil Nadu, which has been a key player in the IT/ITeS sector, will now see new growth opportunities from other sectors too on the back of the broadband connectivity that will soon be in place across TN. “Tamil Nadu had a highly disciplined society, with minimal law and order issues and abundant skilled manpower that attracted many industries to the state,” the minister said. “Fifty four lakh free laptops have been distributed in the state to high school students. With the planned broadband optic fibre cable (OFC) connectivity, provided through BharatNet project, the government would be empowering the rural youth in availing technology for their growth and employment,” Udhayakumar said. BharatNet project will be implemented by state-owned Tanfinet. A tender floated by it ran into a trouble, after NGO Arappor Iyakkam flagged irregularities, wherein conditions were changed allegedly to suit a specific player. The department of promotion of industry and internal trade directed the state to float a fresh tender. While TN is moving towards unified digital infrastructure, which would be the convergent platform for all OFC infrastructure initiatives, the state is also focusing its attention as a leading state in electronic hardware manufacturing. “Work is on for establishment of electronic manufacturing clusters near Chennai as announced by the chief minister,” the minister said. He said, the state is also in the process of establishing satellite centres for IT/ITeS jobs in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/12-5k-tn-villages-will-have-broadband-in-18-months-minister/articleshow/77919688.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mum team to look at city’s corona surge, mayor kept out||Nagpur: Five-member team from Mumbai is all set to visit city on Friday for studying surge in number of Covid-19 deaths and cases in the district and suggest ways to check it.Home minister Anil Deshmukh and guardian minister Nitin Raut have taken the initiative. Mayor Sandip Joshi is reportedly not invited for meeting. He held his own meeting at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and finalized some steps.A press release from Deshmukh said a meeting has been organized at 12.30pm at the office of divisional commissioner. The team comprises Mumbai commissioner IS Chahal, surgeon Dr Mufazzal Lakdawala, Ear Nose Throat specialist Dr Gaurav Chaturvedy, nephrologist Dr Hemal Shah and intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit.“Chahal and experts have controlled corona in Dharavi, Koliwada and other parts of Mumbai. They will suggest measures to control infection in the district,” he said.Raut told TOI, “Main motive was to control deaths. The team will analyze works being done here and suggest if any improvements are needed,” he said.Dr Chaturvedy, who is managing Covid care facility at Marine Lines, said, “Chahal will advise on the administrative side. We four doctors are frontline Covid experts and working in Covid care in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. We will give recommendations on medical infrastructure, jumbo facility, ICU set up, breaking chain of transmission and how to trace, track, test and treat for containing covid situation.”Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, collector Ravindra Thakare, CEO of ZP Yogesh Kumbhejkar, district civil surgeon VD Paturkar, other officials and deans of GMCH, IGGMCH etc will be present.Joshi said, “Suggestions from all especially experts are welcome if they are to benefit the city. I would have attended the meeting if I had been invited. It is for the entire city so I should have been invited. Excluding one meeting, guardian minister did not invite me for any,” he said.Joshi along with civic chief held a meeting with doctors of GMCH, IGGMCH, AIIMS and private hospitals for chalking out and implementing measures to control Covid-19 on Thursday.It is for the second time the local administration will be seeking advice from experts. The administration has been constantly taking suggestions from Dr Sanjay Zodpey, director of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), New Delhi, and member in one of the committees of ICMR.---------------------------------------Problems* Number of tests below 5,000 per day* No monitoring of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic positive patients in home isolation* Tracing and testing of high-risk contacts became negligible* Special testing and monitoring of ILI, COPD, cancer, HIV, diabetes, hyper tension, obesity etc patients stopped* Symptomatic patients reporting hospitals after 6-9 days or more from onset of symptoms* No beds available in GMCH and IGGMCH despite 43% beds being vacant* Private hospitals giving around 30% of total beds for Covid-19 that too without facility of ICU, dialysis, operations, chest diagnosis through CT scan etc so no beds available, especially for critical patients* 4% patients are in CCCs and over 62% in home isolation* No ambulance service from localities to hospitals* No sero-surveillance for early identification of hotspots* Lack of control and action on violators of social distancing, spitting, not wearing masks etc* Shortage of some injections like tocilizumab* Many patients avoiding hospitalization for fear of high charges, denial of cashless treatment under insurance, and in government fearing improper treatment and unhygienic conditions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mum-team-to-look-at-citys-corona-surge-mayor-kept-out/articleshow/77919711.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Liquor vend owner shot, friend injured in Haryana's Pataudi||GURUGRAM: Twelve people have been booked for allegedly killing a liquor vend owner and injuring his friend in Pataudi’s Jatauli village on Thursday night. The criminals indiscriminately fired on the two men and 17 bullets hit the liquor vend owner — Inderjeet— while his friend —Vikram— was hit by three bullets. Inderjeet’s relative Jai Baghwan is an eyewitness in the case. He told police that he was taking a walk outside his house along with his cousin Ishwar when Inderjeet, Vishal and Vikram were returning home in a Swift car with cash. Just before reaching the house, Inderjeet stopped the car as a few cows were blocking their way. “As Inderjeet got out to clear the way, six people on three two-wheelers —Abhishek, Harender, Rohit, Sagar, Akhil and Krishan surrounded the car. Abhishek and Harender pulled out guns and started firing indiscriminately,” Jai said. Once the criminals left, Jai rushed to the spot and found Inderjeet and Vikram in a pool of blood. Vishal had managed to escape. Inderjeet and Vikram were taken to a nearby hospital where Inderjeet was declared dead while Vikram was referred to a hospital in Gurugram. According to Inderjeet’s family, Abhishek and others had attacked the duo a year-and-half back and Inderjeet had been receiving threat calls for the last one month. An FIR has been registered at Pataudi police station under relevant IPC sections against the 12 people named in the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/liquor-vend-owner-shot-friend-injured-in-pataudi/articleshow/77921018.cms||Bagish Jha
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||With e-pass scrapped, Kolhapur district opts for screening, home quarantine||KOLHAPUR: The e-pass system required to enter and exit Kolhapur district has been scrapped, however, those showing Covid symptoms will have to undergo screening before entering. Everybody entering the district will have to stay in home quarantine. The decision for screening and quarantining has been taken by the district collector Daulat Desai. He said the checkposts at the entry points have been removed. People demanded hassle-free exit and entry to the district. However, considering the spike in Covid cases and community spread of the virus, Desai said the village and ward-level committees have been activated and have asked its members to keep a check on those arriving in their locality. Desai, in his order issued on Tuesday, stated, “The committee members have to register the names and contacts of those returning to the district. Separate registry for the same should be maintained. People who arrive and have Covid symptoms should be screened. Those testing positive should be taken to nearest Covid care centre and high-risk contacts of such people should be asked to be self-quarantined.” Since the lockdown came into force, over 1.5 lakh persons have given the e-passes. Daily passes have been issued for those commuting regularly. Earlier, the passes were mainly issued for stranded people, after that anyone with a medical check-up done was issued the pass.  Cases in the district have risen after relaxations were in place and there was increase in the number of people entering the district, as per the data. The e-pass system was helpful for the administration to keep track and trace the people entering the district. Desai also said those working as drivers or cleaners with transport firms should also be screened randomly by the local committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/with-e-pass-scrapped-kolhapur-dist-opts-for-screening-home-quarantine/articleshow/77897213.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Hate speech row: MP seeks probe against Facebook||Coimbatore: Member of Parliament P R Natarajan of CPM has written to chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology Shashi Tharoor seeking criminal investigation into the affairs of Facebook India.Natarajan’s letter comes after the committee’s meeting on Wednesday to discuss allegations of hate speech and political bias against the social media company.Speaking to TOI, Natarajan, a member of the committee, said, even after being reported, hate speech content in Facebook remains intact. “Also, as political parties give ads to Facebook, we suspect that the hate speech by those parties have not been acted upon,” he said.The committee asked Facebook India officials to give in writing the details on the action taken and against how many people of the firm action was taken. “Representatives of Facebook India have said they would give their reply in writing. It would be taken up in the next meeting, which is yet to be scheduled,” Natarajan said.In his letter, the MP referred to the committee’s letter to Facebook for its ‘questionable practices in India and promoting hate violating its own rules and regulations’. “The conduct of Facebook is serious in nature and has far-reaching implications on our right to unbiased information. The matter concerns the rights of citizens to information free from biases which the social media platform has violated.”Citing media reports which said Indian representatives of the social media giant had functioned during the 2014 elections, in a way which was in conflict with its own pledge of neutrality, Natarajan said there was a need to be cognisant of the real threat posed by the hate speech content on Facebook platforms, including WhatsApp and Instagram, to minority groups in India.“In the light of the above, it is imperative that a criminal investigation be launched to establish the nature of the relationship between BJP and Facebook, and its access to government and constitutional bodies. Pending such an inquiry, Facebook should not be allowed to operate with any government department or constitutional body,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hate-speech-row-mp-seeks-probe-against-facebook/articleshow/77919715.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn school demanded money for books: Parents||Coimbatore: After several parents accused authorities of a corporation school of demanding money for books, education officials of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation have promised an investigation.Authorities of the Corporation Higher Secondary School at Udayampalayam, near Sowripalayam, asked them to pay Rs 550 for books, the parents said. “They said admission was free, but asked us to pay for the books. So, we came back. We have to go back to get the books,” said a parent from Udayampalayam.The corporation will ask the school authorities to submit explanation, corporation educational officer A Valliammal said. “If they have collected money from parents, we would ask them to return it. No corporation school should collect money from parents for any purpose,” she said.Meanwhile, members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) submitted a petition to corporation officials, requesting to set up a monitoring committee to prevent malpractices. “The civic body should ensure that textbooks and other benefits given by the government to corporation school students reach them,” said SFI district secretary M Dhinesh Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-school-demanded-money-for-books-parents/articleshow/77919713.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Two drown in pit while taking selfie in Anjar||Rajkot: Two youths from Gandhidham drowned in a water-filled pit in Anjar on Wednesday while taking a selfie.The two deceased – Pranav Dua (19), Uma Shankar Mathukali (18) – along with their friend Sagar Datturam (20) had gone on their bike to offer prayers at Jogni Naar temple in Anjar on Wednesday. While returning to Gandhidham, the trio stopped near Tunha Dhaam in Anjar to rest.While taking a selfie together, Dua and Mathukali slipped and fell into the pit. Datturam tried to save the duo, but they were pulled inside. Their bodies were fished out after Datturam informed locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-drown-in-pit-while-taking-selfie-in-anjar/articleshow/77918461.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Jumbo Covid hospitals of no use without experts: Doctors||Nagpur: Ventilators and other costly equipment are of no use if there are no specialists who can operate them, say doctors in the backdrop of a recent incident in Pune where a TV reporter died of Covid-19 after not getting oxygen facility. “Jumbo Covid-19 centres without expert doctors are of no use. Indian Medical Association (IMA) had offered specialists services on rotation to government Covid centres. But the dministration refused and demanded full-time doctors which they hardly had,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of IMA and treasurer of World Health Association. “From a health perspective, the death of TV journalist Pandurag Raykar appears to be a preventable death. Bad governance and over-bureaucratization is leading to many such unfortunate incidents,” Dr Wankhedkar said. Death of a 25-year-old nurse in Nagpur on Thursday under similar circumstances adds weight to his views. Nagpur is gearing up to develop a 1,000-bedded jumbo Covid-19 facility. It is expected to be ready this month. Dr Ashok Adhao, past national president of IMA and patron of IMA Maharashtra state, has requested the chief minister to seriously look in to the issues and concerns of health care providers. “Give necessary urgent administrative orders for private health care providers to work hand-in-hand with public health sector to fight Covid-19,” he said.“More than 70% of primary, secondary and tertiary health care services are provided by private sector. Trained and expert doctors are more important at the proposed Jumbo care centres,” he said adding that private doctors and paramedical staff are at the forefront in fight against the pandemic but apart from rhetoric and lip sympathy, government has so far not come out any substantial plan for them. According to expert doctors, administration should utilize expertise of management and doctors of city’s best hospitals at the newly established mega facilities. “With no expert men behind machines, the huge amount of public money that has been spent in setting up jumbo facilities will be wasted,” said a member of Nagpur Covid task force who is also working in government sector. Those working at forefront in government hospitals too are not happy. Resident doctors, who are not willing to be named, shared many incidences in which they faced insults, assault-like situations and political pressure. “We are working day and night and many serious patients are also recovering, but the media focus is on deaths and mismanagement. People blame us for deaths but more than 25% of the victims were brought dead. More than 70% of the remaining deceased were reported in critical condition with least chances survival despite taking all necessary steps,” said a senior member of central committee of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors. Doctors are working tirelessly from last six months and now feeling fatigues. Many of them have tested positive for Covid-19 despite following all protocols.Without men, machines are dead- Doctors facing fatigue, residents working in forefront overburdened - Many doctors, paramedics, technicians have tested positive- No special medical facility, neither package to doctors if they get infected - Low response to recruitment drives, manpower not available, accepted authorities - 1,000-bed Jumbo facilities require massive manpower, with fresh minds- Before creating facilities, authorities need to ensure enough manpower||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jumbo-covid-hospitals-of-no-use-without-experts-doctors/articleshow/77919717.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Heart-stroke patient discharged for want of Covid report, finds no beds||Nagpur: An 84-year-old heart-stroke patient was discharged by a private hospital even before receiving reports of Covid-19. The patient then could not find beds in five private hospitals and also in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). NGO Together We Can helped the patient get admitted to GMCH and later shift back to the same private hospital after his Covid-19 report came negative.Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani of NGO Together We Can told TOI, “It is not that only novel coronavirus positive patients are unable to find beds in private and government-run Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs). Non-Covid-19 patients too are finding it difficult to get beds for want of Covid-19 reports,” she said.As per information available from the NGO, which is coordinating between patients, administration and hospitals, the senior citizen had a heart stroke on Tuesday and was rushed to a private hospital at Ramdaspeth. “The hospital violated Covid-19 guidelines by assuming the senior citizen to be positive despite his negative report for Rapid Antigen test while result of Real Time (RT) PCR testing was awaited. Doctors considered CT scan reports for chest to assume that the patient was Covid positive and discharged him,” said Chhabrani.“Covid-19 cannot be confirmed based on CT scan report. Also, Covid-19 guidelines say the hospital has to discharge patient who tests positive only after finalization of bed in other hospital,” she said.The relatives of patient made rounds of five other private hospitals which too asked for reports of RT-PCR whose results come in a day or more. The patient was taken to GMCH where too doctors cited no beds. The patient along with relatives had no option other than to sit in the corridor of GMCH.On learning about the case through social media, Chhabrani contacted the patient’s relatives. “This ensured admission to GMCH. On Wednesday afternoon, RT-PCR report too came negative. On explaining the guidelines to the private hospital in Ramdaspeth, the patient was again moved there and treatment started. Fortunately, the patient had no complications. How can a private hospital discharge a senior citizen with heart-stroke before getting Covid report?” she said.Despite weak immunity level and being a senior citizen, the patient had to make rounds of hospitals, sit in GMCH’s corridor and also stay for a day in presumptive ward amid community spread of Covid-19.“Private hospitals cannot force patients for RT PCR test report before admission. They are supposed to admit patient with critical condition and get done tests after starting treatment,” said Chhabrani.TOI had highlighted some cases where positive patients had died after struggling to find beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heart-stroke-patient-discharged-for-want-of-covid-report-finds-no-beds/articleshow/77919714.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police raids to bring down potato price||KOLKATA: A team comprising the Enforcement Branch (EB) of Kolkata Police and officials of agri-marketing department carried out raids across 48 retail and wholesale hubs in Kolkata in a desperate attempt to push down prices of vegetables, particularly potatoes at the retail end. However, on the first day, the team found a passing-the-buck game among the traders. “While the retailers put the blame on wholesalers, wholesalers accused stockists for the abnormal rise of prices of potatoes,” said an agri-marketing officer in the raid. Potato, following the onion price movement of last year, had a 40% surge in prices in the past one month to about Rs 35 per kg, owing to a shortage in supply while the demand has increased for the staple. Last week, the state government asked the potato traders to put a cap on wholesale and retail prices for the common Jyoti variety — wholesale price at Rs 22 a kg and retail price at Rs25-26 per kg. Potato traders also promised the agri-marketing department officials and market task force members that potato price would gradually drop in the next few days But defying the diktat, potato price in some markets rose to Rs 38 a kg. However, following the raid, the prices of potatoes dropped marginally in some markets. According to the city police sources, EB will continue its survey across the city markets randomly in next few weeks. Agriculture advisor to the government, Pradip Mazumdar said: “The entire exercise aims at making tuber affordable to middle class and lower middle class citizens, who are already in trouble because of long lockdown.” In the districts, similar exercise was carried out in major potato producing districts like Hooghly, East Burdwan and Bankura. At Gariahat and Ultadanga Market, retail traders said that they sell potatoes at a margin of Rs 2 per kg. The price is largely dictated by wholesalers and stockists. Wholesalers said the prices have gone up owing to higher transportation cost. A cold storage owner Gautam Saha from Dhaniakhali in Hooghly said: “We welcome the move. The government has complete control over us, the cold-chains, but not on the subsequent market chain, where the prices swing quite irrationally. Monitoring will help in containing the prices.” “The wholesale price of potatoes was Rs 24-26 a kg. However high your transportation is, the price should not be higher by Rs 4 per kg. But the retail price is much more,” said a wholesaler. Major metros like Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai, potato is selling for Rs 30- Rs 45 per kg, depending on the variety and quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-raids-to-bring-down-potato-price/articleshow/77919718.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Panel sends Rs 47k cr investment proposals to cabinet for spl sops||Jaipur: The State Empowered Committee (SEC), headed by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, on Thursday recommended investment proposals of Adani Green Energy, Kanchan India, Wonder Cement, Hemdha Mediresources, and Elcina to the Cabinet for a decision on offering customized packages. The industrial projects covering energy, textile, cement, electronics and medical education are expected to bring in investments of Rs 47,000 crore and generate thousands of employment opportunities. Representatives of the companies made presentations to the SEC comprising Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, mines department, principal secretary industries Naresh Pal Gangwar, commissioner industries Archana Singh and RIICO MD Ashutosh Pednekar. Of these proposals, Adani’s 9,700 megawatt hybrid energy project (including solar and wind) will make the maximum investment of Rs 46,000 crore. The company has proposed to develop the projects in Jaisalmer and Jalore and has projected generation of 4,000 jobs. The renewable energy projects require huge land parcels. Recently, the government had exempted the companies from land ceiling. They can now acquire or lease the required land. Swarup said the SEC meeting would be held every month and attracting investments is a top priority of the state government. “The committee meeting will be held every month or even at shorter notice if needed. We are committed to ensuring that investment proposals get speedy disposal,” Swarup said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-sends-rs-47k-cr-investment-proposals-to-cabinet-for-spl-sops/articleshow/77920874.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Three arrested for stealing motorcycles||Coimbatore: The Race Course (crime) police have arrested three people, including two minors, for stealing three motorcycles and a mobile phone.A 17-year-old boy, who was riding pillion on a motorcycle, had snatched a mobile phone from a couple on the Avinashi Road near Uppilipalayam signal on Thursday morning. Passersby pulled him down from the vehicle and handed him over to Race Course police inspector Sujatha, who took him to the police station and interrogated him.Preliminary inquiry revealed that the minor boy, who hails from Udayampalayam, had befriended M Nagaraj, 20, of Sowripalayam and a 16-year-old boy from Varadharajapuram near Singanallur. All of them were school dropouts and unemployed. They stole three motorcycles parked on Lakshmi Mills Junction, Avarampalayam and Arts College Road for snatching chains and mobile phones.Nagaraj was produced before a judicial magistrate and later remanded in judicial custody. He was lodged in the Udumalpet sub-jail.The minor boys were produced before the juvenile justice board and lodged at the observation home for juveniles on Lakshmi Mills Junction on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-arrested-for-stealing-motorcycles/articleshow/77919712.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Three trains from Monday||Coimbatore: Three out of five trains introduced by Southern Railway from September 7 will depart from or arrive in Coimbatore. The five trains include a Dr MGR Chennai Central- Coimbatore-Dr MGR Chennai Central superfast intercity special, a Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore Janshatabdi special and Dr MGR Chennai Central-Coimbatore- Dr MGR Chennai Central intercity superfast special. The first train will leave Chennai Central at 6.10am and reach Coimbatore at 2.05pm, leave again at 3.15pm and reach Chennai at 11pm. It will stop at Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Morappur, Jolarpettai, Ambur, Katpadi, Wallajah Road, Arakkonam and Perambur. The intercity superfast special will leave Coimbatore at 6.15am and reach Chennai at 1.50pm and again leave Chennai at 2.30pm and reach Coimbatore at 10.15pm. The Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore train will leave Coimbatore at 7.10am, reach Mayiladuthurai at 1.40pm, and leave Mayiladuthurai again at 2.50pm and reach Coimbatore at 9.15am. The stoppages include Irugur, Tirupur, Erode, Karur, Trichy, Thanjavur, Papanasam and Kumbakonam. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-trains-from-monday/articleshow/77919716.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Agra||State-level shuttler sexually harassed by neighbour in Agra, 2 held||AGRA: A state-level badminton player was allegedly assaulted by her neighbour with intent to outrage her modesty in Agra’s Ghosi locality Naulakha on Tuesday. An FIR in this connection was registered after the intervention of Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar on Wednesday. The 21-year-old woman, who has also represented Uttar Pradesh at the national level in 2016 and 2019, told TOI that she was sleeping in her house post her workout, when her neighbour Vinod entered her house around 9:30 am and allegedly touched her body parts inappropriately and when she opposed, he assaulted her. “No one was in the house at that time on Tuesday,” she said, adding that her younger brother, who was at some distance from the house, “rescued me after hearing my screams”. However, soon after this, Vinod’s family members also gathered there and "beat up my brother and his friend, who supported us.” “When I approached the Sadar Bazar police station to lodge a complaint, I was told that a cross-FIR would also be lodged by the other party present there. I was advised to reach a compromise as my career will be jeopardised if I was named in an FIR. So, I dropped the idea of lodging an FIR and returned home,” she said. “The neighbourhood family again attacked us and ridiculed us for not being able to take any action against them. Then I approached the SSP demanding registration of an FIR as the neighbouring family was threatening to ruin my career and kill my family members if I raised my voice against them,” she added. The SSP said an FIR was registered against eight people under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), at the Sadar Bazar police station. “Two accused were arrested on Wednesday night. The matter is being probed.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-level-shuttler-sexually-harassed-by-neighbour-in-agra-2-held/articleshow/77917179.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||35-yr-old tusker found dead in Gudalur forest||Udhagamandalam: A tusker was found dead near Padanthurai in the Gudalur forest division on Wednesday.The day-old carcass of the 35-year-old elephant was found near a stream. Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division, said the tusks were intact and no external injury was found on the carcass.A postmortem was conducted on Thursday. A foreign body made of plastic and a metal piece were found in one of the legs of the elephant, Soman said while clarifying that the postmortem did not attribute any reason for the death of the animal.Samples of the carcass were collected for clinical tests. Only after forensic tests, the exact cause of its death will be known, the officer said.The carcass was left inside the forest area for scavengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/35-yr-old-tusker-found-dead-in-gudalur-forest/articleshow/77919723.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 61 new cases, 1 death||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,720.A 62-year-old woman from Kadanadu succumbed to the virus in the day. Presently, there are 335 active cases in the district and they are being treated at government hospitals and Covid care centres . At least 1,373 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. Among the new cases were a 43-year-old man and two women from Coimbatore. According to health officials, the three cases will be cross-notified to Coimbatore district.Three other patients had travel histories. They comprise a 31-year-old man who visited Sankarankoil, a 60-year-old man who visited Salem and a24-year-old woman from Kotagiri who had travelled to Coimbatore.The remaining cases were primary, secondary and tertiary contacts of earlier positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-61-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/77919720.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||SC grants status quo after NMC moves against Alexis Hospital||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has moved Supreme Court for action against Alexis Hospital for alleged irregularities while testing patients. The civic body challenged the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s verdict of July 24, where it came under fire from judges for sealing the hospital’s genetic clinic and also threatening to cancel its registration.While issuing notices to the hospital, the apex court’s division bench comprising justices Rohington Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee directed both parties to maintain a status quo in the matter.Earlier, passing strictures on NMC’s deputy chief medical officer Dr Pravin Gantawar and advisory committee constituted to probe patients’ complaint, the HC had warned civic officials that they will have to pay a fine of Rs50,000 per day if they failed to unseal equipment seized from hospital.The HC division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Anil Kilor observed that they failed to understand Dr Gantawar’s active participation and stoic silence by appropriate authority, except performing empty formalities of signing papers placed by him before it.“An FIR was lodged by hospital staffer Satish Tharwani on July 7 accusing the complainant and a group, led by Sahil Syed and Gantawar. It provides a clue regarding the existence of their relationship and motive behind activities and actions,” the HC bench said. “What we find is that Gantawar’s entire conduct reflects high probability of bias and a hidden motive inconsistent with the fair performance of his duties, creating an impression that something has gone wrong of nature and degree, which requires HC’s intervention,” the judges added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sc-grants-status-quo-after-nmc-moves-against-alexis-hospital/articleshow/77919721.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 4, 2020||Trichy||RTE applicants told to ensure school chosen is within 1 km||Trichy: Parents applying for RTE seats for their wards in private schools have been asked to ensure that their place of residence is shown within 1 km of the school on the online portal. Since priority is given to children residing within a km, parents have to be careful while entering their address and selecting location of the school during online submission of application. A senior official at the office of district chief education officer (CEO) said parents must report to the office if they reside within a km but the portal shows otherwise. While the online portal to apply for RTE seats opened on August 28, a few parents approached the CEO claiming that the portal showed incorrect location of the school. Officials found the complaint to be genuine and the location of the school was corrected. The official said there could be manual errors on the part of officials in pinning the right school location on the map shown in the online portal. Parents can report if they come across such errors as it will help improve their prospects.Unlike previous years, when applicants residing around 2-3 km from the school were considered, this time the school education department is strictly adhering to the 1 km norm. A total of 4,183 RTE seats across 312 schools are available in Trichy district for admission this year and parents can submit the application before September 25. Parents who manage to get a seat for their children from among the 25% reserved at entry level under RTE need not pay tuition fee as the state and central governments reimburse the fees to the respective schools. People from disadvantaged sections irrespective of their economic condition being eligible to apply is another reason for the increase in the number of applications for RTE seats in recent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rte-applicants-told-to-ensure-school-chosen-is-within-1-km/articleshow/77920880.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||Cyber fraudsters dupe job aspirants of lakhs in name of ‘work from home assignments’||Bhopal: Work from home opportunities have created a new paradigm of cyber security. Online fraudsters are coming up with new strategies to dupe people during the pandemic. State cyber cell on Thursday, busted two computer institutes operating in MP Nagar, which were involved in duping job aspirants on the pretext of providing work from home assignments with a promised return of Rs48,000 per month.The accused directors of these institutes put up alluring advertisements of ‘work from home typing assignments’ on their websites. When the job aspirants contacted them and applied for the job, the accused took Rs4,000 to Rs5,000 from each job aspirant on the pretext of registration fees. After taking the money they gave typing assignments to the victims and when the applicants sent the completed material, the accused rejected it finding shortcomings in their work. They paid meagre amounts to the candidates and forfeited their registration money. The number of victims duped by these two fraud institutions are more than 500. SP (state cyber cell) Dr Gurkaran Singh said, “Police received many such complaints recently after lockdown in which the victims were duped on the pretext of work from home job opportunity. Acting on such complaints, state cyber cell formed a special team led by inspector Abhishek Sonekar that raided two such institutions involved in online fraud operating from MP Nagar area in the past two days. Police arrested Aniruddh Chouksey, 30, director of Massinfo Media MP Nagar on September 1, and Gaurav Joshi, 28, director of Business Infotech MP Nagar on September 2. The drive against such online fraudsters will continue.”SP Singh said, “In the complaints received against Chouksey and Joshi, the complainants stated that the accused gave advertisements of ‘work from home online typing assignments’ in newspapers and their websites. When the candidates contacted them, the accused took their details and asked them to pay a registration fee of Rs4,000-Rs 5,000 in advance. They lured the applicants by advertising that the candidate will have to complete typing work of 4,000 pages per month for which they will be paid Rs48000 at the rate of Rs12 per page. The candidates said that the accused always found ‘mistakes’ in their assignments and paid only Rs 300-Rs1000.”Further investigation is underway. During the pandemic, internet activity has increased — and so have the incidents of cybercrime. Police have issued advisories and have urged residents to be vigilant against such fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cyber-fraudsters-dupe-job-aspirants-of-lakhs-in-name-of-work-from-home-assignments/articleshow/77919725.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Peepal saved from axe gets new lease of life||Coimbatore: Tree lovers and environmental enthusiasts have given a fresh lease of life to a 35-year-old peepal tree, which had to be removed from Trichy Road for flyover construction.Environmental organisation Osai uprooted the tree from Ramanathapuram on Trichy Road and transplanted it at an upcoming private residential complex in Kuniyamuthur. “Authorities used to chop trees for road expansion work or flyover work. After our intervention, officials now call us to see whether such trees can be saved,” K Syed, who is working for the NGO and also the project officer of the department of environmental sciences, Bharathiar University, said.For the transplantation process, they trimmed the branches, uprooted it, scooped up 1.5 feet of soil around the roots, applied cow dung to the cut portions, tied it with gunny sack and transported it to the destination. “We dug a 10cubic feet pit to plant the tree, mixed the mother soil with neem oil-cake, coconut fibre and vermicompost before planting it,” said Syed.Osai has transplanted more than 100 trees with 60% success rate. “We can transplant only the trees that have milky sap, such as those of the genus ficus — banyan, peepal and fig. We hope to save more trees and want people come forward to do it,” Syed added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/peepal-saved-from-axe-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77919719.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Rlys to run 5 daily passenger trains from September 7||Trichy: Railways has announced that five daily special trains will run via Trichy, two of them passing through Madurai too, from September 7 following the nod given by the state government in this regard. These are Trichy – Chennai, Karaikudi-Chennai, Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore, Madurai-Chennai and Chennai-Tuticorin. The frequency and the number of trains are expected to be gradually increased in the coming days.Trichy railway division had begun preparing coaches for resumption of services. A senior official said many rakes were being halted at various stations as they were operated to carry guest workers during the lockdown. However, with the available rakes in Trichy division, they can operate 80% of the trains, the official said. The required overhauling, maintenance and repairing works on rakes have already been completed. Hence, they were ready to operate any number of trains at any time, official sources said.Meanwhile, in view of the resumption of services, a team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) along with Government Railway Police (GRP) conducted a mock drill at Trichy railway junction on Thursday morning. The team comprising the bomb and dog squad along with personnel from both the forces executed the mock operation on board the workmen special train which arrived on platform number 2 from Thanjavur carrying employees. The exercise tested the preparedness of railway armed force, employees and their response time in case of an emergency situation like bomb threat or accident, RPF inspector Sridhar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rlys-to-run-5-daily-passenger-trains-from-september-7/articleshow/77920884.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Amaravati||AP okays Adani acquisition of Krishnapatnam from CVR Group||HYDERABAD: Nearly a month and a half after the Competition Commission of India (CCI) approved the acquisition of Krishnapatnam Port by the Adani group, the Andhra Pradesh cabinet too has given its seal of approval to the Rs 13,572 crore deal. The AP cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to the Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone Ltd’s (APSEZ) acquisition of 75% stake in Krishnapatnam Port Company Ltd from the Hyderabad-based CVR group, paving the way for the completion of the transaction. “As a partner, our concurrence is required so that they (Adani) can take over. So we gave the NOC from our side. The acquisition on the commercial and legal side is already over and this was just the final NOC,” AP industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy told TOI. The CCI too gave its approval to the deal in the third week of July. With the AP government’s nod, Adani group gains control of India’s second-largest multi-cargo private sector port which is located at Krishnapatnam in Nellore district of AP. The all-weather deep-water port has a draft of 18.5 metres that can accommodate fully loaded capesize vessels of 2,00,000 tonne capacity. The Adani group already operates the country’s largest private port at Mundra in Gujarat’s Kutch district and is the largest port developer and operator in India. Post-acquisition, APSEZ plans to enhance cargo volume at KPCL to 100 MMT in around seven years. “KPCL is a crown jewel to join APSEZ's string of pearls, our network of 10 economic gateways to India and will accelerate our stride towards achieving our vision of handling 400 MMT of cargo by FY25,” Karan Adani, chief executive officer and whole-time director, APSEZ had said while announcing the deal in January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/adani-gets-ap-nod-for-krishnapatnam-deal/articleshow/77919735.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Trichy||Four killed in two road accidents in Pudukottai||Trichy: Four people were killed and one severely injured in two separate road accidents that took place in Pudukottai district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as K Murugan, 60, M Murugan from Viralimalai, and M Vellaisamy, 29, and S Ajay Ghose, 48 from Illupur. A mini truck carrying three people with make shift roofing materials met with an accident after it suffered a tyre burst near Viralimalai on Madurai-Trichy highway. The truck overturned killing K Murugan and M Murugan on the spot, while driver R Elumalai, 40, suffered grievous injuries. He was rushed to a hospital for treatment. In another accident, two motorcycles collided head on near Paanapangudi killing both the riders. Vellaisamy and Ajay Ghose died on the way to Illupur government hospital. Viralimalai and Illupur police have filed cases in connection with the accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-killed-in-two-road-accidents-in-pudukottai/articleshow/77920887.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Bid to sell 2 parrots foiled||Aurangabad: The wildlife division of Nanded forest division foiled a bid to sell two parrots from a market place in Nanded on Wednesday. An Alexandra parakeet and one rose-ringed parakeet were rescued The culprits however fled the spot. Honorary wildlife warden Atindra Katti said the public at large do not know that the sale or captivity of parrots was an offence under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, as well as the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.“The punishment for such offences involves imprisonment for a term up to three years or fine worth Rs 25,000 or both,” said Katti.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bid-to-sell-2-parrots-foiled/articleshow/77917215.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Crocodile roams Bhuj PHC campus||Rajkot: A crocodile was seen in Dahisara primary health centre (PHC) near Bhuj on Thursday. The premises is under flood water where the reptile was spotted swimming. Scared patients and staff of the PHC preferred to stay indoors till it is rescued. Assistant conservator of forest Kutch (west), Tushar Patel said, “The crocodile is seen in nearby reservoirs and may have come out because of water logging. A team has been deputed to capture it soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/crocodile-roams-bhuj-phc-campus/articleshow/77918475.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||200 discharged on the same day, 121 new infections||Vadodara: Setting a massive record of sorts, 200 persons suffering from Covid-19 were discharged on a single day in Vadodara. At the other end, 121 persons tested positive in the city and district in the 24 hours since Wednesday evening. With the 200 new discharged patients, the total number of patients cured so far went up to 6,752. This leaves 1,531 patients under treatment at hospitals or home isolation. The 121 new cases included 37 cases in the areas of the district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. The cases from these areas included those from Savli, Padra, Dabhoi, Waghodiya, Karjan, Bajwa, Fertilizernagar, Karodiya and Ranoli. Within the VMC limits, the highest number of cases were reported from the west zone where 26 persons tested positive. This was followed by the north and south zone where 21 new cases each were detected. The east zone reported 16 new cases in the city. With the new cases since Wednesday, the total Covid-19 cases reported in the city went up to 8,429 cases in the city. The VMC confirmed one more Covid-19 death taking the total number of deaths due to the viral infection being the primary cause of death to 146. Those still under hospitalization included 57 in a serious condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 149 others were on oxygen support even as the condition of 1,325 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/200-discharged-on-the-same-day-121-new-infections/articleshow/77917494.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||593 new cases take Covid tally to 17,258||Coimbatore: The district recorded its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, when 593 people were declared positive for the virus, taking the tally beyond the 17,000-mark. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the district now stands at 17,258.The number of active cases surged to an all-time high of 4,376, even as 489 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day.The recovery rate has, meanwhile, improved to 75% from 72% on Wednesday. At least 12,564 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far.The district also reported three more Covid-19 deaths. With this, the toll has risen to 318. With the number of deaths remaining under five for the past three days, there are reports that the same is being underreported again.Two of the deceased – a 78-year-old man and a 75-year-old man – had comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, heart problems and hypothyroidism, and pneumonia that was caused by the virus. The remaining - a 51-year-old man - had no comorbidities and died of pneumonia in a private hospital on Wednesday. The other two also died in private hospitals.Mettupalayam, meanwhile, accounted for 43 new cases. They were, however, not from a single cluster, but spread across Sirumugai Road, Alankombu, Shanthi Nagar, Kattoor and SM Nagar, among other areas. In Pollachi, 11 people from Nallagounder Street at Jothipuram tested positive for the virus.While Selvapuram saw nine new cases, Vadavalli recorded five and Rathinapuri three cases.Dr Nalla G Palaniswam, chairman, Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital, had tested positive for the virus on Sunday. He submitted samples for Covid-19 testing after he developed severe coughing. Hospital authorities said the coughing has reduced and the doctor’s condition was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/593-new-cases-take-covid-tally-to-17258/articleshow/77919727.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Now, get booze at shops and home delivered too||NAGPUR: District collector Ravindra Thakare has permitted liquor shops in the city to sell all types of spirits over the counter. Wine shops can do business from 9 am to 9 pm. Earlier, only home delivery of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and imported liquor was permitted. Only country liquor could be sold over the counter. Liquor wholesalers can, however, operate their establishments only till 8 pm. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said he had no problems with the collector’s order. “Liquor shop owners should follow norms regarding masks, sanitizers and social distancing,” he told TOI. In June, Thakare had permitted sale of country liquor over the counter. The then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had objected to the order and told TOI his permission had not been taken before issuing it. A Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officer said that liquor shops came under the purview of collector as he was the head of state excise department in a district. The local bodies had no say in this regard even within the area of their jurisdiction. On the increase of sales, Vinod Johri of Johri Wines said, “At this stage, it is too early to say. Sales might increase as both home delivery and over the counter is allowed. Compared to earlier sales, over the counter sales will be less as people will buy in limited quantity. But with the opening of shops, the risk of virus spread will be less as people won’t be in a rush to buy booze.” Siddhant Agrawal of Sohanlal and Sons at Variety Square said, “Sales will surely increase and we welcome this decision of allowing over the counter sales. We have decided to take all precautions. Every 25 minutes we will sanitize our counter, sales person will use face shield, gloves and masks. We will also ensure customers maintain proper distance. We will also continue home delivery so that customers who wish to avoid coming to shops can get booze. Till the vaccine is not available we will take all necessary precautions as we try to move ahead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-get-booze-at-shops-and-home-delivered-too/articleshow/77919732.cms||Ashish Roy
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Young patients lend a hand to nurses||Coimbatore: A vibrant group of youngsters, who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, have volunteered to do their bit to reduce the workload of nurses at the Codissia Covid care centre, where they are undergoing quarantine for 10 days. Unlike other Covid-19 patients, they are not panicked or depressed.A lab technician, 23-year-old Saran Kumar from Ukkadam was tested positive for the virus last week. Thinking his viral load would be high, he initially did not mingle with other patients at the Codissia Covid care centre, where he was put up in E hall. But for the past four days, he has been helping the two nurses deployed in the hall check temperature, pulse and blood pressure of new patients before admission and allot them beds.Kumar is part of an eight-member team that renders help in hall E. There is a similar team in hall B too.Kumar says, “We help check every new patient’s blood pressure, sugar and pulse, record them and then allot them beds.”Karthik, another volunteer in the hall, says they would also distribute food boxes as and when they arrive, collect the used one in disposable bags and place them outside. “We also do our bit to calm down new admissions by counselling them, because they are in a state of panic when they come in.”Now that they are engaged, the volunteers say they feel better. “When we were idle, we used to feel sick. After all, we are surrounded by patients. When we work, our minds are occupied and we feel energetic,” says Karthik.According to Saran, small duties make them feel productive and normal.Other patients admit these volunteers are a huge help to the nurses who are deployed in each hall. “Only two nurses are assigned to each hall. There are more than 50 admissions a day. So, unless three or four volunteers help them out, it is impossible for them manage every work themselves,” says 44-year-old Satish, who is put up in hall B.Nagaraj, who was discharged from the Covid care centre on Monday, says one of the volunteers used to bring him tea, sukku kaapi and other beverages. “So, there was no need for me to walk up to the counter to collect them.”Health officers say the volunteers are a big help. They help with new admissions, recording daily temperature and blood pressure, shifting cots from one section to another and distributing food, says an official. “We deploy only two nurses per shift per hall to reduce risk of exposing them to the virus. It is impossible for them to handle 300 to 400 patients. Because of these volunteers, there is no need for us to deploy more nurses and expose them to positive patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/young-patients-lend-a-hand-to-nurses/articleshow/77919726.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite Telangana govt nod, parents not ready to send kids to school||HYDERABAD: Though the state government allowed class 9-12 students to visit schools with due permissions from the parents/guardians, many in the city are not willing to take that risk. With schools shut till September 30, managements are now teaching practicals and conducting unit exams online. Following the Central government’s nod, the government of Telangana issued unlock 4.0 guidelines as per which students will be allowed to visit schools from September 12 in areas outside containment zones. “I am not ready to send my child to school until there is a vaccine for Covid-19. Even if it results in lesser marks in the examination, I am comfortable with it. But I cannot risk his life,” said Radhika Reddy, a parent. With parents unwilling to send their children to school, managements are now teaching even practicals for subjects such as chemistry and biology online. “There are some virtual practical laboratories with which we are teaching students to conduct their experiments. While these apps can definitely not substitute the hands-on experience, we have to use them as an alternative until the situation is conducive enough to call students back to school,” said Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur.  “Students are losing the habit to write since even the examinations are being conducted virtually wherein the question paper largely has objective type questions. We are unable to gauge preparation of all the students as they are out of practice to write elaborate answers,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-t-nod-parents-not-ready-to-send-kids-to-school/articleshow/77919730.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Kodanad robbery case hearing on Sept 8||Udhagamandalam: A district magistrate court here on Thursday posted the hearing on the Kodanadu burglary case to September 8. Only four of the 10 accused were produced before the court in the day, forcing it to adjorn the hearing. On August 21, the court had issued an arrest warrant against eight accused in the case, as police produced only two accused K V Sayan and Valaiyar Manoj before the court.After the court’s direction, police arrested accused Manoj Sami and Udhayakumar. Another accused, Jamseer Ali, is in the custody of the Kerala police. The remaining five accused are still at large.On April 24, 2017, one of the security guards of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanadu estate bungalow was found dead, while another guard was grievously injured. The bungalow was found broken open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kodanad-robbery-case-hearing-on-sept-8/articleshow/77919779.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar seeks dismissal of CID case, moves HC||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has moved the high court, seeking dismissal of the case by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) against employees for interfering in the duties of the election commission. Ramesh Kumar also sought a CBI inquiry over the manner in which the case was registered against the election commission employees. The CID had registered a case based on a letter written by YSRC Rajya Sabha MP, V Vijaysai Reddy, expressing doubts over the letter written by Ramesh Kumar to the Union home ministry. Though Ramesh Kumar has said that the letter was sent by him to the Union home ministry, the CID registered a case as Vijaysai Reddy alleged a conspiracy behind the letter. The CID had seized some hard disks and documents from the office of election commission. The assistant secretary of election commission, Samba Murthy, also moved high court with a petition. Mentioning the case against Samba Murthy, Ramesh Kumar said that the CID is harassing him for formatting a non-functional computer in his office. The state government is trying to get involved in the functions of election commission and its employees by harassing them. The high court will hear both the petitions on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nimmagadda-seeks-dismissal-of-cid-case/articleshow/77919780.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||VROs set to go, govt out to clip tahsildars’ powers too||Hyderabad: Telangana government, which is giving final touches to the new Revenue Act to introduce it in the forthcoming assembly session, is believed to have decided to abolish the village revenue assistant (VRA) and village revenue officer (VRO) system at the mandal level and merge them with panchayat raj department. VRAs and VROs will no longer be associated with the revenue department and their services would be utilised for other purposes at the panchayat level, sources in the government said. Sources also said the government is also mulling to strip tahsildars and deputy tahsildars of their powers. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been vocal against the corrupt functioning of the revenue department for the last one year, especially VROs and tahsildars. “The NTR government had abolished the patwari system in 1985 under the AP Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Act, arguing that village officers do not fit with the modern needs of the village administration. VRAs and VROs are also not required as the government has removed the possession column from the revenue records. They have a limited role in revenue administration, which can be done with other staff,” a senior official, who is involved in the drafting of the Revenue Act, told TOI. The CM held a series of meetings with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials on the new Revenue Act for the last couple of days and decided to keep only 20 Acts and remove about 100 Acts, which have become obsolete. The government is now giving priority for mutation of land on the same day of registration as mutation is leading to various problems in revenue records. Corruption charges against the revenue staff in mutation of land have also seen a rise. “Though the powers of tahsildars will be cut, they will be given land registration powers as mutation will be done at the same time,” sources said.  A change in the nomenclatures of collectors and tahsildars is also under the active consideration of the government, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vros-set-to-go-govt-out-to-clip-tahsildars-powers-too/articleshow/77919783.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain god showers blessings, brings down mercury levels||Coimbatore: The rainfall has brought cheers to the residents, who were staring at dog days ahead after two weeks of high temperatures. The district has recorded 23.5mm rainfall through Wednesday and Thursday morning, bringing down the mercury levels.The district, the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU) said, had already received 213mm rainfall, which was almost 19mm more than the normal rainfall (194mm) during the southwest monsoon.Weather experts, meanwhile, said rain is likely to lash the district for at least another two more days. According to them, the district would get another 20mm rainfall.The residents said they were surprised when the mercury levels suddenly started to rise in the fourth week of August after enjoying a pleasant climate - cloudy skies, light drizzles, windy evenings and below 30C temperatures - for more than a month. There were days when the mercury levels went up to 36C, which is the city’s usual temperature during summer.Bringing them respite from sweltering sun, rain lashed the district on Tuesday night, when it recorded 13mm showers. There was rain on Wednesday too which lasted until Thursday morning, and this time the district recorded 23.5mm rainfall.As per the meteorological department’s rain gauge, the district has received only 144mm rainfall. On the other hand, TNAU’s rain gauge, which usually records more rainfall due to its proximity to the Western Ghats, has recorded 213mm rainfall.S P Ramanathan, director, Agro Climate Research Centre, TNAU, says, “The monsoon winds are heavily blowing in this direction and rain can be expected until Saturday evening.”A good southwest monsoon like the one the district saw last year usually improves the groundwater levels to a large extent, giving sugarcane, turmeric and groundnut farmers the confidence to sow their crops during the rabi season. So, even if northeast monsoon showers are slightly lesser than predicted, the crops would survive through the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-god-showers-blessings-brings-down-mercury-levels/articleshow/77919745.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||OU promotes all, except final sem students||Hyderabad: Osmania University (OU) has promoted all students except those in final semester to the next semester. A decision to this effect was taken during a standing committee meeting of the academic senate recently. During the meeting, it was decided to conduct final semester and final year examinations of all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, including backlogs. “Standing committee has decided to promote all regular students belonging to intermediate semester/years other than final semester year of the academic year 2020-2021. However, these students have to clear all the examinations, including backlogs if examinations are conducted for completion of the course,” OU registrar Ch Gopal Reddy said in an official circular. Students detained in the intermediate semesters/years during or prior to academic year 2018-2019 for having more than stipulated number of backlogs as per OU promotion rules would also be promoted to the next higher semester/year subject for fulfilling rules of re-admission. However, such students have to appear and clear the backlogs, whenever the examinations would be held to finally complete the course. The decisions were based on certain guidelines issued by the UGC on conduct of examinations in view of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-promotes-all-except-final-sem-students/articleshow/77919748.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Erode||Erode: Four of family killed as govt bus rams 2 bikes||ERODE: Four members of a family were killed after a government bus rammed two bikes on which they were travelling near Modakurichi here on Thursday, police said. The deceased have been identified as R Mohampuri, 63, his wife Pongiyammal, 58, his mother-in-law P Pavathal, 70 and his brother-in-law P Balasubramani, 54. All four were from Modakurichi. Police said the four people had gone to Solar to attend a funeral of their relative. They met with the accident while returning to Modakurichi on their bikes. When they reached Sanarmedu on Erode-Modakurichi road, a speeding government bus coming from the opposite direction rammed their bikes. “All four got stuck under the wheels and died within seconds,” said A Ebenezer, sub-inspector from Modakurichi police station. Preliminary investigations revealed that the bus driver had lost control over his vehicle due to brake failure. The bus driver, M Babu, has been arrested. Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304(A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/four-of-family-killed-as-govt-bus-rams-2-bikes/articleshow/77924472.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Erode: Four of family killed as govt bus rams 2 bikes||ERODE: Four members of a family were killed after a government bus rammed two bikes on which they were travelling near Modakurichi here on Thursday, police said. The deceased have been identified as R Mohampuri, 63, his wife Pongiyammal, 58, his mother-in-law P Pavathal, 70 and his brother-in-law P Balasubramani, 54. All four were from Modakurichi. Police said the four people had gone to Solar to attend a funeral of their relative. They met with the accident while returning to Modakurichi on their bikes. When they reached Sanarmedu on Erode-Modakurichi road, a speeding government bus coming from the opposite direction rammed their bikes. “All four got stuck under the wheels and died within seconds,” said A Ebenezer, sub-inspector from Modakurichi police station. Preliminary investigations revealed that the bus driver had lost control over his vehicle due to brake failure. The bus driver, M Babu, has been arrested. Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304(A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-of-family-killed-as-govt-bus-rams-2-bikes/articleshow/77919764.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||SPB responsive and continues to show clinical progress: Hosp||Chennai: Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in MGM Healthcare in Chennai, is showing clinical progress, said a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Thursday. The singer is still on ventilator and ECMO support in the intensive care unit and his current clinical condition is stable, said the bulletin, issued by hospital assistant director (medical services) Dr Anuradha Baskaran. “He is conscious, responsive and continues to show clinical progress. He is being closely monitored by our multidisciplinary clinical team,” she said. Later, his son singer and producer S P Charan said he was expecting some good news about SPB by the weekend. His father’s health condition has remained stable for the fourth consecutive day, he said in a video message on the social media page. “With god’s blessings, all your prayers, and the good wishes of so many people from around the world, I am hoping that by Monday there should be some good news,” he said. On Monday (August 31), the hospital said he participates in active physiotherapy, which is a step up from passive methods which he was undergoing. (Active physiotherapy involves the patient stretching muscles and moving joints, with or without the aid of a physiotherapist.) The 74-year-old singer was hospitalised on August 5 with mild Covid-19 symptoms. His condition deteriorated on August 13. On Friday, he wrote “Love you all” on a paper, bringing smiles on the faces of doctors and nurses taking care of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-responsive-and-continues-to-show-clinical-progress-hosp/articleshow/77919790.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK, allies urge govt to drop 8-lane road project||Salem: Six MPs from the DMK and the Congress jointly passed a resolution on Thursday urging the state and central governments to drop the eight-lane road project in the interest of farmers. The resolution was passed after the MPs met farmers at Kullampatty village near Ayothiyapattinam in the district in the day.The MPs who were part of the resolution are S R Parthiban (Salem-DMK), Gouthama Sigamani (Kallakurichi-DMK), Dr Senthil Kumar (Dharmapuri-DMK), Dr A Chellakumar (Krishnagiri-Congress), Vishnu Prasath (Arani-Congress) and G Selvam (Kanchipuram-DMK).During the meeting, the farmers urged the MPs to speak up about the green corridor expressway road project in Parliament.After the meeting, the MPs addressed the media and said that they will discuss the issue during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. “We will request the central government to thinkof an alternate route instead of damaging agricultural lands,” said S R Parthiban. He said that if the project continues on the proposed site, farmers will teach both the central and state governments a lesson in the upcoming assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-allies-urge-govt-to-drop-8-lane-road-project/articleshow/77919785.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||Daily commuters happy as red buses are back on roads||Bhopal: Commuters heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday as public transport buses resumed operations in the state capital. Most passengers said one of the main challenges to get life back on track in the pandemic was the lack of public transport.Aman Yadav, who specialises in household electrical fittings, said: “I do not have a vehicle. Using an autorickshaw was too expensive. I ended up spending almost half of my daily earnings in transport.”His commute to Bairagarh market on Thursday left him with a smile. He took the red bus to the marketplace.Ranveer, a tailor, has found work hard to come by during the pandemic. “Marriages and functions have been postponed. The market should pick up as public transport reopens. Without the bus service, I would share a ride in a rickshaw. It is not very safe and social distancing is not very well managed in the auto,” he explained.Bhagwan, a teenager, took a ride from Rang Mahal to Hamidia hospital. Not the safest place to be, he intended to sell items of daily use outside the hospital. “Buses are safer. I got a monthly pass for the same. Buses also allow to carry stuff I sell,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/daily-commuters-happy-as-red-buses-are-back-on-roads/articleshow/77919787.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees over 10k cases, 75 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,199 Covid-19 cases and 75 deaths on Thursday. This is for the ninth consecutive day that the state has reported over 10,000 Covid-19 cases. The latest count pushes the state’s positive tally to 4,65,730 including 1,03,701 active cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-over-10k-cases-75-deaths/articleshow/77919786.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Partial lifting of lockdown in HC from Sept 7||Hyderabad: Amid conflicting demands from advocates about reopening of courts for conducting physical hearings in the high court building, the HC is marching towards partial lifting of lockdown from Sept 7. Along with Chief Justice bench, four other benches presided by single judges will run for five days. On Sept 11, the judges will assess the situation based on the five-day experience. Even during these five days, all admissions will be taken up in virtual mode in the forenoon session and final hearing matters will be taken up in physical hearing mode in the afternoon session, registrar general A Venkateswar Reddy said in a notification on Thursday. All other courts in the high court would continue their hearings in virtual mode. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/partial-lifting-of-lockdown-in-hc-from-sept-7/articleshow/77919784.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Collector suspends three VROs||Hyderabad: Three VROs were suspended by Nagarkurnool collector L Sharman on Thursday. During the collector’s visit to Kollahpur division mandal on Thursday, locals complained to the collector that the VROs were inaccessible. Ashok, VRO of Janumpalli, Nagarjune, VRO of Mailaram, and Venkataswamy, VRO of Maachupalli, were suspended. The VROs were not present in the villages during the collector’s visit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collector-suspends-three-vros/articleshow/77919788.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||SC refuses to stay HC order on Eng medium||Vijayawada: The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to grant stay on the AP high court ruling over the GO issued by the state to implement English medium in all schools. Issuing notice to reposndents, the SC said that it is not inclined to stay the HC order at this stage. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-on-eng-medium/articleshow/77919793.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||No decision yet on city bus services||Hyderabad: Even as the Hyderabad Metro Rail is gearing up to resume operations in a graded manner from September 7, no decision has been taken regarding the state-run TSRTC buses. While the bus services to the districts were resumed in May, the city and inter-state services have been off the roads since the lockdown was imposed in March. The authorities say that the state government is yet to take a decision on resuming city or interstate bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-decision-yet-on-city-bus-services/articleshow/77919801.cms||Moulika.KV
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Most accidents took place in rush to reach office, home: NCRB data||NAGPUR: The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 data released this week showed Nagpurians met with the most accidents while rushing to office and on their way back. In road accidents, the city’s erratic driving has left even the far bigger cities Mumbai and Pune behind. The statistics released showed the accident pattern in ‘three-hour slots’ starting from midnight in a 24-hour span. Nagpur witnessed 1,165 incidents which were either accompanied with deaths or just injuries or both on some occasions, where more than one persons were involved. Mumbai witnessed 590 such incidents while Pune’s count was even better at 337. In Nagpur, the maximum (200) accidents took place between 6pm and 9pm, which is the time when generally there is a rush back to home. There were 194 accidents between 9am and noon, when the rush is generally to reach offices and business places. Around 191 accidents had taken place between 3pm and 6pm. DCP, traffic, Vikram Sali said the number of accidents is proportionate to the volume of vehicular flow. “The data seems to reflect the rush hours, when the congestion on the roads is due to either office-goers or home-goers. The motorists and bikers rush in the morning to avoid getting late and there is also equally stronger urge to reach home earlier in the evening after office hour,” he said. Sali said the traffic police are also deployed in more numbers on key roads and junctions during rush hours. “We generally try to monitor congestion and keep checking the speed and rash driving. Citizens must wear protective headgear and also use seat belts,” he said. Sali also said motorists and bikers should also keep their speed under control and not weave through traffic. A senior police official also said citizens should avoid speeding on stretches where road construction and Mahametro works are underway. “The civic authorities should attend to potholes on the roads and repair damaged patches, maintain traffic signals so they remain in working condition, and also put up barricades wherever road construction and Mahametro works are underway,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-accidents-took-place-in-rush-to-reach-office-home-ncrb-data/articleshow/77919799.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Age restrictions on guests in Mahabaleshwar hotels||PUNE: The district authorities have barred hotels in Mahabaleshwar from hosting guests aged below 10 years and those above 60. A senior district official said the decision was taken in a sub-division-level meeting in Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday because people in these age groups were at a risk from Covid-19. He said a new set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) was released for the hotels in the hill station. Another district administration official told TOI, “As per past guidelines issued by the Centre and the state, the elderly, people with comorbidities and children below 10 years have been advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. On the same lines, we had to take this decision. As of now, we have issued instructions to hotels based on the July 6 SOP released by the state government on opening hotels and lodges (when hotels were allowed to operate at 33% of their capacity). This will remain in force till another comes from the government.” The hotel associations in Mahabaleshwar stressed that the decision was likely to have a negative impact on tourism at the hill station because 10-20% of their clientele belonged to the age group of below 10 years, while 20-25% to above 60 years of age. Vijay Shewakramani, the owner of Brightland Resort, Mahabaleshwar, who is also a part of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “Children have been worst hit by the lockdown as they have been in home for five months. They need a refreshing outing. Hill stations can be a perfect getaway. The new decision is likely to prompt families cancel their plans to visit the hill station.” Shewakramani said except honeymooners, most tourists to the hill station were those with children. “We shall request the administration to revoke the decision,” he said. Dhiren Nagpal, secretary, Giristhan Hotel Owners’ Association, Mahabaleshwar, and the owner of Hotel Apsara, said, “Hotels in Mahabaleshwar will now have to display this information on their websites as well as on portals of online travel agencies, so that the guests are aware of it.” Nagpal said almost 50% of tourists visiting Mahabaleshwar consist of families with children. “If grandparents and children are not allowed, most would just cancel,” he said. Rohan Komti, the treasurer of the association, said hotels in Mahabaleshwar had begun seeing huge number of enquiries — of double-digit on an average per day — from tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/age-restrictions-on-guests-in-mahabaleshwar-hotels/articleshow/77919797.cms||Neha Madaan
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase ST quota in Telangana to 10%, state urges Centre||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has urged the Centre to enhance Scheduled Tribes (ST) reservations from 6.5% to 10%. A couple of years ago, the state assembly passed a resolution in favour of increasing the reservations and sent that to the Centre. A constitutional amendment and President’s approval are mandatory to increase reservations. On Thursday, during a video conference on national tribal research with Union tribal welfare minister Arjun Munda, state tribal, women and child welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod said that after the creation of Telangana, the population of STs increased to 9.08% but reservation is still 6.5%. She also said that the Centre has not started Tribal University in Telangana. “In Andhra Pradesh, tribal welfare university has started functioning but the Centre has not given clearance to start the university in Telangana despite allocation of 350 acre land by the state,” the minister said. Satyavathi Rathod also sought Centre’s help in implementing GO 3, which says that the teachers’ vacancies in the agencies should be filled with locals. The GO was struck down by the Supreme Court in April this year. “The state government had filed a review petition on the verdict. We urge the Centre's cooperation in bringing back the GO 3,” the minister said. She also spoke about mini Gurukulams and Ekalavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) in the state. “The Centre had permitted 29 mini Gurukulams last year and about 5,000 students joined. However, the renewal was not done this year,” she said. The minister asked for more Ekalvaya schools, in addition to the existing 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-st-quota-in-t-to-10-state-urges-centre/articleshow/77919794.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||HC imposes Rs 1,000 cost on Centre for not responding Khemka’s petition||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday imposed a cost of Rs 1,000 on the Union government for its failure to file a reply on a petition filed by senior Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka regarding empanelment of the IAS officers at the Centre. In his plea, Khemka had also sought summoning of some records, which the Centre had failed to respond to. “This case has been taken up for hearing through videoconferencing. The counsel for the respondent No.1 – Union of India — prays for and is permitted to file a written statement within a period of one week from today subject to payment of Rs 1,000 as costs,” the HC observed while adjourning the matter for September 15. A division bench comprising Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice H S Sidhu passed these orders while hearing the petition. In his main petition, Khemka has challenged the July 21 judgment by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), wherein his non-consideration towards empanelment to the post of additional secretary was dismissed. In another application, Khemka has sought summoning of complete list of posts for which he was shortlisted by establishment officer’s division in 2011 and 2012 for appointment as joint secretary at the Centre and recommendation/decision by the civil services board and the appointments committee of the cabinet respectively. Directions have also been sought to summon the recommendations/decision by the civil services board and the appointments committee of the cabinet for appointment as joint secretary at the Centre in 2014 despite the petitioner’s name not being in the offer list. He has also pleaded to summon the record pertaining to the names of all the IAS officers who were given relaxation from the para 6 (b) of the empanelment guidelines for evaluating their suitability for inclusion in the panels of secretary and additional secretary along with reasons, if any. The names of all IAS officers who, after April 2016, were excluded from consideration for evaluating their suitability for inclusion in the panel of secretary/additional secretary, only because of para 6 (b) of empanelment guidelines have also been sought to be summoned. Khemka had sought all these details from the Centre through RTI but the same was denied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-imposes-rs-1000-cost-on-centre-for-not-responding-khemkas-petition/articleshow/77919792.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s dry days to continue||HYDERABAD: City revellers might have to wait a bit longer to enjoy a drink at their favourite bar or club in town, thanks to a Telangana government order. While other states such as Delhi, Haryana and Kartanaka — keeping with the centre’s unlock guidelines — have given restaurants and bars the go-ahead to resume serving liquor, it isn’t the case back home. A GO issued by the state, soon after the Union ministry of home affairs released norms for Unlock 4.0, reads that “bars and clubs shall remain closed and separate orders will be issued for their opening”. Three days since this was issued, the industry is yet to hear from the government. “We know that many major cities have allowed for liquor to be served at eateries and bars, post lockdown. We want to watch and see how it pans out in these places — if social distancing is an issue, Covid-19 cases rise because of this, etc — and then take a decision. We are hoping to discuss it with the CM in the next three-four days and issue an order accordingly,” said V Srinivas Goud, excise minister of the state. Then there’s another concern: The staff that’s been without a job for too long. On an average, a bar or club employs between 80 to 85 people. “Even our employees are restless now and asking when they can resume duty. They too have families to run. While I understand that the government needs to formulate rules to arrest the spread of the virus, we will appreciate it if they give us a definitive date,” said Dheeraj Melwani, president, Hyderabad Restro-Lounges Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyds-dry-days-to-continue/articleshow/77919791.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao ready to extend assembly session to cover all issues||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said his government is ready to discuss and debate threadbare all the issues pertaining to people in the monsoon session. He said the government is also ready to discuss all the issues to be raised by the political parties even if it meant running the House for more number of days. The chief minister instructed ministers to place all facts before the House in relation to their ministries. He held a meeting at Pragati Bhavan on Thursday to discuss with ministers and whips on the strategy to be adopted in the session, beginning on September 7. During the session, the government is likely to discuss and debate on Covid-19 situation, treatment, facilities and heavy rains that lashed the state a couple of weeks ago, crop losses, achievements made in the power sector, new Revenue Act, illegal construction of an irrigation project by Andhra Pradesh and injustice being meted out to the state while implementing GST. Also likely to be discussed is the recent fire accident that took place at the Srisailam hydel power plant. The fire had left nine people dead. The financial and economic losses due to the financial policies of the Centre, lukewarm response of Centre to the resolutions sent by the state on reservations, agriculture sector and regulatory cultivation method, PV Narasimha Rao birth centenary celebrations and others issues will also be discussed.  “The TRS members should mention each and every issue of the people,” the CM said. It was decided to hold the TRS legislature party meeting on September 7 at 5 pm to chalk out the strategy to take on the opposition parties. Meanwhile, chief secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting with heads of the departments and asked them to prepare answers that were sought by the MLAs and to be answered during the question hour by the ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-ready-to-extend-session-to-cover-all-issues/articleshow/77919805.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||Over 39,400 migrants were given jobs in MP: Labour min||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government admitted on Thursday that so far it has been able to provide jobs to only 39,400 migrants, who had returned to the state from different parts of the country during the Covid-19 lockdown. Altogether, over 13 lakh migrants and their family members had returned to their home state. Lack of job opportunities in their home districts and after the reopening of construction sites and factories, the migrants who had vowed not to go out again have startedto leave the state. Majority of them are headed to Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Talking to TOI, labour minister Brijendra Pratap Singh said, “ This time we have started registering the labourers as they go back to work. Even the details of contractors who have been escorting them are being registered.” He said that job opportunities were created through the Rozgar Setu portal and as many as 39,400 migrants were also given jobs. About 7 .30 lakh labourers had returned to MP along with more than 5 lakh family members following the outbreak of coronavirus and the exodus amidst the pandemic. A little more than half of them had returned from Gujarat and Maharashtra. The maximum number of migrants were from the Bundelkhand region. Incidentally, the labour minister also belongs from Panna, a district which sees large-scale migration. Minister Singh said, “We have registered the details of contractors to ensure that the labourers are not mistreated. In case we get any complaint, we can always get in touch with the contractor.” A state survey after the large number of labourers returned home in April and May also revealed that 58.9% of them are SC/ST and a majority of them (51.4 % ) belong to the age group of 18 to 30 years. They include all migrants who returned after March 1, 2020. Many of them had returned home after walking and cycling a distance of 1,000 kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-39400-migrants-were-given-jobs-in-mp-labour-min/articleshow/77919809.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Letter by Lokayukta leads to APCO probe||Hyderabad: A letter written by AP Lokayukta Justice P Lakshman Reddy asking the state’s chief secretary to look into the murky affairs of AP Weavers’ Cooperative Society (APCO) played a role in moving the state towards ordering a comprehensive probe. The organisation, which was set up to help the impoverished weavers, is now in the thick of a controversy and tremors of the probe were being felt throughout the state as allegations of floating bogus cooperative societies were coming to the fore. Huge funds, meant for weavers families, were allegedly swindled through these bogus societies. And, the proceeds of crime have travelled into several accounts. The Lokayukta’s letter also spoke about the abrupt scuttling of a vigilance probe into this episode. The previous state government did not allow vigilance and enforcement sleuths to take their probe into the murky deals to a logical conclusion. The ongoing CID probe, which is tracking the records and also the trail of the scam money, was giving jitters to several persons who ran the affairs of APCO in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/letter-by-lokayukta-leads-to-apco-probe/articleshow/77919813.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Resorts market workcations as WFH crowd looks for escape||Chennai: More than the great outdoors, it’s the ergonomic indoors that resorts are hardselling as in-state travel and tourism begins to open up. With an increased number of guests looking to book long-stay work vacations in resorts — workcations as they call it — resorts are beefing up on internet facilities as well as setting up special areas for children to have online classes. Steve Borgia, chairman and managing director of Indeco Leisure Hotels, says while earlier bookings would be for three to four days, they are now for more than ten days. “People want to get out to nature but be able to work as well. That’s why we are focusing on ensuring 24-hour power backup and fortifying the WiFi,” says Borgia, whose resort in Swamimalai has already opened with Yercaud opening up in a fortnight. Mornings at all the resorts, though, begin with a saffron, pepper and turmeric drink to boost immunity. “We liked the fact that they had a space for kids to do their online classes. We just needed a change of scene from indoor life,” says Mahesh, who has just returned from a workcation at Swamimalai. Holiday aggregator Homestays of India says they have received more than 200 calls in the past month and have workcation bookings across the country till December. With income levels in flux on account of pay cuts, the holiday now, pay later package is also coming to the fore. Enjoy memorable holiday experiences immediately and pay for them over the following six months, says Shruti Shibulal, CEO, Tamara Leisure Experiences Pvt. Ltd. “We have also put in place an emergency protocol in the event of symptoms of illness arising for any guest or associate.” Apart from the remote working facilities, resorts are also advertising safety as one of the ‘attractions’. Sterling Resorts chairman and managing director Ramesh Ramanathan says they have introduced QR code menus for ‘contactless dining’ and in-room dining and altered their holiday activities keeping in mind the norms of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/resorts-market-workcations-as-wfh-crowd-looks-for-escape/articleshow/77919811.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Crowding, long wait & a breakdown in focus as PMPML resumes services||PUNE: At least one breakdown, passengers barging into buses and long wait times marked the resumption of service by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) on Thursday, after a five-month gap. A lack of social distancing, crowding at some bus stops and a lighter passenger load were among the other problems. “Many passengers just barged into the bus and there was no social distancing. We had to go to Pune station, but thought it would be wiser to just get down and wait for another bus or an autorickshaw. We simply cannot take a risk,” said two women, who boarded the bus at PMC and got off near Dengale bridge. “However, we are happy that the service has started again,” they said. PMPML officials that till late Thursday afternoon, 466 buses ran across the city, making 2584 trips and carryi ng 34,443 passengers. In many stops, however, there were unruly crowds, with people shoving and pushing to board a bus, with no regard for social distancing. “On an average, there were between 10 to 15 passengers per bus per trip — decent numbers, considering we are resuming after five months,” a PMPML official said. At Pashan Road, passengers were stranded after their bus broke down mid-trip. “It appears that the maintenance of the bus was not done properly,” the bus driver said. The official admitted that there were problems on Day One. “We are looking at the problems, which will be fixed without delays,” the official said. Some passengers have complained of longer wait times at the bus stops. “I have been waiting for around 45 minutes for a bus,” Shailesh Datre, who was waiting for a bus to Katraj from PMC, said. The PMPML advised passengers to be patient. “Only 25% of our fleet is operational, so the passengers’ wait time will naturally be longer,” the official said. A quick look at different parts of the city showed buses with a low number of passengers. In many areas, several passengers could be seen waiting for buses without maintaining social distancing. When buses did arrive, they would barge into them. Problems aside, many passengers were happy that PMPML buses were running again. “The absence of the buses has been a major problem and a financial burden. PMPML should increase the buses on busy routes,” Datre said. PMPML staffers too were over the moon. “I work on a contract basis and only I know how these five months have been for me and my family. I hope the service continues without disruptions,” a conductor said. “Passengers who have monthly passes and have not been able to use them fully or partly before the lockdown, can renew them between September 3 to September 10. They need to visit the pass centres in Swargate, PMC, Hadapsar, Pune station, Vishrantwadi and Wagholi between 7am to 2pm,” PMPML PRO Subhash Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crowding-long-wait-a-breakdown-in-focus-as-pmpml-resumes-services/articleshow/77919807.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Muslim volunteers perform last rites of two Christian Covid-19 victims||NAGPUR: Probably for the first time, the city saw Muslim volunteers conducting last rites of two elderly Christian men who passed away due to Covid-19 on Wednesday and Thursday. One at a private hospital and another at a trust-run one. The man, who died at private hospital, was living alone in city while his family lived in Mumbai. As they were unable to reach in time, the family permitted Jamiat Ulema Hind (JUH Arshad Madani) volunteers to perform the last rites at Jaripatka Cemetery. The other deceased’s relatives and friends had assembled at the cemetery on Thursday evening. The volunteers alleged they faced stiff opposition from nearby residents who feared spread of infection in the area. The volunteers not just brought the bodies to the cemetery but also lowered them in the graves as the cemetery staff didn’t come forward. The same day, the volunteers also helped cremate an elderly woman’s body — who had died of Covid-19 — at Manewada. The volunteers are assisting Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). JUH, Dawaat-e-Islami and JUH (Mehmood Madani) volunteers are now conducting last rites in the city. Initially, a group of professionals and businessmen was roped in by NMC to perform last rites of Muslims. As Covid deaths surged, NMC was struggling to conduct last rites the same day. The new teams also included experienced members from the first group of volunteers to guide others. JUH (Arshad Madani) Nagpur secretary Javed Akhtar said so far they had performed last rites of eight Hindus at Gangabai Ghat and Manewada Ghat. “Our main focus is on burial of Muslim bodies. But when NMC hearse vans are busy, we are called to transport other bodies as well. We are doing it as service to society,” he said. Akhtar said they buried two bodies from the Bohra community as well. The team which laid the non-Muslim bodies to rest includes ex-corporator Siraj Ahmed, Zaid Ansari, Mohammad Irshad, Mohammad Javed, Mohammad Ather, Mohammad Ilyas, Zuber Kabir, Shehzad Akhtar and Mohammad Farooq. In cremation, the teams place the body on the pyre which is then lit by family members. Central Hospital Mominpura has provided its ambulance free for transporting bodies by these three organizations. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who has been in the first group and now in one of the three teams, said, “Our volunteers have been working day and night. They are now fully committed. Mentally and emotionally they won’t exhaust even after working for 12 hours a day. Shahid Rangoonwala, Javed Nilo, and Moidul Ansari are there since the beginning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslim-volunteers-perform-last-rites-of-two-christian-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77919822.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Four more Metro stations ready, CMRS inspection this month||NAGPUR: Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) is expected to inspect four Nagpur Metro stations this month – Ajni Square, Rahate Colony, Bansi Nagar and LAD Square. Sources in MahaMetro said a team from the commissioner’s office had already inspected these stations and expressed satisfaction over the arrangements. Ajni Square, Rahate Colony and Bansi Nagar stations are ready while LAD Square is almost complete. Eleven stations of Nagpur Metro are already operational. The Metro, however, is not running, as state government is yet to allow plying of metros in the state. Sources said Rahate Colony station had a built up area of 5,798 square metre. “The first floor has ticket counters, shops, toilets etc. The platforms are on the second floor and you can reach there using lifts and escalators. Special arrangements have been made to allow senior citizens and physically challenged to board the Metro. We have installed rainwater harvesting in the station too,” said an official. The Bansi Nagar station has a built up area of 5,800 sq m. “Entry is from one side and exit is from the opposite side. There are three levels in the station – ground, concourse and platform. The control room and ticket counters are on the concourse level,” said the official. Bansi Nagar station has a water tank at ground level for fire fighting. Solar panels have been mounted on its roof to meet part of its power requirement. Biodigesters have been installed to meet green building norms. UPS and a diesel generator have been installed so that power supply does not go off during breakdowns. Ajni Square is built over an area of 4,815 sq m. It has to be reached by a 115-metre-long skywalk. A baby care room has been provided at the concourse level. Some shops have also been constructed, which will be leased to private operators. The whole area will be under CCTV coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-more-metro-stations-ready-cmrs-inspection-this-month/articleshow/77919816.cms||Ashish Roy
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Hospital staff carries woman’s body to morgue in bedsheet, probe on||BAREILLY: With no stretcher available, the hospital staff shifted the body of an unidentified woman by wrapping it in a bedsheet at a district hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. The woman - in her late 50s - was admitted to the hospital and died during treatment for a prolonged illness on Wednesday. Since the hospital staff was in a hurry to vacate the bed for another patient, the body was shifted to the mortuary in a bedsheet. Sources said the corpse even fell twice on the floor. The condition of the mortuary was even worse where two bodies were lying on the floor in the open outside the main room. A group of pictures showing the negligence also found their way to social media. According to sources, the woman, a destitute, was admitted to the district hospital by a social group after she was found lying unconscious on the road side. She tested negative for Covid-19 and died during treatment on Wednesday afternoon. Chief medical superintendent Dr Ramesh Agarwal said, “The mortuary is 25-30 metres away from the general ward and the staff members carelessly wrapped the body in a bedsheet and carried it to the mortuary to keep it in the freezer. We have seen the pictures and ordered an inquiry into this. As of now, we have given a warning to the staff members and have asked all the hospital staff to stay sensitive towards the patients and ensure such incidents are not repeated.” “We have kept the body in the freezer and will wait for a claimant for the next 72 hours. We will ensure cremation as per rituals if the body remains unclaimed.” On the condition of the mortuary, the CMS said, “All the bodies should be kept inside the mortuary. The photograph clearly displays negligence by the mortuary staff. We will take strict action against him within 24 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hosp-staff-carries-womans-body-to-morgue-in-bedsheet-probe-on/articleshow/77917276.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Pune||E-pass suspension prompts leisure travel enquiries||PUNE: The suspension of the e-pass system on September 1 has rekindled the citizens’ wanderlust for the first time in the past five months. Vikas Agarwal, director of VT Travel, said, “People are looking forward to travel to nearby tourist spots such as Lonavla, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug and Goa. Before the suspension of the e-pass system, there was primarily essential travel. We have got almost 100-120 travel enquiries mostly for Lonavla and private bungalows, out of which 20% have translated into bookings.” Vijay Thakkar, director at Hasmukh Travels, said, “Those who wanted to go to Goa are now calling up to check out the various travel scenarios after the state opened its borders.” Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, said, “E-pass was a pain. People would make plans but had to cancel, as they wouldn’t get approvals.” District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said after the suspension of the e-passes, precautions on part of the travellers were the only way to fight the pandemic. Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said, “Social distancing may not be observed in many places where people are travelling. Also, going from a Covid-19 hotspot like Pune to other locations may increase the risk of spreading the infection to those places.” R Jotkar, former state public health official said, “We cannot adopt restrictive measures for a long period of time. Those who are going for leisure outings should, however, avoid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-pass-suspension-prompts-leisure-travel-enquiries/articleshow/77919803.cms||Neha Madaan
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco orders probe into illegal promotion of Khaparkheda CE||NAGPUR: Mahagenco has ordered an inquiry into the illegal promotion of Prakash Khandare, chief engineer of Khaparkheda thermal power station. Khandare was provided ten additional marks to enable him to get promotion in May 2017. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar had provided documents to TOI that show that Khandare was given ten additional marks for being selected for promotion. TOI had sent an e-mail to Mahagenco public relations officer (PRO) Mahesh Aphale last Monday. It received an e-mail on Wednesday informing that the executive director (HR) had asked executive director (projects) SM Marudkar to conduct a detailed inquiry into the matter. Mahagenco had floated an advertisement in March 2017 for filling up the post of three chief engineers. Twelve deputy chief engineers and superintendent engineers applied for the posts. They appeared for a written test of 400 marks in which Khandare scored 232. This translates into 40.6 marks out of 70. The remaining 30 marks were for the interview — subject knowledge, leadership skills, communication skills and innovation & creativity. Khandare scored 17 out of 30. His total should have been 57.60 but in the final column his total was shown as 67.60, 10 more than the actual figure. The marks of another candidate Sunil Ingle was also inflated by 10 but he was not selected. There is no discrepancy in marks of the remaining ten candidates. The interview was held on May 22, 2017. The members of the interview panel were Mahagenco managing director Bipin Shrimali, KM Chirutkar, AR Nandanpawar, Vinod Bondre, Shyam Wardhane, VM Jaideo, JK Srinivas and CS Thotwe. On the basis of the inflated marks, Khandare was promoted as chief engineer of Paras thermal power station. Before that, he was working as deputy CE of Nasik plant. A source in Mahagenco said that many officials were promoted by inflating marks and the practice was continuing because it had not been exposed so far. Wadpalliwar has rejected the internal Mahagenco inquiry and demanded a vigilance inquiry into the scam. “Talented officers are not promoted and inefficient ones are moved up the order by inflating marks. This is the reason why Mahagenco plants perform poorly and their generation cost is high. It is the common consumers who pay for this inefficiency by paying higher power bills. I urge energy minister Nitin Raut to immediately recommend a vigilance inquiry and take strict action against the members of the interview panel,” he told TOI. “I will also complain to Lokauykta in this regard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-orders-probe-into-illegal-promotion-of-khaparkheda-ce/articleshow/77919806.cms||Ashish Roy
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana chief secy directs officers, stakeholders to control straw burning||Chandigarh: In view of the upcoming paddy harvesting season, the Haryana government has directed its officers to focus on ensuring zero-stubble burning in the state. A meeting held in compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court, where chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora talked with the stakeholders regarding crop residue management. The deputy commissioners (DC) of all districts, vice-chancellor of the Haryana Agricultural University, member secretary of the Haryana Pollution Control Board, director of HARSAC, executive director of IOCL, representatives of NABARD and other were present through videoconference. Arora was apprised in the meeting that according to HARSAC’s satellite pictures and reports, there was a decline of 68% in fire incidence of crop residues last year in comparison to previous years. She instructed all district officers to draw a comprehensive plan and asked the officers to identify the villages falling under red and yellow zones, which do not have customer hiring centres (CHCs). Arora instructed all panchayats to ensure utilisation of machinery provided at 851 CHCs to full capacity, giving preference to small and marginal farmers. In addition, storage of crop residue bales should be done on panchayat land. She said in view of the pandemic, it was imperative to ensure zero-stubble burning in the state because many types of respiratory diseases were likely to spread due to increase in pollution in the environment, which could increase the chances of spreading coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-chief-secy-directs-officers-stakeholders-to-control-straw-burning/articleshow/77919808.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Spurt in impersonation on social media||Mangaluru: Recently, a well-known retired English professor’s fake Instagram profile was created by conmen, who after adding people, started demanding financial assistance from them. The cases of hacking into social media accounts or creating fake accounts to impersonate someone, have witnessed a spurt in recent times. Well-known people, civil servants and businessmen are the targets of these conmen. The retired professor, after learning about the the same, posted on Facebook about a fake profile being created in his name. “Dear friends… In case you receive any message asking for financial assistance, please report the number,” he said in a post. An expatriate said that conmen created a fake Facebook profile of him, and after adding contacts, they started asking for money. “The person who created my fake profile, after adding people known to me, told them that I am having financial issues and required help. Some did send money to the scamsters, without crosschecking and one person, who grew suspicious, reported it to me. I was able to stop it,” he said. A cyber police personnel said that the same scam is also taking place through WhatsApp. The scamsters obtain the target’s entire contact list and also some of his photos. Later, they create a WhatsApp account and send messages to the contact, stating that the individual is in trouble and needs financial assistance. Some people without realising it is a scam, send money, thinking that it is a real account. Ananth Prabhu G, a cyber law and security expert, posted on Facebook that accounts of many government officials are getting hacked, especially on Facebook and Facebook messenger. After hacking their accounts, the hackers message the contacts, asking them for Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000. Many have sent money, believing that the government official is in trouble.” How to stop it? # Enable two factor authentication by going to settings. Hacking such accounts is hard. # Change password to minimum 10 characters with upper case, lower case, number and symbols. # If you receive any messages requesting for money, call the concerned to cross verify. # Put a status on your Facebook wall about hacking of profiles, so that hackers cannot con the innocent. # In case an account is hacked, try to recover password immediately. If it doesn’t work, inform the service provider and ask minimum 100 friends to report the profile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/spurt-in-impersonation-on-social-media/articleshow/77918028.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Scribe who shot video of ‘assault’ by MLA’s guard claims he was thrashed too||Bareilly: A day after the purported video of a UP police constable, on security duty of a BJP MLA, thrashing a car driver with a baton while "trying to clear traffic” on NH-24 went viral, a local scribe who shot the video on his mobile has approached police in Bareilly alleging that he was thrashed by the same cop as well.The scribe, who works for a local news portal, further claimed that his mobile was damaged in an effort to "destroy the evidence". The constable, who was deployed as a gunner of Veer Vikram Singh, the BJP MLA from Shahjahanpur's Katra constituency, has been already suspended by Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand following a preliminary probe by additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam.In the video, the MLA's gunner, Rahul Kumar, could be seen purportedly thrashing a car driver near Baigul bridge along the border of Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts. Later, the MLA told TOI that his gunner had thrashed the driver because he had blocked the highway "without caring about a patient in an ambulance stuck in the traffic jam".“I was covering the traffic jam for my web portal when a truck brushed a car. The car driver had an argument with the truck driver. Soon, the MLA's gunner appeared and started thrashing the car driver. When the gunner saw me filming the video, he repeatedly assaulted me as well, until I gave him my mobile. Thereafter, he threw the mobile on the ground and threatened me," the scribe told TOI on Thursday. The scribe claimed that he even told the cop about his profession, but he didn’t spare him. The MLA, however, refused to comment when asked why a scribe was thrashed and his mobile was damaged by his securityman.Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “We have already suspended the gunner. We will ensure that this fresh complaint is dealt with priority and will take strict action, if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/scribe-who-shot-video-of-assault-by-mlas-guard-claims-he-was-thrashed-too/articleshow/77917293.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Sharp drop in immunisation of infants during lockdown||Vijayawada: The medical fraternity’s struggle to contain Covid-19 pandemic has pulled down the proportion of fully immunised children during lockdown in Andhra Pradesh. According to provisional data from National Health Mission (NHM), immunisation of children aged between 9 to 11 months dropped by 45% in males and 47% in females during April compared to May. The basic birth dose of Vitamin K1 vaccine for the newborn kids dropped by 24%. Relatively, birth doses of oral polio vaccine dropped by 31% while administration of hepatitis-B vaccine saw a 26% decline. The pentavalent vaccine, which gives protection from five different diseases including common whooping cough, saw a 44% decrease in April compared to March. Administration of BCG vaccine which protects children from tuberculosis saw 22% drop while rotavirus vaccine which gives a 15 to 30 per cent protection from severe diarrhoea saw a 35% decrease. Despite the World Health Organisation’s universal awareness programmes on the importance of providing measles and rubella vaccination to children, the month of April saw a 47% drop in its administration. The vaccination to prevent typhoid in kids dropped by 65%. Even the number of severely underweight children being provided with health check-up saw a whopping 87% drop in April compared to March. Medical experts believe that this could be the biggest drop in years that might lead to more malnourished kids in months to come. For months, Andhra Pradesh did not witness a single AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) deaths, the NHM data shows that in April eight children succumbed due to it. During April, the state was supposed to have 38,051 planned immunisation sessions but could achieve only 73% of it. Comparing that with March, AP was supposed to have 47,064 planned immunisation sessions and managed to achieve 46,062 which is around 97%. With the beds of both private and government hospitals being reserved for Covid-19 patients, the inpatient treatment of children suffering from diarrhoea dropped by 65% in April compared to March. There were 2,074 children reported to hospitals for diarrhoea in April and only 414 of them were admitted as inpatients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sharp-drop-in-immunisation-of-infants-during-lockdown/articleshow/77918181.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Roadmap to boost economic activities ready: Dushyant||Chandigarh: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said after Unlock 4.0, the state government has prepared a roadmap to increase economic activities in the state and added that efforts were made for industrial and economic reforms even during Covid-19 pandemic, as a result of which over 60 big companies have shown interest in investing in Haryana. Dushyant said many companies have started shifting their base from China and they are looking towards Haryana as an ideal destination for investment. He said the state government has not only created a conducive atmosphere for the growth of industry in the state, but also provided various facilities, including necessary clearances required for setting up new units in the state, under one roof. The DyCM said with a view to attract investors, the state government has worked on land and labour reforms, and various relaxations would be given for the first 1,000 days for setting up new units in Haryana. Apart from this, for the first time, the government has also decided to give land on leasehold basis to the entrepreneurs willing to invest in the state. The DyCM said the state government has appointed several IAS officers as nodal officers to coordinate with various countries to maintain proper coordination with foreign investors and has also set up a separate department, namely Foreign Cooperation Department. He said with a view to promote micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Haryana, the state government, along with laying special emphasis on agro-based industries, has also prepared a plan to establish clusters in all the districts of the state. According to Dushyant, the people of Indian origin, who were living in other countries and have now returned, will also be encouraged to set up their units in these clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/roadmap-to-boost-economic-activities-ready-dushyant/articleshow/77919829.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Beer cheaper, IMFL dearer as Andhra govt revises rates of alcohol||VIJAYAWADA: The government on Thursday reduced prices of lower category liquor but increased price of medium to higher categories of liquor. In lower categories, prices were cut by 25 to 45% and in higher categories, prices were increased by 33 to 45%. While the prices were reduced in only two categories, they were increased in six categories. The price of one category of liquor price remains unchanged. The prices of beer and ready-to-drink varieties were reduced by Rs 30 uniformly. While stating that it was committed to implement prohibition in a phased manner, the government justified the rationalisation of liquor prices citing two reasons. The government said in its order that there has been a sudden spike in liquor smuggling cases after upward revision of liquor prices in May. According to the enforcement data from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), liquor smuggling cases were increased by 321% from May 15 till July 31. The comparison was made out of average number of cases being reported for every 30 days. When compared in terms of quantity of illegal liquor that is being smuggled into the state, the numbers were increased by 2012% in the case of Indian-Made Liquor and Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IML and IMFL) and 1251% increase for beer. The SEB in its report said the increase in liquor smuggling was due to huge difference in prices in Andhra Pradesh compared with that of Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Another reason pointed out by the government for rationalisation of prices was people taking to drinking sanitizer which was leading to deaths. The SEB in its report also highlighted the fact that many people consuming hand sanitizers as there was no availability of liquor during lockdown and in containment zones even after lockdown. Prakasam, Visakhapatnam, Chittoor, Kadapa and other areas reported deaths resulting from ingestion of sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/beer-cheaper-imfl-dearer-as-govt-revises-rates-of-alcohol/articleshow/77918218.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune-Mumbai trains unlikely to start soon||PUNE: Train services between the city and Mumbai are unlikely to resume anytime soon. “Trains between Pune and Mumbai were stopped because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The state government is yet to speak to the railway authorities about resuming the services. So, it is unlikely that the services will start soon,” divisional railway manager (DRM), Pune, Renu Sharma said while addressing a news conference on Thursday. “Once the state government approaches us, we shall forward the proposal to the Railway Board. The process of unlocking is on and inter-district movement has been allowed by the state government without e-passes,” Sharma said. Currently, only the Pune-Danapur Express operates from Pune and seven other trains pass through the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mumbai-trains-unlikely-to-start-soon/articleshow/77919814.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 4, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Father, son die in mysterious factory blast at Surampalli||VIJAYAWADA: A blast outside a plywood manufacturing unit at ALEAP Industrial Estate in Surampalli village of Krishna district’s Gannavaram mandal resulted in the death of two persons on Thursday. The deceased were identified as A Koteswara Rao and his son Chinna Rao. According to district fire officials, the father-son duo had gone to the industrial estate to purchase scrap rexine tins from Jayaram Enterprises, a private plywood sheet manufacturer. Officials said the incident happened in the afternoon when both were transferring discarded rexine tins from a shed. The blast, which had significant intensity, sent both flying nearly 50 metres away from the spot. “the father, flew upwards and fell on the damaged asbestos roof and crashed back inside the building. Both died on the spot. There must be some other substance apart from rexine that must have caused the blast,” Krishna distrcit fire officer Srinivas Reddy told TOI. Officials explained that chemical drums might have caused a reaction. They suspect the presence of some other gas in the tin. National Disaster Response Force and fire officials immediately rushed to the spot with a fire tender as part of the rescue call. Meanwhile, district collector A Md Imtiaz ordered a detailed inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/father-son-die-in-mysterious-factory-blast-at-surampalli/articleshow/77918234.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||CAG to audit TTD’s accounts from next year||VIJAYAWADA: In a big step towards ensuring transparency in its functioning, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board on Thursday decided to entrust the annual audit of the temple body’s accounts to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) from 2020-21. TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy said in a release that the move will ensure more transparency in auditing while upholding the belief of millions of devotees and donors of Lord Venkateswara. Rajya Sabha MP Subramanyam Swamy had earlier moved the court, seeking timely external audit of the temple body’s accounts. “By taking into consideration the spirit of criticism in the matter, we have resolved to get the audit done by the CAG. We feel there is a need to instill full faith of pilgrims and donors in the accounting and audit systems of TTD,” Subba Reddy said. Till now, the temple’s annual audit was being done by the state audit department. The CAG may take over the audit of TTD from 2020-21 as the audit for 2014-15 to 2019-20 has already been completed by the state audit department. Government may also be asked to request the CAG to also undertake a special audit of the previous years and furnish its report within six months. The trust board’s resolution shall be intimated to high court by filing an appropriate affidavit in the matter, Subba Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cag-to-audit-ttds-accounts-from-next-yr/articleshow/77919837.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Dip in auto registrations in Pune & Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Registration of autorickshaws in the regional transport offices (RTO) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has recorded a dip in the last four months. Altogether 3,325 autorickshaws were registered by Pune RTO since January this year, while 2,284 autorickshaws were registered by Pimpri Chinchwad RTO during the corresponding period this year. In comparison, 8,216 autorickshaws and 4,121 autorickshaws were registered by Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad RTOs during the same window last year. Senior office-bearers of autorickshaw unions attributed the slump in registration to the financial problems faced by most people. Autorickshaw registration was among the highest in the last two years. “We didn’t expect the figures of autorickshaw registrations to be so low. The registrations are decent in the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office, but those in Pune have been very disappointing,” an RTO official in Pune told TOI. Nitin Pawar of the Rickshaw Panchayat, the largest autorickshaw union in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, said, “Not more than 30% of autorickshaws are currently plying as the number of people on the road is less” “Many autorickshaw drivers have taken to selling vegetables and fruits rather than plying passengers. Most of them claim that they are making not more than Rs 150-Rs 200 per day and are facing problems in paying EMIs for their vehicles. In such a situation, why would anyone spend Rs1.5 lakh to Rs2 lakh on buying a new autorickshaw?” he added. The state transport department withdrew the restrictions on the number of cabs and autorickshaws plying in various cities in June 2017. This led to an increase in the registration of autorickshaws which continued till March this year before the lockdown. At present, there are 80,000 autorickshaws registered in Pune and 25,000 in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dip-in-auto-registrations-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/77919827.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Rains wash away Cantt roads, residents blame shoddy work||SECUNDERABAD: The recent rains seem to have exposed the poor quality of roads in Karkhana, one of the busiest areas in Secunderabad Cantonment. The road at the important stretch is severely damaged and ridden with potholes, causing inconvenience to several motorists. “The potholes-filling exercise by officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) ahead of the monsoon season is just an eyewash. The officials are not following scientific methods while filling the potholes,” D Giridhar Reddy, a resident of Karkhana, said. He alleged that the officials are only filling the potholes with sand and stones as a temporary measure, and the persistent rains have led to the erosion of the bitumen layer. “We are paying lakhs of rupees towards property tax to the SCB, but continue to face problems while commuting due to over 90 per cent of the roads in Cantonment being damaged,” said a resident welfare association (RWA) member in Bowenpally. The roads in Marredpally, a commercial hub, are damaged due to the plying of heavy goods vehicles in the area. “Ahead of the rainy season, we have filled potholes on an almost 5-km stretch at Marredpally. A decision to recarpeting the roads is also being considered,” said a senior SCB engineer. SCB CEO B Ajith Reddy said, “The engineering wing has begun repairing the roads in all wards and a list of roads for recarpeting has been prepared and will be tabled at the next SCB meeting for approval.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-wash-away-cantt-roads-residents-blame-shoddy-work/articleshow/77919825.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 impact: Darkness looms for antique dealers, collectors||Vadodara: With the popular weekly markets in big cities still not being allowed to open, the traders and collectors of antique items are now facing the brunt. Traders, who used to buy the collectibles from scrap traders, are neither able to make business nor able to add to their collection. As incomes have been affected across the spectrum due to slowdown, the sale of antique items is almost negligent. “Antique items are considered as luxury, and as people are saving money now it is currently not on the priority list of people,” said Suraj Pasari, who trades in antique items from his shop in Mandvi. “There is no addition in my collection, too, as the scrap vendors are not entertained by people due to the fear of contracting virus,” he added. Pasari said that another dealer like him, who operates from Manek Chowk in Ahmedabad, too, has been out of business. “He has not opened his shop since the lockdown, yet he has been paying the rent even now,” he said. The main source of antique items for the collectors and dealers are the scrap vendors, who roam around the city and purchase old valuables. The scrap vendors exhibit their purchases at the weekly Friday market or ‘Shukravari’ which is thronged by many antique item dealers and collectors. To prevent the spread of coronavirus the civic bodies in Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Surat do not allow scrap dealers to gather for the weekly market. “Some scrap vendors have approached by sending photos of items through WhatsApp, but since it is not possible to check the quality in person, I have stopped buying from them,” said Hitesh Rana, a collector of antique items. Rana has, however, purchased a few items from collectors in Mumbai and other places through social media. “Since the Friday market at Bhutdi Zampa has closed down, there has not been any new addition to my home museum,” said Shrenik Gandhi, a bank employee living on Harni Road. Gandhi is a regular visitor to the ‘Shukravari’ for the past 18 years. Many collectors who build up their collection over the years are also impacted. These collectors sell their entire collection at an attractive price and start working on another collection. “I have a collection of 150 betel nut boxes, but I cannot sell it now,” said 76-year-old Vasudev Soni. He added that due to age and virus threat looming all the time, he cannot start building another collection now. Around four years back, Soni had sold his collection of 450 ink-pots to an NRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-impact-darkness-looms-for-antique-dealers-collectors/articleshow/77917472.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 4, 2020||Vijayawada||CAG to audit TTD’s accounts from next yr||Vijayawada: In a big step towards ensuring transparency in its functioning, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board on Thursday decided to entrust the annual audit of the temple body’s accounts to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) from 2020-21. TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy said in a release that the move will ensure more transparency in auditing while upholding the belief of millions of devotees and donors of Lord Venkateswara. Rajya Sabha MP Subramanyam Swamy had earlier moved the court, seeking timely external audit of the temple body’s accounts. “By taking into consideration the spirit of criticism in the matter, we have resolved to get the audit done by the CAG. We feel there is a need to instill full faith of pilgrims and donors in the accounting and audit systems of TTD,” Subba Reddy said. Till now, the temple’s annual audit was being done by the state audit department. The CAG may take over the audit of TTD from 2020-21 as the audit for 2014-15 to 2019-20 has already been completed by the state audit department. Government may also be asked to request the CAG to also undertake a special audit of the previous years and furnish its report within six months. The trust board’s resolution shall be intimated to high court by filing an appropriate affidavit in the matter, Subba Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cag-to-audit-ttds-accounts-from-next-yr/articleshow/77918508.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NIA arrests FICN racketeer from Malda||Visakhapatnam: National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Emamul Haque, a key fake Indian currency notes (FICN) racketeer from Mohanpur village in West Bengal’s Malda district. Haque was wanted for his role in running a well-organised FICN racket along with associates from Bangladesh for circulation of fake notes in various parts of south India. He had been absconding since 2018 and had a capture reward of Rs 25,000 A case had originally been registered on March 31, 2018 under Section 135 of Customs Act, 1962 in Vizag city and was re-registered by NIA under Sections of 120B r/w 489B and 489C of IPC. After completion of investigation, NIA filed charge sheets against accused Mohammed Mahaboob Baig, Syed Imran, Firoj Sheikh and Tajamul Sheikh in 2018 and 2019 before the NIA special court in Vijayawada. After completion of trial, the special court on June 26, 2019 sentenced Mohammed Mahaboob Baig and Syed Imran to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 10,000. Trial against accused Firoj Sheikh and Tajamul Sheikh is continuing. Investigation revealed that Haque had played a key role in procuring FICN from his associates across the Indo-Bangladesh border and providing it to his associates Mohammed Mahaboob Baig and Syed Imran for circulation in India. Haque was arrested in Malda on September 3 with assistance of BSF. The accused will be produced before the NIA court in Malda for remand. Further investigation in the case is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nia-arrests-ficn-racketeer-from-malda/articleshow/77918283.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP opposes 7.5% property tax, terms it anti-people||Ludhiana: While strongly opposing the 7.5% property tax imposed by the Punjab government from April 1, 2020, on the rent from residential properties and hostels, Punjab BJP vice-president and former senior deputy mayor Praveen Bansal said though in 2013 former local bodies minister Anil Joshi had abolished this proposal, yet the decision taken by the Congress government to impose this tax on the people during the pandemic is short-sighted and anti-people. He said already there was unemployment and financial crisis due to the lockdown that had been going on for the last five months and people were suffering due to high cost of treatment of Covid-19. Bansal said that Punjabis were unfortunate that the government was not being run by Amarinder or ministers in Punjab, but by IAS officers and elements with vested interests, who take such anti-people decisions in closed rooms without knowing the ground reality. “There are PGs and hostels lying vacant due to the closure of educational institutions and colleges, workers’ quarters are also vacant due to the lockdown and a large number of workers have still not returned. Also, the Punjab government had banned charging of rent at the time of lockdown. And if someone is living by renting some part of his residential house and currently levying a property tax on him is like snatching bread from his plate,” he added. A former BJP councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said, “It is completely wrong to impose this tax because most people have paid property tax. Now re-surveying them or making assessment according to old house tax records will increase corruption and create atmosphere of chaos.” He further said that under the cover of assessment again, corporation employees will harass the public. Due to the pandemic people have vacated their rented accommodations and gone to their homes, so there is no justification for this tax at this moment. He added that the government should review this decision and cancel it immediately because in the present time people need maximum relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-opposes-7-5-property-tax-terms-it-anti-people/articleshow/77919867.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Vain bid to loot ATM in Sangareddy||Hyderabad: Two unidentified persons made an unsuccessful attempt to steal cash from an ATM machine of a private bank at Muthangi in Sangareddy district on Thursday. Police said that the accused tried to use metal tools, including a gas cutter, to break open the cash chest, however, while they were trying to break open the chest, the alarm which was installed inside the ATM centre went off, alerting the police control room. On receipt of information, the district police rushed to the spot. Before the police could reach the ATM centre, the accused fled fom the centre. Police are examining the CCTV footage installed inside the ATM centre to nab the miscreants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vain-bid-to-loot-atm-in-sangareddy/articleshow/77919858.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ninth extortion case against 2 dismissed cops, others||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Wednesday registered a case against two dismissed policemen, a local journalist, an RTI activist and five others after a businessman from Manjri Budruk accused them of extortion. This is the ninth such FIR against the dismissed constables and the activist. The journalist and other suspects are common to other cases, police said. The activist is on the run. The dismissed policemen are in jail, while the local journalist is out on bail. The complainant runs a catering business and a hotel. Police said he borrowed Rs25 lakh from one of the suspects, a moneylender, at 60% annual interest to expand his business. He later borrowed Rs10 lakh from the same man for his daughter’s wedding, apart from a Rs80 lakh loan to purchase a row house. In six months, the complainant paid Rs7.5 lakh by way of interest, police said. “In February 2018, the suspect asked the complainant to repay the principal as he wanted to contest the Manjari gram panchayat elections. The businessman made a part-payment, when the suspects started harassing him,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9th-extortion-case-against-2-dismissed-cops-others/articleshow/77919849.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown helped some couples on infertility treatment conceive naturally||BENGALURU: While the lockdown wrecked lives of many, it came as a godsend for some childless couples on infertility treatment as they managed to conceive on their own during the period. Gynaecologists say weight loss, lifestyle changes, ample time for each other, no hassles like graveyard shifts and work from home were some features which turned out to be a blessing. Dr Shashikala Ksheerasagar, fertility expert and gynaecologist, Vikram Hospital, said she has seen three such cases. “The lockdown helped these couples immensely as they didn’t have commuting stress. I am happy for them,” she said. In one case, a 29-year-old woman and her husband were into marketing and used to travel often. “She could not conceive in three cycles of intrauterine insemination (IUI) prior to March. But she has now conceived naturally. All three women I have seen are in the 28-32 age group and they were not on any medication when they conceived,” Dr Shashikala said. She said that while couples may have wanted a baby, they may have been trying half-heartedly due to stress and work pressure. Dr Kamini Rao, medical director, Milann Fertility Centre and chairman, National Assisted Reproductive Technology Guidelines Committee, said time zones changed for many couples, as they were working for US and UK shifts during the lockdown. “Lifestyle modifications and yoga helped some couples lose weight and their stress levels also reduced during the lockdown. The biological clock was tuned for the good during these days which was an unexpected bonus,” she said. Dr Rao recalled the case of a 36-year-old woman, who had undergone six cycles of IUI but could not conceive. Her husband had low sperm count and was also a smoker. “Her husband lost weight during the lockdown and stopped smoking. She conceived in April naturally. She is in her fifth month now,” said Dr Rao. Dr Hema Divakar, former president, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) and medical director, Divakars Speciality Hospital, said she had a case of a 26-year-old woman who was married for three years and had sought help. The woman, who conceived on her own during the lockdown, told TOI, “Maybe the lockdown was good for us. I have just completed three months. It’s a phase of life that I was looking forward to.” Dr Hema said, “This couple did not come for treatment for six months. Anxiety levels among those who come for infertility treatment is high. For many couples, the general understanding of pregnancy is based on what they see on TV about a woman becoming pregnant spontaneously. When that does not happen, they get stressed.” She said urban women are precision driven and have unrealistic expectations. “You can’t dictate to the uterus. The body keeps its own schedule, but it can change sometimes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-helped-some-couples-on-ivf-treatment-conceive-naturally/articleshow/77918669.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 4, 2020||Pune||MCOCA case against gang||PUNE: Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday booked the kingpin of a criminal gang from Wakad and his three accomplices under the stringent Maharshtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang members have several cases registered against them. They were arrested by the Wakad police in June on the charge of murdering an 18-year-old youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mcoca-case-against-gang/articleshow/77919861.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded for 6 months, 363 Pakistan citizens to return to India||NAGPUR: After six months of desperate wait, 363 persons stranded in Pakistan will be sent back to India through the Attari border on Monday. The order was issued by the ministry of interior, Pakistan of interior on Thursday. They are Pakistani citizens who were living in India on long-term visas (LTVs) and had applied to take up Indian citizenship. They had gone back to Pakistan under no-obligation return to India (NORI) visas, granted for brief visits. As the borders were sealed due to Covid, it not only left them stranded but also families were separated on either side. Both Hindus and Muslims, a number of them are from Maharashtra too. There were mothers who had gone for family functions for a fortnight or so, leaving their two to five years olds behind in India. In one of the cases, both the parents were stranded in Pakistan while their kid remained in India with rest of the family. TOI has been reporting the matter on a regular basis and had also taken up the case with senior politicians in Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf (PTI). BJP MP from Indore, Shanker Lalwani, and spiritual leader Dr Yudhishtir Lal Shadani had also taken up the issue with Indian ministries of home and external affairs. Along with the 363 Pakistanis, the list has names of 36 Indian nationals too. They are mainly children or senior citizens who come with their kin who are citizens. A number of women had come to India after marriage and had gone on a NORI visa. As they awaited to get citizenship here, their children who were born here became Indian citizens. Rajesh Jhambia of Sindhi Hindi Panchayat said, “The efforts of Lalwani and spiritual leader Dr Yudhishtir Lal Shadani, who had been vehemently pursuing the case, paid off. “Some more persons remain and it is expected that they will be sent back too,” he said. In Pakistan, Ishaq Khan Khakwani, the senior vice-president of PTI said he referred the case to Parliamentary secretary foreign affairs, foreign office and Dr Ramesh Kumar, a member of national assembly. The first list was released in over a week after that. Jhambia added as they were calling up the foreign office in Pakistan, it was also pointed out that some Pakistani citizens stranded in India also needed to be repatriated. The first batch left on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-for-6-months-363-pak-citizens-to-return-to-india/articleshow/77919842.cms||Shishir Arya
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Group protests trigger tension in Chityala||Warangal: Tension prevailed in the Chityala mandal following a protest by the SC and Dalit groups due to the sudden demise of sarpanch Masa Rajaiah, 25. According to sources, after Rajaiah fell ill and was hospitalised recently, the vice-sarpanch Purnachander Rao colluded with secretary Thirumala for requisition of the post of sarpanch. But soon after Rajaiah was discharged, he questioned the secretary regarding the shuffle. Saddened over the removal from his position, Rajaiah was suffering from severe stress, which caused his demise, the protesters said. A procession towards Rao’s residence was taken after Rajaiah’s death by hundreds of JAC activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/group-protests-trigger-tension-in-chityala/articleshow/77919865.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl Aadhaar camp held for Chenchus||Hyderabad: To help the tribals of Nallamala forest register for an Aadhaar card, a special camp was set up on Wednesday at Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) office in Mannanur. The decision was taken by ITDA officials after nearly 57 people from Amrabad, Lingala, Achampet, Balmur and Padara hamlets had no ID proofs and were facing difficulties while applying for ration cards or to avail other benefits. “All those who do not have Aadhaar cards have been facing a lot of issues. They need the Aadhaar to apply for a ration card,” said Chigurla Mallikarjun, a resident of Sarlapally tribal hamlet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-aadhaar-camp-held-for-chenchus/articleshow/77919863.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||ED registers case against illicit liquor mafia in Punjab||Patiala: After being refused information by the state authorities for weeks, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has finally registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) to investigate the illicit liquor mafia active in Punjab. The ECIR was registered at ED Jalandhar regional office, in which 13 FIRs registered by the Punjab Police in various districts over the last two years have been incorporated. ED sources said more FIRs would be added to the ECIR as the investigations progressed. ED has so far included five FIRs registered in Patiala district since 2018, three registered at Mohali, and one each registered at Khanna and Ludhiana. In addition, one FIR each registered at Taran Taran, Batala and Amritsar rural where the hooch tragedy had claimed over 120 lives has also been made part of the ECIR. The central agency will also be looking into the role of various distilleries that have been named in these 13 FIRs and how the raw material (ENA) from these distilleries found its way to the illicit liquor manufacturing units. The ED will be investigating the disappearance of the machinery installed at these units set up in various parts of the state, where liquor was produced and then sold not only in Punjab but also in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. ED has already sent legal letters to all the SSPs concerned to provide all information related to the multiple FIRs that have been registered into illicit liquor trade. Earlier, the agency had written ‘persuasive’ letters to different SSPs seeking information related to these FIRs, but it was denied the information. However, after the registration of the ECIR, it is now mandatory for the police chiefs to share the information. The agency will be proceeding against accused named in these FIRs and their associates, or anyone named in the police investigations to dig out the proceeds of the crime. The ambit of these investigations is also likely to spread over to Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from where illicit liquor produced in Punjab had been confiscated over the years. ED sources said the role of police and excise officials would also be investigated to understand the modus operand to save excise taxes and sell the illicit liquor to earn thousands of crores of rupees every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ed-registers-case-against-illicit-liquor-mafia-in-punjab/articleshow/77919887.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Reopening temples rekindles hope of tourism sector stakeholders||cleared/ sitapathi Chennai: Reopening of temples and resuming public transport across the state will be a boost for spiritual tourism, but closure of other places of attraction such as hill stations, beaches and zoos will be a dampener for the overall tourism sector. There is a demand at resorts in hill stations, but visitors cannot drop in without e-passes. Resorts and star hotels in places such as Mamallapuram, that had been recording nearly 100% occupancy on weekends in pre-Covid times, are seeing little traction because most-visited spots like Pallava-era monuments remain out of bounds. Beaches are also no-go zones as per the Standard Operating Procedures of the state government. Popular hill stations in places such as Ooty, Kodaikanal and Yercaud in the Nilgiris, Dindigul and Salem cannot be accessed without e-pass. But, reopening temples will be a boon for kick-starting tourism since devotees may prefer to check into hotels during visits. Hospitality sector sources said the occupancy rate will rise gradually though hotels in temple towns such as Kancheepuram are yet to see bookings from pilgrims. Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association president V K T Balan said the relaxation on curbs during the lockdown period was only meant to revive the livelihood and not meant for leisure activities. “There were instances of countries imposing lockdown restrictions, after opening up their places of attractions that resulted in a spike in number of Covid-19 cases. So, it would be better to keep the public away from tourist spots at least for a few weeks as a trial to examine whether there is any increase in Covid-19 cases, since most of the restrictions on movement have been withdrawn,” he said. For the past five years, Tamil Nadu has been the top destination in the country for both domestic and international tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reopening-temples-rekindles-hope-of-tourism-sector-stakeholders/articleshow/77919923.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist killed in police encounter at Bhadradri||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old Maoist from Chhattisgarh, who was part of CPI (Maoist) Telangana state committee secretary Haribhushan’s security detail, was shot dead in an alleged exchange of fire with police near Dubbagudem forest area in Bhadradri Kothagudem district in the early hours of Thursday. Though officially police have issued a release asking people to identify the deceased, through inquiries with their counterparts in Sukma of neighbouring Chhattisgarh, the Maoist’s identity has been established. He has been identified as Dudi Devalu alias Shankar, a native of Kistaram in Chhattisgarh and an area committee member (ACM). He was part of the security team of 52-year-old Haribhushan. Around 4.15am, an exchange of fire took place between the Maoists and police at Devalagudem and Dubbagudem forest area. “Acting on specific information about Maoist action teams and dalam members moving in Gundala police station limits for the past three days, our teams have been conducting combing operation in Devalagudem and Dubbagudem forest areas. While our special party police team was conducting vehicle check near Dubbagudem under the supervision of Gundala CI Srinivas, two suspects coming on a bike were spotted,” Bhadradri Kothagudem district superintendent of police (SP) Sunil Dutt said. When police asked the duo to stop the bike, they took a detour into the forest. “Our team chased them and the two Maoists opened fire. In retaliatory fire, one of them was shot dead. We have found their abandoned bike in bushes nearby and a manhunt has been launched to nab the second person, who managed to escape into the forest taking advantage of darkness,” the SP added. Along with the abandoned bike without a registration number, police seized a revolver found in possession of the deceased. Three live rounds in the chamber of the revolver and an equal number of empty casings were found in the forest area. A case was registered under the CrPC and IPC sections. Meanwhile, DGP M Mahendar Reddy reviewed with police officials of Adilabad, Asifabad, Nirmal and Mancherial the Maoist activity in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-killed-in-police-encounter-at-bhadradri/articleshow/77919916.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Noida||195 suicides in Noida since January, numbers spiked after lockdown||NOIDA: A total of 195 people died of suicide in the city this year, and 74% of the cases were reported in the months following the announcement of the nationwide lockdown — from April to August. In the first three days of this week, eight persons — six men and two women — killed themselves. The reasons, according to the police, ranged from job loss due to the lockdown to problems in personal relationships. On August 6, Dharm Dutt Bhatt, 48, killed himself in his flat in Sector 82. Bhatt worked with an IT company, and in March, he was asked to leave. Upset over not being able to find another offer during the lockdown, he ended his life, said his wife who also filed a complaint at the Phase II police station against his former employer. Among the recent cases, Jaiprakash Punwar, 32, an electrician, hanged himself inside a shoe-making company in J block of Sector 63 in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. In another case on Wednesday, 24-year-old Phoolsan Singh hanged himself in his rented accommodation in Habibpur village. A suicide note has been recovered from the spot in which Singh wrote that he was in love with a woman who cheated on him and so, he was ending his life, Ecotech III SHO Anita Chauhan told TOI. Between January and March, 50 suicides were reported, with 16 in January, 19 in February and 15 in March, in the last week of which the lockdown was imposed. After that, from 24 suicides in April, the cases saw a steady growth, going from 31 in May to 34 in June. The upward trend dipped gently, and July and August recorded 30 and 26 cases, respectively, although remained much higher than the numbers reported in the first three months. Cops say most of the persons committing suicides were upset because of loss of livelihood, or were entangled in family disputes. Some of them were suffering from depression for a long time. The profile of the persons dying of suicide reflects their difficult settings — many of them were daily wagers and workers employed with the private companies who lost their jobs during the pandemic, a police officer said. He added that some others were white-collar executives with handsome packages but had their salaries suddenly reduced to half. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said that while couple conflicts and personal issues were cropping up, the lockdownled to uncertainty. "Financial situation of the families has worsened and those working in private firms are distressed. However, due to downsizing of the business, people are being sent back because employers, too, are unable to generate income. The overall socio-economic condition is responsible for the rise in suicides," he said. On Tuesday afternoon, a 23-year-old woman jumped to death from the 10th floor of Jaypee Kosmos after a tiff over cake-cutting. On Tuesday night, a 42-year-old woman set herself ablaze in Khajoor Colony of Sector 45 after a fight with her husband. The same night, a 30-year-old man, Arjun, hanged himself from a tree in Gejha village following an argument with his wife. In the three cases reported on Monday, a man who lived in Sector 63 hanged himself from a fan in his room, another man in Dundahera village shot himself dead after a tiff with his wife, and a Shahberi resident who had consumed poison on August 28, died while he was being treated at Prakash hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/195-suicides-in-noida-since-jan-numbers-spiked-after-lockdown/articleshow/77920222.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 scare doesn’t deter people from travelling||NAGPUR: Even as coronavirus has spread its wings in the district, people have decided to travel, especially after the state government issued Unlock-4 guidelines allowing inter-district travel from September 1. On day-1 after the travel restrictions were lifted after 5 months, around 70 passengers, including 49 from Nagpur, travelled to Mumbai from Nagpur by Howrah-Mumbai Mail. Of these, one passenger travelled in AC-I, three in AC-II, eight in AC-III and 37 in sleeper class coaches. “Most of those travelling in sleeper class coaches on Thursday were migrants leaving for Mumbai for taking jobs. There were sizeable numbers of passengers from Howrah end too. The number of passengers is expected to increase,” said railway officials. After granting travel relief by state government, this was the first lot of passengers travelling within the state by train. These travellers must have booked ticket a day ago on September 2, when reservation was allowed. Earlier, this train used to run daily but has been converted into weekly due to opposition by West Bengal government. Even the MSRTC has increased number of buses from 20 to 125 now. “On August 20, when inter-district transport was allowed, we operated 20 buses, but on Thursday, we operated 140 buses. The revenue has also increased from Rs1.5 lakh to Rs8 lakh. Buses to Pune (two trips) are also getting good response,” said Nilesh Belsare, divisional controller, Nagpur. “Considering 50% capacity of 22 seats, all buses are getting these many passengers to all directions in Vidarbha now. This indicates that despite spread of Covid-19 people have kept their option open to travel,” said Belsare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-scare-doesnt-deter-people-from-travelling/articleshow/77919900.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Mayor writes to Union rail min for opening passage closed for construction||Ludhiana: In order to provide temporary relief to commuters and residents living near Pakhowal road railway crossing, mayor Balkar Sandhu has written a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking help from the railways in opening a passage for the movement of vehicular traffic on a railway crossing near Sidhwan Canal. This relief is being demanded as temporary measure to reduce burden on Pakhowal road railway crossing. The mayor said that already there was a lot of pressure of traffic on Malhar, Ferozepur and Pakhowal roads due to the ongoing construction activities. Thus people are facing a tough time and in coming days the problem would increase near Pakhowal road railway crossing, where construction work of a railway over/under-bridge has already started. While confirming the same, Sandhu said, “A few years ago it was a railway crossing but then the railways closed it to vehicular movement, though the movement on foot is still possible. I have requested the railway minister to kindly look into the matter and get this crossing open for vehicular movement as well so that people should utilise the same.” He said he had not received any reply till date but he was hopeful of some solution. Meanwhile, a resident of BRS Nagar, IP Singh, said, “In case the construction work on the Pakhowal road railway crossing picks up pace, there will be difficulty in using this road.” He said this closed crossing is not far off and is between Shastri Nagar and Pakhowal road railway crossing. He said it should be opened for the movement of vehicles. Another resident from Sarabha Nagar Kuljit Singh said so many construction activities were going on in a very small portion of the city and it was obvious that traffic problems would occur, but by taking certain steps the problems could be reduced to some extent. The work on the Pakhowal road ROB/RUB has been started and digging for the underpasses has also started. The civic body has fixed the target for the completion of this project as December 2021. Now, it will be seen whether it will be completed by then or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayor-writes-to-union-rail-min-for-opening-passage-closed-for-construction/articleshow/77919902.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Three persons, including sarpanch, killed in road accident near Gajwel||Hyderabad: Three persons including a sarpanch were killed in a road accident and another sustained injuries when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a parked truck at Pragnapur near Gajwel on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Anji Babu (34), sarpanch of Tandur village in Mancherial district, A Sai Prasad (28), a private employee and Ganesh (26), the car driver. Their friend, K Bhanu Prasad, was injured. According to Gajwel inspector Anjaneyulu, the accident occurred when the four persons from Tandur were travelling from their village to Hyderabad. According to the police, Ganesh and Anji Babu died on the spot, inspite of wearing seat belts and the safety airbags opening. Sai Prasad was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital while Bhanu Prasad’s condition is said to be stable. “Ganesh, who was driving the car, failed to notice the truck parked on the side of the road near Pragnapur RTC depot and rammed into it from the rear. The truck driver parked the vehicle in a negligent manner. Part of the truck was on the road and parking indicators were not on,” police said. Based on a complaint filed by Bhanu Prasad, a case was registered against the truck driver, who is absconding, under Sections 304-a and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-persons-including-sarpanch-killed-in-road-accident-near-gajwel/articleshow/77919896.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Cut in anti-dumping duty on acrylic fibre import brings smiles on manufacturers’ faces||Ludhiana: Yarn manufacturers of city are in a jubilant mood as the central government has fulfilled their demand of reducing the anti-dumping duty on the import of Acrylic Fibre from Thailand. Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has now decided to impose anti-dumping duty of US$ 15.87 per MT on acrylic fibre exported from Thailand by Thai Acrylic Fibre Company Limited, which earlier was $162 per MT. According to manufacturers, the development will give a boost to the textile sector as it had already been facing huge recession due to the high import duties on the import of acrylic fibre needed for manufacturing yarn. One of the biggest bodies of textile manufacturers, Northern Indian Textiles Mills Association (NITMA), has hailed this decision and claimed that this will give a level playing field to their industry, which was passing through very bad times. Sanjay Garg, president of NITMA and MD of Longowalia Yarns Limited, said, “We heartily welcome the government decision of the significant reduction in the anti-dumping duty on imports of acrylic fibre originating from Thailand. The order for this has been released by the DGTR and the decision has now come into effect. This duty imposed had been on us for more than two decades due to which the manufacturers were having a very tough time. The decision was taken by DGTR upon the petition filed by three domestic fibre manufacturers. After the detailed investigation which was based on analysis of available sources of data and information based on submissions by various stakeholders, the DGTR has recommended that the continuation of the duty is required on imports of acrylic fibre from Thailand.” Garg added that, “However, the authority also recommended imposition of anti-dumping duty equal to lesser margin of dumping and the margin of injury, so as to remove the injury to the domestic industry. Accordingly, the DGTR recommended imposing definitive anti-dumping duty US$ 15.87 per MT on acrylic fibre exported from Thailand by Thai Acrylic Fibre Company Limited for five years from the date of the notification to be issued by the government, which is August 31, 2020. This is a huge relief for the domestic user industry as the earlier duty charged was $162 per MT. With this reduced rate of duty the user industry can now move towards a competitive regime for acrylic fibre and strengthen and expand their scale of operations for higher production and growth in the downstream.” Ravinder Verma, MD of Ganga Acrowools, said, “We are certain that this significantly reduced rate of anti-dumping duty will give a boost to the Indian acrylic textiles segment, particularly its downstream value added segments, a majority of which are in the unorganised sector, which have been affected due to the continued imposition of anti-dumping duty on its primary raw material, that is acrylic fibre for the last 23 years from one source or other. This development will be a great support for a large number of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) segments, which have been suffering for long and had been severely affected by the anti-dumping duties on its basic raw material.” M M Vyas, president of Ludhiana Spinners Association, said, “Higher rate of anti-dumping duties has increased cost of yarn, which made our downstream value added industries non-competitive, leading to a grave situation and now we are unable to compete not only in the exports market but even our domestic market has been suffering. This decision will go a long way in accomplishing the Aatmnirbhar mission and also strengthen the overall growth of Indian textile industry in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cut-in-anti-dumping-duty-on-acrylic-fibre-import-brings-smiles-on-manufacturers-faces/articleshow/77919935.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Former ‘panj pyaras’ question jathedar on missing saroops||Amritsar: Three out of the five sacked ‘panj pyaras’ (five beloved ones), who had opposed the then Sikh clergy’s decision of granting pardon to rape and murder convict Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, have once again come out against the decision of Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh regarding the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib. Talking to TOI on Thursday, one of the sacked ‘panj pyaras’ Satnam Singh Jhanjia alleged, “The investigations into the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib are incomplete. The real culprits, who also include present and former presidents of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), have not even been touched. It is impossible that the people at the helm of affairs didn’t know about 328 missing saroops.” In 2016, the then SGPC executive committee had decided to dismiss ‘panj pyaras’, including Jhanjhia, Satnam Singh Khanda, Tirlok Singh and Mangal Singh, while Major Singh was retired. Mangal Singh had later rejoined his duty. “This issue is as serious as the pardon to Gurmeet Ram Rahim, so it becomes our moral duty to raise our voice,” said Khanda. He said nobody knows the whereabouts of 328 saroops and questioned why the investigating team did not interrogate the top management of SGPC and Shiromani Akali Dal leadership, which allegedly had direct intervention in the functioning of SGPC. He said the panth should adopt a united strategy by rising above the personal or petty interests. “This is an apt time to show our unity, especially when the forces inimical to panth are bent upon causing immense damage and working on their agenda both from outside and inside,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-panj-pyaras-question-jathedar-on-missing-saroops/articleshow/77919927.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Vedic stamp to infra devpt project||Lucknow: An infrastructure development scheme straddling 639 acre is set to change Ayodhya’s landscape with UP State Housing Development Board (UPSHDB) presenting the proposal during CM’s review of projects at the temple town on Thursday. The layout has been imbibed from Vedic style of urban architecture. “Known as dhanurakar (bow-shaped) or karmukha, the style connects and integrates areas along the Lord Ram’s statue to make the aerial view appear like a bow. To the person on the ground, the sun will form the aura around Lord Ram’s head at a particular time,” said a senior officer. Housing board officials said, global consultants would be hired to draw the master plan for the project and timelines have been drawn. World class drainage and water systems will be installed to ensure zero wastage and also ensure sewage from the city doesn’t pollute the Saryu. Officials said, pilgrims would be provided best facilities and five 5-star, ten 3-star and 15 budget hotels will be accommodated under the scheme. Guest houses of various states will also be set up. Land will be earmarked for five countries who may want to develop facilities for their nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vedic-stamp-to-infra-devpt-project/articleshow/77920932.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ludhiana||This year, city Keralites to celebrate Onam on virtual stage||Ludhiana: This year Onam celebrations will take place with the help of technology as the members of Kerala Kalavedi Club have decided to celebrate this festival on a virtual stage. The idea is to bring the young, old on one platform for enjoyment. In the previous years there used to be celebrations on a grand level, where Keralites used to participate in various activities. Now, due to increasing Covid cases, gatherings could not be planned, so they have come out with the holding of virtual competitions. The members claimed that these days children remain busy with their online classes, mobile games or television, so in order to engage them in certain activities they are planning these virtual competitions. Moreover, when Onam celebrations used to take place efforts were made to keep the young generation aware about the rich traditions and rituals of their culture. Earlier, there used to be gatherings of 1,500 to 2,000 people, who used to have lunch together while women used to perform on stage all dressed up in traditional dresses. In the virtual competitions too traditional dresses and dishes will be preferred. General secretary of Kerala Kalavedi Club Parsanna Kumar said, “From next week the online competitions will start, for which our people are already doing rehearsals. People will stay at home and make videos of their activities and then upload those videos. We have a panel of judges and on the basis of performance we will give results.” He said they would give prizes to all participants. He further revealed that there were competitions in categories like cookery competition, Malayalam speech contest, stand-up comedy, online dance competition, teacher-student competition while for small kids there was fancy dress competition. Another member of club K Babu said, “For the cookery contest only traditional Malayalam dishes will have to be prepared and similarly in dance there will be traditional dance items only.” He said earlier they used to organise this on a stage, but these days gathering is not allowed, so virtual celebrations have been planned. He further said it will help in bringing families close. He said children would enjoy a lot as these days there were no schools and studies were also online, so there would be much fun. “Moreover, now we get free from office by 6.30pm, so we also get enough time to spend with family members and help them in their rehearsal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-year-city-keralites-to-celebrate-onam-on-virtual-stage/articleshow/77919930.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||UK student visa rules made flexible||Hyderabad: To limit disruption caused by Covid-19 travel restrictions, United Kingdom Visas and Immigration (UKVI) has introduced flexibility in visa rules. It has allowed incoming international students to apply for a study (Tier-4) visa when they are due to travel to the UK, rather than at the start of their course. This means students, who have already gained admission can begin their courses online and apply for a UK study visa when they are ready to do so. All visa customers, including students, can also avail the optional ‘on-demand mobile visa’ service offered by VFS Global that enables them to submit their visa application and enrol biometrics from the safety of their home. Once a visa decision is reached, passports can be couriered to the customer’s home. In 2019-20, student visas from India were 4.5 times more than they were in 2016. According to data from UKVI, almost 50,000 student visas to the UK were granted to Indian nationals in the year ending March 2020. This was a 136% increase from the year ending March 2019. All visa customers can avail ‘on-demand mobile visa’ service offered by VFS Global that enables them to submit their visa application and enrol biometrics from home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-student-visa-rules-made-flexible/articleshow/77919934.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Ganapathy not surrendering’||Hyderabad: Banned CPI (Maoist) party has issued a statement saying there was no truth in news doing rounds about the possibility of their top leader Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathy thinking of surrendering. “Surrender of Ganapathy is an imaginary story concocted by both central government and Telangana state government along with Chhattisgarh police intelligence agency. Ganapathii voluntarily handed over the party secretary work to others due to ill health. To damage the reputation of our party leadership internationally, such rumours are being spread,” Maoist party’s central committee spokesperson Abhay said in a release. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganapathy-not-surrendering/articleshow/77919933.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Noida||UP: Construction worker held for murder of pregnant wife||GREATER NOIDA: A 27-year-old construction worker allegedly killed his pregnant wife with a hammer and a sharp object over domestic discord on Wednesday afternoon in Kasna’s Dadha village. According to police, the accused, identified as Akhilesh, called a newspaper’s office after the crime and informed that he has killed his wife, Bijli. Soon after when police reached, the accused was found sitting next to his wife’s body lying in a pool of blood. “During interrogation, Akhilesh revealed that the duo had an inter-religion marriage against their family’s will in 2015. They had moved into a rented accommodation at Kasna’s Dadha village with their two kids only a month before. He told police that Bijli was troubling him over their new flat and also had financial demands which he was not able to meet,” a police officer said. Vishal Pandey, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Zone 3) told TOI that on Thursday, the husband and wife had an argument. “Akhilesh said he had moved in a lot of houses because of the woman, it seems she was not happy with the kind of lifestyle she had gotten after marriage,” the officer said, adding that following a heated argument, the accused had slit the woman’s throat with a sharp object he used in civil construction and also rained blows with a hammer on her head. The police registered an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/construction-worker-held-for-murder-of-pregnant-wife/articleshow/77920435.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Cong to play YSR card||Hyderabad: With minimal presence of YSR Congress in Telangana, Congress has emerged as the lone heir to the political legacy of former chief minister late YS Rajasekhar Reddy. The party is trying to woo the voters ahead of elections to Greater Hyderabad municipal Corporation by citing contributions of the YSR-led Congress government in making Greater Hyderabad a global city. Some of the big-ticket infrastructure projects that gave fillip to brand Hyderabad were either taken up or inaugurated during the YSR-led Congress regime. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Outer Ring Road, PV Narasimha Rao expressway, Hyderabad Metro Rail and several other projects in and around Greater Hyderabad were either built or completed during YS Rajasekhar Reddy government in the undivided state. Congress leaders paid floral tributes to YSR at Gandhi Bhavan and also to the YSR statue at Punjagutta on his death anniversary on Wednesday. The leaders, including former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, city Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav, MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy and TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi, among others, said the people of the state will never forget the welfare schemes of YSR-led Congress government. Reiterating that YSR was a loyal Congressman all his life, Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy said no one can take away from Congress the legacy of the great leader. “YSR-led Congress government’s contributions for the well-being of the poor in the health and education sector are unparalleled. Through Arogyasri, he opened private and corporate hospital treatment free of cost to the poor, and through fee reimbursement, he gave free education to the poor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-cong-to-play-ysr-card/articleshow/77919945.cms||Roushan Ali
September 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Players want tournament dates to be deferred||Ludhiana: At a time when rising number of Covid-19 cases have created havoc across the country, local players have raised a demand before the members of several sports association for extending the tentative dates of forthcoming national as well as state championships as they were not able to get the best coaching due to the restrictions during the lockdown and rise in Covid cases. Although, the district sports department have taken the decision to resume the physical training at their 15 coaching centres across the district after getting directions, so that players can join the physical workout sessions of the local coaches of the department to improve their fitness level to compete in the national as well as state championships, which will kick off in the next few months. A local player, Aryan Kumar, who is also national champion in judo, said, “We are getting physical training from local coaches of district sports department after four months. Besides, players are not prepared for the forthcoming championships because they couldn't get proper sports training in view of the shutdown of all training in the past four months due to the pandemic.” Another local player Tarun Kumar, a karate player, said, “Members of different sports associations have only announced tentative dates after looking at the ongoing situation. I hope they will soon declare the new tentative dates of upcoming tournaments because cases are increasing with each passing day and may affect players also.” Speaking to TOI another local player Gary Sharma said, “Athletic Addiction has made it clear that the sports association will not conduct any tournament. In future it will conduct a tournament only after looking at the ongoing situation of the health emergency. Besides, the situation is not cooperative now and to think of conducting any tournament is not right. Besides, players are not in a state to perform properly in upcoming tournaments of any level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/players-want-tournament-dates-to-be-deferred/articleshow/77919940.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Star hotels cut tariffs, but reopen to cold reception||CHENNAI: It’s three days since hotels reopened for business, but most star hotels, budget hotels and resorts are finding it tough in the absence of leisure travel and few business travellers to cater to. Star hotels, which depended on foreign and domestic business travellers and ran at 60% occupancy easily pre-Covid, are struggling to find guests now. “They’re looking for patrons among city residents, and are encouraging workcations — vacations for work,” said Aashish Gupta, consulting CEO, FAITH (Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality). Anand S is one who wanted the escape and moved to ITC Grand Chola for a few days. “I have a house in the city but wanted the peace that I get here (hotel) as I am working on a business plan. I take my food at the room and there is minimal contact.” The government’s nod on Thursday to reopen bars in star hotels has brought some relief to hoteliers. “Hotels out of town, on the outskirts, may benefit on weekends, but it is going to be tough for large-format business hotels because their revenue mainly came from meetings, exhibitions, weddings, incentive gatherings,” said Gupta. He added that it will take 12 to 18 months for the sector to return to pre-Covid scene. Online booking sites are offering 20% to 50% discounts on room tariffs, but there is barely more they can do to attract customers. A star hotel, typically incurs an expense of at least Rs 20,000 for a room that has a tariff of Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000. Gupta said, “There is a fixed cost always. They can’t switch on just one light, the AC is common, and then there is the cost of support staff, maintenance, security. So the more a hotel is run below the break-even point, more is the loss. But they can’t keep their gates closed either as they’d lose the 10% business they see now.” Rajesh Radhakrishnan, general manager at The Park, Chennai, said, “The initial response is slow but we see a lot of interest in intimate in-room celebrations such as birthdays, anniversaries.” The general sentiment is positive, said Zubin Songadwala, area manager – South, ITC Hotels said. “We have bookings for premium luxury rooms, suites for safe staycations and day use for working professionals. Restaurant dining has also been very encouraging since reopening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-no-leisure-travellers-hotels-reopen-to-cold-reception-peg-hopes-on-city-dwellers/articleshow/77919938.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong facing questions on performance, SAD on religious issues||Jalandhar: While the Congress government in Punjab is facing serious questions over different issues, the Shiromani Akali Dal too is facing questions on religious front, lately due to working of the Shriomani Gurdwar Parbandhak Committee. When opposition parties are going all out on the issue of post matric scholarship scam, no Congress functionary — minister, MLA or office-bearer — has come forward to defend minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. CM Amarinder Singh has asked the chief secretary to probe the allegations further. Not just the scholarship scam, issues like illegal mining, illegal liquor production and hooch tragedy too Congressmen have not come forward to defend the government. Despite claims, weakness in healthcare infrastructure in the state has come out due to the pandemic. “Even if one can keep aside the issue of involvement of minister’s involvement. it is clear that irregularities are there and ultimately it will be our party which will be held responsible for letting this happen. The students have been hit,” admitted a Congress MLA. The Akali Dal has, however, not been able to make the most of the situation. The party is grappling with several issues – Bargari sacrilege, Behbal Kalan police firing, promoting and protecting former DGP Sumedh Saini, and workings of SGPC. The missing birs of Guru Granth Sahib is an issue still unfolding and demands for fixing responsibility of its top office-bearers and whereabouts of birs are rising. Already, misrepresentation and concealing of information about the number of birs gutted by fire in 2016, have been a thorn in SAD leadership’s side. For years, SAD top brass enjoyed complete hegemony on SGPC and others had little say in its affairs. Now, it has to no one else to share the blame for the alleged serious wrongdoings in SGPC. Just like the Congress, not many senior Akalis are coming forward to defend SGPC. “We are simply unable to explain these big failures to the Sikh community when negative information about working of SGPC and by implication about SAD is spreading fast,” said a senior SGPC member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-facing-questions-on-performance-sad-on-religious-issues/articleshow/77919937.cms||IP Singh
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Students with F1 visa get priority, H-1B holders anxious||Hyderabad: Stuck with their kids in India, H-1B holders are complaining about the priority being given to F1 visa students by the local US consulate. In a letter addressed to the consulate, Pramod Alagandhula, who is stuck in Karminagar, wrote: “Her (daughter’s) classes started on August 26th, 2020 and she is trying to attend her online classes from India. Due to the time difference and the class time being night in India, she is unable to attend classes completely.” Even though he attended non-immigrant (H-1B) visa interview on February 20, they have not responded yet. While the Trump administration had made a presidential proclamation on June 22 restricting entry of H-1B individuals into US, it later exempted H1B work visa holders from the rule if they return to ongoing and not new jobs. In spite of being exempted, people, who completed formalities and got stuck during processing, are stuck as Consulate has not take a decision regarding them. This is even as it accepts fresh F1 visa applications, which are used by prospective university students. A spokesperson from the US Consulate in Hyderabad said: “To protect health and safety of our staff, customers, we are only able to accommodate a limited number of mission critical visa cases. Consular sections across India are now accepting drop box applications at Visa Application Centers across India for student and exchange visitor visa renewals (F, M, and J categories) and H and L visa renewals that qualify for an exception to the June 22 Presidential Proclamation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-with-f1-visa-get-priority-h-1b-holders-anxious/articleshow/77919942.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||At 18%, Telangana has maximum coronavirus-hit health workers||HYDERABAD: Telangana has the highest positivity rate of 18% coronavirus cases among healthcare workers in India, followed by Maharashtra and Delhi. Over 2,000 healthcare workers in the state have tested positive so far and there are an estimated 90,000 healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duties in the state. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in New Delhi that the Centre has alerted Telangana and other states which have recorded high positivity rate among health workers. The ministry has asked states to trace and monitor localities from which these healthcare workers are coming. In Hyderabad, Telangana health secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi said the government will look into the figures. “These are not our figures, we will have to look into the basis of the report and analyse before commenting further,” he said. After Telangana, Maharashtra (16%), Delhi (14%), Karnataka (13%), Puducherry (12%) and Punjab (11%) are the states with high percentage of healthcare workers hit by Covid-19. “We are looking at healthcare workers as a group including doctors, nurses and paramedics. These are precious resources and there is need to be alert and protect the health of our healthcare workers,” Bhushan said. Ever since the pandemic broke in March this year in Telangana, doctors and nurses have complained about poor safety gear and PPEs given to them by authorities and rising infection among their colleagues. Frontline healthcare staff have also blamed the quality of masks for the infections. Bhushan raised similar concerns about the possibility of these hospital-acquired infections and asked the state governments to check if the proper process of wearing and removing PPE kits were being followed. “We are being supplied 70 gsm PPE kits from the state health department whereas a minimum of 90 gsm should be there for healthcare workers. In fact, the quality of donated kits and masks are much better. There was a problem with gloves for two days and we were using examination gloves instead of sterile surgical gloves. Also, in some places the donning and doffing rooms are the same which should not be the case,” said a frontline doctor, speaking on conditions of anonymity. The official also stressed the need to ensure that the standard operating procedures and a system for checking proper wearing and removing of PPE kits is followed. “So we have drawn the attention of states and Puducherry being a Union Territory through the ministry of home affairs that this is one issue that highlights the hospital infection practices. After all we must raise the question of how healthcare workers are getting infected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-18-t-has-maximum-virus-hit-health-workers/articleshow/77921455.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Change face of rural Ayodhya: CM to officials||Lucknow: Stating that with the construction of Ram temple, the life in Ayodhya is all set to undergo a drastic change, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanathexhorted district officials to ensure that even rural areas catch up with the changing time. “All developmental and welfare projects must be completed within stipulated timeline. Authorities must ensure that projects are not delayed as that amounts to unnecessary cost escalation,” the CM said at a meeting to review various development projects in the district on Thursday. Evaluating projects worth over Rs 50 crore, the CM said that developmental projects will not suffer for want of funds from the government. The CM said that since it was not possible for public representatives to reach every spot for quality check the district administration should function as nodal officers and work in tandem with the people’s representative to ensure logical culmination of the developmental works. He warned the officials that there shall be no compromise on the quality and timeline of the projects. The designated nodal officers should go and do physical verification of the development works and if found lacking the working agency should be held responsible and liable to be punished. He told officials to expedite construction of community toilets and gram panchayat buildings. He said the land disputes should be disposed of promptly as the land requirement is a prerequisite for developmental projects.He told district officials to encourage the youth for start-ups and facilitate bank loans for them. The CM lauded Ayodhya for clearing cane dues and expressed satisfaction over power distribution. He, however, warned officials with regard to complaints against faulty billing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/change-face-of-rural-ayodhya-cm-to-officials/articleshow/77920941.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT student ends life||Hyderabad: A 19-year-old IIIT student, S Tejaswini, committed suicide by hanging at her house in Mallial mandal of Jagitial district on Thursday. A suspicious death case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-student-ends-life/articleshow/77919947.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Balapur laddu presented to KCR||Hyderabad: The Balapur laddu, considered sacred and precious by devotees, reached the Pragathi Bhavan on Thursday. K Chandrasekhar Rao is the first CM to receive the Balapur laddu. Usually, devotees spend lakhs of rupees to buy the laddu in an auction. However, due to Covid-19 situation, laddu auctions across the twin cities were cancelled this year. The members of Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi led by president Niranjan Reddy met KCR at Pragathi Bhavan in presence of education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and presented the 21kg laddu. “The CM was quite happy to receive the Ganesh laddu. He thanked the utsav committee for its gesture,” Niranjan Reddy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/balapur-laddu-presented-to-kcr/articleshow/77919970.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan case: Cop records statement to turn approver||Bathinda: Punjab Police inspector Pardeep Singh, who wants to become an approver in the case over killing of two protesters at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, got his statement recorded on Wednesday in the court and sought pardon. Pardeep in his statement before Ilaqa Magistrate Chetan Sharma claimed that he is the prime witness of the firing case, as he had seen every aspect of the incident from close quarters. The court, however, has not issued any order on his request for pardon. Earlier, he had appeared in the court of district and sessions judge Sumit Malhotra and the court had set September 24 as the date to consider the case. But, Pardeep, then reader to then Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, who is also an accused in the case, again appeared with a plea that he wants to give his statement at the earliest, following which the court directed him to approach the court of ilaqa magistrate. Pardeep was reportedly present at the site of police firing when two protesters were killed at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. Besides Charanjit Sharma, IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, SP Bikramjit Singh, Inspector Pardeep Singh and several others are accused in the case. The case was registered on October 21, 2015. Though initially no one was named in the case, later the police officers were identified as the accused. Meanwhile, the court of Faridkot district and sessions judge has rejected the bail application of then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher. He is accused of fabricating evidence and tampering the official record in the Kotkapura firing case. Pandher was also named in the Behbal Kalan firing case on July 15, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/behbal-kalan-case-cop-records-statement-to-turn-approver/articleshow/77919949.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 6.5 crore blow to govt, ex-IMS director booked||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths registered a fresh case against former director of insurance medical services (IMS) Ch Devika Rani and eight others for misappropriating Rs 6.5 crore government money. Srihari Babu played a key role in the fraud by submitting fake letter to IMS as authorised distributor of Hemocue HB cuvettes to procure purchase orders from IMS Director in favour of his shell firm, Legend Enterprises during 2017-2018. rihari Babu used to procure HB cuvettes of Hemocue for Rs 3,300 per unit and by routing the same through Omni Healthcare, Omni Medi, OmniEnterprisess and Legend Enterprises, he used to sell the HB Cuvettes to IMS for Rs 16,500 per unit, charging Rs 11,700 in excess per unit, said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-6-5-crore-blow-to-govt-ex-ims-director-booked/articleshow/77919948.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Beer cheaper as AP revises alcohol rates||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday reduced prices of lower category liquor but increased price of medium to higher categories. In lower categories, prices were cut by 25% to 45% and in higher categories, prices were increased by 33% to 45%. The prices were increased in six categories while the price of one category remains unchanged. The prices of beer and ready-to-drink varieties were reduced by 30% uniformly. While stating that it was committed to implement prohibition in a phased manner, the government justified the rationalisation of liquor prices citing two reasons. The government said that there has been a sudden spike in liquor smuggling cases after upward revision of liquor prices in May. According to the enforcement data from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), liquor smuggling cases were increased by 321% from May 15 till July 31. The comparison was made out of average number of cases being reported for every 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beer-cheaper-as-ap-revises-alcohol-rates/articleshow/77919978.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Jobs slowly revive in Telangana, rate of unemployment falls to 5%||HYDERABAD: In what could cheer the ruling TRS, unemployment rate in the state is down to 5% in August — well below the national average of 8% — from 35% in May. Only Karnataka (below 1%), Odisha (1%), Gujarat (2%) and Meghalaya at 4% unemployment rate are faring better than Telangana and four other states, a survey by Centre For Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said. The turnaround in Telangana in just two months is being attributed to increased sowing operations and rise in manufacturing activity. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Chhattisgarh have also managed to cut down the unemployment rate to around 5%, CMIE said. Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit pandemic state in India, and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the second worst-affected state, are also staying afloat with unemployment rate hovering at 6% and 7% respectively. The CMIE survey said Telangana had the highest unemployment rate in May this year, which was also the highest unemployment rate since 2016 going by the average monthly unemployment rate. “Telangana stood second with 15% unemployment rate in June in the entire country. Thanks to some innovative unlock measures, the state was able to push down the unemployment rate to 5%,” it said. Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan said Telangana was the first state in the country to revive manufacturing sector soon after unlock 2.0. “By end of May, we quickly set in motion the supply chain with other states. Whether it was supply of raw material or farming-related equipment or revival of industrial activity, we took a clear-cut stand and set the ball rolling with renewed zeal despite the pandemic,” he told TOI. According to Mahesh Vyas of CMIE, Telangana should now consolidate its gains. “The labour participation in Telangana had crossed 60% in August. This was much higher than pre-lockdown period thanks to smart recovery of economy and revival of agri operations in rural Telangana. A healthy kharif is also one of the key factors for the fall in unemployment rate,” he told TOI. However, T Muralidharan, chairman of the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said it was too early to assume that the state was on the recovery path. “Yes, the unemployment rate has come down. But, there will always be people whom we call ‘willingly unemployed.’ These are the people who do not seek jobs as they do not get a standard income. Telangana has about 10 lakh such people. Focus should be on reviving their fortunes too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jobs-slowly-revive-in-t-rate-of-unemployment-falls-to-5/articleshow/77921469.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Zoo inmates forge new bonds as adoption drive draws philanthropists to their habitat||LUCKNOW: For 16-year-old Ashita Shukla, the best way to use her savings seemed to be taking care of a white peacock at Lucknow zoo for over a year. The Faridinagar resident joined the club of philanthropists by adopting an inmate of Lucknow zoo on August 19, after donating Rs 3,200. Shukla had heard about the adoption scheme through articles in newspapers and decided to spend her savings in a useful way and signed her first cheque. “Being a biology student, I love flora and fauna. Currently, white peacock was the only inmate I could afford. I have already started saving for adopting more inmates of the zoo and help in wildlife conservation,” she said. Shukla is not the only resident of the city who has adopted animals and birds in Lucknow zoo. After receiving encouraging response to its animal adoption programme launched during the Covid-19 period, Lucknow zoo has raised approximately Rs 72 lakh for its 1,000 inmates with the help of over 34 wildlife conservation enthusiasts who got on board after zoo authorities launched a public support campaign. Social media helped spread the word on behalf of zoo inmates. A number of people adopted white peacocks, the care of which requires Rs 3,200 for a year. Others adopted chimpanzee at Rs 51,000 for a year, Indian cobra at Rs 5,600 for a year and crocodile for Rs 10,000 for a year, among others. Around 51 inmates have been adopted between March and August. “A sum of Rs 5.43 lakh was raised with the help of general public, while companies like HCL donated Rs 67 lakh for food for animals and sanitization at zoo for two months. HAL donated four battery-operated vehicles and a machine to crush plastic bottles. Staff of Lucknow zoo also donated Rs 2.5 lakh. We have received an overwhelming response by the people in a short span of time,” said zoo director RK Singh. The zoo is home to 1,000 animals of about 100 species, 10 species of reptiles, about 50 species of birds, five species of deer, monkeys, among others. With more than 5,000 trees of 1,000 species on its campus, zoo has also been extensively contributing towards the environment. Due to lockdown, zoo had been facing a major fund crunch since March as its major revenue comes from ticket sales. As it was left with little money that could have sustained activities only for a month, to continue appropriate feed to animals, security and cleanliness of campus, zoo had launched the campaign under its already popular animal adoption scheme as part of their corporate social responsibility activities. Those who adopt animals will get income tax rebate and their names will be displayed at enclosures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zoo-inmates-forge-new-bonds-as-adoption-drive-draws-philanthropists-to-their-habitat/articleshow/77920951.cms||Aditi Singh
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three zones report most Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city comprising Bodakdev, Thaltej, Memnagar, Ghatlodia and Gota reported an increase of 37 active Covid cases while Ranip, Vasna, Paldi, Naranpura and Navrangpura reported 25 more active cases on Thursday. South West Zone areas comprising Vejalpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Maktampura and Sarkhej reported addition of 15 active cases. In all, 61 persons were discharged. The officials that of the total 3,073 active cases, 1,543 are in western part of the city. The North West Zone has 529 cases followed by 514 in the West Zone and 500 in South West Zone. A senior AMC official of the South West Zone said that the high number of cases was because of intensive contact tracing of positive cases. Aggressive testing is also one of the reasons, he said. In the South West Zone, 13,000 tests were conducted in the last two days. Teams of doctors and paramedical staff are being sent to different societies for testing. The officials said that Central and North Zone are reporting the least cases. Cases in Central Zone for the past two-three weeks have remained around 310. The cases in North Zone are constantly going down. In micro-containment zones, most of the societies are from Bopal-Ghuma, Memnagar, Chandlodia, Ghatlodia, Bodakdev and Jodhpur. In all, 850-odd people are quarantined in Chanakyapuri and over 900 in Chandlodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-zones-report-most-cases/articleshow/77920961.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||3 universities shut departments after Covid-19 cases on campus||Lucknow: Ahead of examinations of final year students scheduled next week, four Covid-19 cases, including a death from among the staff members of three state universities in Lucknow, were recorded in the past 24 hours till Thursday evening. Subsequently, the universities closed the departments whose staff were found positive for sanitization. Officers, however, said surfacing of cases and closure will not have any impact on the examinations of the final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses.. An employee of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU) succumbed to the infection, while a professor in Lucknow University and two non-teaching employees of Dr APJ Kalam Technical University (AKTU) tested Covid positive. AKTU administration decided to close the campus till September 5 as a precautionary measure after two class IV employees tested positive on Wednesday. “Besides closure, we have got the campus sanitized and all the other employees are being tested,” said AKTU spokesperson Ashish Mishra. He also said examinations will begin as per schedule, for which directions have been issued to all the affiliated colleges to take extra precaution. At LU, a geology professor tested positive for coronavirus. “He last came to the campus on August 25. We got the entire department sanitized and have alerted all teaching and non-teaching employees who came in his contact to self-isolate and get themselves tested,” said university spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. “The exams will be held as per the scheme announced earlier,” he added. At DSMNRU, 10 non-teaching employees applied for leave together after an employee of the accounts section who was tested Covid positive earlier, died on Wednesday night. University registrar Amit Kumar Singh did not approve leave but closed the campus for a day on Thursday for sanitization. He also said that there was no change in the exam schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-universities-shut-departments-after-covid-19-cases-on-campus/articleshow/77920956.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||82-yr-old woman rejected by kids: DC for legal action against son||Bathinda: In his report to the Punjab state women’s commission on the plight of an 82-year-old woman who spent her last days in miserable conditions, Muktsar deputy commissioner M K Aravind Kumar has recommended legal action against one of her sons and the caretaker. In his 10-page report sent on Wednesday, he has stated that Balwinder Singh, with whom the elderly woman was residing, failed in his duty of taking care of her. Mahinder Kaur was found in a small brick shelter by the roadside in a semi-naked state and with maggots crawling on her head on August 15. She was rescued by police and shifted to Muktsar civil hospital. The medics referred her to a higher facility in Faridkot, where she passed away. Kumar told TOI that going by the report prepared by the Muktsar SDM, it was found that one of her sons had left her to die and legal action has been recommended against him. The Punjab state women’s commission had summoned the deceased woman’s sons and daughters on August 24 to explain their behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/82-yr-old-woman-rejected-by-kids-dc-for-legal-action-against-son/articleshow/77920023.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Plea seeks deletion of of all data collected through Aarogya Setu||BENGALURU: An amended petition filed in the high court has sought a direction to permanently delete all data collected through the Aarogya Setu app, including data transferred to third parties. The petition was filed by Anivar A Aravind, a resident of Bengaluru, who claims to be a digital rights activist associated with a New Delhi-based NGO. He claims, as per the Supreme Court’s judgement in the Puttaswamy case on the Aadhaar issue, no data can be collected by state/authorities under any circumstances sans supporting legislation or an enactment. He states no exception is made even if the data is offered voluntarily. Aravind claims that Aarogya Setu Open API service, which was launched on August 22 this year, is a software intermediary which allows two different applications to interact. He says the introduction of an API service is yet another “function creep” in Aarogya Setu, which was initially launched as a “contact-tracing” app. He states the API software, which can be used by a company with more than 50 employees/ users/ customers, paves the way for employers to access health status of employees, which could result in unequal bargaining in employee-employer relationship. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka adjourned the hearing indicating it will decide the main issue as to whether the government can make Aarogya Setu app mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/plea-seeks-deletion-of-of-all-data-collected-through-aarogya-setu/articleshow/77918715.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat crosses 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Thursday became 11th Indian state to have 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive patients. As it recorded 1,325 new positive cases – the highest single-day tally – in 24 hours ending 5pm. The total cases in Gujarat now stand at 1,00,375. Analysis of the 1 lakh cases suggests that last 25,000 cases were recorded in 23 days and it took 90 days for the state to cross the first 25,000 cases. The new cases include 272 from Surat, 166 from Ahmedabad, 135 from Rajkot, 123 from Vadodara and 115 from Jamnagar. With the update, the total tally for Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,098 and 21,409. The two districts account for 53% of the total cases recorded so far. However, share of the two districts have recorded dip in the last 25,000 cases. Gujarat recorded deaths of 16 positive patients in last 24 hours, taking the state death toll to 3,064.  The deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Bharuch and Gandhinagar. Analysis of the mortality rate reveals that compared to 6.2% patients dying due to Covid-19 in first 25,000 cases, it got reduced to 1.3% in the last 25,000 cases. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, said that due to daily monitoring, the state machinery has responded to evolving situations and made required changes in the strategy. “It’s reflected in reduction in fatalities and test positivity rate,” he said. A total of 1,126 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 81,180. The discharges include 291 from Surat, 198 from Vadodara, 125 from Rajkot, 110 from Jamnagar, and 76 from Ahmedabad With the update, the number of active patients reached all-time high of 16,131, that accounts for 16% of the total cases so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 3.1% and 80.9% respectively. The state carried out 75,487 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 25.59 lakh. The state health department claimed that it’s 1,161 tests per day per million. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.54 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 527 persons were under facility quarantine, whereas others were under home quarantine. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that it’s time to reflect on the future course of action. “Our analysis reveals that the occupancy rate has remained nearly full for the non-AMC beds. About 10-15% of the total patients require intensive care or ICU treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-crosses-1l-cumulative-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77928091.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Safe at centre but not in public transport, say JEE aspirants||By: Raghav Duggal LUCKNOW: Joint Entrance Examination (Main) aspirants, who reached their centres using various modes of public transport, shared that a candidate is safe at the exam centre but not while commuting. Talking about the the potential hazards, candidates, who came to the city from Azamgarh, Jaunpur and Unnao in UPSRTC buses, said people were not sitting diagonally, one seat was shared by two and even three with no physical distance. “ I came from Jaunpur to take the test. There was neither any social distancing at terminals nor in buses. Passengers were sitting next to each other just as it was during non-Covid days. Even here, local autorickshaws are stuffed with passengers,” Rahul Yadav, a JEE aspirant, sighed. Another candidate Priyanshu Rawat from Pratapgarh grumbled about the same thing. “ Some people were even not wearing masks even when the cases are on a rise. Forget about maintaining a distance, few people pushed each other to exit as we reached the bus stand.” Some students also complained that local auto drivers were without face masks. Ujjwal, a candidate from Bahraich, said “ Auto drivers are not wearing face masks, increasing the possibility of spreading Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/safe-at-centre-but-not-in-public-transport-say-jee-aspirants/articleshow/77920966.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water board ropes in SHG women to collect dues||HYDERABAD: Despite many initiatives being launched by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) earlier to collect crores of rupees of water dues from water bill defaulters, the goal could not be reached. Now, the water board has chosen a new method involving women self-help groups (SHGs), to collect nearly Rs 500 crore water dues from the defaulters. The fund-starved Water Board, which launched a ‘one-time settlement’ (OTS) scheme the last month, has taken a serious note to collect dues to the tune of Rs 500 crore from the defaulters, by availing a facility of interest waived off. “The women visit the defaulters’ premises, based on the defaulters and dues lists, being provided by the HMWS&SB general managers concerned, and request them to clear dues. The reason for allotting the areas to the women is they can easily identify the local residents. The water board has issued temporary ID cards to the identified women groups,” according to a senior HMWS&SB official. The water board is paying an amount of Rs 10,000 to each SHG woman as honorarium for assistance in collecting the dues, which are pending for more than a decade, he said. “Our water board will assist the SHG women track the defaulters. The defaulters can pay either using Google Pay, Paytm or E-PoS machines on the spot. The defaulters can pay at water board’s cash counters too, added the official. Meanwhile, the water board announced the OTS scheme will also be applicable to government departments as well. The defaulters can pay their dues until September 15 under the OTS scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-ropes-in-shg-women-to-collect-dues/articleshow/77920027.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 4, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat crosses 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Thursday became 11th Indian state to have 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive patients. As it recorded 1,325 new positive cases – the highest single-day tally – in 24 hours ending 5pm. The total cases in Gujarat now stand at 1,00,375. Analysis of the 1 lakh cases suggests that last 25,000 cases were recorded in 23 days and it took 90 days for the state to cross the first 25,000 cases. The new cases include 272 from Surat, 166 from Ahmedabad, 135 from Rajkot, 123 from Vadodara and 115 from Jamnagar. With the update, the total tally for Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,098 and 21,409. The two districts account for 53% of the total cases recorded so far. However, share of the two districts have recorded dip in the last 25,000 cases. Gujarat recorded deaths of 16 positive patients in last 24 hours, taking the state death toll to 3,064.  The deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Bharuch and Gandhinagar. Analysis of the mortality rate reveals that compared to 6.2% patients dying due to Covid-19 in first 25,000 cases, it got reduced to 1.3% in the last 25,000 cases. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, said that due to daily monitoring, the state machinery has responded to evolving situations and made required changes in the strategy. “It’s reflected in reduction in fatalities and test positivity rate,” he said. A total of 1,126 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 81,180. The discharges include 291 from Surat, 198 from Vadodara, 125 from Rajkot, 110 from Jamnagar, and 76 from Ahmedabad With the update, the number of active patients reached all-time high of 16,131, that accounts for 16% of the total cases so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 3.1% and 80.9% respectively. The state carried out 75,487 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 25.59 lakh. The state health department claimed that it’s 1,161 tests per day per million. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.54 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 527 persons were under facility quarantine, whereas others were under home quarantine. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that it’s time to reflect on the future course of action. “Our analysis reveals that the occupancy rate has remained nearly full for the non-AMC beds. About 10-15% of the total patients require intensive care or ICU treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-crosses-1l-cumulative-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77928087.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Surat||Gujarat crosses 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Thursday became 11th Indian state to have 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive patients. As it recorded 1,325 new positive cases – the highest single-day tally – in 24 hours ending 5pm. The total cases in Gujarat now stand at 1,00,375. Analysis of the 1 lakh cases suggests that last 25,000 cases were recorded in 23 days and it took 90 days for the state to cross the first 25,000 cases. The new cases include 272 from Surat, 166 from Ahmedabad, 135 from Rajkot, 123 from Vadodara and 115 from Jamnagar. With the update, the total tally for Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,098 and 21,409. The two districts account for 53% of the total cases recorded so far. However, share of the two districts have recorded dip in the last 25,000 cases. Gujarat recorded deaths of 16 positive patients in last 24 hours, taking the state death toll to 3,064.  The deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Bharuch and Gandhinagar. Analysis of the mortality rate reveals that compared to 6.2% patients dying due to Covid-19 in first 25,000 cases, it got reduced to 1.3% in the last 25,000 cases. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, said that due to daily monitoring, the state machinery has responded to evolving situations and made required changes in the strategy. “It’s reflected in reduction in fatalities and test positivity rate,” he said. A total of 1,126 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 81,180. The discharges include 291 from Surat, 198 from Vadodara, 125 from Rajkot, 110 from Jamnagar, and 76 from Ahmedabad With the update, the number of active patients reached all-time high of 16,131, that accounts for 16% of the total cases so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 3.1% and 80.9% respectively. The state carried out 75,487 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 25.59 lakh. The state health department claimed that it’s 1,161 tests per day per million. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.54 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 527 persons were under facility quarantine, whereas others were under home quarantine. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that it’s time to reflect on the future course of action. “Our analysis reveals that the occupancy rate has remained nearly full for the non-AMC beds. About 10-15% of the total patients require intensive care or ICU treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-crosses-1l-cumulative-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77928094.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat crosses 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Thursday became 11th Indian state to have 1 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive patients. As it recorded 1,325 new positive cases – the highest single-day tally – in 24 hours ending 5pm. The total cases in Gujarat now stand at 1,00,375. Analysis of the 1 lakh cases suggests that last 25,000 cases were recorded in 23 days and it took 90 days for the state to cross the first 25,000 cases. The new cases include 272 from Surat, 166 from Ahmedabad, 135 from Rajkot, 123 from Vadodara and 115 from Jamnagar. With the update, the total tally for Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,098 and 21,409. The two districts account for 53% of the total cases recorded so far. However, share of the two districts have recorded dip in the last 25,000 cases. Gujarat recorded deaths of 16 positive patients in last 24 hours, taking the state death toll to 3,064.  The deaths included five from Surat, three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Bharuch and Gandhinagar. Analysis of the mortality rate reveals that compared to 6.2% patients dying due to Covid-19 in first 25,000 cases, it got reduced to 1.3% in the last 25,000 cases. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, said that due to daily monitoring, the state machinery has responded to evolving situations and made required changes in the strategy. “It’s reflected in reduction in fatalities and test positivity rate,” he said. A total of 1,126 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 81,180. The discharges include 291 from Surat, 198 from Vadodara, 125 from Rajkot, 110 from Jamnagar, and 76 from Ahmedabad With the update, the number of active patients reached all-time high of 16,131, that accounts for 16% of the total cases so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 3.1% and 80.9% respectively. The state carried out 75,487 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 25.59 lakh. The state health department claimed that it’s 1,161 tests per day per million. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.54 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 527 persons were under facility quarantine, whereas others were under home quarantine. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that it’s time to reflect on the future course of action. “Our analysis reveals that the occupancy rate has remained nearly full for the non-AMC beds. About 10-15% of the total patients require intensive care or ICU treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-crosses-1l-cumulative-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77920977.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine Navneet employees test positive||Ahmedabad: As a part of an intensive Covid testing drive, 289 employees of Navneet Press on Gurukul Road were checked on Thursday. Nine were found to be corona positive. The AMC health officer in a statement said the Covid positive employees were asked to be quarantined either at their homes or at the quarantine centres in the city. The officials said 810 persons were tested at 93 construction sites and three were tested positive in South West Zone and two were tested positive in Central Zone. The five tested positive were sent to the Covid care centre and at the Covid hospitals in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-navneet-employees-test-positive/articleshow/77920991.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Ahead of polls, GHMC panel gives big push to civic works||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) standing committee on Thursday approved several proposals with an eye on upcoming elections. Budget of the projects which need government approval was reduced to speed up works. A proposal to extend services of a retried officer was rejected as All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) members had opposed it during the previous general body meeting in February. “Construction of a multi-purpose function hall at Tarnaka was proposed at an estimate of Rs 6.9 crore, but its estimate was reduced to Rs 6 crore and the proposal was approved,” a standing committee member said. “If the estimate of a work exceeds Rs 6 crore, it needs government approval. The government nod is a time-consuming effort, so the estimate was reduced and the proposal was approved,“ another member said. A proposal to construct a model crematorium at Dhaniyalgutta at Begumpet at a cost Rs 4.6 crore, construction of two Rythu Bazars at Ramchandrapuram and Patancheru at a cost of nearly Rs 3 crore were also approved. A proposal to grant Rs 1 lakh to each corporator exclusively to purchase sports material was also approved by the committee. A proposal to increase the number of of sterilisations and anti-rabies vaccinations to control street dog population and rabies also got the nod. “ABC/AR (animal birth control/anti-rabies) in GHMC will be taken up with the help of animal welfare organizations by inviting expression of interest (EOI),” Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who chaired the meeting, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-polls-ghmc-panel-gives-big-push-to-civic-works/articleshow/77920048.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1 lakh inmates in 70 UP jails tested, only 2% infected||Lucknow: In a massive Covid-19 testing drive, 1.04 lakh prison inmates in 70 jails of UP were tested between April 15 and September 2. A total 1,949 inmates were found Covid positive, which, jail authorities claim is about 2% of the total prisoners in the state and the lowest in the country. Jail department officials said that despite having the largest number of prisoners (1.6 lakh) the state has only 2% infected inmates. Officials added that Uttar Pradesh is the only state in the country to have tested over 1 lakh inmates. DG prisons, Anand Kumar said that each prisoner in the state would be tested for Covid. Kumar said the spread of Covid virus was checked because of quick response from the government and providing jails with all the necessary resources. Additional IG, jails, Sharad said 18 jails, which had over 20 positive cases, were converted into L-1 hospital after approval of the chief medical officer and assistance of the district administration. “All the prisoners were under constant watch of the doctors and an ambulance was made available for those whose condition was critical,” he said. Yoga sessions and nutritious diet have been made mandatory for inmates, which has helped to boost immunity of the inmates, he said. He added that testing would continue and also those who are not improving will be admitted to the hospitals. Uttar Pradesh has been lauded for checking virus spread in its jails. In a webinar organised recently for prisons department of all states, UP model of checking virus spread in jails was widely discussed and many states showed inerest in incorporating it. Uttar Pradesh prisons department has also set-up public call office (PCO) in every prison for inmates to communicate with their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1-lakh-inmates-in-70-up-jails-tested-only-2-infected/articleshow/77920997.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||4.5L tonnes urea to be distributed||Hyderabad: Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy on Thursday said the government would disburse 4.5 lakh tonnes of urea to farmers. The minister said the extent of cultivation had increased in the state and so has the use of urea had gone up. By August-end, the state was supposed to get 2.5 lakh tonnes of urea and another 2.1 lakh tonnes of fertiliser by September-end, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-5l-tonnes-urea-to-be-distributed/articleshow/77920083.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Faridabad||Raisina farmhouses under scanner for CLU and building plan approvals||GURUGRAM: Farmhouses in Raisina and other parts of Sohna in the Aravalis, which were constructed after 2015 when Sohna was incorporated into the municipal area, are under scrutiny for violations similar to those at Bandhwari. Along with the farmhouses, several adventure parks and other commercial structures have come up in this area but none of them has a change of land use (CLU) or building plan approval, necessary for construction in urban areas, from the civic body. “With the help of satellite images, we will check all constructions that have come up after 2015, particularly in the hills. Action will be taken if the municipal act has been violated,” said MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who is also the district municipal commissioner. He added that like the Bandhwari farmhouses, which were demolished after the Supreme Court took cognisance of a report published in TOI, the properties in Sohna too, if constructed without CLU and building plan approval, will face similar action. In 1990, the Ansals took a no-objection certificate from the department of town and country planning for development of orchards and farms over 1,200 acres of land in Sohna’s Raisina. The builder developed the area with a road network and other civic infrastructure and sold small portions of land to different individuals as ‘farms’ in Ansal Aravali Retreat and Golden Heights. At that time, this did not come under ‘controlled area’, and therefore no licence was required. A portion of the land parcel was earlier shamlat (common village land) but is now under the municipal corporation. The ownership claim is being contested in court. “Sale and purchase of the land was not illegal, but carrying out construction without any approval and permission was,” said Singh. In 1991, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) came up with the Aravali Notification prohibiting any kind of construction, and even electrification, in the Aravalis. But farmhouses continued to be built in violation of the rules. The Haryana Pollution Control Board (HSPB), the agency for enforcement, took the owners to the environment court in Faridabad, but the case was rejected on technical grounds. HSPB approached the high court and lost the case again. In June this year, the Sohna Municipal Council had served notices to farmhouse owners in Ansal Aravali Retreat and Golden Heights for illegal construction on ‘gair mumkin pahar’. Last week, the NGT directed the Haryana government to restore the forest in the Raisina hill area of the Aravalis within five months. District town planner RS Batth said they will seek details of revenue records to check the categories of land. “We will also urge the forest department to check if the area comes under their jurisdiction, and seek details from Sohna municipality about the notices served to the farmhouses,” he said. The forest department, however, has said the area is not under its jurisdiction. Kuldeep Kohli, owner of a farmhouse in Aravali Retreat, argued that the development had taken place before the Aravali Notification. “The area is not recorded as gair mumkin pahar in the revenue records,” he said, adding the farmhouses had not violated the law and were legal. Another owner of a farmhouse in Golden Heights said they were protecting the Aravalis from the mining mafias. “We have planted a large number of trees to maintain greenery,” he said. A senior forest official underlined the need to identify the scrub forest of the Aravalis and stop its clearance for the construction of farmhouses. “The story of the Aravalis is one of government apathy, lack of knowledge and intent. It’s high time the Aravalis are protected. There are some influential people that have had held the entire area to ransom,” said the official, not wishing to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/raisina-farmhouses-under-scanner-for-clu-and-building-plan-approvals/articleshow/77927872.cms||Bagish Jha
September 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Raisina farmhouses under scanner for CLU and building plan approvals||GURUGRAM: Farmhouses in Raisina and other parts of Sohna in the Aravalis, which were constructed after 2015 when Sohna was incorporated into the municipal area, are under scrutiny for violations similar to those at Bandhwari. Along with the farmhouses, several adventure parks and other commercial structures have come up in this area but none of them has a change of land use (CLU) or building plan approval, necessary for construction in urban areas, from the civic body. “With the help of satellite images, we will check all constructions that have come up after 2015, particularly in the hills. Action will be taken if the municipal act has been violated,” said MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who is also the district municipal commissioner. He added that like the Bandhwari farmhouses, which were demolished after the Supreme Court took cognisance of a report published in TOI, the properties in Sohna too, if constructed without CLU and building plan approval, will face similar action. In 1990, the Ansals took a no-objection certificate from the department of town and country planning for development of orchards and farms over 1,200 acres of land in Sohna’s Raisina. The builder developed the area with a road network and other civic infrastructure and sold small portions of land to different individuals as ‘farms’ in Ansal Aravali Retreat and Golden Heights. At that time, this did not come under ‘controlled area’, and therefore no licence was required. A portion of the land parcel was earlier shamlat (common village land) but is now under the municipal corporation. The ownership claim is being contested in court. “Sale and purchase of the land was not illegal, but carrying out construction without any approval and permission was,” said Singh. In 1991, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) came up with the Aravali Notification prohibiting any kind of construction, and even electrification, in the Aravalis. But farmhouses continued to be built in violation of the rules. The Haryana Pollution Control Board (HSPB), the agency for enforcement, took the owners to the environment court in Faridabad, but the case was rejected on technical grounds. HSPB approached the high court and lost the case again. In June this year, the Sohna Municipal Council had served notices to farmhouse owners in Ansal Aravali Retreat and Golden Heights for illegal construction on ‘gair mumkin pahar’. Last week, the NGT directed the Haryana government to restore the forest in the Raisina hill area of the Aravalis within five months. District town planner RS Batth said they will seek details of revenue records to check the categories of land. “We will also urge the forest department to check if the area comes under their jurisdiction, and seek details from Sohna municipality about the notices served to the farmhouses,” he said. The forest department, however, has said the area is not under its jurisdiction. Kuldeep Kohli, owner of a farmhouse in Aravali Retreat, argued that the development had taken place before the Aravali Notification. “The area is not recorded as gair mumkin pahar in the revenue records,” he said, adding the farmhouses had not violated the law and were legal. Another owner of a farmhouse in Golden Heights said they were protecting the Aravalis from the mining mafias. “We have planted a large number of trees to maintain greenery,” he said. A senior forest official underlined the need to identify the scrub forest of the Aravalis and stop its clearance for the construction of farmhouses. “The story of the Aravalis is one of government apathy, lack of knowledge and intent. It’s high time the Aravalis are protected. There are some influential people that have had held the entire area to ransom,” said the official, not wishing to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/raisina-farmhouses-under-scanner-for-clu-and-building-plan-approvals/articleshow/77921007.cms||Bagish Jha
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Alert citizens have helped in keepingNashik’s crime graph low: Nangre Patil||Nashik: Outgoing police commissioner Vishwas Nangre Patil on Thursday said alertness and awareness among citizens were the main reasons for the dip in the crime graph in the city.Nangre Patil, who has been transferred to Mumbai as additional commissioner of police, law and order, will be replaced by Deepak Pandey, who was serving as IG of Sudhar Seva in Mumbai.The officer, who is the brain behind “community policing” that helped in curbing crimes, had taken charge in March last year.“The concept of ‘Shejari Khara Paharekari’ (neighbour is the true guard) is very much evident in Nashik city. This has kept the crime graph low and major crimes like the armed dacoity at Muthoot Finance were a one-off incident,” he told reporters.Nangre Patil said his emphasis was always on visible policing to deter criminals from indulging in illegal activities. He also helped in developing leadership qualities among junior officers by making them in-charge of police chowkies.“Regular identity parade of criminals in front of officers helped in identifying the ones active in different parts of the city and preventing crimes,” he said. The officer said the work of setting up GPS on all police vehicles for betting monitoring of patrolling has also been taken up. Besides, the roads with private CCTVs have been connected with the police control room to help police in keeping a better vigil. Nangre Patil regretted the deaths of three police personnel from Covid 19, despite efforts to ensure that frontline Covid warriors did not catch the infection or succumb to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/alert-citizens-have-helped-in-keepingnashiks-crime-graph-low-nangre-patil/articleshow/77917562.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt informs HC on testing, SOPs implementation in Surat||Ahmedabad: In response to the Gujarat high court’s query about Covid-19 testing on labourers in Surat, the state government on Thursday submitted that testing has been continuously taking place in industrial areas and at railway stations and the bus stand. The high court sought details about Surat after Covid-19 cases surged there. In an affidavit filed by the principal health secretary, the HC was informed that after formulating the standard operating procedure (SOPs) for diamond and textile industries as well as a separate SOP for the GIDC, as many as 40,414 workers have been tested at industrial units and 835 were found to have Covid. Special checking and testing facilities have been created at the railway station for migrant labourers who are now returning. All passengers at the railway station are checked and symptomatic ones are tested for Covid 19. Till date, 6,761 passengers have been tested and 78 were found to have Covid. At the bus stand, 2,401 tests were conducted and 41 passengers tested positive. The government said that people are checked for Covid at five entry points to Surat. The government had earlier blamed the functioning of the diamond industry for the spread of Covid-19 in the industrial town. To contain this, the government has put much emphasis on strict adherence to SOPs laid down for different industries. The central enforcement team visits industrial units for checking. It checked 882 units and found violation of the SOP at 492 units. Of them, 176 units were given closure notices and 316 others were penalized. The Surat civic body collected Rs 7.3 lakh from these units as penalties. The SMC also monitors adherence to SOPs area wise. It issued closure notices to as many as 750 units and collected Rs 67.64 lakh in penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-informs-hc-on-testing-sops-implementation-in-surat/articleshow/77921004.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Can seek Calcutta HC order recall on financial details: Supreme Court to six CNI schools||KOLKATA: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked six schools in the city, governed by the Church of North India, to seek modification of the order issued by the Calcutta high court on August 18 that, among other things, asked institutes to submit income-expenditure details to a two-member expert committee for examination. An apex court division bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah said that till the HC passed order to the recall or modification petition, the August 18 order “would not be given effect to” and be “kept in abeyance”. The six CNI schools—the two La Martiniere schools, Pratt Memorial, St James’, St Thomas’ Howrah, and St John’s Diocesan School—are parties in a PIL in the Calcutta HC, seeking relief in school fees for parents in the pandemic. The HC, in its order, had asked schools to submit all financial details to an expert committee, comprising Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das and former head of secondary board and higher secondary council Gopa Dutta by August 31. The panel, the HC had said, would look into the audited accounts of city schools “to ascertain the variable costs involved and the extent of concession the schools ought to pass on to the students and the parents for the schools not incurring such expenditure”. But seeking relief from the HC order, these six CNI schools had filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the SC, saying as minority unaided institutions, they enjoyed special protection under the Constitution and might be absolved of providing income-expenditure details to the committee. The SC heard the SLP on Thursday and issued an order that the CNI schools had been granted the liberty to file an application before the HC, “for recall or modification of the order dated 18.08.20. Until orders are passed on such application of petitioner, the order dated 18.08.20 shall not be given effect to; and the same is ordered to be kept in abeyance”. The SC said given the issues in the writ petition, HC might decide all the issues at an early date. “We will go as directed by the Supreme Court and will immediately file a petition in the high court, seeking modification in the order,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of La Martiniere Schools. The HC had asked parents to pay 80% pending school fees till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/can-seek-hc-order-recall-on-fin-details-sc-to-6-cni-schools/articleshow/77920143.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 4, 2020||India||Netas 41% more likely to respond to locals than migrants: Study||NEW DELHI: In India, a local registered to vote is 41% more likely to get help from political representatives than an unregistered migrant. A Hindu is more likely to have access than a Muslim, and a skilled worker would stand a better chance at securing aid than an unskilled one. In the first large-scale study of anti-migrant discrimination, two researchers have found evidence of “systemic political neglect” towards migrants. For the most pressing problems — jobs, documents, healthcare — councillors can act as the first line of aid in urban areas. So the researchers from Columbia University and University of California (San Diego) came up with an experiment, findings of which they have produced in a paper for the ‘American Journal of Political Science’. They wrote letters to and texted 2,900 councillors in 28 major cities, as people who needed help. Only 14% got back, after seven days on an average, much lower than similar audits conducted to measure racial bias in the US (where 57% of politicians responded), China (32%) or South Africa (21%). And the already low shot at getting a response was even lower for migrants. A registered local was 41% more likely to receive a call back than an unregistered migrant. Those with Hindu names were 23% more likely to get access than those with Muslim names. In the paper, Nikhar Gaikwad and Gareth Nellis wrote about three factors — politicians have their own biases, they channelise the prejudices of their constituents or they simply make electoral calculations. “Politicians would be less likely to help someone whom they know had recently moved, ...because they believe that moving is negatively correlated with being registered to vote locally,” Gaikwad told TOI. That’s, more or less, what fuels the “jobs for locals” calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/netas-41-more-likely-to-respond-to-locals-than-migrants-study/articleshow/77922010.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong insists onquestion hour||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress on Thursday objected to the state government’s proposal to do away with the question hour in the forthcoming assembly session. In a statement here, party leader Mallu Ravi said the proposal goes against democratic principles and conduct of the House. “Despite the curtailed session, there should be room for question hour to highlight people’s issues during thie pandemic,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-insists-onquestion-hour/articleshow/77920124.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Haveri topped CFR among Karnataka districts between August 15 and 30||HAVERI: With 55 deaths, Haveri district had the dubious distinction of topping the case fatality rate in the state between August 15 and 20. During this period, the district registered a CFR of 3% — double the state average of 1.5% — while Vijayapura and Bidar districts stood second and third respectively. Udupi, with a CFR of only 0.4%, Udupi brought up the rear, data from the state health department shows. Patients say healthcare facilities in Haveri are abysmal. “The Covid district hospital (CDH) has the least number of ventilator beds and demand is high,” said Siddalingappa Kalkoti, a patient who was denied admission in Haveri CDH and who recovered at KIMS, Hubballi. “Often, hospital authorities refuse to admit patients who have low oxygen saturation levels. The situation is worse in taluk hospitals.” Mahesh Kundarawad, a resident of Ranebennur, revealed one of his relatives was denied admission in CDH and died on the way to KIMS, Hubballi. Haveri district additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar denied the allegations and claimed CDH has 36 ventilator beds and eight high -flow nasal cannula. He said all taluk hospitals have at least two ventilator beds. “About 40% of fatalities are due to non-cooperation by the public as most people had opted for self-medication,” he said. “They came to the hospital during the final stages when it was difficult to save them.” A health official claimed about 20 patients were brought dead during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/haveri-topped-cfr-among-ktaka-districts-between-aug-15-and-30/articleshow/77918814.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 950 self-help groups may take over idle PDS outlets||LUCKNOW: In an attempt to expedite distribution of foodgrain to the needy hit by coronavirus pandemic, the government has identified over 950 self-help groups (SHGs) to run public distribution system (PDS) outlets lying unattended in the state. An exclusive data, accessed by TOI, shows that the government is in the process of allocating those ration shops to SHGs whose licences have been cancelled following detection of discrepancies. The development comes nearly a month after the rural development department decided to allocate fair price shops to SHGs which are essentially run by women. In a government order dated July 8, additional chief secretary, rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh had said there were 2,020 PDS outlets whose licences have been cancelled. The letter, addressed to director, state rural livelihood mission, Sujit Kumar, said district supply officers should initiate the process of allocating ration shops to SHGs. The food and civil supplies department had also written to the food commissioner and all district magistrates, citing its August 2019 order highlighting the procedure which should be adopted for allocation of PDS shops. The order issued by principal secretary (food and civil supplies) Veena Kumari said SHGs should be allocated PDS shops so that financial benefits could spread across the state. The department had decided that SHGs would be given first priority while the retailers who are selling kerosene and whose license to sell foodgrain have been cancelled, would be given second priority. On applications by multiple SHGs, priority would be given to the group with more active members. If multiple applicants have the same number of active members, priority would be given to the one with better balance sheet. The decision will be taken by a committee set up by the state rural livelihood mission directorate. The SHGs would have to provide the names of members who would be deployed in the shops. The profit earned would be deposited in the bank account of the respective group. The district magistrate concerned would ensure training to members of SHGs. The government has also decided that the deputy commissioner (self-employment), SRLM, would look into the problems faced by the groups. According to the standard operation procedures (SOPs), SHGs would be required to apply in development blocks and provide details like the proposal, a copy of passbook and the number of members in the SHG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/950-self-help-groups-may-take-over-idle-pds-outlets/articleshow/77921026.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmhouses in Raisina: Owners’ replies to be analysed||GURUGRAM: Following a ruling last week by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to restore the forest in the Raisina Hills area of the Aravalis within five months, the district administration is planning to take corrective measures, such as analysing the replies of farmhouse owners who have been served demolition notices. “We will take action as directed by the NGT and restore the forest in the area. We had earlier conducted a survey to identify forest areas and had submitted our findings to the court. Action against illegal constructions had been carried out. We will discuss with all departments concerned — forest, mining, town and country planning, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Sohna Municipal Council — and initiate the execution process soon,” said Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri. Khatri said that the area was under the Sohna Municipal Council, and not under the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG). “The replies of the farmhouse owners will be analysed by the Sohna Municipal Council. We will take action based on their report,” he added. In June, a joint committee, headed by the Gurugram deputy commissioner, had rectified the revenue records by correcting the term ‘gair mumkin farmhouses’ to ‘gair mumkin pahar’. The Sohna Municipal Council had issued notices to 195 farmhouses in Ansal Aravali Retreat, after which their owners submitted their replies. The HSPCB said it will take the opinion of the forest department before taking any further action. “We may have to consult the forest department for any proposed action,” said HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan. The board is also keeping watch on the area to ensure no other illegal construction takes place. The forest department said it has been taking action against violators in the Raisina Hills area. “Action has been initiated in areas falling under Section 4&5 of the PLPA several times. Only a small portion of land is under the section. The entire area comes under the Aravali Notification,” said a senior forest department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmhouses-in-raisina-owners-replies-to-be-analysed/articleshow/77921047.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik admin shifts 52 out of dedicated Covid hosps||Nashik: The district administration has so far shifted at least 52 Covid-19 patients — who were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms — out of the dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) that are meant for more serious cases. The asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms were instead directed to the Covid care centres (CCCs) or dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) for appropriate treatment. “We are keeping a watch on patients who require beds in Covid-19 hospitals. All other patients who are asymptomatic, or have mild to moderate symptoms, are moves out of the DCH facilities if their conditions are stable. We have shifted at least 52 persons,” Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said. Mandhare reviewed the performance of the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) for Covid-19 treatment in the district on Thursday. He said the teams that had been formed for better hospital and patient management, and infrastructure use for Covid-19 treatment have been able to ensure that only patients requiring hospitalisation are admitted to the DCHs. Aavesh Palod, the nodal officer (Covid-19) for the Nashik Municipal Corporation, said, “With proper communication, we were able to shift these patients from the DCHs to the CCSs or DCDHs.” “Many people — in case they test positive — do not know if they need hospitalisation or not. If they are asymptomatic, they can stay at home. If they are mildly symptomatic, they can go to a CCC and if they need medical attention, they will be shifted to the DCHC. At every stage, the medical teams monitor the health of the patients, and if required, transfer the patients to hospitals. After being informed, the asymptomatic patients readily moved out of the hospitals,” said Palod. Another senior officer pointed out that the decision was not imposed on anybody, but the patients were ready to cooperate. He added that several private hospitals had tied up with hotels offering CCC and DCHC-level attention so that people who want treatment in private facilities can get admitted there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-shifts-52-out-of-dedicated-covid-hosps/articleshow/77917609.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Man, son succumb to injuries from group clash||Nashik: A man and his son on Thursday succumbed to the injuries they sustained in a group clash in the Pimpalgaon (Baswant) area of the Niphad taluka on September 1. The deceased have been identified as Pundlik Gangaram Shinde (65) and his son Manik Pundlik Shinde (40). According to the personnel at the Pimpalgaon police station, where the complaint about the incident has been registered, there was a fight between two groups over a petty issue in a temple in Ambika Nagar. The suspects and victims reside in the same locality. Police said the incident took place on Tuesday night when the suspects and the deceased were seated in the temple and had a heated exchange of words. The matter escalated and both groups attacked each other with sticks and stones. All four were hurt, but the Shindes' injuries were serious and they were rushed to a private hospital. A police complaint was registered against the two suspects under section of 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The case has been escalated to 302 (punishment for murder) after the death of the two, the police said. The suspects are also being treated in the private hospital and their condition is stable, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-son-succumb-to-injuries-from-group-clash/articleshow/77917581.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC fines eatery Rs 3L for hoarding||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Thursday penalised a popular biryani chain outlet in Secunderabad with Rs 3 lakh for putting an illegal hoarding. The central enforcement cell of the civic body penalised the restaurant after Srikhande Umesh Kumar from Know Your Rights NGO posted the picture of the ad and reported it to officials on Twitter. Soon after the advertisement was reported, a challan was generated. As per the new advertisement policy, if the height of the unauthorised advertisement element exceeds 15 feet, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed per day. As per the new policy, flashing lights on advertisement billboards is also illegal. When TOI tried contacting the outlet management, they did not respond. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-fines-eatery-rs-3l-for-hoarding/articleshow/77920147.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Auditors save Covid patients Rs 50L in excess bills in 2 weeks||Nashik: The auditors appointed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) at 99 private hospitals have saved Covid patients almost Rs 50 lakh as excess bills in the past two weeks. During the last week of July, the NMC had deployed auditors at 99 private hospitals providing treatment to Covid patients in order to curb overcharging. In the last 37 days, Rs 1.05 crore of excess bills of over 3,000 Covid-19 patients have been saved, said NMC officials. A total of 6,000 Covid patients’ bills were audited in the last 37 days, of which around 2,700 bills were related to mediclaim.The officials said, “As per the norms set by the NMC, pre-auditing of bills is mandatory for the hospitals before handing over the bills to the patients at the time of discharge. This has yielded good result as we could save lakhs of rupees of the covid patients,” said NMC officials.Earlier, the difference between the actual bills and overcharged bills was around lakhs of rupees. Moreover, the complaints about the overcharging have also reduced as all the bills are scrutinized before handing them over to the patients, said the officials.The state government had provided guidelines regarding the rate for treating covid patients. NMC had sent letters to all the private hospitals and directed them to display rate cards for covid treatment at the hospital premises, but none followed it. So, the NMC put up rate card banners with the helpline number on it at all the private hospitals. Accordingly, NMC had received complaints of overcharging against private hospitals.Taking serious cognizance to this, NMC appointed the auditors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auditors-save-covid-patients-rs-50l-in-excess-bills-in-2-weeks/articleshow/77917637.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Before polls, voices of dissent on the rise within BJP in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: After the recent visit of five-time BJP MLA Bishan Singh Chuphal to Delhi, where he met party president JP Nadda to discuss development works in his constituency (Didihat), another ruling party lawmaker Umesh Sharma Kau has written a letter to Nadda alleging lack of development work in his constituency and has sought time to discuss the issue. In the latest act, Kau, a BJP MLA from Raipur, has written to Nadda saying “the image of BJP and the government was being dented due to lack of development work in my constituency.” In his two-page letter, the Raipur MLA — who won the 2017 assembly polls with the biggest margin in the state — wrote that the development work in his constituency has come to a complete standstill. “After new wards were formed, Raipur alone has 24 out of 100 wards of Dehradun Nagar Nigam. People of Raipur have high expectations from me, but as development works have not been carried out for the last few years, people are not holding a good opinion about the government, party or me, which is a cause of serious concern,” Kau wrote in the letter. He also mentioned that “officers were not complying with instructions, and despite repeated directions from the government and ministers, the officers were not complying.” When queried about the letter which is dated September 2, the lawmaker told TOI, “Even in families, when a child has a problem, he informs his elders. Similarly, I have written to the party chief apprising him about the present scenario in my constituency.” Meanwhile, Chuphal, when contacted, said, “The election year will start in 2021 and we need to fulfil our promises made to the people. Therefore, the support and cooperation of officials is important.”  Lohaghat MLA Puran Singh Fartyal has also recently spoken out against an ongoing project in his constituency. A few senior BJP legislators from Haridwar have also accused the state officials of ignoring their works. BJP spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan meanwhile denied any bickering in the party ranks. Regarding the meeting of Chuphal with the party chief in Delhi, Chauhan said that Chuphal is “an experienced campaigner and in my view, his meeting with the party's national chief should not be misinterpreted”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/before-polls-voices-of-dissent-on-the-rise-within-bjp-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/77917630.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Madhyamgram protest||A protest over payment of fees for the past three months turned violent at Madhyamgram’s Doltala on Thursday, when some parents barged into a private school, broke windows and CCTV cameras and clashed with guards. RAF and the combat force reached the spot. The principal said, “We met the parents on June 8 and revoked the extra charges. Almost 95% parents agreed to the old fee structure and paid. But some want all dues be pardoned.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/madhyamgram-protest/articleshow/77920162.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC slashes property tax collection goal to Rs 92 crore||NASHIK: The Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) has slashed its property tax collection target from Rs 150 crore to Rs 92 crore for the current financial year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The property tax collection of the NMC between April 1 and August 31 has declined by 18% despite tax concessions upto 5% for prompt tax payers. The municipal corporation collected property tax amounting to Rs 52.20 crore by August 31 in the current financial year as against Rs 63.62 crore during the same period last year. The civic body had decided to give 5% concession in property tax to those who pay annual property tax between April 1 and June 30 and 3% concession if paid by July 31. The NMC had announced 2% concession for those paying tax by August 31. “As many as 1.62 lakh of the total 4.45 lakh tax payers availed concession by paying their annual tax. They got concession in property tax amounting to Rs 1.34 crore,” an NMC official said. According to NMC officials, the civic body cannot take harsh action against defaulters in the current scenario. They said that some people have lost their jobs while many are facing pay cuts. Moreover, trade and businesses have also been affected due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-slashes-property-tax-collection-goal-to-rs-92cr/articleshow/77917651.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru hospitals say BBMP’s case fatality rate data is wrong||Bengaluru: A few hospitals in Bengaluru disputed death statistics provided by BBMP at a review meeting with the chief secretary on Thursday. St John’s Medical College Hospital said that of the 1,785 patients it treated, 202 died and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 11.3% as on September 1. “The fatality rate is not 14.8% at our hospital as claimed by government data. Also, admission of Covid-19 patients is not 1,368 as attributed in government data,” St John’s authorities said. The government-run Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), which BBMP data shows had a CFR of 13.6%, also refuted the figure. “We have treated 977 Covid-19 patients so far and, of them, 92 died. The CFR is 9.4%. The matter has been discussed with the BBMP and they have revised their report further,” said Dr C Nagaraja, director, RGICD. BBMP officials who compiled the data admitted a mistake occurred due to addition of cases of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) to the numbers by mistake. “It has been corrected. The doctors in all hospitals have worked hard and the data error has obviously upset them,” said a senior medical officer. N Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP, said he would look into the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-hospitals-say-bbmps-case-fatality-rate-data-is-wrong/articleshow/77918880.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hubballi||Mystery shrouds boy’s death in quarry||KALABURAGI: A 17-year-old boy, who had been missing for the past two days, was found dead at a stone quarry at Indranagar in Wadi town of Kalaburagi district on Thursday. The deceased is Abhishek Amruthkumar Bhandari. The body was found floating in the water stored in the quarry. Abhishek’s parents were about to file a missing complaint when they were informed about the tragic news of his death. Abhishek had scored 81% marks in the SSLC exams, and the reason behind his death is not yet known. Wadi police did the postmortem of the body at Wadi Government Hospital and handed it over to parents in the evening. Police are investigating the case of the suspicious death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mystery-shrouds-boys-death-in-quarry/articleshow/77918838.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Six months on, stigma stalks Covid patients||HYDERABAD: The stigma around Covid-19 continues to linger with several instances of coronavirus patients refusing to identify themselves, avoid seeking medical help and assist others even in case of emergencies coming to light often. Narrating an incident at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences’ Covid ICU ward, Dr Mohammad Jahangir, a post-graduate (PG) medical student who test positive for the coronavirus, said, “One night when I was fast asleep, an anaesthetist, who was beside me on the next bed, suddenly coughed 20-30 times and collapsed calling out my name. I was woken up by the helper and I realised that there was no oxygen flow as the flowmeters did not have any water.” “I tried my best to open it, but, after a minute when I could not. I called out another patient, who was strolling around the ward about but he refused to come to his rescue. After five minutes of effort, I could finally open it, poured water and increased the flow to 14 litres. He suddenly revived with a long gasp. I will never forget the incident,” the doctor, who is from Osmania General Hospital added. Health workers, setting up Covid-19 testing camps across the city, find it difficult to convince people to take tests. “Of 100 people we approach, barely 10 agree to undergo the rapid test. Some do come on their own for the tests at community halls, but those are just a few. They usually avoid coming to the camps as they do not want to be seen,” said Madhavi, an auxillary nurse midwife (ANM) told TOI. “Some Covid-19 patients deny their identities when the health authorities inform them of the positive status due to stigma,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) providing counselling services for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-months-on-stigma-stalks-covid-patients/articleshow/77920158.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Leopart injures man in HD Kote||MYSURU: A leopard attacked and maimed a man, Channabasavanayaka, at Heggadapura village in HD Kote taluk on Thursday morning. The injured man was rushed to the Government General Hospital in HD Kote town before he was shifted to Krishna Rajendra Hospital in Mysuru for advanced treatment. Meanwhile, the villagers, who were understandably terrified in the wake of the incident, have called on the forest department to take necessary measures to prevent big cats from straying into human habitats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopartd-injures-man-in-hd-kote/articleshow/77917011.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Should CBI take over SC/ST scholarship scam probe, U'khand HC asks govt||Nainital: With two years of investigation into the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam revealing how a network of middlemen and officials were involved in siphoning of scholarship money meant for students of teh SC/ST community, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) has now sought the state government's opinion, in 10 days’ time, if the CBI should take over the probe. In August, TOI had reported that the investigation, which two SITs had taken up in 2018, had uncovered how Aadhaar cards had been forged and names of unwitting rickshaw-pullers, labourers and minors were passed off as those of students to claim SC/ST scholarship amounts. SIT found evidence against 188 colleges, which had received over Rs 210 crore in scholarship money for students, may of whom never existed. The middlemen, the SIT probe revealed, operated in several states — Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and J&K. On Thursday, the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe while hearing the PIL which had led to the formation of the SIT said: “Since several colleges and institutes implicated in the scam are outside the state, wouldn’t it be better if the CBI investigated the case?” The petitioner agreed and the government counsel sought some time to respond. The court then gave the government 10 days’ time. The bench, however, made it clear that it is not forcing the state but has asked for its opinion. The next hearing is on September 14. In the period between the 2012 and 2017 academic years, the state social welfare department had released over Rs 7,200 crore as scholarship funds. In 2017, a Haridwar student came to know that a police complaint had been filed against her for false claim to SC/ST scholarship money. It turned out she had shared her documents with a middleman for admission to a different college, but her papers were used to create fake student credentials and siphon off aid. What started as a social welfare department probe led to the discovery of a much larger operation at work. Ravindra Jugran, Doon-based social activist, filed a PIL in the high court and an SIT was formed. So far, FIRs have been filed against authorities of at least 73 colleges, 11 of whom have managed to get stay orders. Of the 2,964 colleges the SIT was investigating, 1,173 (or 40%) were outside the state, outside its jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/should-cbi-take-over-sc/st-scholarship-scam-probe-ukhand-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/77917643.cms||Prashant Jha
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||43 dist roads to be upgraded as highways||Lucknow: In a move aimed at providing better road connectivity in the state, the public works department (PWD) has decided to convert 43 district roads into state highways. According to a proposal moved by the PWD, the conversion would be done across the state. Principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn said that district roads with more thoroughfares would be converted into state highways and widened to ease traffic. Some other district roads are also proposed to be taken up for being converted into main district roads. “This is happening after a gap of 10 to 12 years. There hasn’t been conversion of district roads into state highways, many of which were converted into national highways and handed over to National Highways Authority of India,” he said. The state has around 11,000km of national highways. Gokarn said that district roads would be widened after considering their per capita utility. Some prominent district roads which have been converted into state highways include Moradabad-Bulandshahr road, Sujanganj to Sultanpur road in Jaunpur, Durgaganj to Mirzapur and Kalbari Robertsganj to Khalkihari road. The decision, PWD sources said, was taken after a high-level meeting convened by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to review the status of district roads and how they should be upgraded. Gokarn said that pressure on main district roads has been continuously mounting, invoking the need to elevate their status. This, he said, would also increase the maintenance standards required for the upkeep of roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/43-dist-roads-to-be-upgraded-as-highways/articleshow/77921079.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||In a first in U’khand, docs perform ‘coronary shockwave lithotripsy’ to open blocked artery||Dehradun: In a first-of-its-kind medical procedure in Uttarakhand, a team of cardiology experts in Max Hospital, Dehradun, performed coronary shockwave lithotripsy to open up a severely blocked artery of a 67-year-old patient who recently had a heart attack. According to the hospital’s doctors, the patient had “hard calcium in the artery which could only be removed by this super-advanced technique, which was never done before in Uttarakhand.” The patient was discharged on the third day after surgery and is doing good, according to the doctors. The team of experts who conducted the surgery was led by Dr Preeti Sharma, associate director, Max, Dehradun, along with Dr Punish Sadana, principal consultant. Elaborating about the treatment, Dr Sharma said, “This condition happens in 20-25% of the patients undergoing angioplasty and stenting, especially those who are old, diabetic, have chronic kidney disease, have long-standing blockage or who have undergone previous bypass surgery. The other available options are to crack the calcium with angioplasty using a very high-pressure balloon, but due to the amount of calcium, the concern was that this would either not work or lead to complications such as vessel rupture or perforation.” The doctors then decided to use the ‘Shockwave Intravascular Lithotripsy’ which has recently been launched in India. “The balloon was inserted inside the heart artery and sonic pulses were delivered to break the calcium in the blockage. The procedure weakened and cracked the calcium, allowing the balloon to expand, making the placement of the stent easier and safer. After that, the blockage opened easily at even low pressures with subsequent stent implantation, making it an extremely successful procedure,” Dr Sharma said. According to doctors, the technique brings hope to those suffering from an advanced form of coronary artery disease (CAD), having angina or heart attack in which the blockage becomes very hard due to deposit of calcium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-ukhand-docs-perform-coronary-shockwave-lithotripsy-to-open-blocked-artery/articleshow/77917667.cms||Shivani Azad
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi for promoting e-office mechanism||Lucknow: After seeking to expedite economic activities in the state, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday underlined the need for improving the work culture in government offices and lending a push to e-office mechanism. Additional chief secretary, information, Awanish Awasthi, said that the CM had asked the officials to conduct surprise checking of offices to ascertain if the employees were present. Yogi also emphasised on the need for swift movement of files, and ordered that any category of work should not be left pending in one office for more than seven days. “Officials are made accountable for any delay,” Awasthi said, quoting the CM. Yogi’s fresh stance comes a week after he ordered senior officers, including chief secretary, additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries to conduct checking of their offices to ascertain the attendance of employees. “This has certainly improved the attendance of employees who are advised to follow the covid protocols and maintain social distancing,” Awasthi said. Yogi also directed the officials to ensure conduct of recruitment examinations of the state as well as the Centre. The CM further underlined the need for effective application of ‘Nivesh Mitra’ portal that seeks to attract more and more investments in the state. Yogi directed the officials of industry department to appoint specialists for the portal. For Udyog Bandhu, the CM directed Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, Alok Tandon, and his team to ensure that at least 1.5 lakh crore of investments come to UP. “For this, the department would ensure effective implementation of `single window system’ to felicitate the investor and industrialists,” Awasthi said. The state government, he said, would soon set up a new body called `Invest UP’. The ACS information also revealed that more than 98% of the industrial units have started working. “This would help in addressing the issue of employment in the state,” he said. In the past 24 hours, nearly 10.5 lakh people travelled by roadways buses, in a significant pointer to movement of people in the state so far hit by pandemic. “This is almost 70% of the movement of people on routine days and indicates that the economic activity is on a revival course,” Awasthi said. A day after conducting a review meeting of Saharanpur division, the CM held a review meeting of Ayodhya division through video-conferencing to take stock of the development projects. On Friday, CM would hold a review meeting of Chitrakoot division. “This has been a rare instance of holding review meetings to assess the developmental projects in the times of pandemic,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-promoting-e-office-mechanism/articleshow/77921094.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple hang themselves due to family problems in Chilkalguda||Hyderabad: A man and his wife hanged themselves inside their house in Chilkalguda limits in the early hours of Thursday allegedly due to family problems. Thirumala Venkatesh (32), a sub-engineer with the TSSPDCL Putlibowli office, and his wife D Bhargavi (25), who worked with the Postal department, were found hanging in their house in Ambernagar. The couple has a two-month-old son and four-year-old daughter. According to police, their relative went to their house on Thursday morning but the couple did not respond. The family then called the house owners, who broke open the door and found Venkatesh hanging inside the bedroom and Bhargavi in the bathroom. Their son was sleeping in the hall of the house, while the daughter was with the grandmother, said police. “Bhargavi’s family has alleged harassment from Venkatesh’s family. As both were government employees, they would allegedly harass the couple to give money,” said Chilkalaguda SI Varunkanth Reddy. A case was registered under section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 498-A (husband or relative of husband subjecting her to cruelty) of IPC and police took up investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-hang-themselves-due-to-family-problems-in-chilkalguda/articleshow/77920188.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Four staff of Agra university test Covid +ve, Bareilly crosses 7,000-mark||BAREILLY/AGRA: With 128 more Covid-19 positive cases reported on Thursday, Bareilly district has now crossed the 7,000 mark. So far, 7,010 people tested positive while 121 succumbed to the deadly virus. In Agra district, at least 75 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 3,116. These included four staff of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University. Also, vice-chancellor Ashok Mittal has ordered that the university would remain shut for 48 hours. Moreover, a 60-year-old man, who tested positive, passed away at a private hospital in Agra on Thursday. Resident of New Agra locality, he was a patient of acute respiratory distress syndrome. He died following a respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 108 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 50 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 3,116 cases reported in the district, 81.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 490 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, two persons died and 91 more positive cases were reported from Shahjahanpur. The death toll has reached 51, with 3,534 positive cases in all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-staff-of-agra-varsity-test-covid-ve-bareilly-crosses-7000-mark/articleshow/77928603.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nagpur||Kangana has no right to live in Maha: Anil Deshmukh||Nagpur: Infuriated over criticism of Mumbai police and comparison of the city with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said that actor Kangana Ranaut had no right to live either in Maharashtra or its capital. He was talking to the media at divisional commissioner’s office. “We have seen how the Mumbai Police sacrificed their lives during the coronavirus pandemic. It’s not right for an actor to say such things about our police, we condemn it. Mumbai and Maharashtra is secured by the police. If anyone feels unsafe about living in Mumbai or Maharashtra, they have not right to live here,” said Deshmukh. BJP spokesperson Vishwas Pathak condemned Deshmukh for his statement. “The minister should concentrate on providing security to people. He should not issue filmy statements against film people,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar condemned Kangana in a press conference. “The actor need not give lessons on wisdom to Mumbaikars,” he said. He, however, said that the Ranaut controversy was being stoked by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for diverting people’s attention from Sushant Singh Rajput probe by Central Bureau of Investigation. “Raut has used Ranaut’s statement to divert people’s minds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kangana-has-no-right-to-live-in-maha-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/77932779.cms||Ashish Roy
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Matri Sadan founder ends month-long fast after 'assurance from central govt'||Dehradun: The founder of Matri Sadan, Swami Shivanand, has ended his month-long fast on Tuesday night after reportedly receiving assurances on his demands from the central government. The seers of the Matri Sadan ashram told TOI that the central government has issued ‘written orders’ to the mining department in relation to stone crushers in and around a 5-km radius of Ganga river and also assured them that their other demands, including construction of hydropower projects along the river, will be addressed. The demands have been agreed upon by the authorities belonging to the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, ashram seers said, refusing to share any further information stating that they would wish to see "action happening on ground" and then sharing it with the media. “At least they have taken a step. We hope they stick to their commitment now and get other demands fulfilled,” a seer said. Earlier, Matri Sadan head Swami Shivanand had gone on a fast on August 3 and had also raised questions on the PM's silence on Ganga protection, after a fortnight of sitting on the fast.A few days ago, he was met by a group, Ganga Vichar Manch, under the aegis of the central government who persuaded the seer to end his fast. The seers had been demanding that construction activities on Ganga and its tributaries related to hydropower plants should stop. They are also demanding a complete ban on mining and stone crushing activities in and around 5-km periphery of the river for its healthy flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/matri-sadan-founder-ends-month-long-fast-after-assurance-from-central-govt/articleshow/77917663.cms||Shivani Azad
September 4, 2020||Nashik||No stamp duty for home buyers: Naredco||Nashik: The Nashik chapter of National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) on Thursday announced that home buyers will not have to pay any stamp duty if they book an apartment in projects that are managed by any of its members. The real estate body said that it has taken this decision in a bid to boost the realty sector in Nashik. Around 50 builders are members of Naredco and there are over 200 under construction residential projects in various locations across the city. “During lockdown, Naredco had urged the government that it would pay the remaining stamp duty if the government reduced the 3% stamp duty to boost the sector. Accordingly, we have decided to give relief to prospective home buyers from paying stamp duty. Naredco members will pay the stamp duties on behalf of the home buyers for houses booked till December 31,” Jayesh Thakkar, senior founder member of Naredco Nashik, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-stamp-duty-for-home-buyers-naredco/articleshow/77917658.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||NEET student returns home||Kolkata: NEET examinee from Belgharia Rakshit Mittal, who could not be found since Tuesday, returned home on Thursday. Mittal, set to take the medical entrance exam on September 13, went missing after he reportedly left home on his scooterette for a temple near Dakshineswar. Police suspect after failing to crack the exam twice earlier, Mittal was under tremendous pressure and might have tried to flee. A relative claimed Mittal rode to Murshidabad but ran out of fuel at Beldanga. “He left his scooterette and helmet there and took a toto to Behrampore. He then boarded a bus to Siliguri, from where he took a bus back to Kolkata on Wednesday night,” said his uncle Dinesh. From Airport Gate 3, he called his mother on Thursday and his uncle brought him home. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neet-student-returns-home/articleshow/77920218.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 4, 2020||Agra||Four staff of Agra university test Covid +ve, Bareilly crosses 7,000-mark||BAREILLY/AGRA: With 128 more Covid-19 positive cases reported on Thursday, Bareilly district has now crossed the 7,000 mark. So far, 7,010 people tested positive while 121 succumbed to the deadly virus. In Agra district, at least 75 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 3,116. These included four staff of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University. Also, vice-chancellor Ashok Mittal has ordered that the university would remain shut for 48 hours. Moreover, a 60-year-old man, who tested positive, passed away at a private hospital in Agra on Thursday. Resident of New Agra locality, he was a patient of acute respiratory distress syndrome. He died following a respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 108 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 50 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 3,116 cases reported in the district, 81.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 490 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, two persons died and 91 more positive cases were reported from Shahjahanpur. The death toll has reached 51, with 3,534 positive cases in all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-staff-of-agra-varsity-test-covid-ve-bareilly-crosses-7000-mark/articleshow/77917664.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Business||FASTags will be a must for insurance||NEW DELHI: From April next year, you won’t be able to renew the third party insurance of your vehicle, except for two and three-wheelers, if it doesn’t have a valid FASTag. Moreover, all vehicles with four or more wheels would need to have FASTag from January 1, 2021 and violation would attract a penalty of Rs 300-500. The road transport ministry has published a draft notification proposing these changes in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules in order to increase penetration of FASTags. Though all cars and other bigger vehicles sold after December 1, 2017 have got FASTags since this was made mandatory for registration, a huge number of old vehicles don’t have the smart tags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fastags-will-be-a-must-for-insurance/articleshow/77922019.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mumbai||15 of Mumbai's 24 wards show Covid growth of less than 1%||MUMBAI: The daily Covid tally in Mumbai seems to be rising again with the count on Thursday at 1,526 cases, doubling from 753 a fortnight back on August 17. However, experts and BMC officials don't appear worried. "The rate of growth of cases in most civic wards is less than 1%. The Covid situation is definitely in control,'' said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. "Despite the mingling during the Ganpati festival, we expect only 100 to 200 extra cases over the next 10 days or so." Times ViewWith nearly two-thirds of Mumbai showing a growth of less than 1%, the city’s administrators must consider ways in which restrictions can be localised and more sectors opened up. Areas with fewer cases and seemingly compliant on social distancing could be allowed to access more services like clubs, restaurants and gyms. Any violations can always lead to a rollback.Even the most scientific indicator of Covid's contagiousness - the RO or R naught value - is currently below 1. R0, pronounced "R naught," is a mathematical term indicating how contagious the disease is: An R naught value of 1 means for every 1,000 cases today, there could be 1,000 cases tomorrow as each patient will roughly spread it to one person. Epidemiologist Giridhar Babu calculated Mumbai's R naught value for TOI and found it to be 0.88. "An R naught value of less than one is good news for now, but could change as we move forward with local trains opening up,'' said Dr Babu. India's R naught value is 1.09, up from 1.04 until a week back. Meanwhile, BMC's daily update showed weekly average growth rate of cases is 0.9%. Ward R Central (Borivli) tops at 1.5%. Six others including H West (Bandra), R South (Kandivli), R North (Borivli West), D (Malabar Hill) C (Kalbadevi) and P South (Goregaon) are at more than 1%. Kakani said 15 of the city's 24 civic wards have growth rate of less than 1%. Officials said they are spreading awareness about the need for testing, so that people come out in bigger numbers. Deputy municipal commissioner (zone-7) Vishwas Shankarwar said, "We are testing more and most are getting themselves tested through private labs in our areas. We are acting tough against those not wearing masks in public places and penalizing them. We are also conducting antigen tests of street vendors or shopkeepers if anyone close by is found Covid-19 positive." Kandivli-Borivli-Dahisar (R-South, R-Central, R-North respectively) comes under zone-7. Officials said they also have deployed an X-ray van in CCC-2 facilities in the zone to check those quarantined to decide their early treatment line, to reduce the mortality rate. However, Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of Indian College of Physicians and member of the state Covid task force, is not impressed. "Mumbai seems to be slipping up. BMC seems lax and needs to get aggressive with testing. Mumbai should be able to manage 20,000 tests a day,'' he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/15-of-mumbais-24-wards-show-covid-growth-of-less-than-1/articleshow/77922020.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||With new road, vehicular access, hopes revive of residents returning to abandoned villages in Vyas Valley near India-Nepal-China border||Pithoragarh: In the strategically-important Vyas Valley of Pithoragarh district that shares borders with both Nepal and China, at least half of the cultivable land is lying barren as many families have left their villages since they did not have access to health, education and other basics. But with the opening of the Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh Road (which was inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh on May 8), locals in these areas are hopeful that the migrants will return, as the road has enabled vehicular access to the difficult-to-reach villages in the Vyas Valley. The valley has seven main villages — Bundi, Gunji, Kuti, Nabi, Napalchu, Rongkong and Garbyang. Due to the difficult terrain and weather conditions, residents live for six months during the summer season in these villages and migrate to the lower valleys during winter. The villagers here have traditionally been traders who participated in trade with Tibet but after the India-China war of 1962, trading activity came to a halt. As a result, the once-prosperous valley — where more than 80 hectare land was cultivated — gradually became abandoned. Dinesh Joshi, revenue officer of the area, told TOI that from 80 hectares in the 1960s, the cultivable area in the valley shrunk to 40 hectares by the year 2000 and currently, it is around 32 hectares. “Earlier, around 2500 families lived in these villages but now, it is half the number as only around 1200 families are left,” Joshi said. The opening up of the Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh Road though has revived hopes among locals that the situation in the valley may improve. Krishna Garbyal, a resident said that “if the government improves basic infrastructure, many families can return.” “If schools can be opened in the valley, many villagers who migrated to Dharchula town (around 60 km away) for a better education for their children, can come back and resume agricultural activities,” Garbyal said. Echoing similar sentiments, Shalu Datal, another resident, added, “There is much scope for the area to be developed as a tourist destination. With road access possible now, the picturesque valley can be promoted as a tourist spot which will help provide employment to locals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-new-road-vehicular-access-hopes-revive-of-residents-returning-to-abandoned-villages-in-vyas-valley-near-india-nepal-china-border/articleshow/77917691.cms||Prem Punetha
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Jumbo Covid care facilities in Nashik functioning well||Nashik: The two jumbo Covid facilitates at the social welfare department office building and at Thakkar’s Dome in the city, set up by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), have a good recovery rate with no casualties.Ganesh Garud, an official from the Covid care cente (CCC) at social welfare department building, said, “Around 85% of the total 6,700 patients at the social welfare department building of the state have recovered so far since May. Around 10% were patients who were in critical condition who were referred to other Covid hospitals,” The CCC at social welfare department building is of 500 beds. At present 208 patients are undergoing treatment. As there are no oxygen facilities there, patients require oxygen or critical patients are referred to other covid hospitals in the city, he said.“We have stationed three ambulances here. Not a single casualty has taken place here at the CCC added Garud.The NMC had also started a new CCC at Thakkar’s Dome with the help of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Nashik. It has a capacity of 328 beds, including 40 oxygen beds.Rajendra Bhandari of the CCC, “Of the total 491 patients, 318 have been recovered so far. Around 16 critical patients have been referred so far to other hospitals. Two ambulances have been stationed at the CCC of Thakkar’s Dome,”At present, over 150 patients undergoing treatment at the CCC Thakkar’s Dome.NMC officials said there were only 48 patients in the city by May 19, but with the increase in Covid cases, the number of beds was also increased. Apart from providing facilities in NMC and government hospitals, the civic body also reserved beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patientsCurrently, the city has 3,457 beds in NMC, government and private hospital for Covid patients. This includes 805 oxygen beds, 337 ICU beds, 124 ventilators and 2193 general beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jumbo-covid-care-facilities-in-nashik-functioning-well/articleshow/77917673.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Landslide blocks Mussoorie-Doon road again||Mussoorie: The Mussoorie-Dehradun road that was opened for traffic on Wednesday after two days of closure was yet again closed on Thursday morning after another landslide occurred near Galogi. The road was opened in the afternoon. Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer of PWD, told TOI, “Due to heavy rainfall overnight, a major landslide occurred at the same place that had disrupted traffic on Monday. We were able to clear it in the afternoon. However, in case of fresh rainfall the landslide may occur again. Notably, due to landslide in this road traffic is only allowed during the day. Meanwhile, the PWD had taken up major road widening work on this stretch during the lockdown, environmentalists are questioning their efforts. “The PWD has converted this road into a hazardous zone like Kaliasaur and Sirobagad on the Char Dham route. It needs to be inquired why geo-mapping of landslide-prone area was not done before the excavation work?” asked Vipin Gupta, an environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-blocks-mussoorie-doon-road-again/articleshow/77917680.cms||Anmol Jain
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||In last 6 months, over 2.5 lakh people penalised for not wearing masks in Uttarakhand: Police||Dehradun: Despite the continuous surge in the Covid cases and fatalities in Uttarakhand, people continue to flout social distancing norms and mask rules. According to police, from April 1 to September 2, over 2.5 lakh people have been penalised for not wearing masks in public places and the numbers are increasing every day. Besides, as many as 39,029 people have been fined for not following social distancing rules. Notably, Uttarakhand police have collected Rs13.25crore as fine for different violations under the relevant acts. “It’s a common knowledge now that wearing masks is mandatory in public places and this is the best way to stop spread of coronavirus. Police, on one hand, are creating awareness and are also taking action against those not wearing masks,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order. Moreover, 933 people have been booked for violating quarantine and 211 for spreading rumours about the coronavirus on social media, according to police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-last-6-months-over-2-5-lakh-people-penalised-for-not-wearing-masks-in-uttarakhand-police/articleshow/77917675.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik reports 1,307 fresh cases||NASHIK: The district has reported 1,307 fresh Covid-19 patients in the past 24 hours, including 957 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases so far to 40,453. Six patients, including three from Nashik city, succumbed to the infection on Thursday. The overall death toll of the district now stands at 900, including the city’s 590. Meanwhile, 995 patients were also discharged from across the district on Thursday. Of them, 809 are from the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-reports-1307-fresh-cases/articleshow/77917685.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts concerned over EIA||Hyderabad: About 500 academics, scientists and researchers, cutting across various educational institutes, of the country have written an open letter to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change listing their concerns over the draft notification of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020. The signatories are from over 130 research institutes and universities, including the University of Hyderabad (UoH), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs), Indian Institute of Technology (IITs), National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS). The letter notes the legitimisation of “ex post facto” environmental clearances as a significant dilution of the EIA process. Roshan Samuel Mathews, a Masters student at UoH, said: “The government is reducing ecological protection at a time when climate change is becoming apparent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-concerned-over-eia/articleshow/77920220.cms||Uttara Varma
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Grafting retinal tissues to plug hole gives woman vision||PUNE: A woman got back her sight eight months after a Pune-based eye surgeon harvested her outer retinal tissue and grafted it to plug a hole in her eye, and the recurrent retinal detachment. It is probably the first such surgery in Pune. Glaucoma robbed the patient, a 47-year-old woman from Urali Kanchan, some 32 km from Pune, of her left eye, and an injury from the sharp edge of a dining table tore the retina of her right eye. She underwent vitrectomy but it failed to fix the trauma-led hole in the central part of her retina (macula). Due to recurrence of the retinal detachment, she had loss of vision. The retina is a nervous tissue and cannot be replaced with an artificial one. The vision restoration suggests that the retinal graft placed inside the macular hole has led to the formation of new retinal tissues and repaired the hole in the fovea , the centre of the macula. "Functional recovery after surgery is often gradual. Over the last eight months, the near-blind woman who only had light perception has achieved 6/60 vision as against the normal 20/20 vision. That means she can see or perceive objects within 15 to 20 feet and has met the criterion of a 'walking vision' which is a remarkable improvement," eye surgeon Aditya Kelkar, director of the National Institute of Ophthalmology, told TOI. Kelkar said it is a first in Pune using an autologous graft although a few surgeons in India have attempted it with some success in the past. "Further studies are certainly needed to investigate if autologous retinal graft could not only serve as a scaffold but also help retain some function and promote the reparation of the retinal layers in other cases of retinal tears or holes," Kelkar said. The woman said the vitrectomy two years ago temporarily restored some amount of vision but it didn't last long. “I was almost blind a year after the surgery and was dependent on others," she said. The second surgery eight months ago required out-of-the-box thinking. Kelkar decided to carry it out in two stages. " Laser treatment was not suitable since the detachment was recurrent and the hole was located in the centre of retina. The laser could have led to scarring defeating the entire purpose," he said. This surgery was done using the microscope called artevo, a digital microscope that allowed 3D visualization of retina on a big screen. The intra operative Optical Coherence Tomography made the surgery helped the surgeon see the exact location of the placement of graft tissue and attachment of retina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-gets-back-vision-after-surgeon-grafts-retinal-tissues-to-plug-eye-hole/articleshow/77920245.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Economic gloom lifts: Jobs up, MSME reopens by 90% in UP||LUCKNOW: Apart from registering an impressive jump in revenue collections in the last two months despite crippling of almost every economic activity amid the corona scare, another silver lining for the revival of the state economy is the 90 per cent reopening of MSME sector. This has further consolidated gains on the state's economic front. On Thursday, additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal submitted a report to the chief minister's office, informing it that out of 9,30,348 units in the MSME sector, 8,18,088 units have started functioning to their fullest capacity since the start of unlockdown phases. In fact, MSME sector has become the highest 'jobs offering sector' to the needy, he said adding that till date it had offered jobs to 51,77563 resident workers and displaced migrants. Talking to TOI, Sehgal claimed that the MSME sector is the largest in terms of giving employment and also registering exports of over Rs 1 lakh crore from the state. “On the directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a good number of MSMEs were reopened even during the lockdown for the production of medicines, PPE kits and other items needed by people in the Covid times,” Sehgal said, adding that Uttar Pradesh has the largest 14 per share of the MSME sector in the country. “The state is on the road to recovery on the economic front and the MSME sector is playing a significant role,” Sehgal said and added that “the ODOP programme, which is close to the CM's heart, is also assisting in increasing exports from the state.” Updating the CM's office on the MSME front, the ACS stated that 90 per cent units have started functioning and the remaining ones, which needed to sort out minor issues like working capital, etc, would be reopened soon. The department is coordinating with banks for ensuring loans to these units, he said. Sehgal further said that district-level officers have been deployed to coordinate with MSME units to sort out their issues on priority basis. A special app was also started for the speedy redressal of complaints lodged by MSMEs, the ACS added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/economic-gloom-lifts-jobs-up-msme-reopens-by-90/articleshow/77921108.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Airport plugs gaps to manage rush of flyers||Kolkata: From human intervention to use of machine and technology, the authorities adopted multiple measures to reduce wait time and queues outside and inside Kolkata airport on Wednesday. The move came a day after around 200-odd flyers missed their flights as the airport struggled to cope with the sudden rush of flyers after 32 flights were added to the roster following lifting of the two-month embargo on flights from six cities. However, apprehensions remain that this problem cannot be untangled so easily with airlines expressing fears that there could be a repeat on Thursday, although at a lesser scale, as several agencies try their best to manage things more systematically. Around 17,000 flyers are expected to travel in 94 flights on Thursday. The airport operator on Wednesday deputed multiple officials outside the arrival area of the airport who approached flyers standing in the queue and asked them to show their mandatory must-haves, like Aarogya Setu app updated on their phones and web-check in passes. Those who didn’t have these things were asked to update them while standing at the queue or come out of the queue and move to gate 3C where a separate counter was set up to help flyers. “At present, 90% of departing flyers are first-time fliers — most of them being migrant labourers. They either don’t have smartphones or even if they have one, Aarogya Setu app and mandatory web check-in haven’t been complied with for most of the flyers. These flyers contributed majorly to Tuesday’s chaos. We identified the problem and deployed personnel outside the airport to these flyers,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director, who feels the rush will be there at least for next two weeks. Bhattacharjee added the airlines have also been asked to increase their staff at the airport and help flyers with the pre-boarding procedure. He has also advised airlines to send text messages to flyers, asking them to report at the airport at least three hours in advance. “We have also asked CISF to deploy more personnel at all the entry gates and fasten up the screening process,” Bhattacharjee said. On Tuesday, the director also commissioned two Automated Tray Retrieval System (ATRS) machines at the airport in addition to two existing ones, which the director said will hasten the process of scanning cabin baggage and items like belts, wallets, phones and sanitizer bottles, allowing 320-350 flyers pass the security check per hour, double the number that can be passed with manual screening. On Wednesday, the flight count reverted to 60 from Tuesday’s 90 and the airport went back to the slow mode it has got used to over the past two months. Even then, airline officials said, a few flyers missed their flights. But when the flight count swings back to 90 again on Thursday, it would pose a big challenge for airport officials, the airlines and security personnel. “The real challenge will be on Thursday. We will try our best to ensure there is no repeat of Tuesday’s chaos on Thursday,” said an official of a private airline at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-plugs-gaps-to-manage-rush-of-flyers/articleshow/77897915.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 450 social media accounts blocked in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: So far this year, social media platforms — Facebook, Twitter, Instagram — have shut down over 450 accounts from Hyderabad, following appeals from local cyber crime sleuths. Majority of the offenders — cyber-stalkers and cyber-bullies — indulging in obscene content. From the Rachakonda commissionerate alone, the three platforms were sent requests to block 382 accounts, between January and August. Of them, 289 accounts were taken down, said cops. In the case of Cyberabad commissionerate cyber crime police, during the same period, requested to block 250 Facebook accounts for similar crimes while the platform has so far blocked 162. “If victims of such crime are minors, they take down the account and content within 24 hours. In other cases, their response can take longer, depending on the severity of the case,” said S Harinath, ACP (cyber crime), Rachakonda. Case in point: A fake Instagram account of an offender created in March this year, to harass a 16-year-old girl. The accused, police said, had morphed the girl’s photograph and blackmailed her to send nude pictures and video. The stalker shared that content with the victim’s classmates and relative. Soon after the case was registered, Rachakonda cyber crime cops sent a request to Instagram to take down the account. “It was blocked within hours. They respond quickly when it comes to minor victims,” the officer reiterated. In the case of Hema (name changed), the process took two months. The girl was being blackmailed by her college mate on Facebook. The known friend had shared her obscene pictures on his account. KVM Prasad, ACP (cyber crime), Hyderabad city: “Cases that involve minors get quick response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-450-social-media-a/cs-blocked-in-city/articleshow/77920280.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Govt sets up probe against Secretariat Association chief, employee association warns of protest||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has set up a probe against Deepak Joshi, who is the president of Sachivalaya Sangh and also heads the Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association. Joshi has been accused of opposing government policies before the media. An order in this regard was issued by additional chief secretary Radha Raturi on September 1. Joshi is a section officer and the probe against him will be headed by IPS officer and additional secretary (home) Krishna Kumar VK. Consequently, the employees association has threatened to hold protests outside the office of additional secretary (personnel) if the allegation was not withdrawn by September 10. The Uttarakhand General OBC employees have held a number of protests in the state over issues like reservation in government jobs and reservation roster for government jobs before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-sets-up-probe-against-secretariat-association-chief-employee-association-warns-of-protest/articleshow/77917708.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||One killed, another injured after bike collides with truck head-on in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: One person was killed and the other one got injured after the motorcycle they were riding collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction in Damta region of Uttarkashi district on Thursday morning. Police have booked a case against the truck driver, who escaped after the accident. According to police sources, two persons identified as Sanju (34) and Dhirendra Lal (28), both residents of Bhatiya village in Naugaon block, were going to Vikasnagar. Soon after the accident, police reached the spot after they were informed and sent the victims to Damta health centre, where Sanju was declared dead by the doctors. Sub-inspector Shekhar Nautiyal, in-charge of Damta police chowki, said, “We have booked a case against the truck driver. Body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem examination while the other person is out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-another-injured-after-bike-collides-with-truck-head-on-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/77917699.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||This is digital era, reminds Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CM Pinarayi Vijayan dismissed the allegation levelled by a BJP functionary that his signature was forged and used in some files during his absence from office in Sept 2018. He said the signature on the copy of the file, cited by the BJP leader, was put by him digitally. Vijayan was in the US for treatment during that period and he was monitoring the functioning of CMO remotely. The CM came with his iPad for Thursday’s news conference and read out the content of the file in question from the device which he uses while travelling. The said file was regarding the approval for token celebration of official language day on Nov 1 that year. “On Sept 6, I received 39 files along with this file and all of them were disposed promptly,” Vijayan said. Earlier in the day, BJP spokesperson Sandeep Varrier had alleged that while CM was away from office, somebody forged his signature on a physical file. “Pinarayi Vijayan should clarify who signed the file? Has he told any consultancy to put his signature on files? Or is it because he doesn’t know how to sign?” he asked. He alleged that soon after this incident, private secretary to the CM MV Jayarajan was removed from the office. However, Jayarajan left CMO six months after the incident to assume the office of CPM district secretary in Kannur which was vacated by P Jayarajan for contesting LS poll in 2019. CM said the BJP functionary might have levelled the allegation out of ignorance. “As per a government order issued on August 24, 2013, files can be signed and approved using e-office software. I use this whenever I am out of station,” he said. When asked whether he had put a digital or a physical signature on print out of the file, Vijayan said he used the facility in iPad to put his signature. The copy of the file, released by the BJP, was a physical file which was among the files scanned and emailed to CM then. According to CMO, there are three ways for signing the physical file when CM is out of station. “One is to take a print out, sign physically, scan the document and mail it back. The second is putting signature using iPen and the third is to place the scanned signature on the designated place for signing. All modes are valid. The file is transacted through the official email id of the chief minister,” said a senior official. Though CM said he put a digital signature, it seems he signed using an iPen. “The word digital might have been used as he intended to say print out was not taken and signed on paper,” he clarified. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said the practice of scanning physical files and sending it via e-mail is followed by all ministers. “When I am at Alappuzha, I use this facility. File is scanned and mailed by my office. I take a print, put my signature, scan and mail it back. In the office, they take a print of signed file and attach it to the original file, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-is-digital-era-reminds-cm/articleshow/77918888.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Nashik||Kailas Jadhav okays hiring of 200 medical workers||NASHIK: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has given the nod to the health department to recruit about 200 medical professionals needed to handle the Covid-19 situation in the city. Accordingly, fresh interviews will be scheduled soon. In July, the civic administration had conducted interviews to fill up 811 posts of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff to be hired on honorarium for a period of six months. It had even issued appointment letters to 708 eligible candidates. However, only about 500 joined. There are 200 posts of medical and paramedical workers still vacant. “I have given the nod to the health department to start fresh recruitments for medical and paramedical staff required for the NMC health facilities for Covid-19. Moreover, instructions have also been given to give appointment letters to the candidates on the waitlist,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jadhav-okays-hiring-of-200-medical-workers/articleshow/77917706.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||946 Covid cases in a day in state, Dehradun records max numbers||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases yest again on Thursday with 946 people testing positive , taking the total number of cases to 22, 180. The maximum cases were recorded in Dehradun (272), followed by US Nagar (194), Haridwar (135) and Nainital (105). The number of deaths also reported a spike with the toll breaching the 300-mark with nine deaths. Among the Covid-positives who died on the day were a 17-year-old girl who was undergoing treatment at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani. She succumbed to various illnesses, including bilaternal pneumonitis, severe acute respiratory illness and Covid-19. Among the nine deaths, four occurred at AIIMS-Rishikesh, three at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital and one at Base hospital Kotdwar, Pauri Garhwal. Haridwar is currently leading the cases tally with 5,136 cases, followed by Dehradun (4710), US Nagar (4146) and Nainital (3004). Meanwhile, after the Uttarakhand secretariat, the directorate of health department, too, is now out of bounds for the public in view of rising cases. Uttarakhand Medical Council has also closed its office till September 8 after some employees became ill. The legislators have also urged the state government to keep the MLA hostel at Race Course out of bounds for the entry of the public. The move was taken by MLA Kedar Singh Rawat after he wrote to the additional secretary of the revenue department. “In the past couple of days a few MLAs and their family members have tested positive, therefore, we urge you to keep the MLA hostel closed for next one week for the public for the safety of MLAs,” said the letter. Meanwhile, 508 patients were cured and discharged, taking the total number of Covid-19 recovered patients to 14,945 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/946-covid-cases-in-a-day-in-state-dehradun-records-max-numbers/articleshow/77917709.cms||Shivani Azad
September 4, 2020||Business||IMF confirms India’s GDP worst-hit among G20||NEW DELHI: A tweet put out by the IMF’s chief economist Gita Gopinath confirmed that the Indian economy saw the steepest contraction in the June quarter among G20 countries. “In #GreatLockdown Q2 2020 GDP growth at historical lows. Graph puts G20 growth numbers on a comparable scale, quarter-on-quarter non-annualized. Should expect rebounds in Q3 but 2020 overall will see major contractions. China recovers strongly in Q2 after collapse in Q1,” the tweet read. In #GreatLockdown Q2 2020 GDP growth at historical lows. Graph puts G20 growth numbers on a comparable scale, quart… https://t.co/GwAUmjMPco— Gita Gopinath (@GitaGopinath) 1599060097000The graph shows all countries except China registering GDP (gross domestic product) contraction. While China's economy is shown to have expanded by a robust 12.3 per cent over the March quarter on a non-annualised basis, the UK is the most affected after India, with a GDP contraction of 20.4 per cent. Read AlsoGDP contracts by record 23.9% in Q1 against 3.1% growth in previous quarterIndia's gross domestic product growth for the first quarter (ended June 30) of the financial year 2020-21 suffered the largest quarterly slump of 23.9%, as per govt data released Monday. The sharp contraction in GDP numbers is mainly due to closure of business activity during the quarter owing toThe US economy is shown to have shrunk 9.1 per cent on a quarterly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/imf-confirms-indias-gdp-worst-hit-among-g20/articleshow/77922024.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Amid rising Covid cases, Uttarakhand assembly braces for 3-day session||Dehradun: With the six-month deadline to hold an assembly session ending on September 25, the state is all set to call a three-day session from September 23. This comes even as Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand are rising and some legislators have expressed apprehension at the assembly being convened in these times.  However, allaying the fears, assembly speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, told reporters on Thursday, “The social distancing norms will be strictly followed. Plans are being chalked out to ensure that minimum people are permitted on the assembly premises.” The authorities are contemplating to include the pavilions of governor, visitors and media, in the main hall of the House to accommodate all 70 legislators while maintaining social distancing norms. Secretary (officiating) Uttarakhand assembly Mukesh Singhal said it is a constitutional mandate to hold a session within six months. “We are working on ways to ensure social distancing,” he said. Earlier this year, the budget session started at Gairsain from March 2 to March 7. Thereafter, the session continued in Dehradun for a period of three days from March 25, but the speaker adjourned the House on the same day as the first lockdown was announced on March 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-rising-covid-cases-uttarakhand-assembly-braces-for-3-day-session/articleshow/77917715.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar admin to demolish ‘illegal’ temples on Kumbh Mela land||HARIDWAR: Seers in Haridwar have reacted sharply to the administration's bid to demolish temples built illegally in Bairagi camp of the Kumbh Mela land. The temples were built on the land given to the akhadas during the 2010 Kumbh on a temporary basis and the administration has now started the process of reclaiming the land for the 2021 Kumbh. Threatening to boycott the forthcoming Kumbh Mela if the administration goes ahead with the move, the seers have alleged that “a decisive battle against the government will be fought to protect the places of worship.” "If temples are demolished in BJP’s rule, which other party will defend them?" a seer asked. Sources in the seer community said that they will soon be taking legal recourse to protect the temples, and will seek Supreme Court’s help against the temples’ demolition. With the government deciding to get rid of all illegal religious constructions in public parks, roads and other public places following a Supreme Court order, a report about such constructions was sought from all districts in the state. In Haridwar, there were 40 such places out of which 36 had been removed and the remaining four were in the Bairagi camp, district magistrate C Ravishankar had informed to the state government in March. When the akhadas were served demolition notice on August 28, they threatened to fight against the move. “We shall not avail any facilities offered either by the administration or the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) during the Kumbh,” they warned. They even threatened to boycott the Kumbh Shahi snan if the order was not withdrawn. According to sources, the three akhadas are unhappy with the ABAP alleging that it does not take care of their interests. As they have no permanent buildings, these akhadas want to build permanent ashrams on the allotted land in the Bairagi camp with the promised amount of Rs 1 crore by the government. Mahant Rajendra Das of Nirmohi Ani Akhara demanded that all encroachments in the Bairagi camp be removed and the area should be handed over to Bairagi akhadas for use during Kumbhs. He regretted that “the administration allows encroachment by private individuals but seeks to demolish construction by akhadas.” Notably, there are about 1,000 illegal permanent constructions by individuals in that area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-admin-to-demolish-illegal-temples-on-kumbh-mela-land-seers-say-they-will-move-court-to-save-temples-from-demolition/articleshow/77917725.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 4, 2020||Pune||Trinity International School hosts interactive webinar series for pupils||PUNE: Trinity International School recently hosted a nine-part interactive webinar series ‘Inspiration 2020’, which covered personalities from films to entrepreneurships. Sudeep Singh, the co-founder and CEO of Mpowered, Sonia Konjeti, the founder of Pula Pune Ladies, Sachin Pilgaonkar, an actor-director and Shruti Kotwal, India’s fastest ice speed skater, spoke about their experiences during the webinars. Prioritizing health and hygiene, the school invited paedodontist Neha Chandan to talk about dental hygiene. George Varghese, family dynamics expert and business consultant, addressed parents on ‘Parenting the online child’ to ‘Coping with the New Normal’ The school has also organized Zumba sessions for mothers every Tuesday and Friday and an open for all Yoga session thrice a week. Students participated in international platforms such as global ambassador programme and students’ talk show. Krutarth Kotnis and Varun Kakapuri of Standard XII secured top positions and also spoke on an international radio channel. Apart from this, orientation sessions for preparation of engineering and medical entrance exams were held to guide the students. At the teachers’ outreach programme, teachers are connecting with students with a concept that gets channelized via a YouTube channel every Friday. Literary Kaleidoscope at RIMS, UndriRIMS International School, Undri recently organized ‘Literary Kaleidoscope — English Enrichment Activity’ via online sessions for Standard I to X to enhance creativity, imagination and blend learning with fun. Students displayed their skills during the recitation of poems and delivered speeches. Standard I students spoke about the community helpers; Standard II prepared masks and spoke on the features of animals. Students of Standard III and IV dressed up as warriors and freedom fighters such as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Rani of Jhansi and spoke about the great personalities. Standard V and VI recited poems of poets such as Robert Louis Stevenson, Roald Dahl, Christina Rossetti. Standard VII hosted a talk show on “New normal life post Covid-19”; while Standard VIII demonstrated a news presentation: ‘Nation wants to know- Causes and Prevention of Covid-19’. Standard IX and X presented a TED talk on the topic-‘Locked down. Not knocked out’. Academic director Meera Sain appreciated the performance of all students. Human Unity and Peace week at Darshan AcademyDarshan Academy recently celebrated ‘Human Unity and Peace Week’ by conducting a student development programme ‘Human Peace’. The entire week comprised activities to help them cope with stressful situations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Counsellor Gopal Bhagat delivered a talk on human unity and need for world peace. Students of Standard III to V participated in online storytelling, while students from Standard VI to X participated in an essay writing competition on the topic “Human Unity and Peace”. Students from Standard VI to X gave expression to their thoughts and composed poems. Students were judged on parameters such as vocabulary, presentation, creative content used and overall presentation. Students of Standard III to IX participated in a greeting card making activity on the topic “Thanksgiving”. On the final day of the celebration, the music teacher Omshankar taught students a song depicting the importance of human unity and peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trinity-international-school-hosts-interactive-webinar-series-for-pupils/articleshow/77920275.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Religious places in Jaipur not ready to unlock||JAIPUR: Most of the religious places in the city are not ready to reopen from September 7, the date fixed by the state government to allow these places to unlock. Temples, churches and mosques are finding it difficult to abide by the safety guidelines. Moti Dungri temple mahant Kailash Sharma said they will open the temple after September 18 once Shraadh is over. “Moreover, we have ordered three sanitising machines that haven’t arrived yet. So, it will better to open after some time instead of rushing,” said Sharma. Galtaji temple administration has planned to allow entry inside the temple on the basis of online registration. Swami Raghvendra Maharaj of Galtaji temple said, “We had decided to allow 50 people per hour inside the temple on the basis of online registration. But it is not possible to control people outside the temple premises. If the situation becomes out of control, it will be difficult especially with rising number of coronavirus cases. So, we have decided to extend the date of temple opening till the situation comes under control.” Churches that used to open usually on Sunday’s for mass are not certain to open as per the announcement by the government. Reverent Jagdish Sharma of St Andrews Church of Chandpol said, “We were supposed to open the church on September 13 (Sunday), but the guidelines are strict and 6-feet distance has to be maintained. We cannot organise choir or sing hymns. It is not possbile to open the church in such a situation but our committee meeting will be held in a few days where we will take a final decision.” Imam of Jama Masjid Mufti Syed Amjad Ali said they will follow government’s guidelines and if possible, will allow limited people for namaz as per the capacity of mosques. “In normal days, not more than 40 people usually come to mosques to read namaz except on Fridays. We will maintain precautions and will give permission to limited number of people,” said Amjad Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/religious-places-in-city-not-ready-to-unlock/articleshow/77920278.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||‘Gang-rape’ of minor girl: Two accused held, mobile phone used to film assault recovered||Bareilly: Police in UP’s Bareilly have arrested two youths out of the four accused of raping a 15-year-old girl. They also claimed to have recovered the mobile phone allegedly used to film the sexual assault on the minor girl. Police said that relevant sections of IT Act for filming the assault would now be added in the FIR. The video clips found on the mobile phone confirmed rape, police said. On Wednesday, the minor girl’s father had registered an FIR alleging that his daughter was gang-raped by four youngsters when she was on her way to collect passport-sized photographs from a local studio for her school admission form in the Bareilly’s CB Ganj area. The girl’s father told police that his daughter was walking towards the photo studio when the main accused, identified as Mohit, 18, and his three accomplices stopped her near railway ground. They then dragged her to an abandoned building and took turns to rape her. The girl, in severe trauma, returned home with her clothes torn and bruises. Profusely crying she narrated her ordeal to her father. Police had registered an FIR against Mohit, Sumit Singh, Ankit Gupta and an unidentified person under IPC sections 376-D (gang rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) along with sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act. Sumit and Mohit were arrested late on Wednesday. During questioning, Mohit told police that the forth accomplice is Himanshu, 22, elder brother of Ankit who shot the video of sexual assault. Inspector Bachoo Singh told TOI, “We have recovered the video of the assault from the mobile phone of Ankit who is still absconding. The accused were planning to blackmail the girl in future using the video. We will soon file a charge-sheet in this case and ensure strict punishment for the accused. I am consulting senior officials for adding further sections in the FIR. The girl is still in trauma and was sent for medical examination on Thursday.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-rape-of-minor-girl-two-accused-held-mobile-phone-used-to-film-assault-recovered/articleshow/77917713.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur adds 730 Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered 730 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 178 from the city, along with 19 deaths till late in the evening on Thursday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district went up to 26,344. Of the 19 recent casualties, two were reported from the city limits — Mangalwar Peth and Jarag Nagar. With the addition of 178 cases, the total number of positive cases in Kolhapur city has gone up to 8,389. The city has recorded 212 deaths so far. According to official information, the district has recorded 804 deaths so far while 116,783 patients have been discharged from various Covid care facilities after recovery. Meanwhile, Karveer and Hatkanangale tehsils continue to register fresh Covid-19 cases with 98 and 90 patients respectively. Hatkanangale tehsil has recorded 3,078 Covid patients — highest in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-adds-730-covid-cases/articleshow/77917719.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC demolishes illegal structure||Hyderabad: After a resident reported encroachment of a lung space in Kukatpally by calling the newly launched assets protection cell, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) swung into action and demolished it. Land sharks had tried to occupy the area marked as lung space measuring 700 square yards located in KPHB phase 3. Grabbers started raising a structure too, the foundation was built and pillars were raised. “Occupants (persons who raised the structure) started construction without permission of competent authority. Further they encroached the adjacent green space/open space land and started laying the foundation,” read a statement issued by GHMC’s Directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management(EVDM), who demolished the pillars and concrete blocks that were constructed. In the statement, EVDM urged people to report encroachments by calling 1800-599-0099- the contact number of assets protection cell. On September 1, after unknown people tried to encroach a land located in Goutami Nagar Colony Park, Chandanagar, a resident called the cell and reported the apathy. Based on the complaint, barricades raised were razed and 200 square yards of park land was saved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-demolishes-illegal-structure/articleshow/77920287.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||DAR staff accused of rape absconding||MANGALURU: A District Armed Reserve (DAR) personnel has been accused of raping a teacher from Bengaluru. A case has been registered at the women’s police station in Mangaluru in this regard, and the accused is absconding. The accused is Sayabanna, who hails from Vijayapura and is a DAR personnel with the Dakshina Kannada (DK) district police. According to the victim, she had met the accused through Facebook in May. As their friendship grew stronger, they decided to marry. The duo had met in Bengaluru and Mangaluru. However, Sayabanna allegedly sexually abused the victim and refused to marry her. The victim also alleged that another person identified as Ramesh Gowda had threatened her for registering a case against Sayabanna. Sources in the DK district police told TOI that Sayabanna has been temporarily suspended from duties and is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dar-staff-accused-of-rape-absconding/articleshow/77918569.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Trickster sets up cop’s Facebook profile to dupe people||KARWAR: A trickster created a fake Facebook account of a Karwar Rural police sub-inspector to request money from the latter’s online friends. For this, the trickster used the Facebook Messenger to reach out to the PSI’s friends. After coming to know of the con act on Thursday, PSI Revanasiddappa sent a message to his Facebook friends not to pay anyone who demands money in his name, and also informed his higher-ups about the same. The trickster is from Jharkhand, police said, based on his location. The person had created the fake account using the profile picture of the PSI on the networking site. The conman later sent a message to his (PSI’s) Facebook friends to send him Rs 10,000, saying he needed the sum urgently. He also suggested them that they pay through Google Pay or Phone Pay. In the chat exchanges that he had with the PSI’s friends, the trickster said the money was to bail him (PSI) out from a personal problem. Believing this, many of the PSI’s friends credited the money in the trickster’s account. After coming to know of this, a shocked Revanasiddappa brought the matter to the notice of his higher-ups and also used his Facebook account to alert his friends not to send money to the one who created his fake account. Revanasiddappa said that he will lodge a complaint in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/trickster-sets-up-cops-facebook-profile-to-dupe-people/articleshow/77918332.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Suspect took Rs 1.5L for securing job, killed family for seeking repayment||Kolhapur: Satara police on Thursday claimed Yogesh Madhukar Nikam, who was arrested in connection with the murder of four members of a family in Sangli district, had taken Rs 1.50 lakh from them to secure jobs in the military for the two sons. Police said Nikam decided to kill the Jadhav family when they started asking him to return the money. Police officers said Vishal and Tushar Jadhav — the two sons seeking the jobs — were murdered on July 10. Nikam allegedly gave them food laced with poison and pushed them in a valley after they fell unconscious. Police said the Jadhav couple was desperately calling Nikam as the two sons had not returned home even after a month. Nikam asked the parents to meet him under the pretext of taking them to the training centre. He then allegedly used the same method and offered them poison-laced food and hit them with an iron rod and threw their bodies in the jungle, the police said. Police have now appealed to youths who may have been contacted by people with the promise of military jobs. Those with any information have been asked to contact the Jawli and Medha police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suspect-took-rs-1-5l-for-securing-job-killed-family-for-seeking-repayment/articleshow/77917742.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents irked over illegal tree pruning in Wakad, Hinjewadi||PUNE: The pruning and trimming of several trees along Wakad-Hinjewadi road to ensure visibility of advertising hoardings dotting the skyline has irked regular commuters and green activists. Many citizens stated that the trees were cut as they reach a certain height so that they do not cover the hoardings. A regular visitor to the area pointed out that the tree trimming along Wakad-Hinjewadi road has been a routine for over two years. “Once the tree gets even a little canopy, it is pruned. The work is mostly done at night to ensure that nobody objects. The skyline along this stretch and at Hinjewadi has been completely defaced by numerous billboards. Despite repeated complaints to officials of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), no action has been taken,” the citizen said. Madhav Patil, president of NGO Angholichigoli, said, “Trees are trimmed in such a manner that not a single leaf remains on them. In many cases, a part of the trunk is also chopped off. On complaining, when the PCMC staff does respond, they have no protection. On many occasions, local villagers are involved and they threaten the staff, who then choose to avoid taking action. Sometimes, even after the panchnama is done, no action is taken.” Patil claimed to have sent over 100 mails to various officials at PCMC, from the commissioner to officials from the garden department but to no avail. Head of PCMC garden department Dattatray Gaikwad said, “It is illegal to trim or prune trees without seeking permission. If we find anyone flouting the norms or if we receive complaints about it, action is initiated.” Prakash Gaikwad from PCMC garden department added, “We have already taken cognisance of the matter and a case has been filed against four outdoor advertising companies in this regard. Otherwise, we have been doing panchnama whenever we notice trimmed trees or when a complaint is received.” Citizens, however, have sought proof that some action has been initiated in the case. “No one cares about the existence of trees and we are ready to continue fighting to protect the green cover. If a case has been filed, the authorities must give us details about it,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-irked-over-illegal-tree-pruning-in-wakad-hinjewadi/articleshow/77920290.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 4, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru cops determined to keep district out of drug network||MYSURU: Against the backdrop of the state capital being rocked by a narcotic scandal, sending tremors in the Kannada film industry, police personnel and officials of the excise department have stepped up vigilance on the sale of narcotic substances in Mysuru. Offenders previously arrested under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act are now under the lens of the law enforcement authorities, who are determined to keep the district off of the drug network. Officials have been asked to intensify observation of these offenders, and to trace those they have had prior connections with so as to ascertain any possible link with peddlers of dangerous drugs. A cop said that, barring instances of cultivation of Indian hemp plants, leaves and fruits of which are dried and smoked to reach a state of euphoria, trade of illegal drugs in the Old Mysore region was largely unheard of. Growth of hemp is illegal in India. “This is the cheapest narcotic that is available and there have been several cases of its abuse. Recently, a father-son duo was arrested by the Central Crime Branch sleuths for possession of 24kg of cannabis near Krishnaraja Sagar Dam. A while ago, in a raid conducted by excise department officials, 15kg of cannabis was seized,” he said. Cocaine and ecstasy are the two other narcotic substances – one pill of ecstasy is sold for Rs 1,500 – that are commonly abused, the cop added. In the meanwhile, Mysuru city deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda confirmed to TOI that they were keeping offenders arrested under provisions NDPS Act and released on bail under close observation. “So far, we have found that they have no links with any gangs that deal in drugs on a large scale. We have not found rampant use of any other drug barring cannabis in this part of Karnataka,” Gowda said. Deputy commissioner of the excise department B Madesha said that all officers and personnel had also been issued instructions to stay vigilant and keep a close watch on the possible trade of narcotic substances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-cops-determined-to-keep-district-out-of-drug-network/articleshow/77917570.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 4, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Police seize 5.1kg ganja, two held||HUBBALLI: Suburban police seized 5.1kg kilograms of ganja from two accused who were transporting it on a bike near Deshpande Nagar here on Wednesday evening. Police inspector SK Holeyannavar said based on a definite tip-off police waylaid a bike and found the accused transporting cannabis in a bag. The accused are Maruti Haranshikari and Chandappa Haranshikari, both residents of Timmapur village in Gadag taluk. Police said the accused were peddling ganja in the city after sourcing it from Shishunal village in Haveri district. Police are yet to identify to whome the accused were selling the narcotics to. “The cost of the seized contraband is Rs 97,400,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-seize-5-1kg-ganja-two-held/articleshow/77918817.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Congress embracing Godse’s violent politics: Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan here on Thursday said that Congress has chucked Gandhiji’s teachings and embraced the politics of violence of his assassin Nathuram Godse. The Congress has joined hands with Godse’s followers and are hunting down the Left Democratic Front activists in the state, Balakrishnan said after visiting the bereaved families of Midhilaj and Haq Muhammed, the two DYFI local leaders who were allegedly slain by Congress activists at Thembammood here. Balakrishnan also said that the CPM will take care of the families of both Midhilaj and Haq Muhammed. Health minister K K Shailaja too visited the families on Thursday. Meanwhile, the hunt for two key accused, Unni and Ansar, is still going on. Rural SP B Ashok said that police will seek custody of the accused persons in judicial custody for more questioning. “We are planning to secure custody of four accused, including Sajeev and Sanal, who had participated in the crime and two others who were part of the conspiracy,” the SP said, adding that the custody application may be filed within a day. The investigation team are also preparing inventory of the evidence collected so far to be forwarded for forensic examination. These include murder weapons recovered from the spot and shirts recovered from the hideout of Sajeev and Sanal in a rubber plantation at Anadu near Nedumangad. The police had also seized cash worth Rs 23,500 from Preeja, the lone woman arrested in the case. The money was seized from her car as she was trying to help the accused escape to Konni in Pathanamthitta district. Though her husband too was taken in custody for questioning, police let him off as they could not find prima facie proof to link him to the crime. DYFI, Youth Congress activists clash in capital A clash broke out between DYFI and Youth Congress activists in Karimadom under Fort police station limits in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday night in which several people, including a police officer, were left injured. Police registered five cases in connection with the clashes and arrested nine persons. According to the police, the clash broke out inside Karimadom residential colony on Wednesday late night. Both groups hurled stones and liquor bottles at each other. In the melee, someone threw crude explosives at Youth Congress activists. Police said that it was a personal dispute between a few youths that snowballed into a political clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-embracing-godses-violent-politics-kodiyeri/articleshow/77918926.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Despite curbs, UP’s Aug revenue better than 2019||Lucknow: In a strong sign of economic recovery from the Covid-hit 'paralysis', the revenue collection of the government in August 2020 surpassed the previous year's figures in the same month. Finance minister Suresh Khanna who shared the August 2020 revenue data with the media, attributed it to proactive policies adopted by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, 'who played on the front foot'. While the previous month's collection was 97% of the July 2019 collection, this month it went up by Rs 600 crore -- from Rs 8942 crore in August 2019 to Rs 9445 crore in August 2020, said Khanna. The August collection was 76% of the target of Rs 12468 crore. Driving the recovery was excise revenue, which was Rs 2,310 crore this August against Rs 1882 crore in August 2019. The excise collection was higher in terms of percentage as well -- from 89% of the target to 92 % this year. The collection from mining was also much higher -- Rs 171 crore against 109 crore last year. This year, the collection was 78% of the target against just 45% last year. The GST/VAT revenue also saw a marginal increase from Rs 5126 crore to Rs 5,329 this year. Giving credit to the chief minister, Khanna said he not only chalked out a strategy for combating the corona crisis, but also led from the front the 'economic revival' campaign. "UP perhans would be the only state which has recovered substantially in the revenue collections. There has been no salary cut for the state staff, nor any financial constraints in carrying out the major developmental projects and the welfare schemes," he added. “The increase is not only in the excise revenue, but also in stamp and registration, VAT and mining. It's an indication that the overall economic activities in the state have almost reached the normal level of the pre-corona days," claimed the finance minister. ACS, information, Awanish Awasthi said that the Yogi government had pumped in huge money in the market in the recent months by its welfare measures and rural development programme like MNREGS which has led to adequate availability of the liquidity in the market and increased buying capacity of the people. ACS, finance, Saniiv Mittal, said that the rise in the taxes through stamp and registration shows that the real estate sector is also reviving speedily. ACS, MSME, Navneet Sehgal, also released a report stating that more than 90% of the MSME units have started functioning to their full capacity, which was very significant in terms of giving employment to both skilled and semi-skilled hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/despite-curbs-ups-aug-revenue-better-than-2019/articleshow/77921196.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Deaths double in 30 days as Karnataka toll goes past 6,000-mark||BENGALURU: Covid-19 fatalities in Karnataka crossed the 6,000-mark, with deaths more than doubling in the past month. The state reported 104 deaths on Thursday, taking the total toll to 6,054. The state added more than 1,000 deaths in the last 10 days alone. A health and family welfare department report showed fatalities stood at 4,810 on August 24 and was 2,594 on August 3, but has seen a 134% rise since then. The state’s current case fatality rate is 1.6%. KV Trilok Chandra, officer in-charge of Covid Critical Care Support Unit, told TOI, “Analysis shows there is a delay in patients reporting infection. At least 75% of the dead had comorbidities and about 70-75% came to hospitals late. Elderly citizens with other health complications need to report early for us to reduce the number of deaths.” As on Wednesday, 1,331 (or 22%) of the 5,950 dead were aged above 70 years, 1,715 (29%) between 61 and 70 years, 1,608 (27%) between 51 and 60 years and 879 (15%) between 41 and 50 years. There were 12 children below the age of 12, and 30 between 11 and 20 among those who succumbed to the virus. “We have certainly seen an increase both in the number of cases and deaths in the past few days,” said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals. “We have to take see this in perspective of the total number of cases diagnosed and the corresponding fatality rate. It is possible that we have seen sicker patients but it would be difficult to extrapolate death rates in the past 10 days to future trends. This will have to be watched and analysed by health authorities. I do believe that we have a better understanding of the disease and a better treatment protocol now than a few months ago. Death rates should come down, especially in centres experienced in intensive care treatment of Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-deaths-double-30-days-as-ktakas-toll-races-past-6000-mark/articleshow/77918894.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 4, 2020||India||Some in G-23 won’t escalate matters, give leadership time||NEW DELHI: Amid continuing commentary from Congress dissidents over the “drift” in the party, some members of the group of letter-writers believe the leadership should be allowed to thrash out issues discussed in the CWC meeting. A few leaders from the G-23 said they will not join “any plan in future” to escalate matters and the letter written earlier to party chief Sonia Gandhi had served its purpose of highlighting the leadership vacuum. Three members claimed to have conveyed their views to the seniors. They argue that continuing aggression from senior members was giving an impression that they were against any particular leader in the party, which was not “our agenda when we joined the grouping”. Some other members of the group, however, said that it remained to be seen what action is taken on their demands and point out that the letter was simply kept aside by CWC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-in-g-23-wont-escalate-matters-give-leadership-time/articleshow/77922028.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt announces austerity measures as revenue hit by Covid||JAIPUR: The state government on Thursday announced several austerity measures in the wake of the pandemic hitting the finances of the state. The measures include travel restrictions, curbs on purchase of new vehicles and equipment and ban on state banquets, setting up of new offices and exhibitions and seminars. A circular issued in this connection has asked departments to limit the expenditure to 70 per cent of the amount sanctioned. These include office expenses, travel expenses, computer maintenance, stationery, printing and writing, publications, library and magazines. Similarly, expenditure against the approved provision under fuels will also be limited to 90 per cent. According to the circular, travelling for government functions will be kept to a minimum. Meetings will have to be conducted through video conferencing as much as possible. Officers who are entitled air travel will use economy class. There will also be a complete ban on airfare for travelling abroad on state expenditure. Purchase of new vehicles have also been prohibited. All kinds of machinery, equipment, tools, plant and other new items will not be procured except for necessary materials and equipment for prevention, treatment and assistance of victims of Covid-19. No new office will be allowed to open in the financial year 2020-21 with 100% state funds. Instructions have been issued to departments to take necessary action by identifying posts which have become irrelevant at present due to changes in departmental functioning and due to application of information technology. State banquet and gifts and hospitality expenses will be banned till further orders. All state programmes, bhoomi poojan and inauguration ceremonies will be conducted observing simplicity and austerity and through video conferencing if possible. New sanctions for cash payment in lieu of accrued holiday payable to state officials and employees will be postponed in this financial year. In the current financial year, all types of training, seminars, workshops, festivals and exhibitions will be organised online as much as possible. In the most urgent circumstances, they could be organised only in state institutions, government buildings or state premises. Along with training, tours and conference expenses, instructions have also been issued in the circular to reduce at least 50 per cent of the amount available in the budget head for festivals and exhibitions. The guidelines will be applicable to all state undertakings, companies, boards, universities, aided institutions, bodies and all the organisations financially dependent on the state government, wholly or partially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-announces-austerity-measures-as-revenue-hit-by-covid/articleshow/77920321.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||2 missing from hosp, cops clueless||Hyderabad: Two patients who went missing from King Koti Hospital in the last few months are yet to be traced. Police found that CCTV video backup of the hospital was for just 14 days and directed hospital administration to improve infrastructure. On August 1, a 49-year-old man from Injiupur in Ibrahimpatnam, was admitted at King Koti hospital with Covid-19 symptoms and he later tested positive.His 75-year-old mother , Sambamma, died at their house in Injipur on August 4 due to ill health. He came to know about his mother’s death and he snuck out of the Covid-19 ward at King Koti. He boarded an auto and reached Injipur. As he did not have money to pay the auto driver, he called his wife and asked her to stay on the road near their house with money. She reprimanded him for leaving the hospital and took him back. However, after his wife left the hospital, He again sneaked out and went missing. Police registered a missing case on August 5. “CCTV cameras are not available at most places in the hospital. We have checked bodies in Osmania Hospital mortuary and sent details of he to all police stations in the city and neighbouring districts. He left his phone at the hospital and he did not attempt to contact his family,” Narayanguda sub-inspector (SI) D Karunakar Reddy said. Similarly , a 40-year-old mentally unsound woman from Bihar, was referred to King Koti hospital from Government Hospital for Mental Care, Erragadda, on April 14 with symptoms of Covid-19. She went missing on April 27 when she was waiting outside the hospital ward to board an ambulance. The incident came to light on May 16 when Mental Care Hospital staff wrote to King Koti superintendent enquiring about the health condition of their patient. After checking hospital records, King Koti Hospital RMO-II, Mallikarjun, lodged a complaint on May 18. Police are still clueless about her whereabouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-missing-from-hosp-cops-clueless/articleshow/77920322.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 4, 2020||Pune||Mandal officer held for accepting bribe||Pune: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested a mandal officer at Pabal near Shikrapur on Thursday evening on the charge of demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 from a sand trader on the promise of not registering a case of illegal sand mining against him. An ACB team headed by additional superintendent of police Sanjay Patil arrested the mandal officer Amol Khollam (40) of Shirur. He is mandal officer for Pabal and adjoining villages. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandal-officer-held-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/77920332.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||In August, Covid recovery rate touches a high of 93% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While August was the worst month for the state in terms of reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases, it was also a month that recorded the highest number of recoveries of infected people. The percentage of recovered cases was as high as 93.3% in August. Health department figures show that in August, 39,610 persons were found infected with the virus across the state. Out of those, 36,967 patients recovered. In June, the percentage of recovered cases was only 89.1%, and it had dipped significantly in July to touch 64.9%. But, in August, the recovery rate increased sharply to 93.3%, the highest ever recovery percentage of Covid patients for any month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-aug-covid-recovery-ratetouches-a-high-of-93-in-raj/articleshow/77920323.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Site change will further delay Purandar airport project: MADC officials||PUNE: Senior officials of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) have said that shifting the site of the Purandar airport will lead to delay of more than two years in getting fresh approvals and carrying out surveys of the new site. “It is surprising that the state government is talking about shifting the site of the proposed airport. Before the project was approved at Purandar taluka, at least two aerial surveys and a road survey were conducted. Everything was taken into consideration by the state government before earmarking the site. If the site is changed again, we will have to start from scratch again,” an MADC official told TOI. Last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told the Pune district administration to check the feasibility of developing the new Pune airport at an alternative site proposed by Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap. The MLA had proposed land acquisition at Pandeshwar, Rise and Pise villages, instead of the seven villages in Purandar taluka which have opposed land acquisition since the project was announced in October 2016. Another MADC official said that the steering committee of the civil aviation ministry and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had approved the current site after conducting studies. “The Ministry of Defence (MoD) provided the clearance, a year and a half after the airport’s announcement. The approval came with a rider that once the airport was ready, the Lohegaon facility will not be used for civil flight movement. The committees of the state government, the AAI and the Union government had scanned six sites before zeroing in on the Purandar site. With the proposed site located in Purandar, what is the guarantee that there will not be any protests again?” the official wondered. In 2018, the MADC had appointed company Dorsch to do a techno feasibility study and detailed project report. “The company took a year to complete the study. Clearances from different departments and ministries were taken. We are looking at a long delay if the site changes,” the official said. MLA Sanjay Jagtap told TOI that the project has already been delayed. “We can assure that there will not be any protests against the new site. If the site is not changed, there will still be delays as the landowners will not give their plots,” Jagtap said. Meanwhile, the district administrations officials said that they had a preliminary meeting with Jagtap. “Another round of meeting with him is scheduled on Friday. We have shown him the existing maps as per the assessment and finalisation of the site,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/site-change-will-further-delay-purandar-airport-project-madc-officials/articleshow/77920318.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 4, 2020||Dehradun||Hemkund Sahib Yatra to begin today||DEHRADUN: With the portals of Hemkund Sahib scheduled to open on Friday, the first batch of pilgrims was flagged off on Thursday from Govindghat in Chamoli district. The portals of the revered Sikh shrine will open for devotees at an auspicious time (10 am) on September 4, according to the gurdwara management committee officials. The first batch of pilgrims will have a night halt at Ghanghariya before proceeding for the shrine on Friday morning. The pilgrims need to show a negative Covid-19 test reports done within 72-hours before proceeding for the yatra. Moreover, only 200 pilgrims will be allowed to leave from Govindghat to Hemkund Sahib every day, gurdwara management committee officials said. The committee has made some special arrangements in wake of the coronavirus crisis and everyone visiting the shrine will have to follow social distancing norms and wear a mask, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hemkund-sahib-yatra-to-begin-today/articleshow/77917770.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Wait for more hospital beds gets longer||KOLHAPUR: The district administration would have to wait for few more days to commission the 700 additional intensive care unit (ICU) and oxygen beds as the state government is yet to show the green light to the proposal. The administration and elected representatives were expecting that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who conducted an online meeting with the district collectors in western Maharashtra, would announce the decision regarding the proposal sent by the district administration. However, officials, who attended the meeting, said that Thackeray did not say anything about the proposal, indicating the approval would take some more time. The district administration had sent the proposal for commissioning 300 ICU and 400 oxygen beds around two weeks back. The beds were supposed to be put up in decentralized fashion so that patients in various parts of the district could be benefited. Every hospital will have special designated officer to monitor the occupancy of these beds. A permission to spend Rs 60 crore on this project was also sought by the administration. “The proposal was sent to the Pune divisional commissioner and is believed to be pending in Mumbai for final approval. We were expecting some decision on the proposal during the review meeting with the chief minister as the number of positive cases and deaths in Kolhapur district is increasing every day,” a district administration official said. According to a report prepared by the administration, considering the rate of patients being recorded, the district will require 2,046 oxygen and 700 ICU beds. Currently, the district has 954 oxygen and 288 ICU beds. “The proposal needs to be approved urgently as actual commissioning of the project may take some time while the number of positive cases is increasing sharply,” the official said. Kolhapur district has so far recorded 17,622 positive cases in last one month. The district had 6,180 cases by the end of July while the number increased to 23,802 on Wednesday. “Kolhapur district had 16,282 patients when the proposal for 700 additional beds was sent by the district administration,” the official said. “More than 500 patients are being reported every day for the past one month now. We fear that more than 1,000 cases were likely to reported in the next few days when the need for oxygen and ICU beds will be increased,” he added. Meanwhile, Thackeray, during the meeting, expressed concern over the rapid pace with which patients are being traced in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. “The government would extend all the help to have health infrastructure, but the administration and people would have to be cautious in the coming festive season,” Thackeray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-wait-for-more-hosp-beds-gets-longer/articleshow/77917759.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad: Man falls for fake business offer, loses Rs 25 lakh||HYDERABAD: A businessman lodged a complaint with the Cyberabad police, alleging that he was cheated by a fraudster, who posed as an employee of a pharmaceutical company from Poland. The victim, a businessman from Miyapur, was contacted by a person who claimed to be an employee from Polpharma, a pharmaceutical company from Poland. The impersonator approached the victim online, offering his firm to act as a mediator in purchasing Tetrapleura Oil Extract and referred Mukesh Enterprises, a Mumbai-based supplier. The fraudster asked the victim to buy 20 litres for an urgent requirement. The supplier quoted Rs 1.25 lakh per litre, with the refund guarantee of 99% of the purchase value. “We transferred a total of Rs 25 lakh into two bank accounts,” said the complainant. Later, there was no response from Polpharma and Mukesh Enterprises. The victim then approached the cops on August 29, and a cheating case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-falls-for-fake-biz-offer-loses-rs-25l/articleshow/77920327.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Three oxygen units acquired in Solapur||Kolhapur: The Solapur district administration has acquired three oxygen manufacturing plants to meet the increasing demand for oxygen for Covid-19 treatment. District collector Milind Shambharkar has issued an order because of which, three companies have been prohibited from suppling oxygen for any purpose other than medical needs. The companies have also been prohibited from supplying oxygen outside Solapur district and Maharashtra. Shambharkar has brushed aside rumours about oxygen inadequacy in the district saying that all the patients would be getting oxygen when needed. He, however, has said that demand for medical oxygen has increased because of the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. Solapur city recorded 58 new cases till Thursday noon taking the overall tally to 6,815 cases. There are 669 active cases. Three new deaths — all men — were also reported. The city has reported 423 deaths so far. As many as 147 patients were discharged on Thursday. Solapur rural reported 384 new patients, while 135 were discharged on Thursday. Eleven deaths were also reported until Thursday noon. Pandharpur tehsil continues to record a high number of patients. It added 103 cases on Thursday. The tehsil now has 2,783 cases, the highest in the district. It has 648 active patients and has reported 57 deaths. Solapur rural currently has 12,509 positive cases and 8,801 have been discharged. As many as 3,348 patients are admitted to the hospital. The district has reported 360 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/three-oxygen-units-acquired-in-solapur/articleshow/77917782.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Employee unions demand withdrawal of salary cut order||Jaipur: A day after the cabinet decided to deduct two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day’s salary of other employees from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund, the employees’ unions on Thursday condemned the salary cut and demanded withdrawal of the order. They also threatened a statewide agitation if the government doesn’t reconsider its decision.“In protest against the government’s decision, we have called a meeting of the executive body of the unions on September 6 to decide the future course of action. They should have reduced the expenditure incurred on the ministers, MLAs and the bureaucrats. They should withdraw this order immediately. This is a one-sided, anti-employee and a dictatorial order, “said Tej Singh Rathore, general secretary, Rajasthan Karmachari Sayunkt Mahasangh.“So far, we have already contributed 18 days’ salary for the Covid fund. The order also doesn’t suggest till when the salary deduction of employees will continue. The government should also make it public how the deducted salaries of government employees have been utilized,” he added.President of Public Relations and Allied Services Association of Rajasthan (PRASAR) M L Verma also echoed similar sentiments saying the salaries of employees belonging to public relations department must not be deducted as they fall under essential services category.The cabinet also decided to deduct one week’s gross salary of chief minister and ministers. While the MLAs will donate one day’s net salary, the employees of other departments, excluding high court and subordinate court, medical and health, medical education, and police constable from level I to IV, will also donate one-day’s salary to the relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employee-unions-demand-withdrawal-of-salary-cut-order/articleshow/77920360.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 4 employees of Raj Bhavan test Covid positive||JAIPUR: After staff at chief minister’s office (CMO) and chief minister’s residence (CMR) tested positive for Covid-19, four employees in the Raj Bhawan have been infected with the virus. Governor Kalraj Mishra has stopped meeting visitors following the development. Mishra is now in touch with people only through phone and video calls. Visitors are not allowed, said a Raj Bhawan source. Similarly, the assembly secretariat had also closed for visitors after some employees tested positive. The three-day assembly session from August 24 seems to have acted as the trigger. After the assembly session, several MLAs had also tested positive for the virus. The tourism department and RTDC offices at Khasa Kothi were closed after a number of employees tested positive. Sources said the department has asked its employees to work from home after about two dozen cases emerged. The secretariat is also not allowing visitors. Visitors are allowed only if the officer concerned gives his consent on prior appointments. The state which has been managing the virus well have seen spurt in cases after it relaxed restrictions and people became callous in following the protocol. Under Rajasthan Epidemic Act for prevention of corona infection in the state, more than 5.84 lakh people have been fined and a fine of more than Rs 8.68 crore has been collected from 2.30 lakh for not wearing masks in public places. About 3.37 lakh people have been fined for not keeping social distance, while 12,236 for selling goods without wearing masks. About 8.81 lakh vehicles fined under Motor Vehicle Act till August 30. Director general of police Bhupendra Singh had urged the public to follow the guidelines issued by the department of medical and health like wearing masks, keeping social distancing and taking special precautions to wash hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-employees-of-raj-bhavan-test-positive/articleshow/77920340.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Man brutalises, kills three-year-old girl to avenge wife’s murder, booked||BAREILLY: A three-year-old missing girl was found “brutalised and murdered” in a sugarcane field at Mathiya village in Singahi block of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday morning. There were several injury marks on her body, said police, who found “Lekhram Gautam, a local, missing from the village”. The victim’s family suspected that “Gautam killed the girl to avenge the death of his wife", who was killed by the girl’s uncle six years ago. Kheri SSP Satyendra Kumar also inspected the spot where the body was found. The girl was not assaulted sexually as there were no injuries on her private parts, and thus, the murder appeared to be a result of enmity between the two families, said police. The girl was the eldest among two children and had been missing since Wednesday afternoon, following which her family members searched for her, but in vain. “It appeared that the girl was confined in a house in the village and the accused killed her after midnight,” said SHO Pradeep Kumar. “The family lodged a complaint against two persons, including Lekhram. We have deployed police teams to arrest the accused at the earliest. The girl’s uncle had killed Lekhram’s wife Rimpaa over an extramarital affair six years ago. He was recently released on bail. Lekhram had threatened to take the revenge of his wife’s death. The autopsy is conducted by a panel of doctors and the report will ascertain the reason for her death and provide other crucial information,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-brutalises-kills-three-year-old-girl-to-avenge-wifes-murder-booked/articleshow/77916675.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Pune||Man loses over Rs 37,000 to used car sale fraud||PUNE: Fraudsters cheated a 40-year-old Dhayari resident of Rs37,400 on July 28 after promising to sell a used car to him through an e-commerce site, police said. Police said the Dhayari resident had visited the e-commerce site where old goods were traded to purchase a car. “He came across the fraudsters, claiming to be from Jaipur in Rajasthan, through the site and transferred him Rs37,400 in advance for the car,” senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-loses-over-rs-37k-to-used-car-sale-fraud/articleshow/77920358.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tomin J Thachankary is CMD of KFC||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government has appointed DGP Tomin J Thachankary as chairman and managing director of Kerala Financial Corporation, replacing the existing CMD Sanjay Kaul. The post of CMD, KFC, has been declared in status and responsibility as that of the director of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau for appointing Thachankarry in the post. The state has two cadre posts of DGP and two ex-cadre posts, which would mean that there can be four approved posts of DGP-ranking officers. Presently, Loknath Behera, Rishiraj Singh, R Sreelekha and Tomin J Thachankary are four officers of DGP rank in the state. The posts of state police chief and director of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau are the two cadre posts of DGPs in the state. The former is occupied by Loknath Behera. It is learnt that Thachankary would not be appointed as vigilance director due to the ongoing vigilance case against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thachankary-is-cmd-of-kfc/articleshow/77918963.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Unable to get ICU bed in Gadag, doctor succumbs to Covid in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 44-year-old doctor, who worked as a taluk health officer in Mundaragi, Gadag district and led the battle against Covid-19 from the front, succumbed to the virus in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Ironically, there was no ICU bed available for Dr Basavaraj K in Gadag town and he had to be shifted out of the district. In the second week of August, he was moved to a private hospital in Hubballi from where he was referred to Bengaluru’s Sparsh hospital. His wife, who is also infected but is asymptomatic, was by his side in hospital when he passed. Their sons are aged 15 and 10 years. “He was on a ventilator when he was brought here,” Sparsh authorities said. “His oxygen saturation level was below 40% as against a healthy 95%. He died on Wednesday.” The hospital said he had developed renal failure. Pointing out that a corona warrior could not get an ICU bed for himself, the Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) condemned the state of affairs. He is the ninth government medical officer to die while on Covid-19 duty. Dr Basavaraj’s colleagues said he was a hardworking medical officer. “He worked on establishing a Covid Care Centre in Mundaragi where 32 asymptomatic patients were initially isolated. He worked tirelessly to screen people and ran a number of fever clinics,” said his colleagues in Gadag. Besides an ICU bed, they also alleged he could not get Remdesivir in Gadag. “He should have been put on it in the initial stages itself. The drug was given to him when he was shifted to Hubballi, but it didn’t help him much as his condition had worsened. When he was brought to Bengaluru, he was on a ventilator,” said a friend. At Sparsh hospital, he underwent plasma therapy and arrangements were also made to put him on a heart lung machine (ECMO-Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation, a life support machine), but his condition did not support the treatment, said Dr Srinivasa Gulur, president, KGMOA. The total cost of his hospitalisation is Rs 12.5 lakh and the family paid Rs 2.5 lakh. “The government has issued an order that it will bear his medical expenses. The government will pay Rs 10 to the hospital,” said Dr Gulur. His body was taken to his hometown Ballari in the wee hours on Thursday, with all precautions in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unable-to-get-icu-bed-in-gadag-doc-succumbs-to-virus-in-bluru/articleshow/77918962.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Trade unions urge min to return money to workers board fund||Jaipur: Representatives of trade unions met labour minister Tikaram Jully on Thursday and urged him to put Rs 328 crore back in the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Board fund which was used by the state government to handle the Covid crisis and provide assistance to migrant workers.They also requested the minister to constitute the committees for labour welfare, which has been pending for the past two years. They also raised the issue of increasing minimum wage of labourers to Rs 18,000 per month.“Questions were raised about the manner in which the money was used without holding a board’s meeting or taking approval from it. This is not the state government’s money. The money has been collected through cess contribution. We demanded that it should be returned with interest. We arrived at an agreement that in future, the board’s permission should be taken before withdrawing money from the fund,” said Ravindra Shukla, state president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).“We also urged the minister to constitute the Rajasthan contract labour advisory board (highest body for policy decisions), labour standing committee (for periodic monitoring) and the committee on equal remuneration for men and women. The minister assured us that there will be regular meetings with the trade unions and also resolve all issues raised by us,” he added.Currently, the wages are Rs 225 (for unskilled labourers), Rs 237 (semi-skilled), Rs 249 (skilled) and Rs 299 (high skilled).The other trade unions that participated in the meeting are Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and Hind Mazdoor Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trade-unions-urge-min-to-return-money-to-workers-board-fund/articleshow/77920372.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Ayush nurses threaten stir over pay cut||Jaipur: Rajasthan Ayurveda Nurses Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti has submitted a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot threatening to go on strike against the decision of the government for deducting salaries and delayed payment despite that they have been working in frontline for containing the spread of the virus.The agitating nurses claimed that they have not been given the incentives.State spokesperson of the association Ratan Kumar said that they will not tolerate any discrimination. “We will protest if ayush nurses are not provided with any relief.”They said that they had worked under chief medical health officers on the direction of collectors as frontline workers to contain the spread of the virus. Despite giving emergency services, they are facing salary cuts and not getting incentives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ayush-nurses-threaten-stir-over-pay-cut/articleshow/77920397.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Over 70% of students from professional colleges placed||KOCHI: Despite the challenges posed by Covid-19, most professional colleges in Ernakulam have managed to secure placements for their final year students. While most colleges secured more than 70% placements, some even managed to get nearly 100% placements. But the delay in getting joining dates has been a cause for concern for many students and colleges. Moreover, compared to previous years, the number of companies that held recruitment too dropped significantly this year. However, the situation is expected to be positive as most companies expect a boom in business during the post-Covid era. The pandemic has also forced recruiters to rely on online platform for hiring process. Even the in-house training is being provided online to the new recruits. Companies are also focusing on mass recruitment from minimum colleges. Govt Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, has reported nearly 100% recruitment. Around 80 companies, including global tech giants such as Amazon, Microsoft, LinkedIn, Oracle, conducted campus recruitment by offering an average package of up to Rs.6.6 lakh per annum. “The highest compensation offered was Rs.30 lakh CTC by Amazon,” said a statement. Meanwhile, Biju Paul, placement officer, Rajagiri School of Engineering & Technology, said, “Though there was a slight delay in getting the joining dates, most companies have offered good packages and around 84% of students have been recruited. The highest salary package of Rs.24 lakh per year was offered by Commvault.” George Joseph, manager, corporate relations, SCMS Cochin School of Business, said more companies are hiring in bulk expecting a business boom during the post-Covid-19 times. "Of the 114 students, 101 (around 87%) were placed in various companies," he said. At Federal Institute of Science and Technology, Angamaly, 391 students were hired by 54 companies. However, this is almost 200 offers less than the previous year. "The campus recruitment of 2020-21 batch has started online. But bulk recruiters are yet to start the process. Employability enhancement training programmes which are usually conducted between March and June could not be conducted due to the pandemic,” said PRO Shinto Sebastian. Elias Jacob, placement officer, Cusat, said, “Around 600 students from MCA, MBA and engineering streams, who passed out in 2020, were recruited by various companies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-70-of-students-fromprofessional-colleges-placed/articleshow/77919006.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
September 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Swapna’s arrest recorded for forging degree certificate||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Cantonment Police recorded the arrest of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, in a forgery case registered against her. The arrest was recorded on Thursday by Cantonment station house officer by visiting the jail in Kakkanad where Swapna Suresh is currently housed after being arrested by NIA and Enforcement Directorate. Police had registered a case against Swapna as first accused, and Pricewaterhouse Coopers and Vision Technologies as the second and third accused respectively for forging documents to get a job for Swapna in Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL). The case was filed on the basis of a complaint by Jayashankar Prasad, managing director, KSITL. Police had charged the case under sections 406, 465, 468, 471, 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, that deals with criminal breach of trust, forgery, cheating and using forged document for one’s advantage. The charges, if proven, can award an imprisonment up to seven years. The FIR had said that the first accused used a fake bachelor’s degree certificate of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University and managed to get the post of junior consultant in KSITL with the help of the second and third accused. The accused cooperated with each other in cheating the organization, the FIR said. The case has been registered at Cantonment police station in the capital. The crime branch is also probing a case involving Swapna in connection with a false complaint while she was an employee of Air India SATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/swapnas-arrest-recorded-for-forging-degree-certificate/articleshow/77919003.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Scribe who shot video of ‘assault’ by MLA’s guard claims he was thrashed too||Bareilly: A day after the purported video of a UP police constable, on security duty of a BJP MLA, thrashing a car driver with a baton while "trying to clear traffic” on NH-24 went viral, a local scribe who shot the video on his mobile has approached police in Bareilly alleging that he was thrashed by the same cop as well.The scribe, who works for a local news portal, further claimed that his mobile was damaged in an effort to "destroy the evidence". The constable, who was deployed as a gunner of Veer Vikram Singh, the BJP MLA from Shahjahanpur's Katra constituency, has been already suspended by Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand following a preliminary probe by additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam.In the video, the MLA's gunner, Rahul Kumar, could be seen purportedly thrashing a car driver near Baigul bridge along the border of Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts. Later, the MLA told TOI that his gunner had thrashed the driver because he had blocked the highway "without caring about a patient in an ambulance stuck in the traffic jam".“I was covering the traffic jam for my web portal when a truck brushed a car. The car driver had an argument with the truck driver. Soon, the MLA's gunner appeared and started thrashing the car driver. When the gunner saw me filming the video, he repeatedly assaulted me as well, until I gave him my mobile. Thereafter, he threw the mobile on the ground and threatened me," the scribe told TOI on Thursday. The scribe claimed that he even told the cop about his profession, but he didn’t spare him. The MLA, however, refused to comment when asked why a scribe was thrashed and his mobile was damaged by his securityman.Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “We have already suspended the gunner. We will ensure that this fresh complaint is dealt with priority and will take strict action, if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/scribe-who-shot-video-of-assault-by-mlas-guard-claims-he-was-thrashed-too/articleshow/77916684.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Pune||Duo held for stealing 160 tyres of Rs 7.6 lakh||PUNE: The Bhosari police arrested two thieves and recovered 160 brand new tyres worth Rs7.6 lakh within 24 hours after they were stolen from a parked truck early on Wednesday. Pradip Sharma (34) of Moshi lodged an FIR with the Bhosari police. Sub-inspector Pooja Kadam and her team took the duo into custody based on a tip-off. On Tuesday night Sharma had parked his truck, containing 421 brand new tyres, near Rajmata flyover in Bhosari. “On Wednesday morning he found that the lock of the truck was broken and 160 tyres were missing,” Kadam told TOI. “We got a tip-off that two men were preparing to sell tyres. We laid a trap and took them into custody. We also recovered all 160 tyres from them,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-for-stealing-160-tyres-of-rs-7-6l/articleshow/77920377.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Ayush docs should assist IMA: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has urged Ayush doctors to come forward and join hands with Indian Medical Association (IMA-Goa) in helping with Covid management. “I am glad to know that Indian Dental Association Goa under the guidance of IMA-Goa is a part of the gratuitous service. I request Ayush doctors also to come forward,” said Sawant. Promoting home isolation for asymptomatic patients, Sawant, who tested Covid positive a day earlier, on Wednesday said that the IMA-Goa kit had helped him monitor his health condition. “Home isolation is proving to be an effective tool for management of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. IMA-Goa along with its dedicated member doctors is doing a valuable job by extending telemedicine support and monitoring the patients round the clock. The home isolation kit having all essential equipment and medications provided by IMA is largely beneficial and it has aided me personally to monitor myself,” Sawant said in a statement released on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-docs-should-assist-ima-sawant/articleshow/77920409.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||T recoveries cross 1 lakh mark||Hyderabad: Telangana reported 2,817 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, even as 1 lakh persons recovered from the virus since the pandemic broke in the state, on Thursday. The total number of cases in the state has crossed 1.33 lakh, while the number of deaths stands at 856. Overall, 1,00,013 patients have recovered from the virus. A total of 59,711 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 45 per cent were primary contacts and 14 per cent were secondary contacts of patients, who tested positive over the last couple of days. The remaining 41 per cent are new patients. Of the total 1,33,406 patients, who have tested positive so far in the state, 92,950 - which accounts for 69 percent - are asymptomatic patients while the remaining 41,356 (31 percent) are symptomatic. GHMC recorded 452 new cases, while Rangareddy with 216 cases recorded the second-highest number of cases among districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-recoveries-cross-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/77920425.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajasthan Hospital moves HC against fine of Rs 77 lakh||Ahmedabad: Rajasthan Hospital has moved the Gujarat high court challenging the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) decision to impose a Rs 77 lakh penalty on the hospital, its board members and trustees, after a patient died outside the hospital gate unattended in June.The Gujarat Research and Medical Institute, as Rajasthan Hospital is registered, complained that it was a violation of principles of natural justice as AMC imposed the fine on June 27 without giving the hospital management any opportunity to defend itself. The hospital management asserted that the charges levelled against the board members and trustees were wrong and it would soon challenge the decision in the high court. The hearing is posted for Friday. On Thursday, the civic body replied to the HC queries on what steps were taken by the authorities to recover the fine and what criminal action was taken against the hospital. In an affidavit, AMC said that the hospital paid Rs 25 lakh under protest, and informed the civic body by way of legal notice that it had no power to impose such penalty. The hospital also informed the AMC that it would approached the high court soon against the penalty order.AMC also said that the deputy health officer of the Central Zone had filed a police complaint, but the affidavit did not mention whether the complaint has been registered as an FIR.A 73-year Covid-19 patient on June 18 was shifted to Rajasthan Hospital from another Covid facility. The gate was closed and the patient had to wait for 20 minutes outside the hospital as staff took time to open it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajasthan-hospital-moves-hc-against-fine-of-rs-77-lakh/articleshow/77919002.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: SDMs directed to ensure space for Covid funerals in every village||MARGAO: The current spike in Covid deaths has led to a situation where an increasing number of bodies are required to be cremated at the Hindu crematorium at Pajifond, Margao. As reported by TOI in its Thursday edition, there are two pyres reserved for Covid funerals at the crematorium. As a result, scheduling the last rites poses a challenge to the funeral management team of the ESI-Covid hospital and exerts a strain on the system. Taking cognisance of the situation, South Goa collector Ajit Roy has directed all subdivisional magistrates (SDMs) to ensure that a portion of the crematoriums in villages located in their respective jurisdictions is earmarked for Covid funerals. The issue was discussed at the monthly meeting of SDMs chaired by Roy at the South Goa collectorate earlier this week. Sources privy to the meeting said that the SDMs have been instructed to write to the local bodies managing the crematoriums to reserve a certain portion in their crematoriums for conducting Covid funerals by also earmarking a certain time slot for the purpose. The Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha that runs the Hindu crematorium at Pajifond, Margao, has allowed the district administration to use two pyres between 5pm and 6pm. Covid victims of all faiths are allowed to be cremated. Sources said that the issue has also been raised with the North Goa collector as bodies of many Covid patients from North Goa, who died in the Goa Medical College (GMC), have to be brought to Margao for their last rites. This situation arises when the kin of the deceased refuse to take possession of the bodies, sources said. TOI in its August 19 edition had reported how fear of social ostracism has been driving the kin to disown their dead. “In some cases, the family of the deceased simply doesn’t turn up, or nonchalantly ask us to do the funeral ourselves,” a source associated with the team had told TOI. Senior officials of the district administration expressed their disapproval over local bodies’ refusal to accept Covid bodies in their crematoriums, even over five months into the pandemic. “The fear was understandable during the initial phases of the pandemic. However, it’s not acceptable now when adequate protocols are in place for conducting Covid funerals. Secondly, when the funerals of Covid-infected Christian and Muslim bodies are allowed in their village cemeteries and kabrastans, why do only Hindu crematoriums refuse to accept Covid bodies?” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sdms-directed-to-ensure-space-for-covid-funerals-in-every-village/articleshow/77920422.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 40% Covid patients at RUHS hospital are from other districts||JAIPUR: With Jaipur witnessing sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, patients from other districts, too, are rushing to Jaipur for better treatment forcing the state government to add more space in city’s hospitals. The state’s biggest Covid-19 hospital, RUHS hospital in Pratap Nagar, has emerged as a state-level dedicated hospital for coronavirus as 40% of the patients brought here are from other districts. “Patients from Bharatpur, Dausa, Sikar, Alwar, Bharatpur and even from Bikaner have been admitted for Covid-19 treatment. We have almost half of the patients from other districts,” said Dr Sudhanshu Kacker, principal and controller, RUHS medical college. For creating more space in the hospital, the chambers of the teaching faculties have been vacated to accommodate patients coming in increased numbers. From politicians to people from slum areas, the RUHS hospital is a hope for all of them. The joint teams of RUHS Medical College and SMS Medical College are taking care of the patients. RUHS remains the only government hospital declared as dedicated Covid hospital as the state government had declared other government hospitals non-Covid in May and June, including SMS hospital. In the 500-bed hospital, 380 have been occupied by the patients. The hospital is not jam-packed as 30% of the beds are vacant, but the ICU beds are fully occupied. Keeping in mind the increasing number of patients getting admitted needing oxygen support, the state government has decided to make all the 500 beds equipped with oxygen support. Currently, 210 beds are equipped with oxygen support. The hospital has roped in a government agency to expand the oxygen supply system in the hospital. Apart from the 500 beds, the hospital has set up a 60-bed Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. The hospital has 40 ICU beds and the requirement has increased over a period of time. Hospital officials said since serious patients are getting admitted from other districts, the demand for ICU has increased. Private hospitals are also getting calls of patients from different districts. “We have 30% of our beds occupied by patients from other districts. We are not in a position to admit more patients. All our 60 beds are completely occupied,” said a private hospital official. Besides, another private hospital, which has been providing treatment to Covid-19 patients for a long time now, has also claimed that they have beds available. “Some patients get discharged daily and others get admitted, so it is a rotation,” said an official of the private hospital. BOX: Patients in numbers - Of the 380 patients admitted to RUHS hospital, 40% are from other districts - Critical patients from Bikaner, Alwar, Bharatpur and Shekhawati region are bought to RUHS hospital regularly - In a private hospital with 60 beds for Covid-19, 18 of them are occupied with patients from other districts - 8,763 beds are available for Covid-19 patients in hospitals (government or private) in Jaipur-I||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-covid-patients-at-ruhs-hosp-are-from-other-districts/articleshow/77920423.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||City records 370 new infections||JAIPUR: Adjoining areas of Malviya Nagar, Mansarovar and Sanganer remained the worst Covid-19 affected areas as they collectively reported 141 new infections out of 370 cases reported here on Thursday, the biggest single-day spike so far in the state capital. The various places in the which reported cases are Mansarovar (54), Durgapura (23 ), Jagatpura (34), Sanganer (53) and Malviya Nagar (34). The overall tally of Covid cases in Jaipur has risen to 11,821, slightly behind Jodhpur which reported 12,630 cumulative cases, the highest in the state. Jodhpur too reported 191 new infections and one persons succumbed to the virus. Active cases in Jaipur touched a new high of 4,212 , Kota (2,094) and Jodhpur (2,047). Kota reported 160 new infections taking its overall tally to 5,816. Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur contributed immensely to state’s cases which reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,553 cases taking the overall tally to 86,227. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died as well taking the state’s toll to 1,095. In the past seven days, the state has been setting new records of biggest single-day spike. Since August 15, the state has set record of biggest single-day jump 11 times. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (370), Jodhpur (191), Kota (160), Ajmer (77), Alwar (76), Bikaner (67), Jhalawar (66), Pali (64), Dungarpur (52), Chittorgarh (49), Sikar (42), Baran (41), bundi (39), Barmer (33), Tonk (32), Udaipur (32), Bhilwara (25), Churu (24), Bharatpur (17), Sriganganagar (14), Nagaur (14), Jaisalmer (14), Banswara (10), Hanumangarh (9), Sirohi (8), Dholpur (6), Rajsamand (4), Sawai Madhopur (4), Jhunjhunu (4) Jalore (3), Pratapgarh (3) and Karauli (3). BOX:Today’s positive: 1553Cumulative positive: 86,227Today’s death: 14Cumulative death: 1095Today’s recovered: 546Cumulative recovered: 71,220Active cases: 13,912||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-records-370-new-infections/articleshow/77920418.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Lucknow||Private hospitals in UP fleecing for Covid cure to be booked||LUCKNOW: Amid complaints that several private hospitals were charging hefty bills for treatment of Covid-19 despite clear orders from the UP government, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said any hospital overcharging would be booked under relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. “In July, the state government had issued very clear orders fixing the cost of coronavirus infection’s treatment at private hospitals. The cost take account of almost everything, including some important tests that are needed to keep track of the patient’s health. It also includes management of co-morbid conditions. No private hospital should try and take advantage of the crisis situation,” Prasad said here on Thursday. It may be noted that the rates for Covid-19 treatment in UP have been fixed as per recommendations of the committee led by Dr Vinod Paul, member Niti Aayog. UP government order in this regard, issued on July 11, said that the price-list was being issued to check any kind of harassment of the people. For operative purposes, the order has divided UP cities into three categories and provided rates for Category Acities. The order mentions that cost in Category B cities will be 80% of the treatment cost in Category A cities and 60% in Category C cities.Private hospitals with NABH accreditation in Category A can charge Rs 10,000 per isolation from patients suffering with moderate degree of illness. A cost of Rs 15,000 has been fixed for an ICU bed and Rs 18,000 per day from patients needing ventilator support. The cost of non-NABH hospitals in Category A cities will be Rs 8,000 for isolation beds, Rs 13,000 for ICU and Rs 15,000 for ICU with ventilator support. The rates are inclusive of the cost of PPE kits. The government also stated that 20% beds in select private hospitals will be reserved for government employees, including officers and Ayushman Bharat card holders. The cost of treatment in this category will be reimbursed by the government as per CGHS and Ayushman Bharat rates. Prasad said that as many as 2,558 patients were undergoing treatment at private hospitals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/private-hospitals-fleecing-for-covid-cure-to-be-booked/articleshow/77921223.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Kochi Metro to resume operations from Monday||KOCHI: Kochi Metro will resume operations in a phased manner from September 7. The Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to operate services every 10 minutes. On September 7 and 8, metro services will operate from 7am to 1pm and from 2pm to 8pm. From September 9, trains will function from 7am to 12noon and from 2pm to 9pm. Between 12noon and 2pm the frequency will be every 20 minutes. In the stage II, which begins on September 9, during weekdays, services will start from terminal stations at 7am. The last train will depart from terminal stations at 9pm. On Sundays, services will start from 8am. “Kochi Metro wants to ensure that trains are clean, hygienic and fully sanitized. All arrangements would be passenger-friendly,” said KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma. The dwell time at stations will be 20 seconds to ensure proper ventilation and fresh air circulation. At final terminals, Aluva and Thykoodam, a 5-minute layover time would be provided with train doors in open condition for fresh air circulation. KMRL has also taken a slew of measures to ensure sanitisation, social distancing and cashless transactions. Social distancing will be monitored through CCTV cameras. All passengers will be screened for body temperature through an infrared thermometer by security staff. In addition, thermal cameras will be placed at stations having high footfall. KMRL had already taken the decision to encourage passengers to use Kochi1 card rather than opting for cash transactions. Measures have been taken to adopt contactless ticketing and digital payment at all stations. Cash boxes and contactless ticket machines are to be set up at each station in an attempt to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Cash boxes will help in checking the spread of virus, particularly through currency notes. The new system will ensure that a commuter will not touch anything except the ticket. All staff dealing with cash will wear gloves. All communication between staff at the information counter and passengers will be through microphone and speakers. Foot pedal-operated hand sanitizers will be kept at station entry points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-metro-to-resume-operations-from-monday/articleshow/77919033.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘I-T must take pains to nail schools on capitation fees’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has observed that if income tax (I-T) department officials want to nail a school for collecting donations during admissions and bring the money under the tax net, they have to take pains to undertake a detailed and meaningful inquiry by recording statements of parents.The court said so in an order released on Thursday in an appeal filed by the I-T department against the tribunal’s finding that city-based N H Kapadia Education Trust had funds of Rs 2.65 crore, which the school claimed to be corpus, which was collected as capitation fees and was therefore liable to be taxed. The school had sought exemption from paying tax on this amount under the I-T Act as it was used for charitable purposes and was not donations from parents at the time of admission.The assessing officer’s decision to consider the amount taxable was challenged by the school before the income tax commissioner (appeals), who ruled in favour of the school. The I-T department unsuccessfully approached the income tax appellate tribunal, and finally moved the HC in 2013. The HC ruled against the revenue department but with the observation that there was no evidence that the amount was collected towards capitation fee and that it was not utilized for charitable purpose.The HC rejected the department’s appeal but said that if the assessing officer has to prove that the amount was collected as donation during admission, but was shown in any other head, the officer “ought to have taken pains to undertake a detailed inquiry in this regard by examination of parents who admitted their children in the school”.The court further said, “There is no doubt and it goes without saying that if the donation is found to have been given for material gain in securing admission, the same cannot be characterized as a donation towards charitable purpose and the assessee would not be entitled to have the benefit, but unfortunately in absence of any material on record, we are unable to take such a view.”The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice B D Karia cited various orders passed by the Supreme Court and high courts abhorring the charging of capitation fees by education institutes and how the courts are dead against commercialization of education by terming colleges charging capitation fees for admission “teaching shops”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-t-must-take-pains-to-nail-schools-on-capitation-fees/articleshow/77919012.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Jaipur||IMA to train doctors on sexual health||Jaipur: Indian Medical Association (Jaipur branch) launched an education programme to initiate and train doctors on sexual health. IMA says that since the subject is important in day-to-day life, but because of attached taboo it is much less discussed on open forums. “This topic is educating on a wide variety of challenging topics such as parenting, which includes problems of childhood to adolescent health, interpersonal problems in marriages and couple discord, geriatric problems coming out of old age, lifestyle problems arising out of common diseases, many related psychiatry problems and now Covid has brought out new problems and causing divorces,” said Dr Tarun Patni, president, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA). The subject converges in many medical specialities such as family medicine, internal medicine, urology, surgery, andrology, gynaecology, psychiatry, behavioural, and social sciences. “The subject of sexual health, unfortunately, is not taught in any medical college in India. Hence its importance,” said Dr Patni. The JMA claimed that the main enemies of sexual health are fear and anxiety. Both of them stem from ignorance. The lack of scientific knowledge and the prevailing misconceptions in the society, promotion of sexual health faces many challenges. The IMA’s programme plans to prepare and train health educators in each state and regional level so that they are equipped with the latest and scientific knowledge on this subject. There will be a series of CMEs and conferences for helping the society by treating diseases, demystifying myths and spreading awareness to parents, teachers on related topics and help in reducing ‘child sexual abuse’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ima-to-train-doctors-on-sexual-health/articleshow/77920432.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata labs under stress as dengue adds to corona pressure||KOLKATA: Private laboratories across the city are now dealing with the pressure of testing samples for dengue and scrub typhus in addition to those of Covid-19. September-November being the peak season for dengue, doctors fear that the number will surge soon. Also, with monsoon still active, scrub typhus cases could see a rise. Although the number of Covid samples have come down, there has been a rise in those of dengue and scrub typhus. State health officials attributed the dip to door-step rapid antigen tests (RAT) by the department. “We would test 300 to 350 Covid samples daily even two weeks ago. The number has now come down to about 200 samples a day. On the other hand, the samples for seasonal diseases, like dengue, scrub typhus and typhoid fever, are rising,” said Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury. Private labs started getting sporadic cases of dengue samples in the beginning of August. But they are witnessing a rise in the number, with 20 to 25 samples for dengue and about 10 for scrub typhus each day. “Covid is not a threat to children generally. But they are more vulnerable to ailments like dengue, scrub and typhoid that need timely detection and treatment. Along with Covid, due importance should be given to mosquito-control measures,” said Prabhash Prasun Giri, paediatric intensivist at Institute of Child Health (ICH). The hospital in Park Circus currently has five children suffering from dengue in the general ward while one child from central Kolkata is on ventilation. “Dengue cases will peak post monsoon. We are getting more cases of diseases like scrub typhus from areas like New Alipore,” said ICH assistant professor Sumon Poddar in-charge of the microbiology laboratory. Health department officials said the drop in Covid samples was because RATs were being conducted even at high-rises. “These private labs conduct Covid tests by RT-PCR, TRUENAT or CBNAT procedures as they are not permitted to use RAT,” an official said. “The silver lining, however, is that the samples for dengue tests are fewer than what we used to get around this time earlier,” said a microbiologist at a private hospital in Salt Lake. Officials said the number of dengue cases is not alarming as yet and all measures to check the disease were in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/labs-under-stress-as-dengue-adds-to-corona-pressure/articleshow/77919007.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Akkara refutes government claim on housing project||THRISSUR: Congress MLA Anil Akkara on Thursday refuted state government’s claim that Red Crescent had authorized Unitac Energy Solutions India Pvt Ltd to execute the Life Mission housing project at Wadakkanchery. He said as per government records Life Mission selected Unitac for the project and asked the UAE-based Red Crescent to approve it. Akkara released a letter which he claimed to have been written by Life Mission CEO to Red Crescent on August 24, 2019. He said, in the letter the CEO clarified that Life Mission had ‘scrutinized and approved’ drawings for the proposed Life Mission apartment complex, submitted by Unitac. In the letter, the CEO had also asked Red Crescent to forward ‘the authorization to undertake the work through Unitac. “But the Life Mission files indicate that Red Crescent has not submitted the authorization letter so far,” Akkara said. Meanwhile, CPM organized a fast at Wadakkanchery as part of a campaign to counter allegations levelled by Akkara against the Life Mission project. Inaugurating the fast, CPM state secretariat member Baby John alleged that Akkara was trying to sabotage the project with false allegations. John described Akkara as ‘Satan’s offspring’ and alleged that the MLA was frustrated because he did not receive any commission from the project. Akkara said that John must hold a mirror to own face to know who resembles Satan’s son. He said John’s statement was a confession to having received kickbacks in the housing project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/akkara-refutes-govt-claim-on-housing-project/articleshow/77919014.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||WRD officials inspect PPE kits found in Chicalim nullah||Vasco: A team from the Margao office of the water resources department (WRD) on Wednesday held an inspection at the Assai Dongri nullah in Chicalim where plastic bags with PPE kits were found in a nullah on Monday. The WRD team, headed by assistant engineer Ajay Kudchadker, was accompanied by the panchayat member representing ward no. 7, Supresh Mayekar, and others. “We got to know about the incident after it was published in the newspapers. We have inspected the plastic bags with material in the nullah. It doesn’t seem like it has been washed down with the nullah water, but appears to have been dumped by somebody,” said Kudchadkar “I will be submitting a report on the inspection to the higher authorities. As the Chicalim panchayat body has pointed out that the bags belong to the Dabolim airport, it has to be decided whether a notice has to be served to the airport authorities,” he added. Chicalim sarpanch Seby Pereira had alleged that the PPE kits bore the names of airlines. Villagers had also alleged that the garbage that was washed into the nullah was dumped near the grade separator next to the airport, on NH 17-B. “The Chicalim panchayat will be writing to the Dabolim airport complaining about the dumping of PPE kits and other Covid-19 safety materials in our nullah. In the past, too, we have written to the airport officials about discharge of sewerage water from airport building into the same nullah,” said panch member Mayekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-officials-inspect-ppe-kits-found-in-chicalim-nullah/articleshow/77920443.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 4, 2020||Goa||Court may let off lockdown violators with lighter fine||Panaji: Several persons found loitering, drinking alcohol in public and selling liquor during the lockdown in April and May will get off with lighter punishments. The lower court in several cases has held that the court cannot take cognisance of the offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) of disobedience to a public servant’s order where the punishment is imprisonment or fine. The court has held that since the order which is claimed to be disobeyed is that of the district magistrate and no complaint is lodged by the district magistrate or the magistrate’s subordinate staff, police constables are not the administrative subordinate of the district magistrate. The court stated that it could only take cognisance for the offence under Section 269 r/w 34 of the IPC and ordered summons be issued to the accused for offences under this section for behaving negligently in a way that is likely to spread the infection. The police have booked several accused for violating the order of the district magistrate under Section 144 issued by the district magistrate to contain the spread of the epidemic by acting negligently in a manner likely to spread the infection which is dangerous to the life of people. Several of these persons were found drinking alcohol in public places, knowingly moving out of the house without a valid reason, loitering on the bike, and selling liquor at a bar and restaurant, thereby endangering lives of consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-may-let-off-lockdown-violators-with-lighter-fine/articleshow/77920431.cms||---
September 4, 2020||India||Deaths due to heart attacks up by 53% in 5 years: NCRB||NEW DELHI: The number of people killed in heart attacks has been increasing since 2014, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). While in 2014, a total of 18,309 people died due to heart attack, the number increased year after year and claimed 28,005 lives in 2019, up by 53% in five years. The data also show there has been a steady increase in such cases across different age groups barring those below 14 years and in the age bracket of 14-18 years. NCRB started providing the age group wise details of such deaths from 2016. The comparative analysis of the past four years of NCRB reports show that fatalities due to heart attacks in the age group of 18 to 30 years increased from 1,940 in 2016 to 2,381 during the last year. The trend was similar in the 30-45 age group. While in 2016, a total of 6,646 people died in this age bracket due to heart attacks, this touched 7,752 during 2019. In the 45-60 age group, the fatalities increased from 8,862 in 2016 to 11,042 during last year. In the 60 plus age group, 6,612 people died last year compared to 4,275 in 2016. Dr Ashok Seth, chairman of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, said the increase in deaths due to heart attacks may be reflective of better data collection. “The incidence of heart attacks has certainly gone up, but so has the infrastructure. Ideally, the number of deaths should go down.” Dr Viveka Kumar, principal director, cardiac sciences at Max Hospital, Delhi, said: “The mortality data from Registrar General of India shows 33% adult Indians died due to heart attacks. The major driver of increased mortality are conditions such as diabetes, smoking, BP and unhealthy lifestyle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deaths-due-to-heart-attacks-up-by-53-in-5-years-ncrb/articleshow/77922046.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||City cop force infected count crosses 2k||Kolkata: Covid cases among Kolkata Police personnel crossed 2,000 on Thursday. The force reported 37 fresh cases, the highest in the past 20 days after having dropped to less than 10 towards the weekend. The total number of infected now stands at 2,018.On Thursday, the total number of recovered personnel stood at 1,847 while the number of active cases was 171. This is the first time that the number of active cases has crossed 150 in the past two weeks. On the positive side, the situation is still much better compared to the same time last month when the force had around 300-350 active cases per day.“We always had a healthy recovery rate. This time, if we manage to keep the number of active cases below 150 for a few days, we will know that our measures are showing some results,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cop-force-infected-count-crosses-2k/articleshow/77919061.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 4, 2020||Goa||‘Lifting of entry curbs good sign, tourism will pick up’||Panaji: Tourism stakeholders say it will take at least 10-15 days to see the impact of the state government’s recent decision to lift entry restrictions for tourists. On August 31, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that the state has dropped all restrictions on entry and that tourists will no longer need to present a Covid-19 negative certificate or take a test on landing, to enter the state. Responding to a query on whether hotels have seen an increase in bookings since the announcement, Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), president, Nilesh Shah, said, “It is a positive sign that the restrictions have been lifted. Business will pick up gradually. But we need to do more. We will get the correct figures next week.” Former TTAG president Savio Messias said that one will have to wait, at least till next weekend, to gauge the impact. Until last week, hotel bookings ranged between 4-5 %. Since introducing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the hotel industry in July, the tourism department has granted around 500 hotels permission to resume operations. Nearly 300 hotels were granted permission in July itself, but only few started operating. Others remained closed as they felt that it was uneconomical to operate with below-average bookings. They plan to resume operations in October-November. Shah said hotels have been receiving queries and though all might not translate into business, there is now better scope for travellers to plan holidays to Goa. In states like Rajasthan, which had no entry restrictions, hotels did good business on weekends, he said. For business to pick up, he said, the nationwide Covid-19 figures, which are “alarmingly high”, should come down. Post Ganesh Chaturthi, the number of positive cases in Goa increased sharply. On Thursday, Goa recorded the highest single-day spike of 713 cases. Meanwhile, a family of five that came in from Shirdi on Thursday, said that they have chosen Goa for their holiday as the Covid cases here are much lower than in their district in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifting-of-entry-curbs-good-sign-tourism-will-pick-up/articleshow/77920457.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 4, 2020||Pune||24x7 monitoring on the cards at CoEP makeshift hospital in Pune||PUNE: The civic body and the district administration on Thursday decided to appoint three officials for putting in place a 24x7 system to monitor functioning of the 800-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital on the CoEP grounds. The administration took the decision a day after a city-based television journalist succumbed to Covid-19 at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) jumbo facility. Pandurang Raykar, 42, was admitted to the facility on Monday night. His family claimed he died waiting for emergency medical transport that was supposed to take him to a hospital after he suffered a serious drop in oxygen levels. The three officials will work in an eight-hour shift for the management of beds and ventilators at the makeshift Covid-19 treatment hub. “Senior-level officials will monitor its functioning and ensure proper management,” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. The death of three patients, including that of Raykar on Wednesday, and shifting of at least 20 others within a week in the absence of adequate support, oxygen supply and manpower have raised questions about the efficacy of the 800-bed hospital on the CoEP grounds. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar said the civic administration has initiated measures to ensure better facilities for the patients. “The patients need to go for trial test before going for final admission to the jumbo hospital. The number of beds available was few. But it is now being increased. As a result, the waiting period for the patients’ admission has reduced,” he said. Inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, the facility is still functioning at 50% of its capacity. Many patients and their relatives have complained about problems such as delay in getting admission, absence of expert medical staffers, poor food facilities and inadequate information about the health updates of people recuperating in the hospital. Sassoon General Hospital authorities on Thursday decided not to shift patients to the CoEP facility, as the beds available in the makeshift hospital were full. Settlement commissioner and officer in-charge of managing Sassoon General Hospital S Chockalingam said, “In the current scenario, we feel it will not be possible to shift the patients to the jumbo facility, We will manage the oxygen supply repair work at Sassoon hospital in phases.” Health minister Rajesh Tope said he has told the Pune collector to address this issue. “We will check whether the patients can be kept at Sassoon itself or shifted to any other facility,”he said, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said since the Sassoon General Hospital was not admitting any more Covid patients, people detected with the infection were being sent to the CoEP facility. Rao said he was ready to arrange “green corridors” for shifting some patients to the Magar stadium and Baner facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24x7-monitoring-on-the-cards-at-coep-makeshift-hospital/articleshow/77920460.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Compartment exams after September 21||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department will hold compartment exams after September 21, as the CBSE has released the schedule for registration of students for classes IX and XI. The registration process, as per the schedule, will begin from September 7. Director, school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “As per MHA guidelines, 50% teachers can be called to school from September 21. We will make a plan on how to conduct the compartment exams and send it to the education secretary for approval.” On April 14, the UT education department had decided to give 30 grace marks to students of classes IX and XI and not to fail anyone this year. However, around 4,550 students of classes IX and XI of government schools, affiliated with the CBSE, were still put under compartment as they could not pass despite the grace marks. The compartment exams were earlier supposed to begin on May 15, but were later postponed till further orders. On July 16, district education officer Harbir Singh Anand had issued new orders under which the students with compartment were given two options: either join class IX or XI’s online classes as failed students or join the next class to which they would be promoted to after clearing the compartment. However, if they chose the second option they would be asked to reappear for the compartment exam as soon as the schools reopened. In case they failed to clear their compartment, then they would have to go back to the previous class. This order had come after CBSE had stated that schools could conduct online, offline or innovative tests and decide on promoting students on its basis. A teacher said, “The department must conduct the exam at the earliest because students with a compartment cannot be registered until they clear their exams. Now, JEE exams are also being conducted for thousands of candidates at mere five centres. We have so many schools, so conducting compartment exams for 4,550 students with social distancing should not be a problem for the UT.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/compartment-exams-after-sept-21/articleshow/77919055.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Thanku cat-fame teacher files plaint against advocate||KOZHIKODE: Sai Swetha, the teacher whose online classes on Victers channel had gone viral, has approached the police against an advocate for ‘insulting her on social media after she refused an offer to act in a film’. In a Facebook post, Sai Swetha said she was approached by an unknown person with an offer to act in a film. She asked him to contact her family friend as she couldn’t make a decision at that time. “Later, I decided not to act in films and that was communicated to the person,” she said. Later, the person insulted her on social media by writing baseless things and many shared the post without realizing the reality. “Initially I was shocked, but the support of family and friends and the public gave me courage to take on things legally,” she said. Advocate Sreejith Perumana, the person who contacted Sai Swetha, said there has not been a single word of abuse on his part. “I contacted her for a film project of my friend who suggested that the teacher would be an ideal person for the role. The story is based on campus life. So, I contacted her husband and her,” he said. “She asked me to contact a media agency which I did. Till now I have not received an answer,” said Sreejith. “I am not bothered about her refusal. But the way she reacted was quite immature, which was different from other very senior artists whom I contacted. And I communicated it through a Facebook post in which I didn’t name anyone,” he said. “After the incident, certain vested interests started a campaign against me insinuating many things. I stand by what I said and will confront them legally,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/thanku-cat-fame-teacher-files-plaint-against-advocate/articleshow/77919096.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderbad: Five metro stations to remain shut||HYDERABAD: As per the state government’s directions, Hyderabad Metro Rail will resume operations from September 7. The decision to resume operations in a phased manner came after a review meeting by HMRL MD, NVS Reddy, with L&TMRHL MD, KVB Reddy, and senior officials of both organisations on Thursday. As part of the preparedness and safety measures, it has been decided that about five stations, which are in containment zones, will remain closed for passenger traffic as of now. The broad guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) for resumption of services include the frequency of trains being around five minutes. This will be improved or decreased based on passenger traffic and to avoid crowding. “To ensure that our staff are well prepared to handle the new normal, we are also conducting mock drills keeping in view various scenarios once the operations resume,” said a senior HMRL official. “Enough care will be taken to follow proper sanitisation, maintain physical distancing in Metro trains and stations. All the guidelines will be strictly be followed.” It has also been decided that the Metro rail will keep close liaison with state police, medical authorities and local administration for regulating crowd outside the station and to deal with contingencies. Following the ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines on unlock 4.0, the state government issued a GO (No. 120 dated August 31) under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-metro-stns-to-remain-shut/articleshow/77920479.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Travel operators demand air bubble with 3 nations||PANAJI: With entry restrictions for domestic travellers lifted, the hospitality industry is eager to have a similar relaxation for international travellers too. Travel operators handling international bookings, including charter operators, have now requested the Goa government to push for an air bubble with Russia, the UK and Poland. India has extended the ban on international flights till September-end. Goa’s charter season takes off in October while bookings usually start as early as April-May. This season, however, bookings have been delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Two days ago, representatives of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) met with tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar and tourism director Menino D’Souza, pressing for an air bubble with Russia, the UK and Poland. The delegation had a meeting scheduled with chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday but it was called off after he tested positive for Covid-19. Goa receives 8-9 lakh international tourists per year, with charter components in the range of 2-2.5 lakh. Travellers from the UK and Russia constitute the largest chunk of its international guests. Chief operating officer at Sita and TCI, Ernest Dias, said although they have started receiving queries from their regular operators, especially from Russia, it is important that international flights resume at the earliest if bookings are to start. “Charter operators are ready to come but our international borders must open. Our request is to have an air bubble arrangement as it exists in other countries and to allow scheduled and charter flights to land in Goa,” he said. Vice-president at Minar Travels (India Pvt Ltd), Abida Kumar, said people have become tired of sitting at home for eight whole months. “Business will trickle in in October-November, but it will pick up in a big way in January,” Kumar said, adding that she had been getting queries from the UK, Kazakhstan and Russia. While pitching for reopening Goa as an international holiday destination, TTAG president Nilesh Shah said it would have to be done carefully and with adequate measures in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/travel-operators-demand-air-bubble-with-3-nations/articleshow/77920476.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 4, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar Covid fatality rate dips to 1.1%||KOLKATA: The Covid fatality rate (CFR) in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area has dropped to 1.1%, a sharp dip from 7.1% recorded in end-May. This is the first time that the CFR has slid in Bidhannagar since cases emerged towards the end of March. Only six deaths were reported last month compared to 18 in July and 13 in June. The fatality rate reached its peak in the end of May touching 7.1%, with a total of 141 Covid cases and 10 deaths. In June, 13 more Covid deaths occurred and the fatality rate stood at 4.8% by the month-end. TimesViewThis is definitely good news. But both citizens and government agencies would do well to remember that any slackening of measures can lead to a reversal.The highest number deaths was recorded in July, taking the total Covid death toll to 41 on July 31. On July 31, the total number of Covid-affected persons stood at 1,941 but the fatality rate slid to 2.8%. Cases surged and peaked in August, with 2,128 new patients. However, only six deaths were reported from the Bidhannagar area in August, taking the total deaths to 47. The fatality rate has slid to 1.1% till Thursday. Civic officials clarified that though Bidhannagar Ward 6 councillor Subhash Bose had died of Covid on August 5, his death was not registered in Bidhannagar but in Kolkata since he died at a Kolkata-based nursing home. Active cases in the Bidhannagar civic body area have also come down to an all-time low at 22.7% with 968 cases as on Thursday and a recovery rate of 76.1% with 3,240 persons recovering till Thursday. The total number of Covid patients from Bidhannagar till Thursday, September 3 now stands at 4,255. “It is still early to say whether Bidhannagar is past the peak of cases, but as of now the overall figures suggest that we have reached a plateau,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-covid-fatality-rate-dips-to-1-1/articleshow/77919011.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 4, 2020||Pune||PMRDA: Civic body has to manage daily work at jumbo unit||PUNE: PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase on Thursday said the day-to-day operations of the makeshift Covid-19 hospital on the CoEP grounds have to be managed by the civic body’s additional commissioner in accordance with the divisional commissioner’s order. Diwase said the the facility was handed over to the PMC on August 26. He said “The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) had handed over the facility to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with over 20 Standard Operation Procedures on bed operations, hospital management services and food.” He said “The PMC, Lifeline Services and the infrastructure agency have to execute its operations. The PMC told us to issue a showcause notice to Lifeline Services, which we have done. But its day-to-day functioning is notour responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrda-civic-body-has-to-manage-daily-work-at-jumbo-unit/articleshow/77920478.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Hardik adds to Rajkot unit’s numbers with 30 from BJP||Rajkot: Ahead of its civic body elections, Rajkot, is becoming the epicentre of state’s political activity. Even as the newly appointed state BJP president CR Paatil tried to infuse hope in the rank and file of party’s grassroots workers during his recent visit to Saurashtra, Congress working president, Hardik Patel, seems to have played an ace by inducting a sizeable number of BJP members in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s home town, into the Congress fold. In a press conference organized in the city on Thursday, Patel welcomed nearly 30 BJP workers in Congress while the the commercial capital of Saurashtra stands at the doorstep of civic polls. The RMC elections is expected to take place sometime in November and this desertion is expected to jolt the city wing of BJP. BJP corporator Daksha Bhesania along with family members, NGO founders Chandni Patel and husband Piyush Patel, the president of Saurashtra APMC traders association, Atul Kamani along with 10 other traders of APMC who are part of the co-operative sector, are among the 30 who joined Congress. Other notable faces include youth BJP leader Gautam Patel and nine other Akhil Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP) leaders who crossed over to the other side. Addressing the media, Hardik Patel claimed, “Five more BJP corporators are in talks with Congress leaders and are expected to join the party in next two weeks.” He also gave hint that former MLA Indranil Rajguru too may soon join the party. In 2015 Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) elections, Congress won 34 out of 72 seats and was very close to coming into power. This time, BJP is expecting to benefit from the votes it expects to get from the five newly merged areas of RMC. Raising health and unemployment issues prominently on Thursday, Patel asked, “When BJP has been in power in Rajkot for the past 30 years, how many new hospitals have come up here? What's the improvement in medical facilities?” Alleging that more than 100 people are daily getting infected with coronavirus and 30 dying from it, he said that the BJP should give an account of its health infrastructuire facilities. He said the weak health facility in CM’s own hometown is a reflection of BJP government’s failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hardik-adds-to-rajkot-units-numbers-with-30-from-bjp/articleshow/77917859.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Noida||Farmers’ union leader found dead near Jewar-Bulandshahr highway||GREATER NOIDA: A 27-year-old Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from a Jewar village was found dead with bullet wounds near Jewar-Bulandshahr highway on Wednesday night. Pradeep Atri was from Neemka village where he worked with the local wing of BKU. He used to stay with his parents, wife and two daughters. Local people said he used to work with local BJP workers and was planning to contest elections. According to the family’s complaint, Atri got a call around 8.30 pm on Wednesday and he left the house after that. Later, some villagers told them that they heard gunshots near the highway. The family tried to contact Atri but found that his phone was switched off. The family members started looking for him and found his body in a forest about 100m away from the highway. He had a bullet wound in the chest. “He was last seen at a restaurant with a person named Lawrence and a few others. “The restaurant owner told us that he saw him going into the forest with Lawrence and minutes later, he heard gunshots,” said Rampal Singh, Atri’s father. He added that the a few men were after Atri, as he had helped a family of a woman who was allegedly kidnapped by the men a few months ago. “Lawrence’s brother Vipin had kidnapped the married woman and my son had helped the family rescue her. We suspect that they killed my son to take to revenge,” Rampal said, adding that the men are also accused of the murder of the woman’s husband. He was found dead in Vallabhgarh of Haryana. After Atri’s body was found, an FIR was lodged under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 302 (murder) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against seven people — Lawrence, his brother vipin, cousins Akash, Jagatpal, Ranveer, Chaman Singh and another person. Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP (zone 3) said they have detained three men. “Among the accused, two have been involved in criminal activities. Arrests would be made soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/farmers-union-leader-found-dead-near-jewar-bshahr-highway/articleshow/77920523.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 4, 2020||Pune||Only 25 out of 200 ICU beds live at Pimpri’s nCoV hub||Pimpri Chinchwad: Only 21% of beds are operational for patients at the jumbo facility in Pimpri — a week after its inauguration. Officials said 25 of the unit’s proposed 200 ICU beds are live. And out of the 600 proposed oxygen beds, only 150 are operational. One civic official said immediate operations at full capacity will impact equipment and infrastructure. “If we start the jumbo unit at full capacity, it can collapse. The system is new and needs to be given some time,” he said. Santosh Patil, the PCMC’s additional commissioner, said there are three private agencies managing operations at the site. He said by Thursday, the number of admissions at the site had crossed the 100-mark and the rest of the beds would be made operational in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-25-out-of-200-icu-beds-live-at-pimpris-ncov-hub/articleshow/77920489.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Final-year UG, PG courses: PU to hold online exams from Sept 17||Chandigarh: Panjab University will conduct online examination for final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses from September 17. The decision was taken by vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar on Thursday in his first meeting with the members of a special committee constituted by the syndicate. Sources said the minutes of the meeting were yet to be approved by the V-C and the announcement would be made soon.It has been decided that the question papers will be uploaded on the PU website half-an-hour before the examination. Colleges, too, will get question papers through e-mail at the same time, which they will further e-mail to the students. All the examinations will be completed by September 30.Students will get a choice to perform 50% questions and the question paper will be set as per the old pattern. Each student will get two hours to complete the exam and two hours to upload it or submit it to their department or college if they face any issue in scanning or uploading the answer-sheet. If any student faces an issue in downloading the question paper, (s)he can visit their college or department to collect it.It has been decided that a five-member committee will supervise if any student is facing a difficulty while writing the examination and will resolve it. It was also discussed during the meeting that conducting examinations as per the conventional mode was not possible in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases. The members have also permitted conduct of practical exams via online mode. It will be conducted by an internal examiner of the department. The controller of examination has asked that the marking of all the UG and PG examinations should be conducted from October 1 and completed within five days. The time of the UG and PG examinations will be different.PU SCRAPS ALL ENTRANCE TESTSThe committee has decided to scrap all the nine entrance tests for admission to various courses. The authorities cannot hold exams as per the conventional mode due to safety reasons. EXAM PANEL A committee will discuss all the issues of the examination branch and students. It will discuss available options for a student who is facing an issue in the online exam. THE COUNT Around 4,500 students from PU campus and 60,000 from affiliated colleges, including private ones, will be appearing for the online exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/final-year-ug-pg-courses-pu-to-hold-online-exams-from-sept-17/articleshow/77919098.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Varsities to finish PG intake by Sept 30||Ahmedabad: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed all varsities to complete admissions for postgraduate programmes before September 30. If students are yet to get their undergraduate results, the varsity has instructed colleges to give them admission on provisional basis before the end of this month. There are many universities in Gujarat including Gujarat University that are yet to complete the first round of annual college exams. “Gujarat University is holding its first phase of in-person exams from September 3. These exams will end on September 20 and the results are expected in October. So many students at GU will have to take admission in PG courses on provisional basis,” said GU sources. UGC brought out these new guidelines to ensure students do not lose a semester due to the Covid-19 crisis, sources added. Gujarat University’s first phase of exams began on Thursday, for which 21,008 candidates had registered. The varsity, which has more than 350 colleges affiliated to it, will conduct exams at 102 centres in the state. The varsity is conducting exams for arts, commerce, science and law students in two phases from September 3 and September 12. About 70,000 students at various GU-affiliated colleges are expected to take the in-person exams that are to end on September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/varsities-to-finish-pg-intake-by-sept-30/articleshow/77919108.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Highest spike for third day in a row, 713 Covid cases reported||PANAJI: For the third consecutive day, Goa reported its highest single-day spike with 713 new Covid cases, pushing the active tally to 4,782 on Thursday. Eight deaths were also reported, taking the total fatalities to 212. The total cases is nearing the 20,000 mark, of which 14,361 are recoveries, including 302 people cured on Thursday. In the past three days, the state capital has reported 100 new cases. Of the eight deaths, two men were aged below fifty. A 38-year-old man with no history of comorbid condition and a 47-year-old man with comorbidities, both from Navelim, died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. The other three fatalities reported from GMC are that of a 79-year-old woman from Mapusa and two men – a 70-year-old from Margao and a 75-year-old from Navelim. All three were suffering from comorbidities. Three men – a 75-year-old from Sankhali, a 72-year-old from Gogol and a 65-year-old from Zuarinagar - with comorbidities died at the Margao Covid hospital. As Goa witnessed a spike in mortalities corresponding to the rise in new infections, the government had stated that all high-risk patients will be treated in GMC, for which three new wards were created last month. A new ward 122 was later added due to the upsurge in cases. Two days ago, the government admitted that its facilities as well a few beds – not more than 25 each – reserved by three private hospitals for treating Covid patients, were full to capacity. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday told reporters that a private hospital in North Goa which failed to comply with the directives of the health services to reserve beds for Covid patients, was issued a showcause notice. The government is also yet to disclose its plan on how it will cope with the rise in cases requiring hospitalisation. The recoveries range between 300 to 400 a day, however, the health bulletin does not mention on average how many patients are discharged from Covid hospitals. A senior government doctor said a patient with symptoms can take a week or two for recovery, with no major complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/highest-spike-for-third-day-in-a-row-713-cases-reported/articleshow/77920487.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU exams see 86% attendance on Day 1||Students have their temperatures taken as they arrive at an examination centre for Gujarat University exams in the city on ThursdayAhmedabad: The first day of Gujarat University’s annual college exams on Thursday, in person, saw 14% absentees. In all, about 14,000 students or 86% of the total participated in the exams, said a GU official. Of the 7,781 examinees in the first session, 6,714 took the examination. Some 7,000 students attended the afternoon session, said sources. Members of the All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) claimed that many colleges did not follow safety guidelines issued by the varsity to check the spread of Covid-19. Issues about proper sanitization of classrooms were raised by some students. The varsity, which has more than 350 colleges affiliated to it, is conducting the exams at 102 centres in the state. Of these, 46 are in Ahmedabad and 22 are in Gandhinagar and Viramgam districts. Postgraduate exams such as those for the MA fourth semester, LLB (2, 4, 6 semesters), LLM (1, 3 semester) and MCom fourth semester are being from September 3. The varsity is holding exams for arts, commerce, science and law students in two phases, one beginning ON September 3 and the other from September 12. About 70,000 students at various GU-affiliated colleges are expected to take these in-person exams that are to end on September 20. The university will hold exams separately for students who have applied for online exams. The dates of the online exams have not yet been announced. Candidates pursuing undergraduate studies like BCom, BA, BSc, BBA, BCA, will participate in the second round of in-person exams starting September 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-exams-see-86-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/77919101.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bhopal||Cong to move NHRC over inedible foodgrain||Bhopal: State Congress on Thursday said it will register a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) regarding the inedible food grain distribution through public distribution system (PDS) in tribal areas during the Covid lockdown. In a joint press conference by AICC media convener Abhay Dubey and state PCC vice-president Bhupendra Gupta, Congress also demanded a high-level probe to fix responsibility for the substandard food distribution. The revelation about the rations, “suitable only for goats and sheep”, was made through a letter from the Union consumer affairs ministry dated August 21. While ruling BJP claimed that the grains were acquired during the 15-month Kamal Nath government in the state, Congress said that the substandard rice distributed is not grown in Madhya Pradesh. Dubey said, “BJP’s allegation does not target the erstwhile Congress government, it humiliates the toil and hard work of farmers of this state. Do farmers of MP give this kind of rice for acquisition to the government?” Dubey also alleged that the grains were exchanged from the warehouses. “Today or tomorrow, it will get revealed that a nexus of certain big grain merchants from a neighbouring state, some big mill owners, senior officials of this state and senior BJP leaders have a nexus. I say with full responsibility that the grains were exchanged.” Congress maintained that genetically if the grains, especially rice is tested, then it would be revealed that this variety does not grow in MP. “It is a shameful incident of extreme corruption when the last man in our society, the poor tribal, is being given inedible rations fit for consumption of animals,” Dubey added. Gupta argued that the letter from the consumer affairs ministry states that gunny bags in which the rice was stored were stamped and dated three years ago. “If the seal on the rice bags are dated three years ago, how can BJP claim it was procured during Congress rule? The rice must have been procured by the previous BJP government because three years ago there was no Congress government in the state,” he said. “The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government should state when this rice was procured,” Gupta added. Dubey further pointed out that the government procures paddy from farmers and not rice. “Paddy is procured from farmers and sent to the mills. If BJP was not involved in this nexus, then it would have registered an FIR against the culprits by now. But the government hasn’t done that. The Congress party demands a probe so that responsibility can be fixed on those involved. A chain of officials certifies the quality of grains,” he said. Both Gupta and Dubey said that the state Congress will register a complaint with the NHRC since the incident amounts to gross violation of human rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-to-move-nhrc-over-inedible-foodgrain/articleshow/77920559.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Cusat startup sets up disinfectant chambers at FLTCs||KOCHI: Bluemink Innovations, a startup company incubated in Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has developed a disinfection chamber that can be installed at Covid treatment centres. The chamber, was incubated at the Centre for Innovation, Technology Transfer and Industrial Collaboration (CITTIC) following special directions from vice-chancellor K N Madhusoodanan. The team led by Prof Supriya M H, head, department of electronics also has Shameer K Mohammed and Prof Zameel Ahamed as directors of Bluemink Innovations. The disinfectant used is benzalkonium chloride solution as the reagent in the device which can disinfect health workers in PPE effectively within 10 seconds. “We have already installed these at various Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) in the district such as Vengoor, Paipra and Nellikuzhy, etc.,” said Shameer K Mohammed, Bluemink Innovations. He said in most disinfectant chambers, two people spray at each other on the PPE and wait for 20 minutes before removing the PPE kit in the dropping area. “It is said the healthcare workers are vulnerable to infections at the time of removing the PPE kit. This is a huge challenge. It is important that it should be disinfected. If one person only comes out, he/she has to wait for another. That’s how we thought of a solution,” he said. The team built the chamber using hydraulic mechanism with compressed air which has nine nozzles in the 4ft square chambers. CITTIC director Sam Thomas said the start-up was run by Cusat alumni. “We offered our full support and hope to come out with more innovations to fight the pandemic,” he said. Bluemink Innovations has expressed their willingness to install the device across Kerala as per the requirement of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-startup-sets-up-disinfectant-chambers-at-fltcs/articleshow/77919099.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||‘Gang-rape’ of minor girl: Two accused held, mobile phone used to film assault recovered||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Bareilly on Thursday have arrested two youths out of the four accused of raping a 15-year-old girl. They also claimed to have recovered the mobile phone allegedly used to film the sexual assault on the minor girl. Police said that relevant sections of IT Act for filming the assault would now be added in the FIR. The video clips found on the mobile phone confirmed rape, police said. On Wednesday, the minor girl’s father had registered an FIR alleging that his daughter was gang-raped by four youngsters when she was on her way to collect passport-sized photographs from a local studio for her school admission form in the Bareilly’s CB Ganj area. The girl’s father told police that his daughter was walking towards the photo studio when the main accused, identified as Mohit, 18, and his three accomplices stopped her near railway ground. They then dragged her to an abandoned building and took turns to rape her. The girl, in severe trauma, returned home with her clothes torn and bruises. Profusely crying she narrated her ordeal to her father. Police had registered an FIR against Mohit, Sumit Singh, Ankit Gupta and an unidentified person under IPC sections 376-D (gang rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) along with sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act. Sumit and Mohit were arrested late on Wednesday. During questioning, Mohit told police that the forth accomplice is Himanshu, 22, younger brother of Ankit who shot the video of sexual assault. Inspector Bachoo Singh told TOI, “We have recovered the video of the assault from the mobile phone of Ankit who is still absconding. The accused were planning to blackmail the girl in future using the video. We will soon file a charge-sheet in this case and ensure strict punishment for the accused. I am consulting senior officials for adding further sections in the FIR. The girl is still in trauma and was sent for medical examination on Thursday.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-rape-of-minor-girl-2-accused-held-mobile-phone-used-to-film-assault-recovered/articleshow/77917860.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 4, 2020||Rajkot||Talk to me directly, Paatil urges workers, activists||Palanpur: President of Gujarat BJP and Navsari Lok Sabha MP, CR Paatil, on Thursday was accorded a hearty welcome by party activists during his whirlwind tour of Banaskantha. The veteran leader paid obeisance at the Ambaji temple before embarking on his hectic political programme. Addressing party workers who had gathered at the event, he said he would work to win the hearts of the grassroots workers and said he will win their confidence in the party. Addressing the BJP activist, Paatil said, “Please send me your grievances directly instead of running from pillar to post.” Assuring them of looking all their complainants, the state BJP chief said that he will dispose their letters without harbouring any grudge against the writer. While lauding the services of party workers who moved among the masses to take care of the problems faced by poor and needy in spite of Covid threat, Paatil asked workers to directly approach him at the Kamalam. About 10 NSUI activities assembled at the Aroma circle on Thursday seeking exemption of tuition and other fees taken by school and colleges during lockdown, said district Congress president, Dinesh Gadhvi. Meanwhile, state Congress president, Amit Chavda lambasted Paatil’s huge rallies where hundreds of people gather in one place and throw caution to the wind. “What the new state BJP president CR Paatil is doing is in absolute violation of norms fixed by the BJP government. Paatil is behaving like he is above the law and undermining the authority of chief minister Vijay Rupani. While the state government is not allowing assemblage of crowd even for weddings or funerals, Paatil is organizing big rallies as if he is the official brand ambassador for spread of coronavirus in the state,” Chavda alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/talk-to-me-directly-paatil-urges-workers-activists/articleshow/77917907.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra health minister tells administration to scale up operations||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday asked the Pune administration to immediately scale up operations at both jumbo units. The CoEP facility has only 400 of the proposed 800 beds currently operational. The Pimpri Chinchwad unit too is yet to fully activate all its beds. Officials manning the makeshift CoEP facility, within a week of operations at 50% capacity, were unable to take in more patients saying they were fully occupied. Tope said, “As per the agreement, the units should have 800 beds. I will be asking the local administration to immediately ensure all 800 beds are ready and operational. There should be no shortage of beds in Pune.” Asked if the CoEP unit’s inauguration was brought forward despite work being underway, the minister said the event had to be held to speed up the job. “They were to open in a phased manner. If there is any shortage of doctors, we will specialists from Mumbai come over and help,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-min-tells-admin-to-scale-up-operations/articleshow/77920499.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘PASA changes futile if implementation defective’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has said that state government’s decision to widen the net of the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act to apply to cyber criminals, loan sharks and offenders against women is a welcome step, but the exercise will remain futile if serious amendments are not made in the implementation of these preventive powers. The high court reminded the government of its suggestions made more than five years ago for reviewing delegation of powers, which was not done ever since the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) came into effect in 1985. The HC suggested proper guidelines to effectively implement PASA where the detainees are not wrongly sent behind bars and that in genuine cases, they do not get out easily. The HC had warned the government not to invoke PASA in “casual manner” because the law gives wide powers to the authorities to detain people without a trial. Earlier this week, while dealing with an appeal by a PASA detainee, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala took notice of the state government’s decision to expand the PASA net to cyber criminals, loan sharks and sexual offenders through an ordinance. The judges said that while it is a welcome step, but unless and until the defects pointed out by HC in its January 27, 2015 order “are not considered and deliberated, no amount of amendments will serve the purpose”. On the government not heeding the HC’s suggestions, the judges said, “Almost five years and six months have elapsed since then. We wonder whether the Home Ministry of the state government paid any heed to the above referred observations of this court…the observations point out the shortcomings in the Act and how to rectify such shortcomings for better and effective implementation and execution of the provisions of the Act.” The HC “once again” requested the government to seriously study its earlier observations on effective implementation of PASA and for prevention of its misuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pasa-changes-futile-if-implementation-defective/articleshow/77919136.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Foreign shores no lure for PGPX grads||Ahmedabad: Of the past five years, 2020 was the second year when no graduating student from the IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A)’s one-year executive MBA course PGPX opted for a foreign placement. In fact, in the past five years, only eight students have opted for offers from abroad. Prof Amit Karna, chairperson of the placement committee, said the reason no students are accepting overseas job offers despite a few foreign companies participating this year could be the matching profiles and remuneration offered by companies in India. For the 2020 batch, the maximum earning potential was Rs 81 lakh per annum, whereas the mean was Rs 33.4 lakh – both figures up from Rs 60 lakh and Rs 30.3 lakh in 2019. The number of participating companies also increased in two years, providing more options to students, said IIM-A officials. “Of the total, 33 students opted for jobs at Delhi NCR, followed by 29 in Bengaluru, both known for rapid development and presence of tech firms. Students also look for challenging profiles where they find the perfect match for their aspirations,” he said. About the impact of Covid-19 on placements, Prof Karna said that the pandemic and the downturn have led firms to look for hiring future leaders who can manage uncertainty and tackle complex issues arising out of the scenario. “We believe IIM-A graduates have fared well on these parameters, and so we are confident of good demand for our graduates in the coming season too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/foreign-shores-no-lure-for-pgpx-grads/articleshow/77919137.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||2 dead, 92 positive in Ambala||TNNAmbala: Novel coronavirus claimed two lives in Ambala on Thursday. “Two Covid-19 positive patients of the district have died. They are a 75-year-old man of Vashishth Nagar and a 71-year-old man of Sector 10, Ambala City. The district death count has now risen to 38,” said district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. Besides, 92 people tested positive for Covid-19 on the day, increasing the case tally to 4,108. Of them, 45 are from Ambala City, 33 from Ambala Cantt, 10 from Chourmastpur, two from Mullana and one each from Barara and Shahzadpur.As many as 76 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 3,479, he said.Ambala Total cases4,108Cured3,479Active cases591Deaths38||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-dead-92-positive-in-ambala/articleshow/77919117.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Court orders status quo on sanitation park near Kalka||CHANDIGARH: Applying brakes on the decision of the Panchkula district authorities to set up a sanitation park near Kalka for solid waste management, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday ordered the state government to maintain status quo on the land. It was observed that the additional advocate general, Haryana, has accepted notice on behalf of the state and it has been granted four weeks to file a written statement. “In the meantime, parties are directed to maintain the status quo,” the HC said, while adjourning the case for October 6. The court has also issued a notice to the department of science and technology principal secretary, Haryana state pollution control board, Panchkula deputy commissioner and Kalka municipal council, seeking their replies on the issue.  A division bench, comprising Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice HS Sidhu, passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Hem Chand and several other residents of Kalka. Petitioners have sought directions to ensure safety of the residents of Bitna village, Vasudev Pura and Hakimpur, besides teachers and students of government primary schools, livestock at gaushala and those living around the dumping ground that was to be set up for manufacturing compost manure. The petitioners said in 2011, the municipal committees of Kalka and Pinjore had jointly tried to convert the shamlat land near Bitna village into a dumping ground. On this, the residents had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the high court in 2012, after which the local authorities informed the HC that the government had already obtained land at Jhuriwala village, therefore, there was no intention to dump the garbage at the site. On this, the PIL was rendered infructuous. However, with the passage of time, the local authorities again started preparing the site as a garbage dump under a new name: sanitation park. “Except for using a nice name for garbage dump, there was no difference in use of land. Even as it is named sanitation park, it is to be used for preparation of compost manure, for which garbage will be required,” the petitioners submitted before the HC. They said the proposed site was close to densely-populated area, schools and hospitals and the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees the right to live in a clean environment without fear and free from environmental pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-orders-status-quo-on-sanitation-park-near-kalka/articleshow/77919129.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chennai||When games need a reset button||By Cindhu MenakaSoon after the recent order from the Union government to ban 118 Chinese mobile apps, including popular gaming titles, I got a call from a client about his younger brother. The Class VIII studying in Theni had been playing a gaming app along with his friends for about a year. The 13-year-old had begun showing aggressive behaviour, was underperforming academically, lost appetite and kept to himself. This aggravated during the pandemic. Another parent called to talk about a 14-year-old who had started playing online games since the age of 11. What began as a fun activity had turned into a preoccupation that began affecting the child’s everyday routine. A forced counselling session for the child soured the parent-child relationship further. The question many parents now ask is whether the ban on gaming apps will affect their child mentally or worsen his/ her condition? Incidentally, the ban has made parents take notice of the changes in behaviour in children, whose routines have been upset in the past five months due to the pandemic. And it is the right time to take stock and understand the psychological impact of internet gaming on teenagers. In the above two cases, both boys experienced a feeling of euphoria after winning challenges and competitions in the game. It is due to the effect of a hormone called dopamine released by the brain in response to pleasurable experiences such as good food, creating art or playing a game. The impact of gaming has two prime predictors — positive urgency and immersion. Positive urgency is defined operationally as the tendency of an act that recklessly occurs even when an individual is calm because of the euphoria it provides. Whereas, immersion in the realms of virtual reality acts as the ultimate opposite by giving a negative effect on the individual and helps them to avoid real-life problems. Children tend to get hooked on to games easily as they find psychological gratification in it and that becomes an addictive stimulus. Various studies on gaming also found that the most important motive for players is achievement, exploration, challenges, competition and socialisation that alters their motivation and playing styles. Researchers have proved that gaming can help in enhancement of memory, problem-solving skills, mood, multitasking and social skills. However, progressive, prolonged exposure to violent, battle games may act as traps and trigger internet gaming disorder (IGD). As per the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM–5), IGD is recognised and approved as a diagnosable disorder, however, more studies concerning sociodemographic, clinical and other risk factors need to be conducted. Experimental results on gamers showed only symptoms of withdrawal such as insomnia, fatigue, headaches, cruelty/ aggressive negative emotions and intense cravings to play games again and rules out the addiction criteria. IGD is identified clinically in various levels as mild, moderate, and its severity depends upon one’s symptoms that disrupts usual routines. Compulsive internet gaming proffers many clusters of behavioural, psycho-social, cognitive symptoms. An individual who might have devoted eight or more hours in a day or at least 30 hours a week could be seen as developing a gaming addiction. Many use online games to escape from their negative mood, feeling of helplessness, guilt, and anxiety. However, obsessive gaming further jeopardises education, career opportunities and relationships. Persistent use of games leads to clinical impairment and distress and becomes the dominant activity in one’s daily life. As per DSM-5 guidelines, the co-morbidities associated with IGD include attention deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Any kind of addiction has a debilitating effect on the mind and parents of young children need to be patient when trying to wean them off a bad habit like gaming. Sudden, harsh punishments and taking away of gadgets tend to make the child bitter and unable to deal with the withdrawal symptoms. Parents who call to seek counselling online during this pandemic sometimes mention their children being reluctant to get counselled online. The suggestion to parents on this high usage of gaming would be to set strict time limits on their children’s access to gadgets and stress on family bonding activities. Parents and teachers should encourage students to play indoor games, practice yoga, and other relaxation techniques. It is a social responsibility to take measures to create awareness and to regulate all possible preventive measures and treatment strategies for safeguarding future generations. (The writer is a child psychologist) Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-games-need-a-reset-button/articleshow/78146981.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Covid fight: Techies interact with district collector||KOCHI: As the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing everyone should be prepared to live with the virus, said district collector S Suhas. Speaking at a virtual interactive session organized by Progressive Techies, a community of IT employees based in Kochi, the district collector said Ernakulam so far had been able to keep the viral disease under control. “The trend is that we have to live with Covid-19, but this does not mean that we all get infected. We all should take sufficient precautions to ensure that there is not much disease spread,” he said. Various issues like production of cheaper and effective ventilators, digital classroom, virtual queue system had been discussed at the session. Assistant collector Rahul Krishna Sharma and National Health Mission district coordinator Dr Mathew Numpeli also spoke with the techies. The interaction was part of a Growth Platform initiated by the district administration to explore ideas that would help them in the battle against the pandemic. Sinergia Media Labs director Prakash Bare made a presentation about Indventr, a frugal ventilator developed by consortium of three startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-fight-techies-interact-with-dist-collector/articleshow/77919135.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Kochi||Post a greeting to your teacher||KOCHI: India Post has launched a unique campaign ‘My Teacher, My Inspiration’ to coincide with Teacher’s Day on September 5. The e-post campaign aims to felicitate teachers who have inspired and helped their students become better individuals in life. Anyone who wishes to thank their teachers on Teacher’s Day may visit the nearby post office and submit a letter on A4 sheet, writing a message in maximum 300 words. “You can hand over the written message and address at the post office for Rs 10 per letter. This will be faxed or mailed to the concerned post office which will print the letter, put it in a cover and hand-deliver it to the teacher on Teacher’s Day. The address of the teacher should be written clearly with the name and phone number of the sender. We hope the public will use this occasion to send their wishes to their teachers,” said an official at Post Master General’s office, Thiruvananthapuram. Officials said that if the address is correct, even if the pincode is not there, it could be mostly delivered. A similar campaign was launched during Rakshabandhan with the postal department launching a special envelop for timely dispatch of rakhis. The laminated envelopes protected the rakhis from getting wet in the rains and cost Rs 10. The department has begun plans for the National postal week which is from October 9-15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/post-a-greeting-to-your-teacher/articleshow/77919134.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh registers record 276 cases, 4 deaths||CHANDIGARH: The city recorded the highest single-day Covid-19 case spike on Thursday, when 276 people tested positive. The virus has also claimed lives of four residents. With this, the city case count now stands at 5,065 and the toll tally at 63. Three casualties that took place on September 2 included that of a 72-year-old man of Mauli Jagran; a 58-year-old woman, also of Mauli Jagran; and a 44-year-old woman of Manimajra. The fourth fatality — a 65-year-old man of Sector 48, who breathed his last at Grecian Hospital, Mohali — took place on August 29 and was taken on record on Thursday. Two die of Covid-19, 130 positive in MohaliTwo residents died of Covid-19 and 130 patients tested positive in Mohali on Thursday. The district toll tally now stands at 91 and case count at 4,223. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “A 60-year-old woman resident of Shahpur village died at GMCH-32. She was suffering from multiple diseases. The second casualty is Mohali Phase 3B2 Market Association general secretary. He was 36 years old and was suffering from acute diabetes” Of the 130 positive cases, 55 are from Mohali city, 25 from Gharuan, 15 from Dhakoli, 10 from Kharar, six from Lalru, 14 from Derabassi, and one from Banur. The day also saw 79 patients recovering. Virus claims Pinjore man’s life, infects 127A Pinjore man died of Covid-19 and 127 fresh cases were reported in Panchkula on Thursday, taking the district case count to 2,672. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The 41-year old resident of Pinjore had comorbidities. Of the 127 positive cases, 11 are from Sector 15, 15 from Sector 20, 17 from Pinjore, three from ITBP and others from rest of the district.” 2 dead, 92 positive in AmbalaNovel coronavirus claimed two lives in Ambala on Thursday. “Two Covid-19 positive patients of the district have died. They are a 75-year-old man of Vashishth Nagar and a 71-yearold man of Sector 10, Ambala City. The district death count has now risen to 38,” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. Besides, 92 people tested positive for Covid-19 on the day, increasing the case tally to 4,108.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-registers-record-276-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/77919125.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Delhi||AAP alleges graft in Bhalswa project; BJP rejects claim||NEW DELHI: Senior Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak has accused BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation of indulging in massive corruption in the name of bringing down the height of the landfill in Bhalswa. During a press conference on Thursday, Pathak said that on August 30, a councillor from Jahangirpuri asked for a report regarding the estimated cost incurred by the north corporation to reduce the height of the landfill. “The report stated that BJP had spent Rs 5 crore per month. But the height of the Bhalswa landfill has not come down even an inch. On July 26, the north corporation mayor visited the Bhalswa landfill site and claimed that the civic body had brought down the height of the landfill by 12 feet. He lied to the people,” Pathak alleged. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, called Pathak’s statement “a bunch of lies”. “The truth is that the north corporation’s total monthly expense on processing waste through 15 trommel machines is only Rs 90 lakh per month. In July, we had measured the height and proved that it was going down,” claimed Kapoor. Pathak also alleged that BJP-led civic bodies had destroyed the beauty of Delhi by creating three huge landfills at the borders. “In the 2017 manifesto, BJP had claimed that after coming to power in municipal corporations, they would remove the landfills but it did not happen,” said Pathak. Leader of the opposition of AAP in the north corporation, Vikas Goel, said, “Two years back, an incident happened at the Ghazipur landfill when a portion of it collapsed. A similar incident took place at the Bhalswa landfill recently. More such accidents will take place if no timely action is taken.” Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said that AAP was spreading confusion among Delhiites. “We had installed 15 trommel machines at the Bhalswa landfill in October, which is disposing of 4,500 metric tonnes of waste per day and soon three more trommel machines will be installed. So far, 7,10,900 metric tonnes of legacy waste has been processed here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-graft-in-bhalswa-project-bjp-rejects-claim/articleshow/77919183.cms||---
September 4, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region recoveries zoom past 7,000, its single-day highest||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 3,787 Covid-19 cases and almost twice as many recoveries (7,323), its single-day highest, on Thursday. Besides, the region recorded 76 fatalities in the last 24 hours. With the addition of 1,764 cases on Thursday, the caseload in the PMC limits has breached 1 lakh-mark (see box). The PCMC areas added 977 new cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 52,284. As for the recoveries, the data issued by the district health office late on Thursday night revealed that 1,188 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours in the PMC limits, 5,581 from the PCMC limits and 554 from the rural and Cantonment areas. The district health office report stated over 38,397 tests were conducted in PMR on Thursday. The DHO’s report added that the total recoveries in the PMC limits reached 82,085 on Thursday night. With this, the recoveries in PMR stand at over 1.44 lakh, the report said. According to a PMC report, the tally of critical patients stood at 885 on Thursday, of whom 530 patients were on ventilator support at various hospitals. As many as 510 patients were in ICU, while 3,170 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-zoom-past-7000-its-single-day-highest/articleshow/77920525.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Two die of Covid-19, 130 positive in Mohali||Mohali: Two residents died of Covid-19 and 130 patients tested positive in Mohali on Thursday. The district toll tally now stands at 91 and case count at 4,223.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “A 60-year-old woman resident of Shahpur village died at GMCH-32. She was suffering from multiple diseases. The second casualty is Mohali Phase 3B2 Market Association general secretary. He was 36 years old and was suffering from acute diabetes” Of the 130 positive cases, 55 are from Mohali city, 25 from Gharuan, 15 from Dhakoli, 10 from Kharar, six from Lalru, 14 from Derabassi, and one from Banur. The day also saw 79 patients recovering. MohaliTotal cases – 4,223Active-1,872Cured-2,261Deaths-91||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-die-of-covid-19-130-positive-in-mohali/articleshow/77919138.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 4, 2020||Bareilly||Criminal in Sambhal's top 10 'most wanted' list arrested after encounter with police||Bareilly: Wakeel, a historysheeter whose name figures in the list of top 10 wanted criminals in Sambhal district, was arrested late on Wednesday in an encounter with police. He is a resident of Nakhasa area. Speaking with TOI, Yamuna Prasad, Sambhal superintendent of police, said, “During routine checking of vehicles near Madhan road, under Asmoli police station, on Wednesday night, the police team hailed a man on a motercycle to stop. But he tried to speed away and opened fire at police. injuring a constable deputed at Asmoli police station. The team returned fire and chased him. He was hit by a bullet. Both injured men were admitted to hospital." Then, police discovered that the injured man is a historysheeter with several criminal cases against him and among the top10 wanted criminals in Sambhal. A motorcycle and an illegal weapon was recovered from the crime scene, said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/criminal-in-sambhals-top-10-most-wanted-list-arrested-after-encounter-with-police/articleshow/77916746.cms||Maria Khan
