September 5, 2020||World||Indian High Commissioner meets Bangladesh Commerce Minister, discusses ways to boost trade relations||DHAKA: High Commissioner of India to Bangladesh, Riva Ganguly Das met Commerce Minister of Bangladesh, Tipu Munshi and discussed ways to boost trade relations between the two countries. "HC Smt. Riva Ganguly Das (@rivagdas) met H.E. Mr. Tipu Munshi, MP, Hon'ble Minister of Commerce on 03 Sep 2020 to discuss meaures to boost #IndiaBangladesh trade relations," Indian High Commission here said in a tweet. The Daukandi (Bangladesh) - Sonamura (Tripura) Inland Waterway Protocol route was operationalised on Thursday marking a milestone in India-Bangladesh relations. "Bangladeshi vessel, MB Premier carrying cement started from Daukandi on September 3, 2020, and will reach Sonamura on September 5, 2020, traversing 93 km along the river Gumti. This would be the first-ever export consignment from Bangladesh to Tripura through the inland waterways," the government of India said in a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/indian-high-commissioner-meets-bangladesh-commerce-minister-discusses-ways-to-boost-trade-relations/articleshow/77938592.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||Disclaimers in advertisements must be clearly visible, govt's draft guidelines||NEW DELHI: The companies advertising their products won’t be allowed to use small fonts for disclaimers. The fonts would have to be of the same size and in the same language as the claim of the particular advertisement. In the case of claims presented as voice over (VO), the disclaimer would have to be displayed in sync with the VO. Advertisements not complying with such norms would be treated as misleading advertisements under the Consumer Protection Act and the recently established Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) can act against such advertisers. The consumer affairs ministry has come out with a host of such provisions in its draft guidelines to protect the consumers from misleading advertisements. It says a disclaimer should be clear, prominent enough and legible. “Disclaimer should be clearly visible to a normally-sighted person reading the marketing communication once, from a reasonable distance and at a reasonable speed,” it says. The draft guidelines also specify that where an advertisement is endorsed by an expert, then the endorsement shall be supported by an actual exercise of that expertise in evaluating product features or characteristics with respect to which he is an expert. It also proposes that an advertisement should not describe a good or service as ‘free’, ‘without charge’ or other similar terms, if a consumer has to pay anything other than the cost while buying the product or paying for the delivery of the item. On the issue of bait advertisement, the proposed guidelines says an advertisement shall not seek to entice consumers to purchase a good or service without a reasonable prospect of selling the advertised good or service at the price offered. “An advertiser shall ensure that there is adequate supply of goods or services to meet foreseeable demand generated by such advertisement...if the estimated demand exceeds supply, advertisements shall make clear that the stock of the good or service is limited; if the purpose of the advertisement is to assess potential demand, it shall be clearly stated in the advertisement,” the draft guidelines have specified. The ministry has proposed specific norms for advertisements targeted at children. It has proposed dos and don’ts for advertisers. For example, such advertisements won’t condone, encourage or unreasonably emulate behaviour that could be dangerous for children to emulate and won’t exaggerate the features of a good or service in a way that could lead to children having unrealistic expectations of such good or service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disclaimers-in-advertisements-must-be-clearly-visible-govts-draft-guidelines/articleshow/77939286.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 5, 2020||World||Trump 'just doesn't care' about US economic pain from pandemic, says Joe Biden||WILMINGTON: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden accused US President Donald Trump of failing to feel the economic pain caused by the coronavirus pandemic, after data on Friday showed job growth slowing and a widening racial gap in unemployment rates. The former vice president, pushing a campaign message that he is more in touch with working Americans than his rival in the Nov. 3 election, said the economic crisis has exacerbated divisions between the rich and the poor. "The painful truth is, we just have a president who just doesn’t see it, he doesn’t feel it, he doesn’t understand, he just doesn’t care. He thinks if the stock market is up, then everything’s fine," Biden said during a speech in his home base of Wilmington, Delaware. As both campaigns kick into high gear for perhaps one of the most consequential presidential races in recent US history, the Labor Department reported that nonfarm payrolls increased by 1.37 million jobs last month, fewer than in July. Trump and his fellow Republicans highlighted the fall in the unemployment rate in August to 8.4% as a sign that the economy is improving after the shock from coronavirus lockdowns that have devastated small businesses from restaurants to gyms and hair salons. Yet the president still looks set to head into the election with the economy crippled and serious questions hanging over his handling of the pandemic, which has killed more than 186,000 people in the United States. Biden, who held a seven-percentage-point lead over Trump nationally in the Reuters/Ipsos poll this week, called on the president to bring congressional leaders together to restart stalled negotiations for another coronavirus economic relief package. "Bottom line: Mr. President, do your job. Get off your golf course and out of your sand bunker. Call your leaders together and sit in the Oval Office. Make a deal," the Democrat said. Another controversy around Trump broke on Thursday when the Atlantic magazine reported that the president had called fallen US military personnel buried in Europe "losers" and declined to visit an American cemetery during a 2018 trip to France because he thought it unimportant. Trump vehemently denied the report. Biden said that, if true, the comments were "a disgrace."? ECONOMIC WOES For most voters, the economy remains a major issue. US employment remains 11.5 million below its pre-pandemic level, and the jobless rate is 4.9 percentage points higher than it was in February. Trump touted last month's falling unemployment rate as a sign of recovery. "Great Jobs Numbers!" he posted on Twitter. "Unemployment Rate Falls To 8.4% (Wow, much better than expected!)" While the unemployment rate fell last month, it was distorted by people misclassifying themselves as being "employed but absent from work." Without that error, the unemployment rate would have been about 9.1%, the Labor Department estimated. Biden stressed the unevenness of the recovery, particularly for people of color, and noted that lower-paid employees in workplaces like factories and stores are also at greater risk of contracting COVID-19. "Those at the top are seeing things go up and those in the middle and below are seeing things go down and get worse," he said. While Monday's Labor Day holiday typically marks the beginning of a more intense phase of the White House race, both Biden and Trump got a head start in the past week with a flurry of activity following their back-to-back party conventions. Biden traveled to Pittsburgh and Kenosha, Wisconsin, both in battleground states that help decide the election, to address the continuing and sometimes violent protests over racial injustice and police brutality. Trump also visited Kenosha -- a flashpoint city where anti-racist demonstrators have clashed with Trump supporters after police shot a Black man in the back -- and made stops in Pennsylvania and North Carolina, another key state. Both campaigns have launched new ad blitzes in those swing states, with Trump criticizing rioters and protesters. Trump on Friday won the endorsement of the Fraternal Order of Police, the United States' largest police union with 355,000 members. Biden's campaign, meanwhile, announced endorsements from nearly 200 current and former law enforcement officials in a challenge to Trump's assertion that he is the candidate of "law and order."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-just-doesnt-care-about-us-economic-pain-from-pandemic-says-joe-biden/articleshow/77939952.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||Rajnath Singh, Chinese defence minister in first political meet since LAC row||NEW DELHI: In a bid to break the continuing deadlock in the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh since early May, India and China held their first high-level political meeting on Friday, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers’ meet in Moscow. There was no official word on the outcome of the meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart, Gen Wei Fenghe, which began at 9.30pm Indian time, until late on Friday night. Singh is learned to have reiterated India’s demand for restoration of status quo ante. While no breakthrough was expected from the meeting, the conversation sets the stage for what is likely to be a more substantive meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart, Wang Yi, on September 10, also on the sidelines of an SCO ministerial meet in Moscow. Read AlsoLAC situation unprecedented, can’t be business as usual, says foreign secretary Harsh ShringlaThe situation on the LAC between India and China was “unprecedented" and it could not be "business as usual”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said while addressing a webinar at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA). Shringla said India continued to “remain engaged” militarily andEarlier in the day, taking a swipe at China without naming it, Singh told the SCO meet that a peaceful, stable and secure region “demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences”. Singh said all member-countries of the SCO, which is home to over 40% of the global population, should work towards this objective. “If I may borrow an idea articulated by our Prime Minister in a different context, our goal should be ‘Security and Growth for all in the Region (Sagar)’,” he said. LAC stand-off live updatesThe minister reaffirmed India’s commitment to the evolution of a global security architecture which will be “open, transparent, inclusive, rules-based and anchored in international laws”. The bilateral meeting with China, sought by Gen Wei in the aftermath of India’s proactive military moves in Pangong Tso area, happened at Hotel Metropole where Singh is staying. Singh was accompanied by defence secretary Ajay Kumar, joint secretary (East Asia) in the foreign ministry Naveen Srivastava and Indian ambassador to Russia D Bala Venkatesh Varma, among others. India has for long been demanding that China restore status quo as it existed in April by withdrawing its forces from the face-off sites at Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang, while also reducing its military build-up along the Line of Actual Control. But several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have so far failed to defuse the situation, with top-level political intervention now being considered the best option to resolve matters. With winter fast approaching in the high-altitude region along the LAC, which has thousands of rival troops, tanks, artillery guns and other weapon systems deployed in close proximity to each other, both India and China would want a way out of the military imbroglio. The military confrontation, already into its fifth month, has further escalated since the last weekend. Indian troops on August 29-30 undertook a pre-emptive military manoeuvre to occupy multiple heights in the Chushul sector, from the southern bank of Pangong Tso and Spanggur Gap to Rezang La and Reqin La. Fuming at being outflanked, the People’s Liberation Army has deployed additional forces across the Chushul sector. Watch LAC row: Rajnath Singh meets Chinese defence minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-singh-chinese-defence-minister-in-first-political-meet-since-lac-row/articleshow/77940277.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||RBI revamps norms for priority sector loans, adds startups||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has overhauled its priority sector lending (PSL) norms to boost fund flows to districts that have been excluded and has doubled its limit for health infrastructure to Rs 10 crore, and for renewable energy to Rs 30 crore. According to the new norms, loans of up to Rs 50 crore to startups (as defined by the industry ministry) also qualify as PSL. With agriculture being the only sector that is expected to grow during the current fiscal year, the RBI has decided to ramp up credit flow to this segment and said targets prescribed for small and marginal farmers and weaker sections will be increased in a phased manner. Banks can now lend up to Rs 5 crore to Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and individual households can get loans up to Rs 10 lakh for renewable energy generation. Banks can also give loans up to Rs 5 crore for setting up schools, drinking water facilities and sanitation facilities. Post Covid-19, healthcare, sanitation and startups have emerged as focus areas and the government is keen to support these sectors. Clean energy is another key area that has received attention in recent years. “The inclusion of startups in PSL will reduce their cost of capital by allowing them better access to bank credit. Going forward, equity infusion will not be the only route to follow when startups need funds for working capital requirements, and this will greatly ease the risk of ordinary shareholders being wiped out due to ‘down-rounds’,” said SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh. However, to boost lending to startups, it is also imperative to set in place an institutional mechanism as they don’t have collateral and performance evaluation mechanism matrix, he added. The RBI last revised PSL norms in 2015. The new norms will benefit microlenders who cater to the priority sector as defined by the RBI. This is because banks have been allowed to buy such loans or invest in securitised assets, representing loans to various categories of priority sector, except ‘others’ category, and these will qualify for priority sector. “The revision in guidelines will incentivise credit flow to specific segments like clean energy, weaker sections, health infrastructure and credit-deficient geographies. These measures are also aligned to focus areas of development according to extant policy environment and will support funding requirements in these specific sectors,” Crisil Ratings senior director Krishnan Sitaraman said. The fresh categories eligible for finance under priority sector include loans to farmers for installation of solar power plants for solarisation of grid-connected agriculture pumps and loans for setting up Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) plants. According to the RBI, the revised guidelines will correct the regional disparities in the flow of priority sector credit. This has been done by giving higher weightage to fresh loans in “identified districts where priority sector credit flow is comparatively low”. The priority sector norms were last revised in 2015 and new segments — including medium enterprises, social infrastructure and renewable energy — were included. In recent years, home loans have dominated priority sector lending as these were seen as the safest in this category by banks. Around 40% of bank loans are to mandatorily be made in the priority sector. Lenders who fail to do so are penalised by being forced to invest in low-yielding government investments. Watch RBI overhauls priority sector lending norms, adds startups||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-revamps-norms-for-priority-sector-loans-adds-startups/articleshow/77940398.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: India’s cases hit 4 million mark, last 1 million rise fastest for any country||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in India raced past 4 million on Friday, just 13 days after hitting the 3 million mark, even as fresh cases in the past 24 hours surged to a new high of over 87,800. This was the third consecutive day of highest rise in new infections. India is the third country after the US and Brazil to record 4 million cases of the coronavirus. While India took the longest time for cases to rise from one to 1 million (168 days), its subsequent growth in infections has been the fastest. Cases in India have grown from 1 million to 4 million in 50 days. The same rise took 75 days in Brazil and 86 in the US. India’s tally went from 3 million to 4 million in just 13 days, the fastest 1 million rise yet. The previous fastest was 16 days, recorded in both India and the US. However, India’s fatality rate remains by far the lowest among the three countries. At the 4 million mark, India has recorded 69,552 fatalities from the virus. At the same stage, the US had reported more than 1.4 lakh deaths and Brazil over 1.2 lakh. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On Friday, India recorded a rise of 87,852 fresh cases, led by a massive spike of 19,218 infections in Maharashtra, as per the last 24-hour data collated by TOI from state governments. Deaths from the infections numbered 1,062, the fourth straight day of 1,000-plus casualties in the country. Active cases rose by 17,000, the biggest single-day rise in quite some time, to nearly 8.5 lakh. Recoveries from the infection totalled nearly 31 lakh. Read AlsoCovid-19: Allow testing on demand, Centre tells statesAmid rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the Centre on Friday nudged states to allow testing on demand — a move that is likely to help early detection of positive cases leading to timely contact-tracing and treatment to prevent deaths. The Centre has asked states to decide onBesides Maharashtra, four other states reported their highest single-day surge in cases — Chhattisgarh (3,203 cases, including 1,515 from Thursday midnight), Haryana (1,884), Rajasthan (1,570) and Arunachal Pradesh (214). On the 180th day since the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra, the state added 19,218 new cases, its highest ever single-day increase. Even Mumbai, which has been reporting a rise in cases for the past one week, added 1,929 infections, its second-highest daily increase so far and the highest in 69 days. The highest single-day spike in Mumbai (2,077 cases) was reported on June 27. Read AlsoCovid-19: Another 11.7 lakh tests done, daily positivity rate at 7.1%As India tested more than 11.7 lakh samples to detect Covid-19 on Thursday, high testing levels helped keep the daily positivity rate under check at 7.1%. The total number of tests conducted across the country now stands at 4.66 crore, whereas the cumulative positivity rate is around 8.5%. Despite aMaharashtra has also been adding more than 350 deaths for the past two days. On Friday, it reported 378 deaths, taking its total Covid-19 fatalities to 25,964. Mumbai reported 35 deaths, taking its toll to 7,799. A senior state official said the spike in cases in Mumbai can be attributed to the movement and free mingling of people during the 10 days of the Ganesh festival and the subsequent unlocking. Andhra Pradesh reported 10,776 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 4,76,506, even as 76 more people died in the last 24 hours. While the overall toll jumped to 4,276, as many as 12,334 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Friday, making it the highest single-day recoveries so far in the state. In a worrying new trend in Indore, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 hotspot, the number of children under 12 infected by the virus has tripled in just under six weeks — from 398 on July 20 to 1,158 on September 1. What’s more, children under 12 made up around 6.7% of Indore’s Covid tally on July 20, which has now risen to 8.6%. Tamil Nadu added 5,976 new cases on Friday, taking the case tally to 4,51,827, with 51,633 people still under treatment. The state reported 79 deaths, which took the cumulative toll to 7,687. For the second day, Chennai cases stayed below 1,000 at 992 and 12 people succumbed to the infection. Watch Covid-19: India's tally crosses 4 million mark, last 1 million rise fastest for any country||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-indias-cases-hit-4-million-mark-last-1-million-rise-fastest-for-any-country/articleshow/77940439.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||False complaints against judges galore: CJI Bobde||NEW DELHI: A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde on Friday brought into the open a loosely kept secret — that judges faced the maximum number of false complaints and it was a common “syndrome” to target a person on the verge of being appointed as a judge of the SC, high court or even as CJI. The pent up angst came out when the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was hearing a petition by a Madhya Pradesh district judge, who through senior advocate R Balasubramanian complained that when he was in the zone of consideration for HC judgeship, his unblemished career was sought to be tarnished by a false and frivolous sexual harassment complaint. Before issuing notice to the Madhya Pradesh High Court, the CJI said, “We are aware of this syndrome in our system. Every day it happens. The moment someone is on the verge of getting something, suddenly some people remember 20-year-old things and file complaints just to stall it.” Justice Bobde had headed a three-member judges’ committee and rejected a sexual harassment complaint against then CJI Ranjan Gogoi. The complaint was filed by a staff member a few months after Justice Gogoi was appointed CJI and was vigorously supported in the public domain by a group of people and advocates on social media and web portals. Arguing for the district judge, Balasubramanian said, “If there is a travesty of justice, this is the case.” The 1987-batch MP Judicial Services officer faced the sexual harassment complaint in 2018 and, apparently without any supporting evidence, the HC kept the “pot boiling” for two years by ordering multiple inquiries before entrusting it to the Gender Sensitisation Internal Complaint Committee (GSICC). The GSICC began proceedings after a delay of five months. It rejected the complainant’s repeated pleas that she was not interested in pursuing the matter. In April last year, the committee gave its final report and said, “Basically, there is nothing available on record to hold that any of the charges levelled by the complainant against the respondent are made out.” Surprisingly, even without any evidence, it recommended disciplinary proceedings against the district judge, Balasubramanian said. “The successive inquiries that have been, thus, conducted so far, in a period spanning more than two years, that too when the complainant has categorically and repeatedly informed the GSICC that she does not want to proceed with the complaint and produce any evidence, smacks of arbitrariness, bias and harassment of an honest judicial officer, who is in the zone of consideration in the matter of his further career progression. In fact, the petitioner was called upon very recently to submit judicial record of his judgments which indicate that his case may be under consideration. But at the same time, the sword of disciplinary enquiry has been kept hanging over his head in a manner unknown to law,” the district judge’s counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/false-complaints-against-judges-galore-cji-bobde/articleshow/77940687.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 5, 2020||India||Supreme Court rejects 6 states’ review plea on NEET, JEE (Main)||NEW DELHI: One of the first steps agreed at a meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with chief ministers of seven non-BJP ruled states fell flat on Friday with the Supreme Court rejecting a petition by cabinet ministers of six states to stop NEET-UG and JEE (Main) during the Covid-19 pandemic, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. Agreeing with Gandhi that examinations in the time of Covid-19 was inappropriate, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rallied other CMs to approach the apex court with a petition seeking review of the SC’s August 17 order dismissing PILs seeking cancellation/postponement of the two exams, which hold the key to admissions to engineering and medical courses in various colleges. The joint petition was filed by West Bengal law and labour minister Maloy Ghatak, Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma, Chhattisgarh food and civil supplies minister Amarjeet Bhagat, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Maharashtra higher education minister Uday R Samant. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari took up the ministers’ petition along with similar pleas. It found that none of the six ministers nor the other petitioners were party to the dismissed petition. The bench decided to first permit them to file review petitions and then dismissed these in chamber. The bench said in its order, “We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions.” The ministers had sought review of the August 17 order of a bench of Justices Arun Mishra (now retired), Gavai and Murari, which had dismissed PILs seeking postponement/cancellation of NEET-UG and JEE (Main) on the ground of the pandemic. With solicitor general Tushar Mehta assuring the court that the National Testing Agency had taken all precautions to protect students from infection, the SC had said examinations could not be cancelled as “life must go on”. In the review petition, filed through advocate Sunil Fenandes, it was argued that when the risk to health of more than 25 lakh students, who would appear for both examinations, was more than real because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the SC could not have dismissed the petitions without hearing the states through an order that was “cryptic, non-speaking, did not discuss let alone enumerate the various aspects and complexities involved in a matter of this magnitude and complex nature”. Watch Supreme Court says no merit to plea of 6 non-BJP states against holding of NEET-JEE exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-rejects-6-states-review-plea-on-neet-jee-main/articleshow/77940777.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 5, 2020||Business||Government may hike duty on imported cars||NEW DELHI: In a move seen as a protectionist measure, the government on Friday said that import duty on cars and completely- and semi-knocked down assemblies (CKD and SKD) could be raised as it also advised foreign makers to reduce the amount of royalty payments that they charge on their subsidiaries. Commerce and industry Minister Piyush Goyal told a conference of auto industry professionals that manufacturing in India needs to be strengthened further for which the government would look at a number of measures, including boosting exports and even taking a relook at a free trade agreement with the European Union. A hike in the CKD and SKD duty has the potential to hit the business of luxury and premium makers such as Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Audi, Skoda, Volkswagen, and even Honda and Toyota (through Lexus). Prices of the vehicles will go up, while the companies say (in private) that fresh investments may be hit as demand will go further down. And while Goyal sought a booster to manufacturing from foreign players, heavy industries minister Prakash Javadekar pitched for a reduction in the GST rate on automobiles, saying he would discuss the issue with the Prime Minister and finance minister. Javadekar also said that a proposal for an auto scrappage policy – that would encourage customers to ward off older vehicles for new ones -- was ready and an announcement can be expected "very soon". On its part, the industry said that it is looking at cutting down dependence on component imports from China – a theme dominant through the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat call which has only strengthened following the border tensions with the neighbouring country. Goyal, however, was clear that more overseas companies need to be asked to manufacture deeply here. With this in mind, he said the government is open to the idea of a stronger India-based manufacturing plan for carmakers that are currently importing vehicles or kits. A way to discourage them could be by increasing the duty, which he said is "not a bad idea". "We may look at something like a phased manufacturing plan. I will be open to suggestions." Pawan Goenka, MD of Mahindra & Mahindra, said that the auto and parts makers have agreed to set a target reduce the total value of imported components by half in the next four to five years. The focus will be to reduce imports of electronic auto components, which are sourced mainly from China and other Asian countries, as well as steel, Goenka said, adding these two together account for around $5 billion of total auto parts imports. Total auto component imports stand at $13.7 billion annually. On royalties, Goyal said "millions of dollars” were moving out of the country as part of this fee. The Minister said that reduction in royalty would companies cut down on cash outflow, while bringing down vehicle prices and help in boosting domestic sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-may-hike-duty-on-imported-cars/articleshow/77940837.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 5, 2020||India||LAC situation unprecedented, can’t be business as usual, says foreign secretary Harsh Shringla||NEW DELHI: The situation on the LAC between India and China was “unprecedented" and it could not be "business as usual”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said while addressing a webinar at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA). “The LAC situation one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many years. The magnitude of the crisis is huge given that we had not lost lives in 40 years. As far as we are concerned, there will be no compromise in our sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the same time, as a responsible nation, we are always willing to talk. Our communication lines are open,” Shringla said. Read AlsoRajnath Singh, Chinese defence minister in first political meet since LAC rowIn a bid to break the continuing deadlock in the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh since early May, India and China held their first high-level political meeting on Friday, on the sidelines of the SCO defence ministers’ meet in Moscow. While there was no official word on the outcome“Also, we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border in recent years. This is something that we have to take stock of,” he added. Shringla said India continued to “remain engaged” militarily and diplomatically. “We are talking to each other and are open to resolution through dialogue but unless there is peace and tranquillity on the border, normal relationships will be affected,” he added. India-China standoff live updatesOn the neighbourhood, the foreign secretary said India’s relationship with Nepal was a people-to-people one. “Irrespective of decisions government take due to politics, our relations have not suffered. With Sri Lanka, our relations will remain close. In summary, as we develop, it is important that the neighbourhood develops,” he added Read AlsoThis story has been removedHe said Bimstec was moving forward but Saarc, while coming together for Covid-19 response, had its limitations of consensus and political will. Without naming Pakistan, Shringla said until one country stopped obstructing and there was peace and stability, Saarc could not move. “One of our neighbours has been consistently involved in blocking Saarc in all of its constructive activities,” he said. Watch Border tension with China unprecedented, India won't compromise territorial integrity: Foreign secretary||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-situation-unprecedented-cant-be-business-as-usual-says-foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla/articleshow/77941115.cms||---
September 5, 2020||World||Tighter H-1B norms under White House review, may be introduced shortly||MUMBAI: The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review, a draft regulation to introduce stricter norms for the H-1B program. A revision of the H-1B norms, so as to attract the ‘best and brightest’ has been on the agenda of US President Donald Trump for the past several years. It is largely expected that the new regulations will tighten the definition of an H-1B speciality occupation and also the employer-employee relationship. President Trump had also made H-1B program revisions a priority, during his recent proclamation on June 22, which had restricted the entry of H-1B and other classes of non-immigrant workers.  Review by the OMB is one of the final stages, prior to roll out of the regulation for public comments followed by vetting and adoption. However, experts feel that the step of inviting public comments may be skipped, as it is possible that the new regulation will be introduced as an ‘interim final rule’. The OMB office serves the US President in overseeing implementation of his vision, across the executive branch. Mitchell Wexler, partner, Fragomen, a global immigration law firm told TOI, “The regulation is expected to revise the definition of an H-1B specialty occupation to ‘increase focus on obtaining the best and brightest foreign nationals.’ It is also expected to change the definitions of H-1B employment and the employer-employee relationship, with a likely focus on restriction of offsite placement of H-1B workers.” “This could lead to a requirement that H-1B employers and end-customers jointly obtain labour condition applications (LCAs) for H-1B workers at client sites. A joint LCA requirement could create de facto joint employer liability, for compliance obligations relating to wages and working conditions,” added Wexler. TOI had highlighted this proposed course of action, in its analysis of the Spring agenda of the US government. Then, the target date for the proposed rule was pegged at end-December. Elections could have prompted the fast track review, say immigration experts. H-1B visas are a very popular work visa, especially for Indians in the technology sector. According to official data, Indians had bagged 2.78 lakh or nearly 72% of the total H-1B visas allotted during fiscal ended September 30, 2019. The largest sponsoring employers include leading MNCs and also Indian headquartered tech companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tighter-h-1b-norms-under-white-house-review-may-be-introduced-shortly/articleshow/77941145.cms||Lubna Kably
September 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: Allow testing on demand, Centre tells states||NEW DELHI: Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the Centre on Friday nudged states to allow testing on demand — a move that is likely to help early detection of positive cases leading to timely contact-tracing and treatment to prevent deaths. The Centre has asked states to decide on simplified modalities such as doing away with need for prescription and setting out the method of testing. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory on Friday asking states to allow individuals who wish to get themselves tested and also make it available for people undertaking domestic or international travel. The advisory is part of a revised Covid-19 testing strategy issued by the ICMR based on recommendation by the National Task Force on Covid-19. The advisory says tests on demand should be allowed for "all individuals who wish to get themselves tested" and "all individuals undertaking travel to countries/Indian states mandating a negative Covid-19 test at point of entry". TOI had reported on August 19 that the government is considering to revisit its Covid-19 testing strategy to advise states to make it available on-demand as India has now ramped up testing capacities and is also locally manufacturing testing kits and reagents. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news With this steep exponential rise in daily testing, India has now conducted a total of around 4.7 crore tests. It conducted over 11.7 lakh tests for two consecutive days on Wednesday and Thursday. India’s substantial increase in the testing levels is anchored in the daily expanding diagnostic lab network across the country. As on date, with 1025 labs in the government sector and 606 private labs, the country-wide network is strengthened with 1631 total lab facilities. "Tracking and contact tracing mechanisms should be ensured by the testing laboratories by notifying the public health authorities," says the advisory. So far, ICMR advised states to test all symptomatic individuals. Besides, all SARI cases, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of positive cases, all hospitalized influenza (ILI) patients and all symptomatic ILI among returnees and migrants are to be tested through RT-PCR. Apart from this, antigen tests are conducted in containment zones and healthcare settings which include asymptomatic high-risk contacts and hospitalised patients apart from symptomatic cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-allow-testing-on-demand-centre-tells-states/articleshow/77941268.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 5, 2020||India||Covid-19: Another 11.7 lakh tests done, daily positivity rate at 7.1%||NEW DELHI: As India tested more than 11.7 lakh samples to detect Covid-19 on Thursday, high testing levels helped keep the daily positivity rate under check at 7.1%.  The total number of tests conducted across the country now stands at 4.66 crore, whereas the cumulative positivity rate is around 8.5%. Despite a significantly high recovery rate of over 77%, there are currently 8.31 lakh active cases. According to health ministry data, five high burden states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu — account for 62% of active cases. These five states also account for 70% of the 68,472 deaths so far. On Friday, the Centre held a review meeting with senior officials of 15 districts across four states of Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. These 15 districts — Chittoor, Prakasam, Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Koppal, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Ludhiana, Patiala, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar — have been exhibiting higher active caseload, fatality rates and a surge in Covid-19 cases for the past four weeks, the health ministry said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The ministry has asked these states to take specific steps, including limiting and eventually breaking the spread of infection by implementing stringent containment measures and following social distancing measures, strict perimeter control, and active house-to-house case search to address the problem. States were also asked to ramp up testing in specific districts. Besides, the ministry also emphasised on effective monitoring of home isolation cases and early hospitalisation, in case of disease progression, to prevent deaths. The ministry also advised states to ensure early admission for patients, especially in cases of co-morbid and elderly population, and following effective infection control measures in hospitals to safeguard healthcare workers from contracting the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-another-11-7-lakh-tests-done-daily-positivity-rate-at-7-1/articleshow/77941286.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 5, 2020||India||Oilseeds push kharif sowing to record high||NEW DELHI: Acreage of paddy could take total Kharif (summer crops) sown area to an all-time record level, but it’s the coverage of oilseeds which reported highest percentage increase this year — an encouraging sign for India which has to spend over Rs 70,000 crore annually on edible oil import to meet domestic demand. Nearly 12% increase in acreage of oilseeds this season, as on Friday, can be attributed to a good hike in their minimum support price (MSP) and better procurement of last season’s produce during initial months of the Covid-19 pandemic phase. All five summer sown oilseeds — Niger (hike of Rs 755 per quintal), Sesamum (hike of Rs 370 per quintal), Sunflower (hike of Rs 235 per quintal), Groundnut (hike of Rs 185 per quintal) and Soybean (hike Rs 170 per quintal) — had seen much higher increase in their respective MSP than paddy (hike of Rs 53 per quintal) when the agriculture ministry announced minimum support prices of Kharif crops at the beginning of the sowing season in June. Though nearly 20 lakh hectares of crop area is estimated to be affected by floods this year in 14 states due to higher than normal rainfall in the country, the total acreage continues to be more than the sown area of last year even after deducting the flood-affected crop areas from its tally. The states which shared the exact figures of their respective flood-affected crop area with the Centre till last week include Karnataka (3.49 lakh hectares), Assam (2.65 LH), Odisha (2.54 LH), Uttar Pradesh (1 LH), Andhra Pradesh (19,907 hectares) and Chhattisgarh (2,146 hectares). Details of other flood-affected states such as Bihar, West Bengal and Kerala are still awaited. Hikes in MSPs of Niger and Sesamum were highest among all 17 crops whose support price was announced in June — a clear signal to farmers to go for sowing of such oilseeds which have potential to reduce India’s import bills in sync with the country’s ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ goal. Sown area figures of all Kharif crops, released by the agriculture ministry on Friday, show that 12 states reported higher acreage of oilseeds this season compared to corresponding period last year with farmers in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka taking the lead. “Timely prepositioning of inputs — seeds, pesticides, fertilizers, machinery and credit — by the government has made it possible for large coverage of Kharif crops even during the lockdown,” said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, referring to the record sown area of 1,095 lakh hectares, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oilseeds-push-kharif-sowing-to-record-high/articleshow/77941326.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 5, 2020||India||Japan subsidy boost for companies exiting China to pick India||NEW DELHI: A week before an India-Japan summit, Japan’s ministry of economy, trade and industry (METI) announced it would add India and Bangladesh to a list of Asean countries to qualify for subsidies for Japanese manufacturers moving out of China. The METI announcement comes days after India, Japan and Australia decided to advance cooperation on building trusted, resilient supply chains. PM Narendra Modi and Shinzo Abe, the outgoing Japanese prime minister, will hold their last virtual summit on September 10. The two countries are expected to sign the ACSA (Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreement) which will allow military services of both countries to share logistics. (India signed a similar pact with Australia in June). It will be a fitting note to Modi's last meeting with Abe before the Japanese leader steps down given their rapport and the big steps in bilateral cooperation taken during their tenures. Read AlsoThis story has been removedThe summit also comes at a time when both India and Japan are locked in separate tensions with China. In fact, foreign minister S Jaishankar will be in Moscow on that day, for an SCO foreign ministers’ meeting where he is expected to also meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. The SCRI (Supply Chains Resilience Initiative) is intended to build alternative supply chains. At a trilateral meeting with trade ministers of Australia and Japan on Wednesday, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said, “Diversification of supply chain is critical for managing the risks associated with supply of inputs, including disciplining price volatility. We could provide the core pathway for linking value chains in the region by creating a network of reliable, long-term supplies and appropriate capacities.” Read AlsoRajnath Singh, Chinese defence minister in first political meet since LAC rowIn a bid to break the continuing deadlock in the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh since early May, India and China held their first high-level political meeting on Friday, on the sidelines of the SCO defence ministers’ meet in Moscow. While there was no official word on the outcomeThe announcement by the Japanese government will shift the onus on India to attract Japanese companies seeking alternatives to China. Officials reckon that tech sectors such as IT-ITES, AI and IoT could reap benefits, as could chemicals and food processing. Japanese sources said Tokyo was waiting to see the steps India takes to make its easier for Japanese companies to invest here. Read AlsoLAC situation unprecedented, can’t be business as usual, says foreign secretary Harsh ShringlaThe situation on the LAC between India and China was “unprecedented" and it could not be "business as usual”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said while addressing a webinar at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA). Shringla said India continued to “remain engaged” militarily andWatch Japan subsidy boost for companies exiting China to pick India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/japan-subsidy-boost-for-companies-exiting-china-to-pick-india/articleshow/77941363.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 5, 2020||India||Conflicts should be resolved through peaceful means: BRICS||NEW DELHI: Highlighting the scourge of terrorism, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday called for enhanced BRICS cooperation in countering terrorism in a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers. He expressed satisfaction on the conclusion of BRICS ‘counter-terrorism strategy’. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi participated in the meeting held under the chairmanship of Russia. They are likely to meet physically next week for the first time since the current border stand-off was first reported in early May. Significantly, the Brics ministers expressed concern at the rise of violence and continuing conflicts in different parts of the world that have "significant impact at both regional and international levels". "They concurred that, irrespective of their historic background and distinctive nature, conflicts should be resolved by peaceful means and diplomatic engagement through political dialogue and negotiations in line with principles and norms of international law, particularly the UN Charter," said a joint statement, while noting the UNSC Resolution 2532 (2020) that demanded a general and immediate cessation of hostilities in all situations on its agenda with the exception of military operations against terrorist groups. "Exchanged views on the international situation and regional hotspots including Afghanistan and West Asia. Urged full support of BRICS in reforming UNSC as an exercise in our collective faith in meaningful multi-lateralism," tweeted Jaishankar after the meeting. The ministers reiterated their strong condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations "whenever, wherever and by whomsoever committed" and asserted that it should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilization or ethnic group. "They reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to contribute further to the global efforts of preventing and countering the threat of terrorism on the basis of respect for international law and the UN Charter, emphasizing that States have the primary responsibility in combating terrorism," said the joint statement. The ministers also reaffirmed the commitment to upholding and respecting international law, including the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Jaishankar also called for reformed multi-lateralism including reform of international bodies like UN, WTO, IMF and WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/conflicts-should-be-resolved-through-peaceful-means-brics/articleshow/77941369.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: Army chief says troops prepared for contingencies||NEW DELHI: The Army is fully geared to handle the "delicate and serious" situation along the border with China, having undertaken precautionary deployments to safeguard the country’s territory integrity, Gen M M Naravane said on Friday. "Our troops are well-prepared for all contingencies that may arise. A high state of operational readiness is being maintained," the Army chief said after a two-day visit to forward areas in eastern Ladakh for a first-hand assessment of the ground situation and logistics for the coming winter along the Line of Actual Control. Gen Naravane said the morale and resolve of Indian commanders and soldiers on the ground were high, and they were prepared for any challenge, while arrangements for their sustenance in the winter were also fully under way. The military confrontation in the high-altitude region since early May has further escalated after around 3,000 Indian troops, heavily armed with rocket launchers, anti-tank guided missiles and other weapons, proactively occupied multiple tactical heights in the Chushul sector and then consolidated their positions on August 29-30. Outmanoeuvred in the race to grab the heights, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has pumped in additional forces and tanks opposite the Chushul sector. It is vociferously demanding that Indian soldiers vacate the heights that overlook the PLA’s crucial Moldo garrison, the ingress route for tanks through the Spanggur Gap, and roads in the region. Overall, both India and China have deployed well over 35,000 troops each, apart from tanks, howitzers, surface-to-air missiles and other weapon systems, along the frontier in eastern Ladakh, right from Daulat Beg Oldie-Depsang in the north to Demchok and Chumar in the south. The latest flashpoint is towards the southern bank of Pangong Tso in the Chushul sector. Gen Naravane said India was "firmly committed" to resolving the current situation through talks with China. "Over the past three months, both sides are engaged in resolving the tense situation. Military and diplomatic channels are functioning. We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed, and we are able to safeguard our interests," he said. Brigadier-level talks between the two armies at the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point, meanwhile, continued for the fifth day on Friday. "Nothing much is coming out of the talks. But as long as you are talking, you are not fighting. One of the reasons for the June 15 Galwan Valley skirmish (in which 20 Indian and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers died) was the communication gap," a senior officer said. The Indian Army, after being presented with a fait accompli on the north bank of Pangong Tso with the PLA occupying the 8km stretch from Finger-4 to 8, has effectively blocked the PLA’s bid to do the same in the Chushul sector with its pre-emptive military manoeuvre on August 29-30. "It was for the first time we proactively changed the status quo. If the PLA is not adhering to the mutual agreements and protocols, why should we," the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-army-chief-says-troops-prepared-for-contingencies/articleshow/77941371.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 5, 2020||India||Delhi tops list on deaths due to dangerous driving: NCRB||NEW DELHI: Among 53 cities, Delhi has the notorious distinction of registering the highest number of fatalities due to dangerous driving or overtaking, followed by Jaipur, Mumbai and Asansol in West Bengal, according to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau. In 2019, such offences caused 1,978 accidents in Delhi and claimed 529 lives while the Pink City reported 1,460 such accidents in which 320 people lost their lives. In Asansol, the rate of fatalities was higher as 301 persons were killed in 429 such incidents. Mumbai was at number four with 236 fatalities in only 318 such accidents. The data show that after registering an increase in 2018 over the previous year, Delhi reported relatively less fatalities last year, though it continues to top the list of cities. Chennai, which had reported 428 such deaths in 2017 and only 62 fatalities in 2018, saw an increase last year with 136 lives lost on the roads. “Delhi being a big city with more population and more number of vehicles, it tops among all cities when it comes to fatalities due to road crashes. But this can’t be an excuse considering the city has more number of traffic cops and has improved electronic surveillance. It’s a huge challenge for us and people also need to follow traffic rules for their safety,” said a city police official, who did not wish to be named. For the past few years, dangerous and careless driving or overtaking has been the second biggest reason for road fatalities after speeding across the country. While crashes caused due to speeding claimed 86,241 lives, which was 55.7% of the all road fatalities in 2019, dangerous and careless driving claimed 42,577 lives in the country. The trend was similar in 2018 as well. However, traffic experts maintain that the solution lies in scientific investigation of such cases rather than just going by the FIRs lodged by police. “We have been demanding the need for investigation into all such crashes as per the law. There can’t be a perfect prescription without diagnosing the problem,” said Rohit Baluja of Institute of Road Traffic Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-tops-list-on-deaths-due-to-dangerous-driving-ncrb/articleshow/77941430.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 5, 2020||India||Kannada film actress, two others arrested in drug scandal||BENGALURU: Sleuths of the Central Crime Branch, probing an alleged drug peddling racket with Sandalwood (Kannada film industry) links, arrested actor Ragini Dwivedi on Friday evening. Two event managers were arrested earlier in the day. “We’re arresting Ragini in connection with the ongoing drug scandal. Since the matter is under investigation, we cannot reveal more,” JCP (crime) Sandeep Patil said. Ragini was arrested under Sections 21(b) and (c) and 22(c) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The sections prescribe punishment up to 20 years and a fine of up to Rs 2 lakh for contraventions like manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transport and use of manufactured drugs and psychotropic substances. Ragini, who was subjected to medical tests at Bowring Hospital and later produced before a court via video-conference, was remanded in police custody for three days. Police alleged the other two arrested men — event managers Viren Khanna and Rahul Tonse — were prominent drug peddlers. Tonse was arrested at the CCB office here where he had been brought for questioning. Two inspectors flew to Delhi on Friday morning and arrested Viren Khanna there. These three arrests take the total in the case to four. On Thursday, Ragini’s friend K Ravi Shankar, an RTO clerk, had been arrested. “This is a big network of drug peddling and consumption. There are people like Viren Khanna who organise high-end parties where drugs are consumed. Celebrities and others, like actress Ragini, go there and consume drugs. There are suppliers like Ravi Shankar and Rahul who supply drugs bought from other peddlers, mostly foreigners,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kannada-film-actress-two-others-arrested-in-drug-scandal/articleshow/77941476.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||From noisy classrooms to virtual teaching, teachers brave ‘new normal’||PATNA: With the shutting of schools and colleges to curb the spread of Covid-19, the pressure on teachers to adapt to the virtual model of teaching— the ‘new normal’— has been immense. Even though the transition from traditional teaching methodology to online delivery of classes has been a challenging journey, teachers across the city have left no stone unturned to deliver an effective virtual learning environment to their students. Balram Kumar Singh, a teacher at DAV Public School, BSEB Colony, admitted that he wasn’t a tech-savvy person pre-Covid and it was his students who taught him how to use virtual platforms for conducting lectures. “Even after attending various workshops on virtual teaching methodologies, I wasn’t confident enough. Few of my students came forward to teach me how to login on a video chat platform and share my screen. I am learning something new every day,” Singh said. Faraz Zeya, a JEE trainer from Boring Road shared similar woes. “When we were told to start virtual classes, I was completely clueless. But with time and effort, I taught myself all the essential tools necessary for conducting online lectures. However, I still feel blackboard teaching was much easier,” Faraz said. While the transition from a brick-and-mortar school to the online classroom was comparatively easy for young teachers, veterans found the change overwhelming. Donald Lawrence, who has been teaching at St Michael’s High School for the last 34 years felt restless at the thought of giving up his chalk and blackboard. “I was very anxious in the beginning. But I motivated myself to learn new techniques for the sake of my students,” he said. Once fearful of conducting online classes, Donald Lawrence now uses technology to his advantage. “Over the last three months, I have learnt a lot about digital teaching platforms. I have realised its benefits too. I am very confident of taking lectures online now,” Lawrence added. Teachers who were used to the noisy chatter of the classroom found themselves staring in silence at their laptops post-covid. “The pandemic has changed our lives. I had never imagined I would be taking a class on a laptop. Although I was very nervous for the first few days, I became fluent with technology over time,” said Deepankar Kumar, a teacher at a coaching institute in Boring Road. For Kalpana Sinha, who teaches coding at Notre dame Academy, switching to a digital mode of teaching was seamless. But clearing students doubt online remains a problem. “I take classes online using a graphic tablet and a stylus. But since my subject is a little intense, clearing the doubts of my students over the internet is sometimes problematic,” she said. Even though the advantages of online classes are manifold, there are a few shortcomings too- connectivity issues being one of them. Suryakanta Akela, who teaches English at Loyola High school had to install a Wi-Fi connection at his house to avoid connectivity issues. “Since classes were merged for online sessions, the strength of my batch increased. Hence, I decided to install a Wi-Fi connection to provide a smooth teaching environment for my students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/from-noisy-classrooms-to-virtual-teaching-teachers-brave-new-normal/articleshow/77937049.cms||Arunima Lal
September 5, 2020||Patna||96,000 collected as fine from people not wearing mask in city||PATNA: The Patna district administration, which started a 14-day mask-checking drive on Friday, collected Rs 96,800 as fine from those violating rules on the first day. Altogether 45 shops were asked to down their shutters for a few days and 11 vehicles seized for violation of norms. At least 98 people were caught not wearing mask at public places, containment zones and while driving vehicles in the town area. They were fined Rs 50 each for violation of norms. Patna DM Kumar Ravi also hit the roads as part of mask-checking drive. Wearing face mask was made compulsory in the state by state health department through an order issued in April. The DM said prevention was the only cure for Covid-19 as of now. “Everyone should mandatorily wear mask while moving at public places to prevent further spread of the virus,” he added. The DM also visited shops on Station Road to check use of masks. Several people were caught without mask in a grocery store near Patna junction. The grocery store was ordered to remain shut for three days. The DM was accompanied by SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, city magistrate Sudhir Kumar and administrative and police officers. The DM and the SSP Sharma went around Station Golambar and adjoining areas and also confronted people sitting in vehicles without wearing mask. Altogether 14 raiding teams have been deployed in the district to penalise erring people and creating awareness among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/96000-collected-as-fine-from-people-not-wearing-mask-in-city/articleshow/77937009.cms||Arunima Lal
September 5, 2020||Patna||Colleagues recall dead BMP sepoy’s bravery against Reds||PATNA: Colleagues of Amar Subba, the 36-year-old BMP sepoy who allegedly committed suicide after killing his female colleague Barsha Titung Tamang (26) inside the battalion headquarters premises on September 1, recalled his bravery during a Maoist encounter in 2006. Unable to believe that Subba could carry out such an act, his colleagues said he always used to motivate others in adverse situations and was considered as a brave man. He had joined duty on the day of the incident after being on a month-long leave. A senior colleague of Subba in the BMP-1 battalion, also known as Gorkha Vahini, recalled his bravery during a Maoist attack overrunning the Dumaria police station in Gaya in 2006. Young sepoys of the battalion are told about the stories of that gun battle and the bravery shown by the small team, which included Subba. “We were hardly eight to 10 in numbers armed with sophisticated weapons when hundreds of Maoists attacked the Dumaria police station building just after midnight. Amar was the one who was on the front watchtower with another colleague,” the colleague said preferring anonymity. He said Maoists tried hard to bring down the tower or suppress Amar’s firing, but he didn’t budge. “Rest of us were on the terrace and a few were on the back of the station building. His continuous firing didn’t give the Maoists the chance to reach near the premises. This gave us a tactical advantage,” he further said. Amar kept encouraging and motivating others during the several hour-long gun battle with the Maoists which ended only after they retreated just before sunrise. “Maoists failed to overrun the police station even when we were heavily outnumbered,” he added. Battalion commandant Vivek Kumar said he also came to know Amar, who was friendly and used to motivate others. “He was earlier in office duty and was on leave from July 22 to August 28. He returned on August 29 and joined duty on September 1 only after which he was allotted armed guard duty as per procedure,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/colleagues-recall-dead-bmp-sepoys-bravery-against-reds/articleshow/77938225.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 5, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar men demolish his wife’s property in Ghazipur||Varanasi: Succumbing to the government’s chain of action, jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s men started demolishing an illegally built shopping complex in Ghazipur after getting notice from the district administration. The state government has launched a drive to destroy the economic empire of Mukhtar and his henchmen by confiscating their movable and immovable properties created by illegally earned money. According to Ghazipur SDM Prabhash Kumar, the shopping complex, which is owned by Mukhtar’s wife, was not constructed as per the approved map. The shopping complex is situated at Laldarwaza in the main market of Ghazipur. He said that a notice has been served giving a time of one week for the demolition, failing which the local administration would demolish the complex and collect the expenses from the property owner. After getting notice, Mukhtar’s men started demolishing the complex. The SDM said that an illegally run hot-mix plant near Andhau air strip and godown on gram sabha land were demolished by the administration recently. Besides, an illegally built bridge for fish farming by Mukhtar’s man was also demolished in Mohammadabad tehsil. In the chain of actions, the police in Mau district seized SUVs and other vehicles of over Rs 1 crore from Bhiti area on Thursday. These vehicles belonged to Suresh Singh, who had been booked under Gangster Act on May 31 and currently lodged in jail. His four buses of Rs 86 lakhs had also been seized on September 1. Ansari’s men in the east UP region are facing the heat of police action after May 31. The police not only targeted persons involved in extortion trade and grabbing contracts in government departments, but their monopoly in fish and meat trade was also challenged. As per police records, a loss of Rs 111 crores had been caused to Mukhtar in the series of actions in the past three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-men-demolish-his-wifes-property-in-ghazipur/articleshow/77938466.cms||Binay Singh
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru city will get 15 million litres more water each day: Simha||Mysuru: MP Pratap Simha on Thursday said the city will get additional 15 MLD of water under AMRUT scheme during the start of Dasara celebrations. This water will be stored in the new 4.3 crore litres-capacity tanks being built at Vijayanagar in the city. Water for the tank will be drawn from Hongalli pumping station. Simha spoke after inspecting works being undertaken at Hongalli water treatment plant near the city. He said the additional water will meet the demands of residents of Vijayanagar Third Stage, Saraswatipuram and a few other areas in the heart of the city. Water from Kabini reservoir will be supplied to residents of MUDA layouts like Vijayanagar Fourth Stage, SBM, Rupa Nagar and other adjoining layouts. “Two motors with 1500 hp capacity have been installed at Hongalli treatment plant to supply water to Vijayanagar tank through a pipeline. Old and dilapidated pipes have been replaced with new pipes to stop leakage and avoid disruption in supply,” he said. “Mysuru is among the 27 cities in Karnataka which are covered under AMRUT. Priority has been given for drinking water supply and improvement of bulk water supply systems at Melapura, Hongalli, Belagola, HLR command area and Kabini water supply scheme under the scheme,” said Simha. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, executive engineer of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, N Prasanna Murthy and others were present. Simha also visited Old Kesare where houses for slum dwellers are built.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-will-get-15-million-litres-more-water-each-day-simha/articleshow/77938115.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Tej invites Chirag to join oppn alliance||PATNA: Amid the ongoing tussle in the ruling NDA, elder Yadav scion Tej Pratap on Friday invited LJP president Chirag Paswan to join the opposition alliance. “If he (Chirag) wants to come to our side, he is welcome. Doors are open for him. We have a good relationship. Also, those who have left us and gone to the other side will regret one day,” Tej told media persons after a meeting with the presidents of student’s wings of nine divisions. Wooing young voters, Tej said he will talk to his younger brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and state president Jagdanand Singh to give a few tickets to Chhatra wing members. “These youngsters are hardworking and it is a known fact that youths have always brought revolution across the globe. Even my father Lalu Prasad Ji entered politics as a student leader. I will demand tickets for them,” he said. A meeting of the Chhatra RJD is scheduled for September 10. Asked whether he spoke to his father about the number of seats he wants for his candidates, Tej said, “These are rumours and no such discussion was held.” He also deflected a question on which assembly seat he will be contesting from. “I can contest from any seat,” the elder son of Lalu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-invites-chirag-to-join-oppn-alliance/articleshow/77938545.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Third Lalit Kala award for art teacher||Vadodara: A drawing teacher from the city, who has also taught cricketers Irfan and Yusuf Pathan, has been conferred the Gujarat State Lalit Kala Academy Award for the third time. Shoeb Narmawala, 46, an art teacher with the Muslim Education Society (MES) High School at Nagarwada, has been selected for the award on the basis of his painting at the 60th state-wide competition organized by the Gujarat State Lalit Kala Academy recently. Earlier, Narmawala had received award in 2009 and 2013. His painting titled ‘Happiness’ using ink on paper was selected as the best work amongst works presented by artists. “Protection of nature has always been my subject. We can never experience the kind of peace and warmth that we experience in the lap of nature at any other place. I have used charcoal and black ink to express revolt against cutting down trees,” said Narmawala, an alumnus of M S University’s Faculty of Fine Arts. “By use of broom, I am hoping that like my big brush broom, the plants too grow into big trees. When ink touches water it spreads. Similarly, when plants get enough water, they grow into big trees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/third-lalit-kala-award-for-art-teacher/articleshow/77938936.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Moody’s downgrades 4 public sector banks||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Rating agency Moody’s has downgraded four public sector banks, citing the stress caused by the deepening economic slowdown on account of the coronavirus outbreak. The banks that have been downgraded are Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Canara Bank and Union Bank. The rating agency has downgraded the long-term local and foreign currency ratings of these banks to Ba1 from Baa3. At the same time, it has affirmed Punjab National Bank’s long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings at Ba1. “The economic shock from the coronavirus pandemic is exacerbating an already material slowdown in India’s economic growth, weakening borrowers’ credit profiles and hurting Indian banks’ asset quality. Prolonged financial stress among households, weak job creation and a credit crunch among non-bank financial companies will lead to a rise in non-performing loans, delaying the ongoing clean-up of banks’ balance sheets,” Moody’s said. The banks’ Ba1 long-term local and foreign currency deposit ratings incorporate three-notches of uplift from their B1 to reflect Moody’s assumption of a very high probability of support from the government in times of need. Moody’s assumption takes into account the banks’ deposit market shares as well as their linkages with the government, including by way of ownership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/moodys-downgrades-4-public-sector-banks/articleshow/77940392.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Four-fold rise in Covid-19 patients in a month||Kolhapur: The number of Covid-19 patients in three districts of western Maharashtra – Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur – has increased by nearly four times in the last month. The deaths due to the viral disease have also recorded a sharp rise in these three districts. Official data shows that the three districts together had 13,325 positive cases as on August 1, while the number rose to 50,854 on August 31. Satara district, which used to report average 300 patients in the month of July, is recording average 600 patients every day now. The situation is similar in Sangli district, where average 700 patients are being reported daily. Kolhapur district is recording average 1,000 patients daily for the past few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took serious note of the situation in these three districts and asked the officials to take all the necessary steps to prevent the spread of virus. Expressing concern over the situation, Thackeray said that the region should not emerge as the epicenter of Covid-19. Three districts had together recorded 1,615 deaths till August 1. Since then, in just one month, the region has reported another 1,262 deaths. The officials attribute the increase in number of patients to largescale reverse migration after relaxations in lockdown and secondly, massive drive to conduct rapid antigen test. Officials of Satara district estimate that more than three lakh people, who were working in Pune and Mumbai metro regions have come back to their native places, causing the spread of the virus. Massive rapid antigen is currently in progress in Sangli and Satara district. Officials said that more than 500 such tests are being conducted every day, because of which positive cases are identified. Kolhapur has the highest number of patients among three districts - 26,344 - though its geographical area is the smaller compared to two other districts. The district has currently 8,757 active patients. It has a population of 38 lakh spread across 7,685 sq km. Kolhapur has the highest population among three districts. Satara district having a geographical area of 10,480 square km, has a population of around 30 lakh. The district has total 16,788 positive cases and 7,324 of them are active. Sangli district has a population of 28 lakh and has 8,578 square km area. The district has total 14,613 positive cases and 5,957 of them are being treated. A sizable number of patients were discharged in August. As many as 6,212 patients had been discharged till July 31, the number was 29,992 on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/four-fold-rise-in-covid-19-patients-in-a-month/articleshow/77940858.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Two minors drown in ditch near Wagholi||Pune: Two boys drowned after falling into a water-filled ditch at a construction site in Kesnand near Wagholi, around 20km from the city, on Wednesday evening. The Pune rural police have identified the boys as — Sandip (9) and Manish Thapa (6). “Their parents, all four of them construction workers, were staying at a workers’ colony near the site,” inspector Pratap Mankar, in-charge of the Lonikand police, told TOI. Mankar said that the site where the incident occurred was covered with a tin shed. “Three children managed to get inside the shed while playing and two of them accidentally fell into the ditch. The third boy immediately alerted their parents, who later took the boys to a private hospital in Wagholi where they were declared dead. We have registered a case of accidental death,” Mankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-minors-drown-in-ditch-near-wagholi/articleshow/77940021.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Lall resigns as chairman of IDFC First Bk||TNN Mumbai: Rajiv Lall, chairman of IDFC First Bank, has stepped down from his position citing health reasons. In a statement to the stock exchanges, the bank said that it has received an intimation from Lall wherein he tendered his resignation as part-time non-executive chairman, saying that he has been dealing with prolonged health issues. Lall in his communication further mentioned that in view of his prolonged health issues, the bank had thought through a succession plan for the position of chairman of the bank in the past, subject to RBI’s approval, which will now facilitate a smooth transition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lall-resigns-as-chairman-of-idfc-first-bk/articleshow/77940239.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Brace for more rain as Met predicts monsoon revival||PATNA: Weathermen have predicted rainfall with thunderstorm in all 38 districts of the state over the next four days. The expected showers have been attributed to the combined effect of monsoon trough line passing across Gaya and a cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. Also, the state has received 17% surplus rainfall so far this monsoon. According to a bulletin released by Patna Meteorological Centre, the combined influence of the eastern end of monsoon trough passing through Gaya and formation of cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh is likely to lead to rainfall over the next few days. A trough line is basically an elongated area of low pressure. “The monsoon trough line is currently running from east Uttar Pradesh to Bangladesh across Gaya and Berhampore in West Bengal to further eastwards covering south Assam and Manipur. Furthermore, the cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining Uttar Pradesh is leading to moisture incursion in the region. The two weather systems are likely to lead to light to moderate rainfall in most districts of Bihar over the next three to four days,” an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said. Another official at the local weather office said more rainfall was expected in Bihar from September 6 to 12. Meanwhile, according to the daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Friday, light rainfall occurred at one or two places in north central parts of the state during the last 24 hours. The weather bulletin further stated that the daytime temperature in most districts was two to three notches above normal in the last 24 hours. No change of daytime temperature is expected in the next 24 hours. With regard to overall monsoon rainfall of 17% above normal so far this year, the official said, “The rainfall in the month of June and July was comparatively higher as compared to August. Around 45% surplus rainfall was recorded in the state till July- end. However, the intensity of showers reduced in August and little above 25% deficient rainfall was witnessed last month. However, the monsoon rainfall is expected to make a recovery. With more rainfall expected in the coming days, the overall rainfall amount is expected to go up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brace-for-more-rain-as-met-predicts-monsoon-revival/articleshow/77936842.cms||Arunima Lal
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid testing to go up after new machine starts working||KOLKATA: The Cobas 8800 machine at ICMR-NICED has finally started working a month since it was inaugurated. The automated machine can test for SARS CoV2 samples by RT-PCR and health experts said this will ramp up testing in the state and help containing the infection spread. At present, Bengal conducts around 45,000 tests per day. Three Cobas 8800 machines, including one at ICMR-NICED, which can perform high-quality, and high volume of, RT-PCR tests were inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on July 26. But sources said that a part of the machine was damaged during transport. Apart from that, there was a leakage at the BSL II lab at NICED where the machine has been installed and standardizing the machine and kits took a lot of time. “We will now increase the number of tests. Currently, we get between 1,600 to 1,800 samples daily,” said Shanta Dutta, director ICMR-NICED. The machine from Roche Diagnostics can handle about 4,000 tests in 24 hours, making testing faster and more reliable since the process of RNA extraction is not required. While the conventional RT- machines take six to seven hours to throw up results, the Cobas takes around 40 minutes. “We also wanted proper standardization of the machine before it took off,” said an official. “More tests means more diagnosis and quick isolation of the infected, restricting the spread while allowing those who are in need of hospital care and oxygen support get timely intervention, bringing down the mortality rate,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray, currently attached to ID Hospital. The state, however, has cancelled the order for Cobas that was to be imported from Switzerland. The government expected to get it shipped to Kolkata by July and become operational at SSKM Hospital by mid-August. But, sources said, the manufacturers kept delaying. “Now we are told the machine will arrive in January. By then we expect cases to go down significantly and we might not need the machine,” said Pradip Mitra, former director of medical education who is now coordinator of Bengal’s Covid management and containment committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/testing-to-go-up-after-new-machine-starts-working/articleshow/77939137.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal-Ghuma area to be absorbed in 4 Ahmedabad civic body wards||AHMEDABAD: With the state election commission finalizing delimitation of AMC boundaries of the wards will be demarcated. The newly merged areas of Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika will be included in four wards. Congress councillors alleged that the BJP has made an attempt to change the demography of minority-dominant ward Sarkhej by merging areas of Ghuma and Bopal. However, officials said that only 5,000 people from Ghuma will now be in Sarkhej. “This is not a big change in demography of the ward,” added an official. The city now has a population of 56.64 lakh after delimitation. It has an average 1.18 lakh population in 48 wards. Of the 192 seats, 20 will be reserved for the scheduled caste, two for the scheduled tribe and 19 for the other backward classes. Of the four seats in each ward, two seats will be reserved for women candidates. Jodhpur will be the biggest ward. While Sarkhej covers area from Ghuma to Sarkhej, the Jodhpur ward covers the area from Bopal Gam to Jhansi ki Rani statue. The Thaltej ward will extend up to Science City Circle to Bopal Gam. The official notification states that Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika is divided into four wards. The area from the Swaminarayan Temple on SP Ring Road to Sterling City, Bopal Gam to Ghuma Gam Talav, Ghuma Gam will be included in Thaltej. The area from Manokamna Mahadev in Bopal to Madhav Bungalows to Ambli Gam will be in Bodakdev ward, while the area from Sundarvan Bungalows to Infinium Toyota will now be in Jodhpur ward. The area from Manipur-Ghuma Road to Aarohi Plot Owners Association will be in Sarkhej ward. Kathwada has been merged into Nikol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-ghuma-area-to-be-absorbed-in-4-amc-wards/articleshow/77940908.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Paytm cuts losses by 30% to Rs 2,942 crore||BENGALURU: The total operating revenue of Paytm’s parent company One97 Communications grew by a little over 1% during the financial year ending March 2020 to Rs 3,280 crore, while it cut its losses by 30% to Rs 2,942 crore, according to its annual report. This indicates the Alibaba Group and SoftBank-backed company has been successful in curbing losses, which had ballooned 162% in the previous financial year. But revenue growth has been hit. The annual report has not been filed with the ministry of corporate affairs and TOI has obtained a copy. For the financial year 2020, its marketing and promotional spends (discounts and cashbacks) were slashed by more than 63% to Rs 1,038 crore compared to the previous year. It cut down on advertising by 28% to around Rs 434 crore in the same period. Its staff expenses, however, jumped by over 30% at Rs 1,119 crore at the end of March 2020. Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma told TOI last year the company was looking to cut its operating losses by 33% to Rs 2,470-2,823 crore for fiscal 2020. In April, he said Paytm had started curbing expenditure amid the pandemic to extend its runway by cutting costs at a rate of 15-20% in February and March. Interestingly, the recent Ant Group IPO filing shows Paytm’s losses at around Rs 1,435 crore for the first six months of calendar year 2020. This is higher than its revenues for the same period, Rs 1,350 crore. This indicates it perhaps has started increasing its business spends in the first quarter of current financial year to fight large-scale rivals like PhonePe, Google Pay and Amazon’s local payment unit. These companies have been expanding aggressively across e-wallets, Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and merchant payments in the offline channel. “Our operating losses have reduced by 40% and overall losses have reduced by 30%. Our revenues in financial services started to build this year. So we will see break-even reaching in next 18 to 24 months,” Paytm told TOI. It did not comment on Ant’s filing on its financials. Among Paytm’s advertising expenses, last year it retained the title rights of Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) international and domestic matches till 2023, paying close to a 60% premium at Rs 327 crore. Paytm, which issued a statement on Friday that included parts of its financials, mentioned the company has expanded into financial services with lending, wealth management and insurance offerings and expanding the reach of its Android-based PoS devices among small businesses and kiranas. “We are seeing more adoption of our services than ever, this has directly resulted in a reduction in our marketing and business promotion spends, which is quite a substantial deduction in our overall costs,” the company added in its response to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-cuts-losses-by-30-to-rs-2942cr/articleshow/77940282.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: New Koilwar bridge may open for traffic this month||ARA: The six-lane bridge on Sone river at Koilwar is waiting for official nod for its inauguration. The approach roads are almost ready. Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha, who visited the site on Thursday, said the approach road from Patna side to Sakkadi in Bhojpur was nearly complete. “Finishing works are likely to be completed by September 9,” he said. Officials said the southern flank of the 1.52km-long bridge built with an estimated outlay of Rs200 crore, is likely to get functional this month. The DM has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials to complete the approach road by September 10. “I am sure we will meet the deadline and announce the date of its inauguration on receiving the official communication,” he told reporters. Sources, however, said the bridge is likely be inaugurated before the model code of conduct for the upcoming assembly election comes into force. The bridge has been built as part of the ongoing Patna-Ara (NH-30) four-laning project. The 1.52km-long bridge will be the new lifeline not only for the people of south and central Bihar but also from eastern Uttar Pradesh. Officials said Patna would have a high-speed connectivity with Delhi as the Patna-Ara-Buxar (NH-30 and NH-84) four-lane would also be connected to Lucknow-Ghazipur expressway. With a four-lane road already existing between Lucknow and Delhi, the commuters from Patna would reach Delhi fast. Expressing pleasure at the possibility of getting rid of the frequent and long traffic jam on the old Koilwar bridge, a professional car driver of Ara, Chhotu Kumar, said: “One can’t imagine how frustrating is the long traffic jam on the Ara-Patna road, particularly at the Koilwar bridge. We often reach our destination late. The new bridge will be immensely useful for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-koilwar-bridge-may-open-for-traffic-this-month/articleshow/77936824.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Silver Lake eyes $1 billion stake in Reliance Retail||MUMBAI: After acquiring a piece of Jio Platforms, American private equity investor Silver Lake Partners is in discussions with Reliance Industries (RIL) to buy a stake in its retail arm. Silver Lake is looking to invest $1 billion (about Rs 7,350 crore) in Reliance Retail, according to the Financial Times. The investment could give Silver Lake a 1.75% stake in Reliance Retail, which just inked a deal to acquire rival Future Retail. The US fund had pumped in Rs 10,203 crore for a stake of just over 2% in Jio Platforms, the digital services arm of RIL. While RIL declined to comment on Silver Lake’s potential deal in Reliance Retail, it said that the company evaluates various opportunities on an ongoing basis. Read AlsoReliance puts Rs 25,000-crore bet on bright Future for retailTen days after it bought a majority stake in online pharmacy retailer Netmeds, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Saturday said it had sealed a deal to acquire the retail business of the financially-stressed Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The transaction, which has been in the works for months,The Financial Times also said that investors in Jio Platforms have been given an opportunity to invest in Reliance Retail. Besides Silver Lake, 12 US and Middle Eastern firms — including L Catterton, TPG and Saudi Arabia Public Investment Fund — have invested in Jio Platforms. The 13 firms, which together hold nearly 33% in Jio Platforms, have invested Rs 1.5 lakh crore ($21 billion) in the digital services unit, which plans to go for a US listing. RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani, during the company’s annual shareholder meeting last July, had said that it has received “strong interest” from strategic and financial investors in Reliance Retail. And that it will induct them in the retail business in the next few quarters. The proposed investment by Silver Lake has pegged Reliance Retail’s valuation at $57 billion which, according to brokerage firm CLSA, is 18% lower than what it had assigned to the retail outfit. CLSA said as this possible stake sale would also include the retail business of Future Group, the valuation suggested in the (FT) report is lower than its expectations. Read AlsoRIL’s deal for Future retail biz blocks AmazonBy proposing to acquire the retail assets of Future Group (and not Future companies), the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries has ensured that rival Amazon does not become its shareholder. Amazon is a significant shareholder (49%) in a Future Group company, which owns about 10% stake in FutureJP Morgan said a stake sale in Reliance Retail would add further balance sheet flexibility. “We believe the key will be whether Reliance Retail is able to attract strategic investors (global retailers and e-commerce companies that are currently competing with Reliance Retail in India), which could drive re-rating on expectations of reduced competition for the company,” said JP Morgan in a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/silver-lake-eyes-1bn-stake-in-rel-retail/articleshow/77940108.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Patients in home isolation in Patna suffer mental agony||PATNA: Even though home isolation appears to be the preferred choice for a majority of Covid-19 patients in the city, its adverse impact on the psychological state of the patients and their families is highly underrated. From feeling pangs of anxiety to a deep sense of guilt, patients under home isolation have to fight many mental battles. Rajendra Nagar resident Shilpi Singh, who chose home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, said she constantly felt guilty for exposing her family to the virus. “I was the first in the family to show symptoms of Covid-19. My father also tested positive. Throughout the isolation period, I would sit alone in my room cursing myself for exposing my father to the virus,” she said. Another Covid-19 patient from Patliputra Colony said if he could go back in time, he would prefer hospitalisation over home isolation “I would check my oxygen levels 100 times a day. Even with a slight rise in my temperature, I would feel a shiver down my spine. As I wasn’t surrounded by health experts, I used to spend my entire day reading about Covid-19 on the internet. It was horrible,” he said. The families of home-isolated Covid patients also have to exercise great control on their emotions while interacting with the ailing. “It broke my heart to slide his meals through the door. He used to wash his clothes and utensils all by himself. We both were distressed. I am so glad it’s over now,” said the wife of a Covid-19 patient from Gardanibagh who did not wish to be named. City-based psychologist Dr Binda Singh said there is a sense of fear among patients in home isolation. “For people residing in spacious houses with adequate facilities, home isolation works well. But for those who live in cramped spaces with big families, there is a constant fear of spreading the virus to other members. This causes them a great deal of anxiety,” she said. According to the latest data by the state health department, altogether 16,194 people so far have selected home isolation in Patna district and 14,622 of them, including 4,080 women, have recovered at home with the help of Covid care management cell, which was constituted by the district administration. Presently, 1,572 people are under home isolation in the district, including 32.6% women. Of them, 8.2% are symptomatic. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar said while home isolation may be perceived as a convenient option over hospitalisation, its disadvantages cannot be ignored. “While routine check-ups and supplementary medication is taken care of by the medical staff at the hospital, patients opting for home isolation have to take care of themselves all alone. This can cause mental stress and delay the recovery process. Sometimes patients wait for too long and visit the hospitals only when the symptoms exaggerate. This can have fatal consequences,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patients-in-home-isolation-suffer-mental-agony/articleshow/77937031.cms||Arunima Lal
September 5, 2020||Business||Norway’s Orkla buys Eastern Condiments||BENGALURU: In further consolidation in India’s spice market, Norwegian food major Orkla is picking up a 68% stake in Kerala’s Eastern Condiments at a valuation of Rs 2,000 crore, according to a statement by the company. Orkla will acquire 42% from the company’s promoters, the Meeran family, and another 26% from US-based McCormick, which picked up the stake in 2010 for Rs 162 crore. The valuation pegs the cash component of the deal at about Rs 1,360 crore, said a source briefed on the matter. The transaction comes at a time when there is increased activity in the spices segment, as both — large consumer goods players like ITC and Tata Consumer Products besides private equity investors — look to capture a slice of the increasing consumer preference for branded players. The total spice market in India has been growing at an annually compounded rate of over 13%, doubling from Rs 10,516 crore in 2013 to Rs 21,538 crore in 2019, according to Neilsen. Orkla is routing the deal through MTR Foods, which it acquired in 2007, as it looks to further diversify its product portfolio in India. After the deal is completed, which is still awaiting an approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Eastern will merge with MTR, giving the Meeran family a 10% stake in the combined entity. The combined Eastern Condiments-MTR entity will be valued at over Rs 6,000 crore with revenues of Rs 1,700 crore. Eastern Condiments was founded in 1983 and posted revenues of Rs 898 crore for the 12-month period ending June 2020 with an operating profit of Rs 108 crore. MTR had revenues of Rs 829 crore for the calendar year 2019, according to a presentation by Orkla. Avendus Capital advised the Meeran family and McCormick on the transaction. Investors and analysts who are tracking the space said that while major players in the market include companies like Everest and MDH, the industry is dominated by regional companies who cater to local tastes, and are now on the radar of the bigger firms. For instance, tobacco-to-consumer goods conglomerate ITC acquired 45-year-old Kolkata-based Sunrise Foods for Rs 2,150 crore in July. The company’s products are popular in eastern India. Several regional spice makers like Kerala’s Intergrow and Madhya Pradesh-based Pushp have also raised private equity funding from Investcorp and A91 Partners, respectively. “The sector is interesting as companies make more margins than those in the packaged foods segment. The key question in the sector has been if companies will be able to expand from one state to multiple states, and if old-world promoters have the desire or ability to expand? What has happened in the recent past is some companies have become sizeable and have been able to expand to other states,” said Abhay Pandey, general partner at A91 Partners, which led a Rs 125-crore investment in Pushp in June. Pushp is looking to expand into other bordering states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Bihar with the capital infusion. Similarly, while Eastern gets 50% of its sales from home market Kerala, it has been able to expand to Karnataka (9% sales) and Uttar Pradesh (7%), besides exports primarily to Middle East that account for 24% of the sales.Investors and analysts tracking the space also said that companies in the sector, especially those that were able to tackle supply chain issues due to the lockdown, have seen their growth rate double as more people cook at home. Pandey said that while Pushp grew by over 20% in the financial year ending March 2020, it is expected to double in the coming financial year.Orkla has an market capitalisation of over $10 billion. It is betting on creating a strong presence in southern India by combining Eastern and MTR, which drives most of its revenues from packaged ready-to-eat foods in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. “By joining forces, Eastern and MTR will create a solid platform in the fast-growing Indian market, based on strong local brands. MTR has been a great success story for Orkla. Now we look forward to continuing the journey with the Meeran brothers as partners,” Orkla president & CEO Jaan Ivar Semlitsch said. Meanwhile, the Meerans will not exit the spices business, clarified Firoz Meeran, MD of the Eastern Group. He was responding to TOI’s question on the topic. Founded by the late M E Meeran, Eastern manufactures spices, blended spice powders, pickles, and rice-based products. It is the flagship company of the Eastern Group, which also has a presence in rubber re-treading, construction, mattress and ready-made garments businesses. The Kochi-headquartered company is now run by Meeran’s sons — Navas and Firoz. Eastern Condiments was one of the first companies to attract PE funding back in 2006 from US-based New Vernon, which sold its stake to McCormick in 2010. The deal for McCormick came at a time when it was expanding its India presence, as it also set up a joint venture with Kohinoor Foods in 2011 to market and sell Basmati rice. McCormick completely acquired the JV in 2017 and has also started selling spices under its own brand in India as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/norways-orkla-buys-eastern-condiments/articleshow/77940344.cms||Madhav Chanchani
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Collectorate building to remain closed as employee tests Covid-19 +ve||Dehradun: The Dehradun collectorate building will remain closed on September 5 & 6 for sanitisation purpose as an employee tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The DM office will remain closed for the general public till further orders, officials in the collectorate said. According to officials, the increasing number of Covid-19 positive patients in the state has also made the employees vulnerable as a large number of people visit the collectorate building every day. However, an alternative arrangement has been made for people who want to submit their applications to the district magistrate. Such locals can send their requests at — dehradun.dm@gmail.com — or put their request in the drop box placed at the disaster management authority office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/collectorate-building-to-remain-closed-as-employee-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/77937331.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to introduce operational provision for approval of development works in city||Dehradun: After almost a decade, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) will introduce operational provision for the approval of important development works in the city. The decision comes after four coronavirus positive cases were reported inside the DMC office. Officials said that the corporation will be introducing operational provision for approval of projects so that the important projects can be initiated without any delay. Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama said, “These are extraordinary times and we have to protect everyone from getting infected. The provision will help us get approvals through signatures of 2/3rd majority of councillors on each project. The arrangement will help us take up the most needed development work on priority.” According to the Municipal Corporation Act, there is a provision to introduce operational provision which is cleared through signatures of the ward councillors after which the working committee gives approval. The operational provision is then sent to the government for the initiation of the development work. The board meeting is to be held in the month of September but the spread of coronavirus has made everyone sceptical about organising a meeting with councillors of more than 100 wards. According to the officials, the operational provision will be introduced and it will further be passed by the councillors and the working committee. The city mayor has put special focus on carrying out development works in new wards where people have suffered largely due to improper drainage systems as rainwater floods the areas causing damage to private properties. The proposals, once passed during the working committee meeting, will be reviewed along with other projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-introduce-operational-provision-for-approval-of-development-works-in-city/articleshow/77937336.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||UoM to install digital notice boards on campus||Mysuru: Soon, students, faculty and visitors need not check the notice boards for day-to-day developments at the University of Mysore (UoM). The university is implementing an integrated campus wide digital signage communication system to improve efficacy and ensure quick message delivery to students, staff and visitors. Five digital signages are being set up at UoM’s entrances and at Centenary clock tower and Crawford’s Hall, said VC G Hemantha Kumar. The digital signages are centralised and controlled from a control room located at the Computer Science department. The university has started a trial run and plans to launch the service in the next 15 days. This is the second major digital intervention launched in the university after a surveillance system with over 700 cameras to monitor activities inside the campus was set up. According to UoM authorities, the current manual notice board system has its own limitations. “The notices need to be pasted manually and there is no system to update students and faculty on real time issues. There was no system even to update the latest developments. The various faculties are in different corners of the campus. Now these sign boards will help students and faculty get the details easily,” said authorities. “These sign boards can be utilised for multiple purposes including telecasting important events organised in the university. All these days, everything was confined to just auditoriums,” he said. “As all communication is displayed on these digital boards, visitors need not enter the campus just for that purpose,” he added. “Any events can be telecast live through this system from any part of the university,” said Hemantha Kumar. UoM registrar R Shivappa aid these sign boards will be inaugurated soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-install-digital-notice-boards-on-campus/articleshow/77937804.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Sensex tanks 634 pts on US mkt slide||TNN Mumbai: A technology stock-led tumble on Wall Street on Thursday night spread to Dalal Street on Friday, where across the board selling led to a 634-point, or 1.6%, fall in the sensex to a close of 38,357 points. The selling was led by RIL, HDFC and Infosys. Brokers and analysts fear another losing session on Monday after the tech-heavy Nasdaq index on Friday slid more than 2% in early trades. The rising number of Covid-19 infections in India also unnerved market participants, they said. On the NSE, the Nifty closed 194 points lower at 11,334. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 29 closed in the red with Maruti the only exception, which closed 1.7% higher. The strong buying in the stock was backed by expectations of strong demand for entry and mid-segment cars for higher personal mobility needs due to travel restrictions in the current pandemic situation, market players said. The day’s session also witnessed heavy selling in banking stocks after the Supreme Court on Thursday banned any lender from taking a coercive action against a borrower till October end if the loan was not declared an NPA as on August 31 this year. Among the leading banks, Axis Bank closed 4.1% lower, while SBI lost 3.1% and ICICI Bank 2.6%. According to Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan, the gap-down open on Friday was largely due to weak global markets. “On the domestic front, metals, banking and reality stocks registered steep selling pressure and maintained negative stance throughout the day,” he wrote in a note. The market is expected remain volatile over the next few days. “Technically, the index has formed bar reversal kind of formation, which clearly indicates high chances of further correction from current levels,” Chouhan noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-634-pts-on-us-mkt-slide/articleshow/77940166.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Business||Shares of housing finance cos tumble||TNN Mumbai: Shares of housing finance companies have taken a beating in the last week over concerns that they may be required to extend restructuring to realtors that are facing stress. Listed companies have seen their share prices drop over 7% in the last one week after reports that real estate may be one of the sectors requiring a high level of restructuring. PNB Housing Finance has weakened to Rs 278 from Rs 303 a week ago. LIC Housing has seen its share price drop to Rs 294 form Rs 305, while GIC Housing fell to Rs 102 from Rs 118. HDFC, which is seen to have the best asset quality and lowest cost of funds among lenders, has also seen a fall in share price from Rs 1,875 a week ago to Rs 1,779 on Friday. In the same period, the sensex has fallen less than 3% to 38,357. “The moratorium levels for housing finance companies have been high. HFCs are major sources of finance for the real estate sector, which is under doldrums and there is a risk that the regulator may require HFCs to provide restructuring for these loans. Also, banks are not passing on lower interest rates. Market valuations generally factor in all these worries,” said an equity analyst with Emkay Global. Housing finance companies are not expected to see major problems on their retail portfolio because analysts believe that home loans are the last liability in which an individual borrower would default. The earliest defaults in retail loans are expected in personal loans and auto loans. Also in home loans, banks need to maintain a loan ratio of at least 90% for loans below Rs 30 lakh and higher for larger loans. This means that their loans are secure even if property prices fall by 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shares-of-housing-finance-cos-tumble/articleshow/77940142.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gets 1,884 cases, 19 fatalities||Chandigarh: Registering 1,884 new cases, Haryana on Friday yet again outdid its own record of maximum cases in a day and witnessed 19 deaths, taking the state’s nCov tally to 71,983 with 759 deaths. The day also saw 1,282 recoveries that pushed the cured patients’ count to 57,171. Active cases were at 14,053, of which 222 patients were in a critical condition, with maximum 24 such cases in Karnal. The spike in cases over the past week has also adversely impacted recovery rate, which has slipped to 79.42%. Gurgaon, Karnal and Faridabad reported over 200 new patients, with Gurgaon topping the chart with 229 fresh cases. Karnal got 223 new cases and two deaths. Panipat reported another 138 new cases and one death, and Ambala and Panchkula reported 127 new cases and one death each.Sonipat saw 98 new patients, Yamunanagar recorded 90 cases and one death, and Rewari saw 89 patients and two deaths. Sirsa reported 74 new patients, Mahendragarh 68, and Hisar 55 cases and one death. Kaithal reported 54 new cases and two deaths. Jind and Kurukshetra reported 53 cases each, while two persons also died in Kurukshetra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-gets-1884-cases-19-fatalities/articleshow/77940018.cms||Manvir Saini
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to 11 Panipat hotels running without HSPCB consent||Karnal: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has served notices on 11 hotels in Panipat city for obtaining no consent from the board and for violating environmental norms. The board has directed owners of the hotels to comply with the deficiencies mentioned in the notice within the stipulated period or face punitive action. An official of HSPCB said bona fide owners of such establishment (hotels, restaurants) require permission/clearance to run their business, but these hotels didn’t even bother to apply for the consent. The notice has been issued under section 33-A of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and 31 A of the (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981. The notice said if the hotels failed to comply with the deficiencies within the stipulated period, it would be presumed that you have nothing to say in this regard and further action will be taken against the owners of these hotels. HSPCB regional officer Kamaljit Singh said, “These hotels have been asked to reply why they failed to fulfill the terms and conditions.” Strict action would be taken against the hotels which won’t comply with the directions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-11-panipat-hotels-running-without-hspcb-consent/articleshow/77940022.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Online surprises in store for teachers from students today||BHOPAL: Students of various schools are very excited for Teachers’ Day this year as they have prepared online surprises for their mentors, the unsung heroes during the pandemic, who went out of their ways to ensure that students are not deprived of education. Vice-principal of Sagar Public School, Shraddha Kanungo, said that students have recorded poems, performed dances, skits and dedicated heartfelt messages to the teachers that will be shared with them on Saturday. Parvarish The Museum School has decided to turn the tables this year and asked the teachers to recount some of their best memories and experiences as teachers and what role students played in their lives. Students will also dedicate messages as well as musical performances to their teachers during the interactive session. “We have invited some renowned teachers to share their experiences and how students helped them become a better version of themselves,” said Shibani Ghosh, founder and principal of Parvarish. Many students are planning to put up posts for their favourite teachers, expressing their gratitude to them for guiding them and also helping them out when the pandemic had brought the world to a halt. “Had it not been for my school counsellor, I would not have been able to handle the pandemic well,” said Jhanvi Tripathi, a student of class 11. “I have written a poem dedicated to my English teacher and recorded it on my phone. I have also made a collage, showing my achievements in her class. I hope she likes it,” said a student Ritika Hingwasiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/online-surprises-in-store-for-teachers-from-students-today/articleshow/77938530.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Allahabad||Criminal wanted for girl’s rape & murder arrested||PRAYAGRAJ: A wanted criminal, who had allegedly raped and murdered a minor girl, was arrested after an encounter near Malaq Muinuddinpur village under Puramufti police station limits in Kaushambi early on Friday. The accused, identified as Rajesh Pasi alias Hero, a resident of Malaq Muinuddinpur, was injured during the exchange of fire. Police said Rajesh has many criminal cases pending against him.  He was shot in his right leg and is undergoing treatment at Manjhanpur district hospital in Kaushambi. Police said that a 17-year-old girl had gone to a nearby field on Thursday afternoon but did not return to her house till late night. When the girl did not return, the worried family members searched for her but all in vein. On Friday morning, the villagers noticed a suspicious youth who was trying to flee from the village. Upon being alerted, a team of kKushambi police rushed to the spot and had an exchange of fire with the suspect. Police said that injured criminal confessed to have killed the minor girl in a bid to conceal the identity and later hid her body inside shrubs. Inspector (Puramufti) said, “We were tipped off that Rajesh was spotted near a field near the village. A team of Puramufti police station cordoned off the area and arrested him after an encounter.” The body of the girl had been sent to postmortem examination. Police also recovered a 0.315 bore country-made pistol and two live cartridges from him.  Police said that the accused was wanted in connection with several other cases. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/criminal-wanted-for-girls-rape-murder-arrested/articleshow/77936713.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia attack: 102 booked, 15 arrested||VARANASI: The police have lodged an FIR against 102 persons, including 42 named accused, for attacking a police team in Rasada area in Ballia district on Thursday. According to Ballia SP Devendra Nath, 15 accused have been arrested so far. Around 12 persons, including policemen, were injured in the brick batting by an irate mob. “An FIR has been registered against 102 people, including 60 unknown and 42 named persons, for clashing with police, indulging in brick-batting and injuring 12 persons, including policemen. Of them, 15 have been arrested,” said the SP. Four policemen including an ASP, suffered injuries in the brick batting by an angry mob of villagers, which attacked Dakshini police outpost of Rasda police station on Thursday in protest against alleged torture of a youth on Wednesday. Villagers had ransacked the police outpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-attack-102-booked-15-arrested/articleshow/77938399.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Patna high court pulls up private body managing Vishnupad temple||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday in an oral observation reprimanded the private managing body of Vishnupad temple in Gaya asking it to manage the temple properly for lakhs of devotees who visit every year. The observation by the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar came while hearing a PIL urging that the state government be directed to declare all temple properties public. The petitioner also urged that state government should take control of temple management and properties and appoint a board such as the ones managing the Vaishno Devi shrine and the Tirupati temple and develop basic amnesties for visitors. The matter will be heard again on September 7. Counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh appearing for the petitioner Gaurav Kumar Singh submitted that the private body is mismanaging the Vishnupad temple and it had been highlighted in the Bihar state board of religious trusts’ counter-affidavit. The board, in its affidavit, had alleged that the temple pandas are mismanaging and misappropriating offerings made at the temple. It had also submitted that the public at large is the beneficiary of the offerings made at a public temple and not any private individual. Senior advocate Ganpati Trivedi appeared for the board while additional solicitor general KN Singh appeared for the Centre. Gaya DM Abhishek Kumar Singh, who appeared virtually during the hearing, submitted that up to 40 lakh devotees visit the temple each year and there were around 10,000 pandas and 2,000 families there. Counsel Jitendra Kishore Verma appearing for the temple committee submitted that the case for the restoration of the appeal of title suit between the committee and the state religious board was pending before a Gaya court. HC observed that the court concerned shall decide the main appeal on the merits at the earliest and the parties undertake to cooperate in the proceedings and not take any unnecessary adjournment. HC also asked the Gaya court to conduct proceedings virtually if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/high-court-pulls-up-pvt-body-managing-vishnupad-temple/articleshow/77936862.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Magadh University gears up to conduct exams||GAYA: The examination board of Magadh University (MU) will release an action plan for regularisation of academic sessions and conduct of examinations for the 2019-20 session. As per a resolution passed at the meeting of the university’s examination board on Thursday, the detailed action plan would be released within a week. According to a statement issued late on Thursday evening by MU’s nodal officer Sanjay Kumar, vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad presided over the examination board meeting. Earlier, the chancellor’s office had authorised the university’s examination board to frame Covid special transitory regulations for the conduct of pending examinations and publication of results. According to VC Rajendra Prasad, in view of the safety norms as per Covid protocol and the urgency for session regularisation, the university’s examinations are likely to be conducted in a mixed format – online as well as offline. Courses where the number of examinees was less may opt for online exams. According to sources, computer-readable OMR sheets would be provided to students for popular courses, including the degree examinations. Evaluation of OMR answer sheets can be done easily, thereby facilitating early publication of results. Sources added the most challenging task would be to conduct degree part III examinations for the 2017-20 session. Besides examinees from 19 constituent, one government-funded minority and nearly three dozen constituent colleges of MU, part-III examinees from 25 constituent, three government-funded minority and nearly five dozen affiliated colleges presently tagged with Patliputra University, Patna too would appear for MU examination as these students were enrolled before the establishment of Patliputra University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/magadh-university-gears-up-to-conduct-exams/articleshow/77937096.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar records highest number of tests in a day||PATNA: Altogether 1,978 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Friday as over 1.50 lakh tests had been conducted in the past 24 hours, the highest in a day so far in the state. With 13 more deaths, the state Covid toll mounted up to 741. A 34-year-old SSB jawan was among the deceased. The tally reached 1,44,134 while 1,26,411 patients recovered from the virus, leaving 16,980 active cases in state. Health minister Mangal Pandey said 1435 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the recovery rate stood at 87.70%. “In the past 24 hour, 1,50,195 samples had been tested and Bihar has set a record for testing highest number of samples in a day across the country,” Pandey tweeted. The health department reported three deaths from Patna, taking the toll to 175 in the district. East Champaran and Saharsa reported two deaths each. One death each was reported from Araria, Arwal, Bhojpur, Buxar, Jehanabad and Vaishali districts. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths, including the SSB’s 65 battalion jawan Sowdari Praveen Raju. “He was first admitted to Bettiah Medical College and then shifted to AIIMS-Patna on August 13. He was on ventilator support but had no comorbidity,” said hospital’s Covid-19 nodal in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar. Other deceased at AIIMS-Patna included a 63-year-old woman from Anisabad and an 85-year-old man of Simri Bakhtiyarpur. While nine people were discharged from the hospital after getting cured, 13 new patients were admitted on Friday. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported the death of a 45-year-old man from Motihari. Hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said seven people were admitted while six patients got discharged. The health department reported fresh 258 cases from Patna, taking its tally to 22,096. With 19,698 recoveries and 175 deaths, there were 2,223 active cases. Some other districts with maximum fresh cases included Muzaffarpur (134), Araria (117), Bhagalpur (91), Purnea (91), Nawada (88) and East Champaran (84).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-highest-number-of-tests-in-a-day/articleshow/77936991.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||Now, direct Rajkot-Delhi flight from September 10||RAJKOT: Air India will stop the Rajkot to Delhi via Surat flight that the airlines operates twice a week. The airlines will start a Rajkot to Delhi direct flight from September 10. The decision which will save flyers’ time, was taken looking at the increased air traffic, said airport authority sources. Air India also operates a flight to Mumbai three days a week. A private operator too is mulling to start a new flight to Mumbai from next week, though the scheduled for this flight is yet to be finalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/now-direct-rajkot-delhi-flight-from-sep-10/articleshow/77937358.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s case doubling rate best at 43 days, high fatalities a worry||Ludhiana: Even as Ludhiana has witnessed the highest number of deaths in the state in the last seven days since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the district’s rate of doubling of cases is best compared to other districts of the state, suggests an official data.As per the state media bulletin on Covid-19 released by the health department on Thursday evening, the doubling rate — the number of days taken for the cases to double based on the last seven day’s growth rate — for Ludhiana stands at 43 days, which is best in the state, despite a spurt in positive cases. Closely following Ludhiana is Sangrur with a doubling rate of 41 days and SBS Nagar with 30 days is at number three spot. Muktsar has the worst doubling rate of 12 days.The data suggests that during the month of August, the district’s rate of doubling of cases hit 12 days several times.However, despite a marked improvement in doubling rate, the spurt in fatalities in Ludhiana poses a major challenge for the health authorities. As per the latest data, the number of fatalities in the seven days preceding September 3 was highest for the district at 109. During the seven days before August 28, 74 persons had lost their lives, and in the same duration before August 21 the number of such deaths in the district was 73. According to the health department bulletin, the case fatality rate (CFR), which is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease for a particular period, has also witnessed a rise of late. An analysis of the data for Ludhiana suggests that CFR for the district was 2% on July 9, which rose to 3% on July 29 and on September 3 it stood at 4.1%.Commenting on the improvement in case doubling rate, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said it suggests a declining trend. He indicated that fatalities are a cause of concern, but those are primarily because of the fact that patients report late for treatment.The civil surgeon said they are requesting people to get themselves tested early if they notice any Covid-related symptoms, as it would help in bringing down the fatalities.Doubling rateDate — DaysAug 29 — 30Aug 30 — 28Aug 31 — 28 Sept 1 — 30Sep 2 — 37Sep 3 — 43Date — Deaths in last 7 days — CFR (%)July 17 — 10 — 2July 24 — 10 — 2Aug 1 — 45 — 3Aug 7 — 64 — 3Aug 14 — 64 — 3Aug 21 — 73 — 3.4Aug 28 — 74 — 3.5Sep 3 — 109 — 4.1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhianas-case-doubling-rate-best-at-43-days-high-fatalities-a-worry/articleshow/77937335.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Zilla panchayat encouraging BPL familieis to develop kitchen gardens||Mysuru: Construction of individual household drainage channels-cum-soak pits and kitchen gardens at village level under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) scheme has gained momentum across Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. Sources in the zilla panchayat told TOI that the government has given importance to these works to prevent stagnation of water to avoid various vector-borne and water-borne diseases. Construction of these pits will not only contribute to proper liquid waste management but also prevent water logging, mosquito breeding and ensure hygiene at individual households. Earlier, the Union ministry of rural and development and panchayat raj had been advising farmers to construct such pits in their lands which would help in restoration of ground water. After bringing modifications, the Union ministry is encouraging people below poverty line to construct such individual drainage channel-cum-soak pits and kitchen gardens. The ZPs had set the target of construction of 1,000 such pits every year and launched the drive. Now, hundreds of families are growing vegetables like tomatoes, drumsticks, curry leaves, chillies, greens and fruits like banana, lemon, papaya in their kitchen gardens diverting the household waste water to these pits. “Resolutions were passed in the gram sabha and submitted to the panchayat for construction of drainage channels and soak pits under MGNREGA. Hands-on practical training in soak pit digging, laying of rings, filling of sand and gravel, construction of brick platform, technical aspects of soak pit construction, in selection of site for soak pits – covering elevation, gradation, channeling kitchen water and bath water into soak pits will be given to the beneficiaries ,” said Harave panchayat development officer Mallikarjun Speaking to TOI, Chamarajanagar ZP CEO Dr Harshal Boyar Narayanarao said such a drive has already been launched in Harave village in Chamarajanagar taluk. The commissionerate of rural development and panchayat raj institutions had been providing Rs 17,000 to each beneficiary for construction of such pits. Funds from MGNREGS will also be provided to raise kitchen gardens in the backyards. Individuals having job cards can make use of this facility. The department is motivating women and self help groups for construction such pits, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/zilla-panchayat-encouraging-bpl-familieis-to-develop-kitchen-gardens/articleshow/77938156.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar sees major dip in Covid transmission rate||Kolkata: The Covid-19 transmission rate in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area came down to 1.3 by end-August, exactly four months after reaching the peak; it was 5.7 at the end of April. Transmission rate is the factor of growth in the number of people testing positive for Covid during successive 14-day periods. The analysis done by the state health department indicated that Covid cases in Bidhannagar may have already peaked and there will be a gradual decline in the number of new cases very soon. According to the analysis, the reduced transmission rate, along with the dipping rate of active cases, show a reverse of the trend prevailing in the rest of the civic body areas in North 24 Parganas. The district has recorded more Covid cases than Kolkata in the later half of August. According to the analysis, the transmission rate in Bidhannagar — covering Salt Lake and Rajarhat — was very high in April, the first month of the pandemic. The rate was highest on April 27 — 5.7 — when there were 46 Covid cases. Since then, the rate has been declining in each 14-day cycle, though the number of new cases continued to increase rapidly. From 5.7, it plunged to 2.1 in the next cycle beginning May 11 with a total of 98 cases. The rate dipped to an all-time low of 1.2 in the next cycle, which started on May 25 with 127 cases. The rate then increased in subsequent cycles but never crossed 2. It climbed down to 1.3 in the 11th cycle that began on August 17, with a total of 3,094 cases. The study said that it can be predicted that the transmission rate will drop further, though the total number of cases will continue to rise. It will plateau when the rate drops to 1 and the number of new Covid cases will start declining gradually once the rate drops further. “This is an encouraging trend. Looking into last fortnight’s data, it could be seen that though Covid cases continue to rise, the speed at which new cases were reported throughout July and till mid-August has come down, with more people recovering than new cases being reported during the same period,” said a civic official. The analysis also revealed that the rate of death has also come down from 3.4 to 0.1 in the 11th cycle. This may be due to several reasons, like behavioural changes, early detection and follow up of cases in home isolation and proper case management at hospitals, felt doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-sees-major-dip-in-covid-transmission-rate/articleshow/77939122.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||CPCB notices to Hry’s biomedical waste management agencies||Chandigarh: While fighting the pandemic, Haryana’s apparent failure to log in to the tracking system for Covid-19 biomedical waste management has drawn the ire of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which has now issued notices to the agencies tasked with the responsibility. The CPCB last month served show-cause notices to all five agencies/ companies responsible for collection and disposal of biomedical waste from hospitals and other similar facilities in the state. These companies are based in Panchkula, Ambala, Hisar Rohtak and Sirsa districts and networked to ensure collection and disposal of such waste across the state. According to information, consequent to the Covid-19 guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the CPCB had drafted guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) for the collection and disposal of biomedical waste. While launching an app COVID19BMW in May, the agencies concerned were told to register on the app and upload the details of vehicles pressed into the work of collection and disposal of biomedical waste of the hospitals, generated during the isolation and treatment of Covid patients as well as the institutions used for isolation of contacts of Covid-infected patients and suspected cases. The agencies were supposed to upload the sought details within 24 hours of the receipt of the communication regarding the app, but until the second week of August, there was no such action on their part in Haryana. In the notices served to them, CPCB chairman Shiv Dass Meena has asked the agencies/ companies to clarify their stand, failing which the board will take action in accordance with the provisions of Environment Protection Act. The CPCB has also sent the copies of communication and notices to the Haryana State pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cpcb-notices-to-hrys-biomedical-waste-management-agencies/articleshow/77940019.cms||Manvir Saini
September 5, 2020||Business||Stock trade settlements may stabilise next week||TNN Mumbai: The current delay in settlement of trades for retail investors because of problems with the software applications put in place for Sebi’s new margin rules is expected to continue for a few more days. On Friday, the two leading depositories — CDSL and NSDL — and two leading clearing corporations — Indian Clearing Corp and NSE Clearing — issued a joint statement, saying, “while significant amount of margin pledges/repledges have seamlessly been processed since September 1”, the entities expect the new margin pledge process to stabilise only in the coming week. The settlement process could transition to its normal phase only after the application stabilises, market players said. In the last few days, the trade settlement process in stocks extended past midnight, an unprecedented event in the history of the Indian market. Usually by early evening, exchanges complete the settlement process: The process of transferring shares to buyers’ demat accounts and money to sellers’ bank accounts. Brokers also pointed out that since investors and traders were facing difficulty in transferring their stocks as margins — a compulsory requirement under the new Sebi rules — there were increasing incidence of shortfall, leading to auction of positions in the market. Auctions happen when investors fail to either pay the money for stocks they bought or deliver the shares they sold. The joint statement from the four important market intermediaries came after Sebi earlier declined a request from the broking community to delay the implementation of the new system by a month, to October 1. Brokers had told Sebi on Monday that the back-end software required for implementing the new margin system was not yet fully tested and not ready to take the required load for pledging and re-pledging of shares under the new system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stock-trade-settlements-may-stabilise-next-week/articleshow/77940174.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Worker dies after building material falls on him; 3 booked||Pune: A site supervisor, a crane operator and another person were booked on Thursday on the charge of their alleged negligence causing the death of a worker (28) at a construction site on Balewadi High Street on August 21. “The worker, Habib Fazlur Shaikh from West Bengal, was grievously injured after some building material from an overflowing crane bucket fell on him from the 16th floor of the under-construction building. He succumbed to injuries in a hospital the same day,” said senior inspector Anil Shewale from Chatushrungi police on Friday. Shewale said, “Initial police investigation pointed to negligence on the part of the supervisor, crane operator and another person working at the site in ensuring precautionary measures while moving the building material.” The victim’s father, Fazlur Shaikh, stated in his complainant, “My son was doing welding work when the building material fell on his head around 3.30pm on August 21. The workers at the site rushed him to the hospital, but he succumbed to injuries.” Shaikh’s complaint read that the information collected from the workers revealed that his son had died because the suspects did not take apt safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-dies-after-building-material-falls-on-him-3-booked/articleshow/77940032.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||State employees to boycott work to protest probe against chief of their association||Dehradun: After the state government ordered a probe against Deepak Joshi, the president of Sachivalaya Sangh and chief of Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association, the employees body has announced a series of protests starting Saturday. The state government has given the probe against Joshi to an IPS officer. Joshi, who is a section officer in the state secretariat, has been accused of violating the service manuals by criticizing the government policies before the media. According to the communication provided by the Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association, the employees will work while wearing black armbands on September 5. The employees of each district would meet their respective Member of Parliament (or legislator) on Sunday (September 6) in this regard. On September 7, the district magistrates in each district would be given a memorandum after a token protest. The employee association would observe a one-day fast on September 8 and a one-day work boycott on September 9. Virendra Gosain, the provincial general secretary of Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association, said that the protest would be called off if the government takes back the probe against Joshi. “This is a suppressive and oppressive act of the state government to kill the freedom of speech of an individual, who has successfully led a campaign against them. Our organisation has received support from all 13 districts and our colleagues believe that Joshi is being targeted. Therefore, we have announced our programme for the protest,” said Gosain, while adding that there were more than 2 lakh government employees in the state. Meanwhile, urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “I fail to understand what is the problem. If they believe that Joshi is innocent and has not violated the service manuals, then what is the problem in a probe? The government has been fair to everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-employees-to-boycott-work-to-protest-probe-against-chief-of-their-association/articleshow/77937378.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Admn will call up elderly corona patients to know their well-being||TNNLudhiana: Under the Punjab government’s Mission Fateh campaign, the district administration has launched ‘We Care’ initiative wherein senior officers of the administration would call up Covid-19 patients above 70 years of age at random to inquire about their health. This was stated by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma at his camp office here.District public relations office said elderly patients who have been home isolated were called up and Jagraon additional deputy commissioner-cum-nodal officer, home rehabilitation, Neeru Katyal Gupta joined the DC in the initiative.The deputy commissioner said false propaganda was being spread on social media because of which fewer people were getting themselves tested. He said the district administration has started the new initiative to ensure that positive patients would not be brought to the hospital and they could be home quarantined. Patients would be called up by district administration officers, including additional deputy commissioners and SDMs, to boost their confidence. Sharma said the district administration has set up a Covid-19 patient tracking cell and an officer would call up patients after two to three days irrespective of their age to inquire about their condition and not to harass them. He appealed to the people not to believe in any rumours and get themselves tested. He said the government was providing a lot of facilities to get their tests done on the spot and mobile buses were also being run in villages. He assured people that no one would forcibly take them to a hospital.“In case patients feel stressed and need psychological counselling, they can call at the 24-hour helpline numbers —78147-18704 and 62845-31852 — issued by the district administration,” the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/admn-will-call-up-elderly-corona-patients-to-know-their-well-being/articleshow/77937366.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Child worker dies as dupatta gets stuck in factory machine||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 13-year-old girl died after her dupatta got stuck in a machine at a factory in Focal Point on Wednesday evening, police said on Friday.The factory had employed the child worker, Khushboo, two months ago. Even as the police on Thursday registered a case against the factory owner for causing death by negligence, sections of Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act were not included in the FIR. Khushboo’s mother, Manorama Devi, a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony, Sherpur, said in her police complaint, “My daughter worked at Rishi Enterprises Company, Phase IV, Focal Point. She was told to work at the machines, though there were no safety measures in place. On September 2, when Khushboo was working in the factory, her dupatta got stuck in a machine, strangling her.” Moti Nagar police station ASI Meva Singh said, “We have registered a case against the factory owner, Vinod Gupta, and his son under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence). The factory manufactures washers. Net or mesh should have been installed around machines to avert such incidents, but there were no such provisions.” About adding the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act sections to the FIR, as the girl was below the age of 14 years, the ASI said, “Her family had sent her to work due to their poor financial condition. She had been working there for the past two months.” Additional deputy commissioner of police-IV Kuldeep Sharma said, “I will get it checked. If the girl is below the age of 14, then the sections of Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act will also be added to the FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/child-worker-dies-as-dupatta-gets-stuck-in-factory-machine/articleshow/77937341.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC notice on Gautam Navalakha plea for default bail||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Friday issued a notice and adjourned to September 15 a plea by activist Gautam Navalakha, accused in Elgar Parishad case, for default bail for being in custody for over 90 days with no chargesheet filed. He challenged a July 12 order of special NIA court, which refused him default bail. Special NIA court Judge Dinesh Kothalikar had, after hearing Navlakha’s lawyer Ragini Ahuja and additional solicitor-general Anil Singh for NIA, said period of house arrest cannot be factored. Navlakha was arrested on August 28, 2018, and immediately after transit remand was granted, approached Delhi HC, which placed two local cops outside his house, and on October 1, 2018, quashed his arrest, the trial court had observed. Hence, his “house arrest’’ cannot be counted as detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-issues-notice-on-navalakha-plea-for-default-bail/articleshow/77939546.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana mulls setting up mining zone in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: The Haryana government is exploring possibilities of making two more mining zones at Lapra village in Jagadhri block and Nandgarh village in Bilaspur block of Yamunanagar district. A district administration team had even visited the area recently for inspection. “A joint committee has been formed under the leadership of sub-division magistrates of Bilaspur and Jagadhri for feasibility study in their respective areas. Most probably, in a week or so, they would submit their final report regarding parameters and feasibility of making mining zones in Lapra and Nandgarh villages,” Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said on Friday. On September 2, a district administration committee comprising officials of Haryana departments of irrigation and water resources, forest, mines and geology, state pollution control board, block and panchayat development and revenue had visited Lapra for survey. According to information, a large piece of land at Lapra, belonging to panchayat and farmers, is lying unused along the Yamuna bank and the government is considering leasing it for mining activities to earn revenue. Lapra sarpanch Ifsana’s husband Ajiz Khan said, “About 90 acres of land in our village, of which 30 acres belongs to panchayat and 60 acres to farmers, has been lying unused as it is in the river flood range. During the rainy season, the village is flooded with the Yamuna water. The villagers want the mining activity to start here so that sand from the riverbed can be removed to clear the passage for water flow. It will also give employment to villagers and farmers would be able to earn from their land which was earlier lying unused.” The move, however, is not welcomed by all. Anti-Corruption Society, Haryana, president Waryam Singh said, “In a complaint at the Haryana chief minister (CM) window on June 18, 2019, we had sought a CBI probe into the overloading and illegal mining cases in Yamunanagar district. The mafia has exploited the Yamuna river mining zones. Earlier, tender-holders destroyed roads, caused pollution and obstructed the natural flow of Yamuna by building bunds. More tenders should not be given as the situation is already beyond control. Mining should be banned in Yamunanagar for the time being. The government should reconsider and make strict laws to stop exploitation of natural resources. It should not happen so that a company is allowed mining activity for 8 hours but continues operations for 24 hours.” Mining provides revenue worth crores to the state government and the national green tribunal (NGT) had taken cognisance of a petition filed by Kiranpal Rana of Kanalsi village, president of Yamuna Sewa Samiti. On July 15, 2020, it had sought factual and action taken report from the district administration within three months. The next date of hearing is January 6, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-mulls-setting-up-mining-zone-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/77940038.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Man found murdered; duo held, mom booked||KOLHAPUR: Satara police have arrested two suspects in connection with the brutal murder of a man in a forest area in the district on August 26 and registered an offence against the victim’s mother. The duo have confessed to killing the man because he was an alcoholic and used to harass his mother, said police. Pramod Bapu Salunkhe (35) and Sahil Mulla Mulani (19) from Degao village in Satara taluka, were arrested late on Thursday night under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 120 (criminal conspiracy). A local court on Friday remanded them in police custody till Septembers 6. Salunkhe, a cousin of the victim, Prakash Sudam Kadam (30), has confessed under interrogation that the victim was an alcoholic and used to harass his mother. According to police, Kadam was unmarried and worked as a casual labourer in Mumbai. Whenever he came to the village, he used to harass his family members. His mother shared the problem her nephew, Salunkhe. Police said Salunkhe and Mulani took Kadam to the jungle area near Khindwadi, off national highway, under pretext of drinking liquor with him. They allegedly murdered him soon after he got drunk by slitting his throat with a knife. Police found Kadam’s body in the bushes following a tip-off, identified him and arrested the duo in a few hours on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-found-murderedduo-held-mom-booked/articleshow/77940877.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of blackmailing, bid to extort Rs 50L from landlord||Pune: The Pune crime branch arrested a 40-year-old eatery owner on Thursday night on the charge of blackmailing his landlord and attempting to extort Rs50 lakh from him. The eatery owner had rented a room from the victim in Vishrantwadi. “Investigations revealed that the suspect suffered a huge loss as his restaurant business was shut during the lockdown. To overcome the loss, he hatched a plot with a woman, related to him, to extort money from his landlord,” senior crime branch inspector Rajendra Mohite told TOI. Mohite said the woman got close to him after texting him regularly. One day, she asked him to come to her home as her husband was out of town. “The woman had already set up cameras in her home and when the victim went there, she got intimate with him and recorded the act,” Mohite said. “Later, the suspect got in touch with his landlord and threatened to upload the clip on various social media platforms,” the officer added. “The suspect initially demanded Rs50 lakh but later settled for Rs5 lakh for not making the video clip viral,” Mohite said. The victim, on Thursday, came to the crime branch and narrated the incident. He also said that the suspect would come near Pune Railway station to collect the money. “We laid a trap and caught him. Apart from cash, we have recovered a cellphone and a memory card from him,” Mohite added. The suspect has been handed over to the Bund Garden police for further investigation. Police have not arrested the woman till Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-blackmailing-bid-to-extort-rs-50l-from-landlord/articleshow/77940041.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: Mumbai cop among two to die in Maharashtra, outgoing Navi Mumbai cop chief tests positive||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Two more cops from Mumbai and Nagpur succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the state force’s toll to 165, of which 70 are from Mumbai, on Friday. This came as outgoing Navi Mumbai police chief Sanjay Kumar tested positive, a day after he was transferred as ADG (training & special squads). Assistant sub-inspector Achare (57) from Mumbai police (special branch-1) was undergoing treatment for few days. Kumar said he had been hospitalized for a week. DCP (headquarters) Shivraj Patil said they sanitized his cabin on Friday and four staff attached to him, including a constable who was Kumar’s reader, though asymptomatic, have been home quarantined. and their reports will come on Saturday. Patil added, “During change of guard on Thursday, the official file was handed over by Kumar to Singh by taking safety precautions. Singh may not go in for a RT-PCR test immediately as the virus is detected after 4-5 days of coming in contact with a positive patient.” Singh said, “While taking charge from Kumar, we both wore masks and maintained social distancing. It is unfortunate Kumar tested positive but he has mild symptoms and will recover soon.” In the first three days, in September, eight cops have succumbed to the virus, while the deaths in August (54) were maximum. On Thursday, 128 more tested positive, taking the cases in the state force to 16,143, of which 13,288 recovered and 2,691 are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mumbai-cop-among-two-to-die-in-state-outgoing-navi-mum-cop-chief-tests-ve/articleshow/77942018.cms||George Mendonca
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Family of five in Dahod end lives||VADODARA: In what appears prima facie to be suicide pact by an entire family, five persons including a couple and their three daughters ended their lives in Dahod town sometime on Thursday night. Preliminary investigations hint at the possibility of financial crisis as the reason behind the drastic step. The family of deceased Saifuddin Dudhiyawala (42) used to stay in Batul Apartments in the Sujaibaug locality on Godhra Road in Dahod. According to sources, the bodies of Dudhiyawala, his wife Mehzabin (35) and their three daughters 16-year-old Zainab and her twin sister Arva, and 7-year-old Hussaina were found in the apartment on Friday morning. Parents of the deceased, Shabbir Dudhiyawala and mother Mariam, who stayed with the family were, however, not around at the time of the incident. On Thursday, the parents had gone to visit their daughter Sakina, who too stays in Dahod. They stayed back at the daughter’s residence for the night. The next morning when the duo reached home and tried calling their son from the ground floor, they could not contact him as his phone was out of reach. Shabbir then asked his wife to climb up the stairs as he had problem in walking. Soon, Mariam started hysterically calling out to her husband from the gallery of the house after seeing her son and the entire family lying unconscious. Shabbir later told the police that he reached the apartment and saw his son lying in the living room even as his wife Mehzabin and the three daughters lay in the adjoining bedroom. According to H P Karen, in charge Dahod town police inspector, cops have recovered a suicide note from the spot. However, he denied sharing the details of its contents and said it will be disclosed only after the ‘panchnama’ and formally recovering the note as evidence. Sources said that the family was facing serious financial difficulties and was under debts. The suicide pact may have been a way out to end their woes, it is believed. The family, involved in the business of trading in disposable plates, bowls, glasses and similar items, had migrated from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh to Dahod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/family-of-five-in-dahod-end-lives/articleshow/77938632.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana DSP threatens to shoot health staffers||HISAR: A video of a Covid-19 positive Haryana Police DSP allegedly threatening to shoot the members of a health department team, which had gone to put up a quarantine poster outside his Hisar home as per the Covid-19 protocol, went viral on Friday. The cop, who is deployed with Hisar GRP, made the threat over cell phone after his wife, who had tried to stop the team from pasting the poster, rang him up. Health department inspector Ramesh, and MPHWs (multipurpose health worker) Bajrang, Rajkumar and Mangal said as DSP Yadav had tested Covid-positive, the team went to his house to paste a quarantine poster. This was vehemently opposed by the his wife, who said she would not allow the poster outside her house, no matter what happens. The health staffers said when they asked her to give this in writing, she called up her husband, putting the call on speaker. The DSP then started abusing and threatened to shoot the health staffers, and did not stop even after the team asked him not to use such offensive language. After the police did not register a complaint regarding the threat, the team members met Hisar superintendent of police Gangaram Poonia on Friday. The team finally pasted the poster outside the DSP’s house . When contacted, SP Poonia said that a complaint had been received, and it was being investigated. The DSP, however, blamed the health department for putting up the poster too late. The cop said he had tested positive on August 29 and had been discharged on September 3. He claimed that he had requested the health department team several times to take samples of his wife and young children, but they did not do so. "I do not understand what is the use of putting up the poster when I had been discharged from hospital," the GRP DSP said, adding that some members of the team had spoken rudely to his wife. Watch Shocking! Haryana DSP threatens to shoot health workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-dsp-threatens-to-shoot-health-staffers/articleshow/77942977.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry land deed registration: Glitches in upgraded software||Karnal: Registration of land deeds in Karnal, which started four days ago, has been hit due to technical issues in the upgraded software used for the process, officials have confirmed. Property registrations in Karnal district have been slow because of this. A source said the number of property registrations in revenue department of urban and rural areas in Karnal had come down to 7-8 and 3-4 per day, respectively, from the earlier 40-45 and 10-12 before the software was upgraded. The revenue department had stopped the process of land registration in Haryana to upgrade the software after allegation of properties being registered without the compulsory no-objection certificate from the town and country planning department and urban local bodies. It restarted it, after the software upgrade, this week. With the new software, applicants can book an online appointment anywhere in the state. But, applicants said, the problem was in e-appointments as the new system was too complicated. Besides, sometimes, it is not able to identify the area as even a plot of rural area was shown as an urban area during registration. “The process for the appointment and registration is too slow and complicated. Due to some technical issues, it takes so much time to generate the booking number,” said Vijay Kumar, a resident of Karnal city. “I visited Karnal tehsil office for registration of property sale deeds. I was asked to wait for some time, but I had to return empty-handed as the system was not functioning smoothly,” Suraj, a resident of Karnal city. Indri tehsildar Darpan Kamboj, who holds the officiating charge of Karnal, admitted to some technical issues in the software and to people not being able to get the appointment. He said they had taken up the issue with higher official and it would be sorted out soon. He said people could get an appointment for registration of property deeds from saral kendras as well. Besides, a help desk has also been established at the tehsil office, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-land-deed-registration-glitches-in-upgraded-software/articleshow/77940048.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Landslide in Nainital’s Bhimtal kills two locals||Nainital: A landslide in Nainital’s Bhimtal area on Friday evening killed two men, identified as Kuldeep Kumar (24) and Jeevan (58). According to locals, the landslide took place at around 6 pm when a nearby rock fell on a house in the area. The locals immediately informed the police. After reaching the spot, the police recovered the bodies and sent them for postmortem. The locals say that the sound of the falling rocks was so loud that the entire village was alarmed and came out of their homes. The police have said that continuous rainfall over the last many days have made the rocks loose and thus, they collapsed on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-in-nainitals-bhimtal-kills-two-locals/articleshow/77937388.cms||Prashant Jha
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai cop among two to die in Maharashtra, outgoing Navi Mumbai cop chief tests positive||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Two more cops from Mumbai and Nagpur succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the state force’s toll to 165, of which 70 are from Mumbai, on Friday. This came as outgoing Navi Mumbai police chief Sanjay Kumar tested positive, a day after he was transferred as ADG (training & special squads). Assistant sub-inspector Achare (57) from Mumbai police (special branch-1) was undergoing treatment for few days. Kumar said he had been hospitalized for a week. DCP (headquarters) Shivraj Patil said they sanitized his cabin on Friday and four staff attached to him, including a constable who was Kumar’s reader, though asymptomatic, have been home quarantined. and their reports will come on Saturday. Patil added, “During change of guard on Thursday, the official file was handed over by Kumar to Singh by taking safety precautions. Singh may not go in for a RT-PCR test immediately as the virus is detected after 4-5 days of coming in contact with a positive patient.” Singh said, “While taking charge from Kumar, we both wore masks and maintained social distancing. It is unfortunate Kumar tested positive but he has mild symptoms and will recover soon.” In the first three days, in September, eight cops have succumbed to the virus, while the deaths in August (54) were maximum. On Thursday, 128 more tested positive, taking the cases in the state force to 16,143, of which 13,288 recovered and 2,691 are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cop-among-two-to-die-in-state-outgoing-navi-mum-cop-chief-tests-ve/articleshow/77939535.cms||George Mendonca
September 5, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai cop among two to die in Maharashtra, outgoing Navi Mumbai cop chief tests positive||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Two more cops from Mumbai and Nagpur succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the state force’s toll to 165, of which 70 are from Mumbai, on Friday. This came as outgoing Navi Mumbai police chief Sanjay Kumar tested positive, a day after he was transferred as ADG (training & special squads). Assistant sub-inspector Achare (57) from Mumbai police (special branch-1) was undergoing treatment for few days. Kumar said he had been hospitalized for a week. DCP (headquarters) Shivraj Patil said they sanitized his cabin on Friday and four staff attached to him, including a constable who was Kumar’s reader, though asymptomatic, have been home quarantined. and their reports will come on Saturday. Patil added, “During change of guard on Thursday, the official file was handed over by Kumar to Singh by taking safety precautions. Singh may not go in for a RT-PCR test immediately as the virus is detected after 4-5 days of coming in contact with a positive patient.” Singh said, “While taking charge from Kumar, we both wore masks and maintained social distancing. It is unfortunate Kumar tested positive but he has mild symptoms and will recover soon.” In the first three days, in September, eight cops have succumbed to the virus, while the deaths in August (54) were maximum. On Thursday, 128 more tested positive, taking the cases in the state force to 16,143, of which 13,288 recovered and 2,691 are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-cop-among-two-to-die-in-state-outgoing-navi-mum-cop-chief-tests-ve/articleshow/77942019.cms||George Mendonca
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana DSP threatens to shoot health staffers||HISAR: A video of a Covid-19 positive Haryana Police DSP allegedly threatening to shoot the members of a health department team, which had gone to put up a quarantine poster outside his Hisar home as per the Covid-19 protocol, went viral on Friday. The cop, who is deployed with Hisar GRP, made the threat over cell phone after his wife, who had tried to stop the team from pasting the poster, rang him up. Health department inspector Ramesh, and MPHWs (multipurpose health worker) Bajrang, Rajkumar and Mangal said as DSP Yadav had tested Covid-positive, the team went to his house to paste a quarantine poster. This was vehemently opposed by the his wife, who said she would not allow the poster outside her house, no matter what happens. The health staffers said when they asked her to give this in writing, she called up her husband, putting the call on speaker. The DSP then started abusing and threatened to shoot the health staffers, and did not stop even after the team asked him not to use such offensive language. After the police did not register a complaint regarding the threat, the team members met Hisar superintendent of police Gangaram Poonia on Friday. The team finally pasted the poster outside the DSP’s house . When contacted, SP Poonia said that a complaint had been received, and it was being investigated. The DSP, however, blamed the health department for putting up the poster too late. The cop said he had tested positive on August 29 and had been discharged on September 3. He claimed that he had requested the health department team several times to take samples of his wife and young children, but they did not do so. "I do not understand what is the use of putting up the poster when I had been discharged from hospital," the GRP DSP said, adding that some members of the team had spoken rudely to his wife. Watch Shocking! Haryana DSP threatens to shoot health workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-dsp-threatens-to-shoot-health-staffers/articleshow/77940044.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||JD(U) lashes out at Jharkhand govt over Lalu issue||PATNA: JD(U) on Friday slammed incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad for flouting jail manual by allowing hundreds of ticket seekers and workers from Bihar to meet him in judicial custody and also making political statements from behind bars. Citing a letter issued by IG (prisons) of Jharkhand, IPRD minister and JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar said, “The letter clearly says that policemen deployed for Lalu’s security outside the bungalow where he had been shifted from Rims due to Covid-19 pandemic are not discharging their duty well and allowing ticket seekers and workers of his party to meet him inside.” Ranchi SSP, according to the IG’s letter, had deputed police personnel to stop outsiders from entering the premises. Instead, the ticket seekers and party workers were throwing all norms (jail manual) to the wind, he said and demanded disciplinary action against the erring cops. Neeraj said Lalu is not a political prisoner and has been convicted under Section 420 (cheating) among other sections of IPC in fodder scam cases. Despite being pronounced guilty by the court, Lalu was being treated as a guest by the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand. “People want to know why the state government was giving special treatment to Lalu,” he added. “Has Lalu promised some seats to the JMM in Bihar in lieu of special facilities being provided to him in judicial custody?” he asked and said why other prisoners admitted to Rims for treatment were not provided the same facility. Neeraj also accused the Jharkhand government of adopting double standards while dealing with Covid-19 lockdown norms in the state. “A Dalit MLA, Samta Devi, was quarantined by the district administration while Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap was allowed to move out of Ranchi,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-lashes-out-at-jharkhand-govt-over-lalu-issue/articleshow/77938606.cms||Ramashankar
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Cop duped of Rs 5 lakh, 3rd in one week||Aurangabad: A police constable attached with the city police was duped of Rs 5.17 lakh by unidentified suspects on the pretext of helping him get a loan. As per the complaint, lodged by constable Rajesh Firange the suspects contacted him at the end of July offering him a personal loan. The suspect sent him a message containing a link and asked him to fill up a form. Soon after the Firange gave all the details in the form, the suspects reportedly got a loan sanctioned on his bank account and later allegedly siphoned off the money In the past one week, Firange is the third policeman to be duped through a telephising scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cop-duped-of-rs-5-lakh-3rd-in-one-week/articleshow/77940879.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Narnaul police arrest 3 for attack BJP leader’s son||Chandigarh: With the arrest of three men, Narnaul police on Friday claimed to have solved a case related to firing on a BJP leader’s son for allegedly extorting Rs 50 lakh. The accused include Sombir Singh, a resident of Hisar; Rohit, a resident of Hansi; and Rakesh, a resident of Nangal Chaudhary. All three were produced in court, which remanded Sombir in three-day police custody and other two in judicial custody. The incident took place on August 28, when three men allegedly shot at Anil Kumar, son of district BJP leader Daya Ram Yadav. The assailants had left a slip to demand Rs 50 lakh, while a gang took responsibility for the incident. Notably, the incident has triggered a row as Haryana minister Om Parkash Yadav too had brought this to the notice of home minister as well as CMO and had lodged a complaint against the then SP Sulochana Singh. Meanwhile, an audio clip, which alleged to be of two persons, one suspected to be Yadav had gone viral. The conversation was about the functioning of SP. Taking note of the audio, the SP had also got a case registered. The case was registered minutes ahead of she was relieved of charge of SP Narnaul. The probe has revealed that Pardeep alias Anna, a resident of Jharasa of Gurgaon, is the kingpin and he has prepared an inter-district gang by recruiting members from different areas. For a month, Anna and his accomplices surveyed the city. Police claimed that the gang had trained the three accused in using a firearm. “On August 27 and 28, the gang had demanded money from two persons. While the three accused were planning to strike on Thursday, they were apprehended by a team of CIA staff headed by inspector Anil Kumar,’’ said the spokesperson of Narnaul police. Police are raiding suspected hideouts of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/narnaul-police-arrest-3-for-attack-bjp-leaders-son/articleshow/77940085.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre to view proposals to prevent body swapping||Chandigarh: The Union ministry of health and family welfare will consider the suggestions regarding disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims, for preventing swapping of dead bodies. In a statement made on Friday before the Punjab and Haryana high court, additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain said suggestions of the petitioner would be considered by the Centre, and if found practicable, would be incorporated in the guidelines issued by the Centre from time to time to deal with Covid-19. The matter had reached the HC in the wake of a PIL filed by advocate H C Arora seeking the review of the Centre’s guidelines on the issue of disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims. The petitioner submitted before the bench that he had already submitted a representation on August 11suggesting that body covers for carrying the dead bodies from hospital to mortuary or from mortuary to the cremation ground should not be opaque, but should be made transparent from one corner so that the relatives of the deceased corona victim may have safe ‘antim darshan’ of the dead body. According to the petitioner, it would also prevent swapping of dead bodies, “which is happening too often in various parts of the country”. He submitted that relatives of Covid-19 victims are apprehensive of getting infected, in the existing system, as body cover is supposed to be unzipped in the cremation ground, and it is only then that the swapping of dead bodies comes to the notice. However, following the statement of the additional solicitor general, the petitioner had withdrawn the PIL with a view to pursue his representation dated August 11, which he had already submitted to the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-to-view-proposals-to-prevent-body-swapping/articleshow/77940080.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Install mobile tower in border village, get Rs 40 lakh: Uttarakhand to telcos||DEHRADUN: To boost connectivity in remote villages that lie on the India-Nepal and India-China border, the Uttarakhand government will offer a one-time payment of Rs 40 lakh for each mobile tower that is installed in these hamlets of strategic importance by telecom service providers. A proposal to this effect was prepared by the state information technology department and cleared by the Uttarakhand cabinet on Friday. About 250-odd villages near the China border and the Nepal border have no mobile network. It is common for residents in areas adjoining Nepal to use Nepalese sim cards which are able to provide connectivity to make calls and use the internet. The government had earlier distributed satellite phones to gram pradhans in these regions but prohibitive costs prevented residents from using them. A top source in the government told TOI that the majority of the villages that have no connectivity lie in border areas in Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts. The source said the decision to offer financial aid was taken after consulting with telecom providers who sought a one-time financial assistance or asked the government to cover 60% of the total project cost. Telecom providers avoid installing towers in remote areas due to low population density which results in a lower revenue. Last month, the department of telecommunications had said that various projects were being implemented to provide connectivity in remote and strategic areas. “A tender for 354 uncovered villages in the strategic, remote and border areas of the country has been finalised and is under implementation in 144 villages of the the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and remaining villages in the states of Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and other priority areas of Gujarat,” it had said. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand cabinet also approved a ‘Tourism Incentive Coupon’ scheme for people visiting certain areas in Uttarakhand for a period of three or more days. Using the coupon, a visitor can get a discount of up to Rs 1,000 on their hotel bill. The cabinet directed that full refunds be issued to tourists whose bookings to Corbett Tiger Reserve were cancelled due to the Covid-19 situation. A cumulative amount of Rs 1.85 crore would be refunded, according to estimates by the state government. On the recommendation of the defence ministry, the Uttarakhand cabinet has also approved a proposal to increase the area of Kedarnath helipad. In another decision, the state will now allow the Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPNL) to provide jobs to all youths. The UPNL is a government agency which hires former defence personnel and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/install-mobile-tower-in-border-village-get-rs-40l-ukhand-to-telcos/articleshow/77937404.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: BJP MLC booked for violating social distancing norms||AURANGABAD: BJP MLC from Beed, along with 70 others, was on Friday booked for allegedly violating social distancing norms, disobeying orders duly promulgated by a public servant and for holding public meeting. The MLC and his supporters, however, said that the meeting was held for discussing the demand of raising wages of sugar cane cutters by 150%. The offence is the third to be registered against the MLC for allegedly violating the social distancing as well as lockdown norms. The MLC had conveyed a couple of meetings with sugar cane cutters at Patoda and Shirur. The pictures of the same went viral on social media, attracting attention of the district administration as well as the police department, resulting in registration of the offence at Shirur police station. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “No permission for loudspeaker or public gathering was taken. Since public gatherings are prohibited during the pandemic, an offence has been registered.” When contacted, the MLC said that he had organized the meeting to address the issues of the sugar cane cutters who are facing difficult times during the current pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mlc-booked-for-violating-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/77940882.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||NIM’s mountaineering team scales three virgin peaks||Uttarkashi: A mountaineering team of the Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) has successfully scaled three unclimbed peaks situated in the Nelong Valley region of Uttarkashi district. The expedition, which was conducted to revive adventure sports amidst Covid-19 pandemic and promote tourism at Nelong valley, was completed in a record duration of just six days. According to NIM officials, a three-member mountaineering team, including team leader and Principal NIM Colonel Amit Bisht, Naib Subedar Girish Negi, and Hawaldar Anil Kumar, began the expedition on 27 August. After completing the acclimatisation drill, the team started the climb and scaled three peaks including Naga (4,790 metres), Ku (5,871 metres), and an unnamed peak (5,616 metres) in six days. “The team successfully scaled three unclimbed peaks from August 28 to September 2 by using alpine technique of climbing. NIM will provide complete details of the expedition to the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) and Uttarakhand tourism department to ease things for other mountaineers,” said Colonel Amit Bisht. He added, “The motive of the expedition was to create a positive atmosphere and revive adventure tourism activities in the state amidst the Covid-19 crisis. Besides, NIM is also trying to promote the Nelong Valley region, which has several unscaled and unclimbed peaks, and can become the hotspot for adventure lovers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nims-mountaineering-team-scales-three-virgin-peaks/articleshow/77937394.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: No lung fibrosis in most Covid recovery cases, say chest physicians||PUNE: Not every Covid-19 patient will go on to develop lung fibrosis after recovery. Chest physicians in the city say only 10-15% of recovered patients will experience this condition. Even among this small portion of cases, around 85% patients will experience harmless residual fibrosis with some coughing and breathlessness during exertion, the doctors say. Residual fibrosis is the scarring in the lung tissue which develops as a response to inflammation due to infection. Simply put, it’s part of the body’s healing process. Some scar tissue (tissue that forms after normal tissue is damaged by disease) remains after active infection subsides. “Post-Covid fibrosis is still a puzzle. But it’s clear that it is way different than idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). It should be completely reversible over time in more than 85% affected individuals,” chest physician Mahavir Modi told TOI. “In most patients, fibrosis has been residual and self-limiting as it is part of the body’s healing process. It heals on its own if your body has a good immune response and the active infection is cured,” Modi said. Sassoon hospital’s pulmonologist Sanjay Gaikwad said, “Only in a minuscule number of recovered Covid-19 patients did we observe lung fibrosis that needed extended oxygen support even at home.” IPF is a disease of unknown causes in which doctors cannot pinpoint triggers for lung fibrosis even after eliminating some known risk factors such as rheumatoid arthritis, connective tissue disease, drugs, toxins, chemicals and infection. But in post-Covid cases, it’s clear that fibrosis has been caused by Sars-CoV-2. Doctors, however, are unsure how long this condition lasts after Covid recovery as five months of the outbreak has generated limited patient data. “It is too early to comment on its uniqueness or how it will behave over time. But one pattern is that it (lung fibrosis) develops in the area where Covid-19 infection or pneumonia was noticed,” Modi said. Early Covid diagnosis, swift treatment, adequate hydration and use of Vitamin C and zinc supplements can help prevent post-Covid fibrosis, doctors say. Also, Modi said post-Covid-19 lung fibrosis typically impacts peripheral and lower portions of the lungs. “All lobes of the lung are involved only in some patients,” he said. So, how much time does it take for a full-blown post-Covid-fibrosis to heal? “We can’t say as the disease is just five to six months old. In swine flu and other viral infections, there was complete recovery as early as four weeks. But sometimes, it took as much as six months,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-covid-recoveries-wont-have-lung-fibrosis/articleshow/77940054.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 5, 2020||India||Decide Bhushan’s status as advocate, BCI tells Bar Council of Delhi||NEW DELHI: After agreeing to deposit the Re 1 fine imposed by the Supreme Court for contempt, advocate Prashant Bhushan is now liable for action under the Advocates Act, 1961, as the Bar Council of India (BCI) has asked the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to examine the case material for appropriate proceedings. The BCI said it discussed the SC judgements of August 14 and August 31 holding Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt of court in its meeting on Thursday. "The council is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Prashant Bhushan and the judgments of the SC need thorough examination by the bar council in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates Act, 1961, and the rules framed thereunder, particularly Sections 24A and 35 of the Act and Chapter II, Part VI of Bar Council of India Rules," it said. "BCI, therefore, unanimously resolves to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Prashant Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible," it said. It decided to send Bhushan's tweets and the SC judgments to the BCD. In its August 31 judgment, the SC had imposed Re 1 fine on Bhushan and said if he did not pay up, he would have to undergo three months imprisonment and debarment from practice for three years. "Pursuant to conviction in a criminal case, the Bar Council of India can suspend the enrolment, if it so desires. It is also open to this court to debar from practising in a court," the SC had said. In Bar Council of India vs High Court of Kerala in 2004, the SC had ruled, "Although in a case of professional misconduct, this court cannot punish an advocate in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 129 of the Constitution which can be imposed on a finding of professional misconduct recorded in the manner prescribed under the Advocates Act and the rules framed thereunder, but professional misconduct of the advocate concerned is not a matter directly in issue in the matter of contempt case.” Under Section 24A of the 1961 Act, the bar council concerned can disqualify an advocate if he gets convicted in an offence involving moral turpitude. This means the BCD will examine whether Bhushan’s conviction in a criminal contempt case is akin to conviction in a case of moral turpitude. Section 35 of the Act provides that if a bar council, on receipt of a complaint or otherwise, has reasons to believe that any advocate on its rolls has been guilty of professional or other misconduct, it shall refer the case for disposal to the disciplinary committee. The committee, after hearing the advocate and the advocate general concerned, can make the following orders under the Act — dismiss the complaint, reprimand the advocate, suspend the advocate from practising before any court or authority for a certain period, or, remove the name of the advocate from the state roll of advocates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/decide-bhushans-status-as-advocate-bci-tells-bar-council-of-delhi/articleshow/77941520.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Stay on construction of theme park near Kanvashram to continue for 2 more months||Nainital: The stay order issued in March 2019 by the division bench of Uttarakhand high court (HC) on construction of the theme park alleged to be on the riverbed of Malini river will continue as the additional project director (APD) of Infrastructure Development Investment Program for Tourism informed the court that its model study will take two more months to complete. After the submission by the APD’s counsel, the lawyer representing the firm which is developing the theme park said that they will wait until the model study is complete and are not seeking the court’s order vacating the stay. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe therefore adjourned the hearing and said that the case will be taken up after the study is submitted before the court. The theme park is alleged to be built on the riverbed of Malini river that runs adjacent to the Kanvashram. It is believed that the mythical character of King Bharat was born here. The division bench of the court had, in March 2019, put a stay on the construction. A model study of the project is now being done to assess whether the construction is being done on the riverbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stay-on-construction-of-theme-park-near-kanvashram-to-continue-for-2-more-months/articleshow/77937408.cms||Prashant Jha
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Help for victims’ kin: HC notice to HP||Shimla: In a matter related to providing financial help to the families of people, who have died of Covid-19, the Himachal Pradesh high court has issued notice to the state government and directed it to file a reply within three weeks. The court has set October 1 as the next of hearing. A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition filed by advocate Tarun Pathak, who has alleged that Covid-19 has not only been declared as pandemic, but has also been notified as disaster by the Centre, so, the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, should be applicable for all purposes in case of this disease. Pathak alleged that in March this year, after declaring the pandemic as a disaster, Centre provided that in case of death due to Covid, ex-gratia relief of Rs 4 lakh shall be provided to the family/kin of the deceased, but later on the said clause was withdrawn. He stated that Bihar was providing an ex gratia to the families of persons who die due to Covid. He suggested relief could be provided from the state disaster response fund, maintained under the act or the chief minister’s relief fund. Keeping in view the minimal number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state, it would not put much financial burden on the state to pay the ex gratia to the families of deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/help-for-victims-kin-hc-notice-to-hp/articleshow/77940107.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Sahni keeps GA guessing, wants minimum 25 seats||PATNA: Amid the hush-hush going on in the political circle that the NDA was trying to lure Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), its president Mukesh Sahni on Friday said smaller parties have more options compared to big ones. Sahni also said anything was possible in politics and he may announce some big development in a week. Ever since HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has shifted to the NDA, talks are also going on about Sahni changing sides. When asked if he had any plan to join the NDA, Sahni told TOI: “Smaller parties have options open everywhere. But as of now, I am in Grand Alliance (GA) and it is intact.” He further said seat-sharing talks would be finalized very soon. Sahni asserted that his party would not agree on less than 25 seats. Popularly known as ‘Son of Mallah’, Sahni had floated VIP before the 2019 Lok Sabha election and contested as a GA constituent. Even though other smaller parties like RLSP and Left have met RJD state president Jagdanand Singh recently to discuss seat-sharing, Sahni has not met him yet. “Why will I do durbar. Since I am in an alliance with them, I have earlier interacted with their leaders. If I get an invitation, I will definitely go,” he said. Sahni said his aim is to work for justice to all sections of the society, especially Nishad community to which he belongs. “We want reservation for this community in Bihar. Also, I will work for justice to 12 crore people of Bihar and it is possible only when I am in power,” he said. The VIP chief said his party has shown its strength in the byelection for Simri Bakhtiyarpur assembly seat and managed to get EBC votes. He criticized chief minister Nitish Kumar for not working for people of Bihar. “He (Nitish) called Manjhi Ji to his side because he needs him. Those who are weak and cannot contest alone need other’s help. If Nitish has done such great works in Bihar, why can’t he fight any election alone, like Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sahni-keeps-ga-guessing-wants-minimum-25-seats/articleshow/77938627.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||With schools shut, teachers walk the extra mile to keep students engaged in studies||Dehradun: When the pandemic caused schools to shut down, government school teachers were instructed to send content over WhatsApp in low-connectivity areas and handover worksheets to students from areas with no internet connection whenever they visited schools to collect compensation for mid-day meals. Realising this wasn’t enough to engage those living in remote areas, some teachers have been taking it upon themselves to trek the extra mile, literally, and conduct classes for the students in villages. Charan Singh Rana, who teaches Hindi to students of classes 6 to 10 in Government Inter College Hatal in Dehradun, treks for an hour to and fro daily to conduct open-air classes in different villages in shifts. “None of my students own smart phones and their families aren’t conversant with technology either. I noticed that the students, mostly members of the Jaunsari tribal community, were drifting away from studies and roaming around in motorcycles since the lockdown began. They might have even turned to malicious activities,” Rana said. From August, Rana started going door to door to convince parents to let their children continue studies. “I got together with my colleagues to organise the students. The parents were quite supportive. Now we teach batches of around 150 students,” he said. Kanchan Joshi, who teaches Physics to class 11 and 12 students of Government Inter College for Girls at Daulaghat in Almora, chose to stay back at her rented room in Daulaghat village instead of going back home in Almora city and conduct sessions there despite the Covid-19 outbreak. “In the initial days of the lockdown, I did try sending videos but most of the students struggled to understand those lessons. While some had poor networks, others didn’t have smartphones to begin with. I realised just how badly the lack of physical interaction had hampered their studies. So since June, I am teaching the students in different shifts at my home. The willingness of the girls, who trek several kilometers of treacherous roads to attend the lessons, keep me going,” Joshi said. Ravish Pachouli, who teaches Maths and Science to students from classes 6 to 8, explained that the traditional way of learning is necessary in villages and online lessons cannot possibly replace that. When the lockdown started and he saw students losing contact with studies, Pachouli started an initiative called “School Gaon Ki Or” to engage the children. “Most of the students here belong to families of migrant labourers and are first-generation learners. We started by visiting nearby villages and educating parents about the importance of studies. We also spread awareness about the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ programme, the current government schemes for migrant workers as well as guidelines to follow to arrest the spread of Covid-19. We now have 46 students attending our classes,” Pachouli said. Seema Jaunsari, director (academic research and training), Uttarakhand education department, lauded the teachers for their commitment. “It is heartening to see that teachers are improvising according to the situation. We have a good network of teachers across the state and it is motivating that many of them are going the extra mile, taking learning to villages even as schools shut down,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-schools-shut-teachers-walk-the-extra-mile-to-keep-students-engaged-in-studies/articleshow/77937427.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 5, 2020||Patna||RLSP submits list of seats to RJD||PATNA: RLSP leaders called on RJD state president Jagdanand Singh on Friday and submitted a list of seats it wanted to contest in the upcoming assembly election due in October-November. RLSP national treasurer Rajesh Yadav and state working president Birendra Kushwaha held talks with Jagdanand. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari was also present at the meeting. Rajesh told mediapersons that the seat-sharing negotiations among Grand Alliance partners were in the final stages. Sources said the RLSP has staked claims on the 23 seats it had contested in 2015 besides 25 other constituencies where it claims to have a vote base. Earlier, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha had discussed the issue with RJD president Lalu Prasad in Ranchi. Sources said the list was in a closed envelope on Lalu’s suggestion. On August 27, CPI and CPI(M) had handed over their lists of constituencies to Jagdanand. VIP chief Mukesh Sahni has also submitted the list of his party candidates. “All is well in the Grand Alliance. Everything will be set on the right track at an appropriate time,” Tiwari said, adding that the GA would fight give a befitting answer to NDA on all the 243 seats in the coming election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlsp-submits-list-of-seats-to-rjd/articleshow/77938683.cms||Ramashankar
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||NEET: Teachers, classes nervous about huge numbers at each centre||Nagpur: Though all arrangements for conducting NEET across the country are in place, many are, understandably, a bit nervous about its implementation. With around 16 lakh candidates set to appear in a pen-paper offline test on the same day, teachers who will be part of the invigilating team say they do have some concerns. Even coaching institutes feel that there is an undercurrent of concern among stakeholders. Sameer Phale, founder member of Association of Coaching Institutes, said, “As per the data provided by National Testing Agency (NTA), there are almost 16 lakh candidates appearing for NEET. And across India just over 3,800 centres will host the exams. This means at least 400 students will be appearing in a single centre.” He added that though the number might not sound intimidating, but it gets compounded due to Covid distancing norms. “There has to be a gap between candidates appearing for the exam. In one room probably maximum 15 students can sit, which means over 25 classrooms need to be occupied. One can only pray that every centre has enough staff and infrastructure to take care of this,” said Phale. Though NTA conducts the ongoing JEE as well, there are some major differences between the two. First is that NEET has almost double the number of students appearing. Also JEE is conducted twice a day, over a period of a week. NEET will be held on the same day across the country, which puts a major load on the infrastructure. A few teachers who will be invigilating the exams said they do feel nervous, but are confident that things will go on smoothly. “There will be restrictions on crowding, plus number of candidates in a room is limited. All will be wearing masks, which makes it a bit more safe,” said one teacher. The institutes hosting the exam say only place where chaos can erupt is the entry gate. “Many times students land up at the same time on the main gate. Though entry will be staggered, one can’t control what happens just outside the campus where even parents or guardians are present,” said trustee of an institute which will host the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neet-teachers-classes-nervous-about-huge-numbers-at-each-centre/articleshow/77938709.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 5, 2020||India||NCP, Shiv Sena netas hit out at Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Referring to actor Kangana Ranaut’s statements critical of the Mumbai police, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said on Friday that people who think Maharashtra or Mumbai is not safe for them “have no right to live here.” He made the comment in Nagpur. Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, at the same time, threatened that women Shiv Sainiks would “beat up” Kangana if she came to Mumbai, prompting the National Commission of Women to demand his arrest for issuing threats to the actor. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said she was taking suo motu cognisance in the matter. “He must immediately get arrested @CPMumbaiPolice. Taking suo motu,” she said in a tweet. Kangana, in response to the Sena threat, tweeted she would be coming to the city on September 9 and dared those attacking her to stop her. In response to Deshmukh’s statement, Kangana said, “How you promoted yourself from POK to Taliban just in one day is commendable.” After Kangana had said she would require security from Haryana police or Centre and would not take security from Mumbai police to expose the “drug mafia” in Bollywood, Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said that those who didn’t have faith in Mumbai police should return to their state. The actor had then tweeted, “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffittis (sic) in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir.” Deshmukh on Friday said Maharashtra and Mumbai police was a force which had been compared to Scotland Yard. “I strongly condemn the allegations levelled on the Maharashtra and Mumbai police by an actress. As far as the law and order is concerned, the entire state and the city are safe in the hands of the Mumbai and state police. People who say that they don’t feel safe to live in Maharashtra or Mumbai have no right to live here,” Deshmukh said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Ashish Shelar distanced his party from Ranaut’s comments. “Kangana should not try to teach Mumbaikars and Maharashtra... BJP disagrees with her statements and has nothing to do with Kangana or her statements,” he said. State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant accused Ranaut of being hand-in-glove with the BJP to malign the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Sanjay Raut said on Friday, “Has she (Kangana) been to PoK? She should live for two days to see the living condition in PoK. People from PoK are willing to come to Mumbai. People who have nothing to do with Mumbai are making statements. Home minister of Maharashtra should take it seriously and take strict action against her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncp-shiv-sena-netas-hit-out-at-kangana-ranaut/articleshow/77941521.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 5, 2020||Varanasi||Call about terrorist at Gorakhnath temple turns out to be hoax||GORAKHPUR: A ‘mentally challenged’ man of Bansgaon in the district created a scare on Thursday night after he called the police control room and claimed that a terrorist had entered the Gorakhnath temple at Gorakhpur. As soon as the information was received, SP City and CO Gorakhnath along with police force reached the temple and launched a search operation. However, nothing suspicious was found inside the temple. Police said “the man’s family has claimed that he is mentally unsound but no chance is being taken and an investigation has been launched into the matter”. Reports said that around 10 pm on Thursday, a man called up the police control room. When the police asked him to reveal his name and address, he disconnected the call. After getting the information, SP City Dr Kaustibh and CO Gorakhnath Ratnesh Singh reached temple campus and launched a search operation. “A dog and bomb squad was deployed and the entire Gorakhnath temple was searched. After scanning the CCTV footage and checking inputs by the people there, no suspicious activity was found. With the help of electronic surveillance, police traced that one Shivendra Pratap Singh of Bedouli village under Bansgaon had made the call,” CO Gorakhnath Ratnesh Singh informed TOI on Friday. “When the police checked, the man was not found at home. His family claims that he is being treated by KGMU, Lucknow doctors for some mental illness for the past 10 years. Police are investigating the claim of his family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/call-about-terrorist-at-gorakhnath-temple-turns-out-to-be-hoax/articleshow/77938505.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ticket aspirants crowd party offices||PATNA: As the state assembly election is likely to be announced soon, aspirants are making a beeline for tickets at the headquarters of major political parties or the residences of their patrons and party leaders. From submitting biodata to meeting senior party leaders, they are trying their best to get a chance to contest the upcoming election. Even though JD(U) ticket aspirants have the option to submit their resumes online via email or WhatsApp, over 90% of them visit the party’s state headquarters to submit their portfolios, JD(U) state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya said. JD(U) has fixed September 5 as the deadline for submitting portfolios. “We are keeping the portfolios district-wise in different files to upload later,” said Arya, adding, “No new application will be accepted after September 5.” He could not say how many aspirants have submitted that portfolios so far as the process was one. The office of RJD, opposite the JD(U)’s, also has huge rush of ticket seekers. RJD’s state general secretary (headquarters) Nirala Yadav said at least 1,000 people, including ticket seekers, visit the party’s headquarters daily. “We received 300 applications on Thursday and around 1500 applications so far,” said Nirala, adding the portfolios are handed over to RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and a copy is sent to leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Those interested in an RJD ticket also visit former CM Rabri Devi’s house to meet Tejashwi. Sources said many were also going to Ranchi to seek the blessings of party’s chief Lalu Prasad, who has been serving jail term there in fodder scam cases. There is also a rush of ticket aspirants at the BJP office. Many of them also meet senior BJP leaders like state general secretary (organization) Nagendra Ji, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Mangal Pandey, Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar. Aspirants also try their luck to meet BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal when he is around. “We cannot stop anyone. They meet Nagendra Ji, or the general secretaries. Since Bhupendra Yadav Ji is around, many aspirants also meet him. Same is the case when the party’s state president is here,” said BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar, adding, “We have a system. For example, biodata submitted to any senior leader is entered in an Excel sheet with the candidate’s name, contact number and his constituency. It is then forwarded to the state president. Eventually, the final call will be taken by the top leadership.” Even the state Congress headquarters at Sadaquat Ashram is buzzing with ticket aspirants. Many of them also try to meet party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha at his residence. “Two-three office workers are busy compiling the biodata assembly-wise. On an average, 200 ticket aspirants come daily,” said Congress’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-aspirants-crowd-party-offices/articleshow/77938788.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 5, 2020||Kanpur||UP: MLA’s brother tests Covid +ve, dies after falling from hospital building||KANPUR: A 48-year-old Covid patient, and brother of BJP MLA Kailash Rajput, undergoing treatment at Kannauj’s Tirwa Medical College, died after falling mysteriously from second floor of the hospital. Sanjay Rajput, younger brother of BJP MLA from Kannauj’s Tirwa Assembly Kailash Rajput, was admitted to the hospital on Friday morning. However, whether he jumped or fell by accident is yet to be ascertained. According to family sources, Sanjay (48) and his wife were tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25. Initially, he was in home isolation, but when his condition deteriorated on Friday morning, he was taken to the Tirwa Medical College. As per his family members, at around 4pm, he fell from the window on the second floor of the hospital building. Police said, he was rushed to the ICU in an injured condition where he was declared dead. Principal Tirwa Medical College, Dr Dilip Singh said that Kailash Rajput has apprised them that Sanjay died following a fatal fall. The police, however, is investigating from all the angles. SP Kannauj Amrendra Prasad Singh said the reason behind the incident will be known only after investigation and autopsy report. The body has been sent for a postmortem. The MLA and his supporters, as well as senior district and police officials rushed to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mlas-brother-tests-covid-ve-dies-after-falling-from-hosp-bldg/articleshow/77938528.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 5, 2020||Kanpur||Probe launched into pro-Pak WiFi name used by a local||Kanpur: The police here are on the lookout for a person whose Wi-Fi origin had the name — ‘Pakistan Zindabad’. Police said he will be booked for sedition and also charged under IT Act. Cyber sleuths have been pressed into service to track down the account holder. When the locals detected the pro-Pak slogan of origin of the user while surfing, they immediately alerted police, fearing he could be a Pakistani hacker. Police, however, said the matter came to light when the locals of Kabadi Market area of Nazirabad, who had Wi-Fi connection, while surfing net on Thursday night came across ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ written in front of the Wi-Fi origin of one of the users. Fearing that the user could be a Pakistani hacker, they immediately alerted the local police and control room, police said further. The police are zeroing in on suspects for sedition and anti-national activities, said SSP Preetinder Singh. “We have been keeping a watch on such elements with the help of our informers, with all hi-tech apparatus put in place to make his arrest possible,” said SSP further. “We have roped in our special Cyber Cell sleuths who are in the process of tracking the IP address of that particular router belonging to someone in the Kabadi Market area. In case, it’s the handiwork of some local, we will book a case of 124 A of IPC (pertaining to sedition) against him/her. Investigations are underway in this regard. It came to fore that the man had also removed the pro-Pakistan slogan from his Wi-Fi origin name,” said Circle Officer Babupurwa Alok Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/probe-launched-into-pro-pak-wifi-name-used-by-a-local/articleshow/77938537.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Give property share to teen mother, child’||Ahmedabad: In an unprecedented order in a habeas corpus proceeding, the Gujarat high court has directed a couple to earmark share of the family land in favour of the teen, who eloped with the couple’s son and gave birth to a child. The high court has also ordered mutation of the teen mother’s and her child’s names in revenue records. They have also been ordered to create a fixed deposit in the name of the mother and child. The couple’s son and teen’s husband, who is not yet an adult, is absconding with POCSO charges slapped against him by the teen’s father. The youth’s family, however, happily accepted his wife and agreed to share their properties with her, said advocate Deepmala Desai who appears for the petitioner in this case. The high court had intervened in this case after the teenage girl’s father filed a habeas corpus petition last year when she eloped with a youth from the same village in Dahod district. In June, she returned with a child and declared that she had married the minor she had eloped with. Her father was ready to accept her back, but her child was not wanted. Hence, she preferred to stay with her in-laws because they were ready to keep the child. The HC was initially circumspect to send her with her in-laws, because the couple had five other kids with the youngest one just two years old. The HC ordered an inquiry into the social and economic standing of the family to ascertain when it could maintain the teen mother and her child. Local officials reported to the court that the family own two oxen, 3 buffaloes, two cows and 20 goats along with a small parcel of land with a monthly earning of around Rs 25,000. The HC permitted her to live with her in-laws. However, the court wanted more security for her and the newborn. The in-laws were willing to part with an amount for the future security of the mother and child. On Tuesday, the high court ordered opening of bank account for the teenage mother and directed her in-laws to deposit money within three weeks. Similarly, they have been ordered to separate and earmark the share of the teen and her child in land parcel and the entry should be mutated in revenue records. The HC has sought report in this regard by September 21. The HC has ordered the district judge, local police and the legal aid service to help the family in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/give-property-share-to-teen-mother-child/articleshow/77938781.cms||Saeed Khan
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Father-son duo booked for killing daughter||Fatehabad: A man and his son allegedly killed his daughter and cremated her without informing her mother and other relatives at Nagli village near Tohana town of Fatehabad district. The alleged murder occurred on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Jyoti, a student of BA-I. Acting on the complaint of Jyoti’s younger brother Raju, Tohana Sadar police have booked her father Sahab Ram and brother Praveen under Section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Raju, a Class XII student, alleged, “My father used to assault my mother. Fed up with this, my mother about one month ago took my sister Jyoti and went to her maternal home at Mangali Mohabbat village in Hisar.” He said on September 1, Jyoti went somewhere without informing anyone. Raju said his father came to know about it and managed to trace Jyoti in Kaithal the same night and brought her to Nagli. “At 3 pm on September 2, my father and brother murdered her by making Jyoti drink poison forcibly. They told neighbours that she died due to a heart attack and cremated without calling my mother or anyone else,” he alleged. Raju said when he protested, his father and brother threatened to kill him too after which he spoke to his mother and other relatives. He said his mother and her relatives went to Nagli and complained to the police about the incident. Tohana Sadar police station in-charge Jai Bhagwan said the reason for the murder would be known only after the arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/father-son-duo-booked-for-killing-daughter/articleshow/77940140.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad metro operations to resume on Monday||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Metro service from Vastral to Apparel Park will resume from Monday. According to Metro officials, on Monday and Tuesday there will be only two runs — at 11am and at 4.25pm. The limited service will be operated to examine if all systems related to Covid prevention are functioning in line with standard operating procedures. Then on Wednesday and Thursday, the Metro will operate from 11am to 5pm. On Sunday — following the directions from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs — the metro will run from 7am to 7pm for the benefit of NEET examinees. The Metro officials said that from September 14, the service will revert to its pre-Covid schedule — from 11am to 5pm. The Metro officials have stated that passengers found without masks shall be penalized. Passengers also have to follow social distancing norms. Foot-operated sanitizer dispensers will be available for passengers at the stations. The Metro authorities will give sanitized tokens to passengers. The Metro officials said that the use of the Aarogya Setu app is recommended and will be encouraged so that passengers too can determine if there is an infected person in proximity. The passenger contact area in the train will be sanitized after every trip and every passenger will have to undergo thermal scanning before boarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/metro-operations-to-resume-on-mon/articleshow/77940161.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kanpur||Three brothers of Vikas Dubey’s financier surrender in court||KANPUR: Rajaikant, Ajaikant and Shobhit, the three brothers of slain gangster Vikas Dubey’ financier Jaikant Bajpai, surrendered before the Gangster Court on Friday. The police had booked Jaikant along with his brothers Shobhit (24), Rajaikant (39) and Ajaikant (45) under Section 3 (1) of Uttar Pradesh Gangster Act on July 31 and since then the trio were allegedly absconding. The three on Friday surrendered before the special judge, Gangster Court in connection with the gangster case lodged at Nazirabad police station of the city on July 31, police sources said. They were later sent to Chaubeypur temporary jail in judicial custody. Their lawyer Devendra Dwivedi told the media that the court, however, dismissed an application for an interim bail moved by the three brothers. “They had given their application with regard to their surrender in the court on Thursday,” Dwivedi added. Jaikant, who had allegedly provided gangster Vikas 25 cartridges and cash worth Rs 2 lakh on July 2, and also attempted to facilitate his escape, was arrested along with one of his aide Prashant Shukla alias Dabbu on late July 20 night. The district police thereafter announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on each of the three absconding brothers. A case was also filed against them under the Gangster Act at Nazirabad police station. The police had conducted raids at Jaikant’s Harshnagar residence in search of his three brothers on August 16, but had to return empty-handed as all three were found to be absconding. Earlier, the police had also seized three luxury vehicles — Audi, Fortuner and Verna — abandoned by Jaikant and his aides in Kakadeo’s Vijay Nagar area. The vehicles were used to ferry Vikas and his gang members to their safe hideouts. However, due to extensive checking and patrolling by the police, the SUVs were abandoned near Vijay Nagar crossing on July 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-brothers-of-vikas-dubeys-financier-surrender-in-court/articleshow/77938582.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 5, 2020||Kanpur||District administration appoints static magistrates at Covid hospitals||KANPUR: The district administration on Friday appointed static magistrates in all the Covid hospitals, and directed them to monitor the treatment facilities being provided to the corona patients and check cases of overbilling. The appointment of static magistrates has been done with a view that patients could get better treatment and doctors come as per their roster. District magistrate Alok Tiwari visited SIS hospital of Kalyanpur under his daily hospital visit programme. He witnessed the CCTV footage to know the condition of Covid patients and directed a static magistrate to monitor the cameras installed at the ICU. Later, talking to the media, the district magistrate said that a static magistrate had been deployed at each hospital to check the wilfulness of private hospitals. Further, static magistrates have been deputed in all Covid hospitals to monitor the facilities being given to corona patients and visit of specialist doctors at the hospital. The district magistrate asked the hospital management to seek the opinion of specialist doctors for the patients who were in intensive care units (ICU). The hospital has to prepare a record, including the name of the doctor who had been consulted for the treatment of a patient. Tiwari also asked the static magistrates to update the daily report mentioning the number of patients admitted for treatment and how many died during the treatment, besides other relevant details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dist-admin-appoints-static-magistrates-at-covid-hosps/articleshow/77938599.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||56-day-old beats virus after two-week stay in hospital||Kolkata: A 56-day-old boy survived Covid and was discharged from a private hospital on Friday. The child, who was admitted to hospital on August 20 with fever, breathing issues and a failing heart, is the youngest to be released from a hospital in Kolkata after recovery. He fought for two weeks in the hospital. Last month, a 63-day-old beat Covid after battling the virus for three weeks ata hospital.The baby was admitted to AMRI Hospital Mukundapur with high fever, breathing distress, urine infection — symptoms triggered by Covid. But what left doctors worried was the fact that his heart function was reduced to just 35% of normal. The infant was put on ventilation immediately and drugs were administered to treat his affected lungs and heart.Along with anti-virals, steroids were used to support lung functioning. “Initially, he didn’t respond to dopamine so he had to be put on ventilator. We used anti-viral drugs meant for adults, which yielded results and his condition gradually stabilized,” said AMRI paediatrician Saumen Meur, who was part of a team treating the child.But it took some more time to revive the normal functioning of the baby’s heart. “Covid had affected his heart, turning the cardiac muscles weak and unable to pump normally. We injected immunoglobulin but it was not very effective. Other drugs had to be injected to improve the heart function, which is now satisfactory,” said Meur.However, even though the child has been released, it will take some time for him to recover fully, said doctors. “Even though we used conventional methods to treat the baby, it took us some time to figure out what would work best,” added Meur.The 63-day-old infant who survived Covid last month was on ventilation for eight days at the Institute of Child Health. He had three bouts of convulsion and breathing distress along with high fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/56-day-old-beats-virus-after-two-week-stay-in-hospital/articleshow/77938791.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Dhaba owner held for murder of taxi driver 5 months ago||Jind: With the arrest of a dhaba owner of Narwana town of Jind district, the police on Friday claimed to have solved a five-month-old case of a missing taxi driver, who was murdered. Deceased Suresh Kumar, 26, hailed from Radhana village of Jind, while accused, Sukhbir alias Sukha, belonged to Dumarkhan village of the same district. Narwana station house officer (SHO) Manoj Verma said the parents of Suresh, who was working as a taxi driver in Gurgaon, had lodged a missing complaint about him five months ago at a Gurgaon police station, but his disappearance remained a mystery for five months. “On getting inputs, we arrested Sukhbir on Thursday, who had eloped with Suresh’s wife, and recovered a pistol from him. During interrogation, he confessed that Suresh had visited his dhaba five months ago. They had consumed liquor that night. Sukhbir shot Suresh dead with a pistol, as the latter was aware of his illicit relation with his wife. Sukha said he killed his woman friend’s husband, because he had threatened to kill after coming out of jail in a murder case,” the SHO said. The police officer said they recovered the body of the deceased by digging a land adjoining the accused’s dhaba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhaba-owner-held-for-murder-of-taxi-driver-5-months-ago/articleshow/77940160.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||ACI to provide free accommodation to NEET candidates||Nagpur: Outstation students appearing for NEET in Nagpur centres will get helping hand thanks to Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI). The group of institute owners will provide free accommodation and food to needy students coming to the city for the exam scheduled for September 13. Sameer Phale, founder member of ACI, said, “In a few days, we will be releasing details about how students can apply and what exactly we have in mind.” The basic plan by ACI is to provide overnight accommodation for September 12 night with dinner. “We will provide them with breakfast next morning, after which they can move out for their exams and later back to their hometown,” said Phale. ACI will provide all these facilities free. “This facility is open to all students, regardless of which institutes they are affiliated to,” said Phale. But this is not a ‘walk-in’ kind of service being made available to one and all. Phale said, “We will release details soon about how students can register to avail this free service. We will verify their credentials as only genuine NEET candidates from outside Nagpur should get advantage of this.” Accommodations will be made in vacant flats and hostels plus hotels, if possible. Separate arrangements will be made for boys and girls, but everything will depend on the demand-supply equations, he added. “ACI members are always taking up social causes and this is simply one of them. Exam is on September 13 and by Sunday we will have all the details out in public domain,” said Phale. With many of their students from outside Nagpur and a strong network with other institutes in smaller towns, ACI is confident of being able to reach out to everyone who requires help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aci-to-provide-free-accommodation-to-neet-candidates/articleshow/77938798.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC heat on man for niece’s bogus Aadhaar||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has sought an explanation from a person for submitting a bogus Aadhaar card to show that his niece was not an adult when she eloped with a man who she later married. The court wanted to know on his affidavit why the man produced the document, which was not genuine, before the court. This happened after the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said that the Aadhaar card furnished by the man showing the woman’s birth date as May 2002 did not appear genuine. The UIDAI held that the Aadhaar card submitted by the woman appeared genuine according to its database because the only entry that is reflected in its database showed that her birth date was fed as January 1999. The HC had asked for the verification of the Aadhaar cards because the woman’s husband was booked by Vivekanandnagar police under Pocso charges. The paternal uncle of the woman had filed a habeas corpus petition after the woman eloped with a man from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. She later married him and returned on the HC’s order and was housed at a women’s protection home in Paldi. She insisted that she is an adult and expressed her desire to join her husband, who has taken shelter in a police station fearing her uncle and the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-heat-on-man-for-nieces-bogus-aadhaar/articleshow/77938795.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nodal officer for US firms: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani called upon US companies to join hands with Indian companies to produce active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in India, in a special address at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF)’s leadership summit. He also announced that the state government will appoint a senior nodal officer from the chief minister’s office to facilitate American companies partner with Gujarat. To promote a vibrant startup ecosystem, the CM proposed a formalized startup engagement programme between US and Gujarat in areas like semiconductors, electronics and e-vehicles. The special public session was hosted by the USISPF to focus on investment opportunities in Gujarat. Rupani was the only chief minister of a state in India to be invited to address the Third Annual USISPF leadership forum. Keynote speakers at the summit included Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US Vice-President Mike Pence and several senior ministers from the government of India. While addressing the session on Thursday night at the weeklong virtual summit, the CM said that Gujarat presents great opportunities to US companies and it is also developing robust infrastructure facilities for the pharmaceutical sector in the form of a bulk drug park in Bharuch and a medical devices park in Rajkot district. Rupani invited US companies to partner with Gujarat to improve market access to the artisans in tribal areas through digital education. He invited companies like Cisco to partner with the government in the next wave of digital transformation especially in the fields of cyber technology and governance. Elaborating on the investment opportunities in Gujarat, Rupani said the state had recently released the new Gujarat Industrial Policy 2020, with several provisions such as relocation benefits for companies moving out from other countries, besides investor-friendly measures such as de-linking incentives from the GST regime and land on a long-term lease. Commenting on the state meeting challenges posed by the pandemic, Rupani said, “I am happy to share that on August 29, 2020, our power consumption was 5% more than what was consumed last year at the same time. This clearly shows that the economy has re-bounced and is steadily back on growth curve.” The CM emphasised that Gujarat is open for collaboration in life sciences, defence, petrochemicals and clean energy, besides warehousing and logistics, pharmaceuticals and healthcare sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nodal-officer-for-us-firms-cm/articleshow/77940165.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: 31 villages identified as red zones in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: Adopting a zero-tolerance policy against stubble burning, the Kurukshetra district administration on Thursday warned the farmers of lodging FIRs against them if they are found setting the crop residue on fire in their fields. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner (DC) Sharandeep Kaur Brar said the agriculture and farmers welfare department in the district has identified 31 villages as red zones and 108 villages as orange zones and the administration would keep a special vigil on these areas. Brar said the sub-divisional officer of agriculture department, patwari and village secretaries of these villages have been deputed to keep an eye on the activity of crop residue burning. “As Covid-19 pandemic has spread, setting crop residue on fire in these times can increase respiratory problems further among the people. Therefore, the farmers need to say no to the practice of stubble burning seriously,” the DC said. Kurukshetra deputy director agriculture Pardeep Meel said, “Those villages which have recorded more than five incidents of stubble burning in the past have been kept in red zones and those between one to five are in orange zones.” She said Samson Paper Private Limited and Hind Samachar Group would be involved in crop residue management in Kurukshetra district and would ensure that the farmers are provided modern equipment at subsidized rates to manage residue. As the paddy season would start soon, the officials have begun to draw the action plan against crop residue burning. “The officials concerned have been instructed to spread awareness among the farmers at village-level to start a social movement and motivate them to stop burning the crop residue. Camps would be organised by panchayats, officials of the agriculture department and public representatives,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stubble-burning-31-villages-identified-as-red-zones-in-kurukshetra/articleshow/77940162.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Feast Day’ to be muted this year||KOLKATA: The Catholic Association of Bengal is organizing a tribute on Mother Teresa’s death anniversary (September 5), also referred to as ‘feast day’, with an inter-faith prayer at Park Street’s Allen Park. Mother’s 110th birthday was a quiet affair as well on August 26, with only 20 people at the Mass at St Thomas’ Church on Middleton Row. The association, of which Mother was the patron saint, celebrated the holy Mass, followed by a quiet wreath-laying ceremony at Allen Park. “No public function will be held at Mother House on ‘feast day’. After speaking to the sisters, the association is organizing a prayer by all faith heads at Allen Park,” said Angelina Mantosh Jasnani, the association president. Dignitaries like urban development minister Firhad Hakim will be paying floral tributes at Mother’s statue. Meanwhile, the nine-day Novena, in the run-up to Mother’s Sainthood Day, ended on Friday. Missionaries of Charity nuns have been doing their daily Mass at the tomb since August 27. Because of the pandemic, no visitors were allowed for the Novena (from Latin noven or nine), a Christian tradition of private or public prayers for nine successive days or weeks. “For the last nine days, the association has been distributing food and clothes to residents of the homes set up by the Mother,” said Jasnani. “All these years, I would go over to Mother House for the Novena. This time, there were no congregational Novena prayers,” said Sunita Kumar, spokesperson of Missionaries of Charity, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/feast-day-to-be-muted-this-year/articleshow/77938809.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Midday meal unhygienic and of poor quality: Report||HYDERABAD: Even as the state government has decided to introduce midday meal (MDM) scheme in junior and degree colleges, several lapses have been found in its implementation at the school level. Society for Social Audit, Accountability and Transparency (SSAAT), a unit of department of rural development, Telangana, said the food that is served in several schools is prepared in unhygienic conditions. Apart from quality not being maintained, food is also not cooked properly, it said. After visiting 60 schools in 10 districts in the state, SSAAT filed an audit report wherein it mentioned about lapses in schools in Hyderabad also. “The cooking and serving area are very dirty and we found unhygienic conditions everywhere. Most schools do not even have supply of proper safe drinking water and some do not provide soaps to children for washing hands. Proper cleanliness is not maintained on the school premises and kitchen areas,” the SSAAT report said. In almost all the schools, rice was wet, hard or incompletely cooked. Vegetables were not in sufficient quantity and sambar or rasam was diluted or watery with less use of dal.“During our door-to-door visits, parents expressed that students suffered from stomachache and diarrhoea after partaking MDM in Zilla Parishad High School at Muddaipet, Vikarabad. One complaint was that channa dal powder was being mixed with sambar. Some children were okay with MDM, but wanted more quantity of food,” an official of SSAAT said. In many schools, either infrastructure is not available or underutilised. The survey said though toilets were available, students were not able to use them due to lack of water. “Out of 30 MPP schools audited, toilet facility was not available in nine schools. Open defecation was seen in such schools, while girls were forced to go home. Out of 27 ZPHSs audited, five schools did not have toilets. Girls had to go to neighbours’ houses to use toilets in emergency,” SSAAT report said. According to the report, many schools were also not maintaining registers on rice stocks. When contacted, school education commissioner A Sri Devasena said that she was not aware of any such audit report as she took charge just a month ago. “I will go through the audit report and take corrective measures based on the recommendations of the report,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/midday-meal-unhygienic-and-of-poor-quality-report/articleshow/77938819.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Meeting held to discuss rehabilitation of locals affected due to Tehri dam project||Dehradun: State irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj on Friday held a meeting with officials concerned to discuss the rehabilitation work to be done for the people displaced due to Tehri dam project. As many as 415 families were displaced due to the dam construction in Tehri. The minister also stressed on installing fences around the dam for security concerns and installing solar lights in villages adjacent to Tehri dam lake. Apart from this, issues related to providing land for the construction of public use like parking, guest house, degree college, dumping zone, etc in Tehri, were also discussed in the meeting. “The issue of non-allotment of plot to the displaced persons was also kept in the meeting. It has been decided in the meeting that a high-powered committee under the chairmanship of the Garhwal commissioner will be formed which will resolve the issues of those affected. Local MLAs will also be included in the committee, which will have to submit its report within two months. On the basis of this report, future action will be decided,” said Satpal MAharaj. Tehri MP Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah was also present in the meeting. Meanwhile, all MLAs of the state capital met at the house of Harbans Kapoor, MLA Cant, to discuss the ways to address the grievances of the public at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising in Uttrakhand. “We met to discuss the ways in which we can help people when the important offices like Nagar Nigam, collectorate, and the secretariat are being shut every alternate day. We will soon be meeting with the chief minister to discuss this matter and put forth the suggestions discussed,” said MLA Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/meeting-held-to-discuss-rehabilitation-of-locals-affected-due-to-tehri-dam-project/articleshow/77937474.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Rs 5k court fine||Ahmedabad: Additional sessions judge N L Dave at the Mirzapur rural court campus on Friday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on each of four accused in domestic violence and attempt to murder case for seeking a stay for five days on its order asking the magisterial court to hear the remand application afresh. The judge ordered all four accused, owners of Popular Builder — Raman Patel, Monang Patel, Dashrath Patel and Virendra Patel — to deposit Rs 5,000 each with the District Legal Services Authority, Ahmedabad (Rural), for resorting to tactic to kill time so that the 15-day period for seeking remand of accused is exhausted. The sessions court on Thursday ordered the magisterial court to hear afresh Vastrapur police’s application for six days’ remand of owners of Popular Builder in connection attempt to murder and domestic violence case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-rs-5k-court-fine/articleshow/77938843.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Teachers, students gather at open spaces for learning||Mangaluru: Assignments play a vital role in the assessment of students’ learning outcomes, not to mention aiding teachers in seeing what their wards have taken from the lessons. However, with Covid-19 prompting digitisation of education and classes going online, monitoring a student’s progress has become difficult for the teachers, even more so in the case of those working in rural pockets. Determined to overcome the problem posed by the pandemic, teachers in Dakshina Kannada have devised an interesting solution: They draw a list of the total number of students in their area, and on an agreed upon date, and at a given time, they are asked to present themselves at a vast open space, where maintaining of a safe distance is not a concern, and projects and assignments are duly evaluated. Furthermore, this concept had been met with much appreciation from parents in Mangaluru and on the outskirts of the coastal city. Meanwhile, teachers of Kannada medium schools are trying to reach out to their pupils through the state government’s ‘Vidyagama’ initiative. The project was launched with the aim of ensuring that there is no break in students’ education. Reverend Father Gerald Furtado, headmaster and correspondent of St Aloysius High School said that these meetings at open spaces were being held with all government guidelines being adhered to. “We have asked our students to wear masks and maintain a safe distance while submitting their assignment books to teachers. This is a very good way to connect with students, who can have their doubts clarified directly. One parent can accompany each student so as to be informed of the child’s progress,” Father Furtado said. Praveen Cutinho is one of the teachers at the school who has been reaching out to students in open spaces. “We are doing this as part of the school’s plan to ensure continued interaction with students. This really helps clear any doubts students might have in their lessons,” said Cutinho, who meets with students in the shadow of a tree at Urwa. Meanwhile, some of the other schools in Mangaluru, affiliated to the CBSE, have asked students to report to their respective institutions on Saturday for evaluation of assignments and projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/teachers-students-gather-at-open-spaces-for-learning/articleshow/77937493.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Inter-state burglary gang busted, 4 held||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police arrested a four-member inter-state burglary gang and recovered property worth Rs 31 lakh from their possession. According to the police, the accused have been identified as M Srinu, M Venkateshwarulu, M Mahesh, and M Suhasini from Beeramguda in Sangareddy district. The Bhongir Central Crime Station team arrested the accused at Athamakur during a vehicle check in connection with a burglary case registered at Athmakur police station. The accused confessed to having committed 19 burglaries since February 2020 at several places in Telangana and at Chandarlapadu in Andhra Pradesh. Police recovered 51 tolas gold, 1.5 kg silver, a car, a bike and other incriminating evidence, all worth Rs 31 lakh, from the possession of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-burglary-gang-busted-4-held/articleshow/77938840.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Patna||Patna: Four-year-old boy sodomised, 2 held||PATNA: Police on Friday arrested two youths on charges sodomising a four-year-old boy at a village under the Rania Talab police station area in Patna’s Paliganj sub-division. The accused – Samu Manjhi (18) Sanjay Manjhi (22) – were produced in a local court in the evening. Police said the accused were neighbours of the minor boy and worked as daily wager. SHO of Rania Talab police station Indrajeet Singh said the child was playing outside his home on Thursday evening when Samu and Sanjay took him to a secluded place and sodomised him. “The child’s parents brought the matter to the notice of police on Friday following which the two accused were arrested,” the SHO said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-yr-old-boy-sodomised-2-held/articleshow/77938851.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||State sets Puja date for Majerhat opening||Kolkata: State PWD minister Aroop Biswas on Friday fixed a pre-Puja target for completion of Majerhat bridge. It is being planned to open the bridge on Panchami or Shasthi day, said Nabanna sources. The minister set the pre-Puja target during a review meeting on Friday.Engineers, however, said meeting the deadline is a tall order because PWD hasn’t started installing the bearings yet. “After the bearings are installed, the deck slab will be cast. This involves a complex job of enforcement of binding of steel to create the deck’s base on which concrete will be cast,” said an engineer, adding, “after casting, a construction gap of 28 days is needed. Once the slab firms up, installations of the cables will start.” “We are trying to see that all safety norms and precautions are in place. We also have to coordinate with the railways on a number of aspects.It is surely a challenge,” a PWD official said.The other projects, which were reviewed, included the Dhana Dhanye auditorium in Alipore and another auditorium and a museum in the state assembly.The Tallah bridge project and a new polytechnic at Parnashree were also reviewed at the meeting.There were also discussions on several state highways, including Belghoria Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-sets-puja-date-for-majerhat-opening/articleshow/77938858.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Don’t take Covid-19 lightly, says Goa health minister amid spike||PANAJI: With Covid-19 cases spiking in the state, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday cautioned people against taking the disease lightly and said it was up to them to decide if they should visit religious institutions. “My advice to people is to be very responsible. Temples, churches and mosques may be open, but it is up to each person to decide when they want to go, how they want to go, and if they want to go. My job is to alert people to stay safe at this point of time when cases are spiking,” he said. On Thursday, the health minister had warned that the surge in Covid-19 cases would continue for a couple of days and that by the end September, Goa would have 25,000 to 30,000 cases. “Covid-19 is a killer disease and must be taken seriously. People can avoid contracting it by following social distancing and wearing masks. SOPs, too, should be strictly followed,” he said. While the Centre’s new ‘Unlock’ guidelines have essentially diluted section 144 that was imposed by the state government, Rane said people should take all precautions to protect their lives regardless of whether the rule was in force or not. “Even when Section 144 was imposed, people — including learned ones — were walking on Miramar beach as if there wasn’t any Covid threat. When evaluating this today, it is not people at the bottom of the ladder who are getting infected. It is becoming more of a crisis because people at the higher end of the ladder are getting infected and are not finding beds. There are several such instances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-take-covid-19-lightly-says-health-min-amid-spike/articleshow/77940170.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||2 JEE candidates take unwell at exam centre||Nagpur: A small scare was in store for candidates appearing for JEE exam at a centre in Nagpur on Friday after two of them fell sick. One of the candidates felt unwell and threw up. The other student bled through the nose but neither of them had fever. TOI spoke to a source who personally knew one of the sick candidates, and he reiterated that there were no Covid-19 related symptoms. “Neither of them had fever, cough or any other symptom which is typical of Covid-19. One of the candidates forfeited the exam as he did not feel comfortable in continuing. The candidate went back home with his parents,” said the source. Exams went on as per schedule without any further hiccup. The exam conducting body National Testing Agency (NTA) has put in a slew of measures to ensure that exams are conducted safely. Temperature of candidates is checked at the point of entry and they are given a sealed mask too, which candidates have to wear. Apart from this, candidates have to submit an undertaking which notes down their health condition as well as travel history. There are two exams held daily by JEE and entire premises plus computers are sanitized after each shift. Also, there is alternate seating arrangement to adhere to Covid distancing norms. Over eight lakh candidates have registered to appear for the exam which will continue till September 6 across the country. The attendance in exams is at the 85% mark, something which people assume is due to fear of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-jee-candidates-take-unwell-at-exam-centre/articleshow/77938864.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 5, 2020||India||BSY government drops cases against BJP MLAs & MPs||BENGALURU: The BJP government in Karnataka has withdrawn cases against party MLAs and MPs, including a couple of ministers and the CM’s political secretary, who were facing serious criminal charges like rioting and attempt to murder. Sources said a cabinet meeting in August decided to withdraw 63 cases filed against BJP functionaries, including some from Sangh Parivar, and farmers. The decision followed recommendations of a sub-committee headed by home minister Basavaraj Bommai. Law minister J C Madhuswamy said successive governments have withdrawn cases despite objections from law and home departments. “Cases against Congress and JD(S) leaders, too, were withdrawn by the previous coalition government,” he said, defending recommendations of the Bommai sub-committee that it would help reduce the burden on courts. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed accused the state government “of trying to shield those involved in riots and inciting violence. It has exposed the hidden agenda of the BJP.” Forest minister Anand Singh, agriculture minister BC Patil, CM’s political secretary MP Renukacharya, Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha and Haveri MLA Nehru Olekar are some prominent leaders who had been slapped with cases. While Singh and Patil had been charged with IPC Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting with dangerous weapons) and 339 (wrongful restraint), Renukacharya was charged with attempt to murder. The case against Anand Singh relates to the blocking of Hospet taluk office in Ballari district by about 300 people, followed by hurling of stones and vandalizing property. Patil was charged in a 2012 case when he, then a Congress MLA, was part of a group that attacked police personnel with stones and chappals and damaged police vehicles during a Ganesh idol immersion procession. MP Simha faced charges of over-speeding, crashing through barricades and injuring an additional superintendent of police, who tried to stop him during a Hanuman Jayanti procession in December 2017. He was accused of voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant in discharge of his duty. Some of the other cases withdrawn involve independent MP Sumalatha Ambarish, Yalburga MLA Hallapa Achar and former Kagwad MLA KP Megannavar. Kannada and culture minister CT Ravi said the cases that were withdrawn were false and politically motivated. “The Congress has no right to question us since the Siddaramaiah government had withdrawn cases against SDPI and PFI activists involved in anti-national activities and communal rioting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsy-government-drops-cases-against-bjp-mlas-mps/articleshow/77941557.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After dead men, govt servants and cop on MGNREGA rolls!||AHMEDABAD: After dead men, man behind bars for alleged murder of a 5-year old, and schoolchildren, serving government servants who have been guaranteed a pension and even a dairy co-operative board member are figuring on the muster rolls of MGNREGA in Kumbhasan village of Palanpur taluka in Banaskantha district. A TOI investigation revealed that a cop from SRP Group-16, his mother who is an anganwadi worker and his father who is an autorickshaw driver were added as beneficiaries in MGNREGA in 2013 even as they were earning livelihood through other means. Apart from this, a peon with a government school in Palanpur was also mentioned as a labourer in the MGNREGA. A board member of a dairy cooperative and his wife were also listed as a labourer in the MGNREGA. The documents of MGNREGA roll suggest that the cop, Kalpeshgiri Goswami, who had joined the police in 2012 was named as labourers and continued to remain since January 2013. His father — Jayantigiri, an autorickshaw driver — and Kalpesh’ mother Pushpa, an Anganwadi worker, were also enrolled as labourers in 2013. The local authorities had allotted a work of around 12 days and paid them an accumulative sum of Rs 5,400. Kalpesh told that he was not aware if anyone else was doing MGNREGA work on his behalf. A peon with Swastik Higher Secondary School in Palanpur, Chelaji Tejaji Vaghela was also mentioned as labourer in MGNREGA muster who worked in different time period in 2013 and wages of around Rs 1,800 were issued on his name. Vaghela, when knew about it last month, submitted an affidavit before the district administration saying that he had never worked in MGNREGA and requested to surrender his job card. The MGNREGA muster also mentions name of a secretary named Jayanti Menat of a local dairy, who along with his wife were beneficiaries of MGNREA since 2013 when they got job cards and worked for around 12 days for which they were paid around Rs 2,400. Banskantha collector Sandip Sangle was not available for his comment over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-dead-men-govt-servants-and-cop-on-mgnrega-rolls/articleshow/77938924.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 1,320 Covid cases, 14 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 1,320 positive cases, taking the total to 1.01 lakh. It was the fourth consecutive day for the state to record 1,300-plus cases. The new cases include 271 in Surat, 171 in Ahmedabad, 162 from Rajkot, 125 from Vadodara, and 111 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases figure in Ahmedabad reached 32,269, Surat has 21,680, Vadodara 8,691 and Rajkot 5,368. The state also recorded deaths of 14 patients, taking the total to 3,078. The deaths include four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, two from Rajkot, and one each from Gandhinagar, Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Patan and Vadodara. The figures of total deaths are now 1,729 for Ahmedabad, 645 in Surat, 137 in Vadodara, and 98 in Rajkot. In 24 hours, 1,218 patients were discharged in the state, taking the total to 82,398. The discharges include 339 from Surat, 186 from Vadodara, 116 from Jamnagar, 100 from Rajkot, and 85 from Ahmedabad. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,219, which is 15.9% of total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1320-cases-14-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77941006.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Govt asks for report from VCs on readiness for exams||Nagpur: Hours after chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari’s direction to conduct the final year examinations and declare results before October 31, the State Higher and Technical Department swung into action by asking all state universities to hold emergent meetings of their statutory bodies on plans to hold examinations and submit a report by Monday. The universities were further told to immediately inform the examinees on syllabus and timetable of exams. Nearly 10 lakh students from various faculties across the state were in a quandary over fate of exams since last four months, owing to Maharashtra government’s reluctance to conduct them in wake of Covid-19 pandemic. A letter addressed to all vice-chancellors of universities, including Nagpur, by higher education director Dhanraj Mane, made it clear students’ health would be of paramount importance and they should conduct the papers keeping it in mind. “To prevent any risk to the examinees, the universities should make optimum use of technology for exams,” he wrote. The director further asked universities to hold meetings of Academic and Management Councils along with the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) to decide on methodology to conduct exams and submit report by Monday noon. On Thursday, the chancellor had told the VCs to hold online exams and explore options like MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions)/OMR (Optical Mark Recognition). He asked them to conduct offline exams only in exceptional cases, like in rural areas where students don’t have either mobile phones or Internet connectivity. Mane asked VCs to follow chancellor’s directives strictly. “All decisions of universities’ statutory bodies should be conveyed to the department from time to time,” he added. Depending on the universities’ readiness, the government would consult with State Disaster Management Authority and send a proposal to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to extend deadline for exams. NU Acad Council meet on Sunday As per government’s directives, NU has organized an Academic Council meeting on Sunday for discussing the methodology to conduct exams. The BOEE would meet on Monday morning to clear the council’s decision on exams. The schedule of both meetings was decided by NU officials who met on Friday with VC Subhash Chaudhary. “We will wait for the council's decision on conduct of exams, as the chancellor had suggested exploring online options. We are fully prepared for traditional pen and paper mode, as our question sets are ready. However, if it is decided to hold exams through MCQs, we need to start afresh and setting question papers would be the biggest challenge. However, evaluation would be a lot easier,” BOEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-asks-for-report-from-vcs-on-readiness-for-exams/articleshow/77938885.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 5, 2020||Surat||Surat among five cities selected for data sharing||Surat: Surat is among the five cities selected under Indian Urban Data Exchange Program (IUDEP) of the union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) where data under various sectors will be shared in an open source data exchange software platform.According to officials, MoHUA has initiated the research project with Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore and the software platform ‘India Urban Data Exchange’ (IUDX). IISc is working with various stakeholders including academia, startups, government departments, industry, city administration and common citizens to develop first specifications and reference implementation for the development of 100 Smart Cities. In this programme, Surat will be sharing data on the transport sector. “We are implementing this concept in the transportation sector. We will implement a data-driven model as we already have a lot of data on transportation available with us about our city bus services and Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS),” said Banchhanidhi Pani, Surat municipal commissioner. “The new project will be implemented from October onwards where data on bus timing, occupancy etc will be shared. This will prove useful in planning new buses, continuing a few buses as per the occupancy data and discontinuing where occupancy is poor in the city,” Pani added. Surat’s 102km BRTS corridor is the largest dedicated corridor in the country. In normal circumstances, 1.35 lakh commuters travel daily on BRTS buses. SMC runs a fleet of 166 diesel-run city buses too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-among-five-cities-selected-for-data-sharing/articleshow/77937547.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: 140 health workers, including 51 doctors at GMC tested positive||PANAJI: Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim has been affected over the past few weeks with a total of 140 health workers including 51 doctors testing positive for Covid. Besides the doctors, 23 interns, 21 nurses, 35 multi-task workers and ten technical staff have also been infected, dean Goa Medical College Dr S Bandekar told reporters. He said that the employees got infected while providing dedicated care to the state's Covid patients. “GMC has the highest number of healthcare workers infected. You won’t get infected unless you’re next to the patients. They were treating our patients very closely,” he said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said everybody is under tremendous load. “All doctors are pooling in their expertise and working on a rotation basis. We’re postponing procedures that are not important and can be rescheduled. Certain OPDs like plastic surgery, skin, ophthalmology have been shut down to move our focus towards Covid management. This will continue throughout the month of September,” Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/140-health-workers-including-51-doctors-at-gmc-tested-positive/articleshow/77940172.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Biker killed in crash on Maa flyover||KOLKATA: A 23-year-old youth, who had recently bought a second-hand bike and had taken his friend on a tour to south Kolkata early on Friday, was crushed in a head-on collision with a cab on the Maa flyover. The duo was riding the wrong direction. The biker, Asim Mondal and his pillion rider Tarak Sardar (24), had first dodged cops who were specifically posted at the side of the seven-point crossing of Maa flyover to stop bikers and rode all the way up to Science City only to take a U-turn and ride in the wrong direction, on the same flank. Even though the cab driver tried his best by applying the brakes and swerving to the left, he could not avert a head-on collision. While Mondal was declared dead at the Chittaranjan Medical College and Hospital, Sardar is stable. The pillion rider, however, received severe leg injuries. Cops claimed the accident happened in a span of seven minutes. The CCTV footage showed that the riders dodged the cops at 3.27am and the accident took place at 3.34am on the Maa flyover, close to the Topsia crossing. Bikes are not allowed on the flyover after 10pm. “It looks like the rider was not much familiar with Maa flyover or deliberately did not care about the direction he was riding. Sardar claimed they took the Beliaghata-Salt Lake flank mistakenly.,” said a senior officer from the traffic department, who is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biker-killed-in-crash-on-maa-flyover/articleshow/77938888.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seek CBI probe for Covid numbers: CJ||Ahmedabad: “Seek a CBI inquiry to find out Covid numbers,” the chief justice quipped on Friday when a petitioner was vehemently arguing that the state government should be directed to publish correct data on daily basis, and at the same time questioning the veracity of the figures. Citing discrepancy in figures of death due to Covid-19 in Surat, a PIL was seeking audit of death numbers. The state government submitted that it has been publishing the figures on a daily basis, but when the argument continued and the petitioner raised doubts about the authenticity of the numbers, Chief Justice Vikram Nath told the petitioner that if he had so many doubts about the published Covid numbers, he should demand a CBI inquiry. With this comment, the judges dismissed the plea. The PIL had sought HC directions to the government for regular revelation of Covid-19 related data on a daily basis – figures of deaths, tests and how many people tested positive etc. The petitioner had cited news reports and questioned authenticity of details related to Covid deaths, particularly in Surat, when the industrial town became Covid hotspot last month. The state government defended itself by submitting that the details are regularly published on its portal and the newspapers also publish the information regularly. To this, the petitioner’s counsel demanded that the news should be published in dailies having sizeable circulations so that people at large have fair idea of the Covid situation. The chief justice showed that he was fed up with the demand and said that if the petitioner was so suspicious about the details published by the government, he should seek CBI inquiry for the numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seek-cbi-probe-for-covid-numbers-cj/articleshow/77940939.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Professor Pant curator of mosque museum||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board to build a mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of Babri masjid, has appointed renowned historian, international relations expert and chronicler of Indian cuisine Prof Pushpesh Pant, 73, as consultant curator of its archival museum, which will be part of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Research Centre on the 5acre plot mandated by Supreme Court. The mosque complex at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya will also include a hospital, school and community kitchen.Pant, a retired JNU professor and recipient of Padma Shri told TOI “the true spirit of India is embodied in its multicultural fabric that we call the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. We will develop a centre that will heal and feed humanity in the true spirit of Islam”. The community kitchen in the mosque complex will serve the finest Awadhi cuisine, he said. “The menu may include ‘gosht-roti’, tehri and puri-sabzi. We will incorporate the taste of Awadh from Lucknow to Faizabad and from Jaunpur to Banaras,” said Pant. Talking about the upcoming museum, he said, “We will develop a centre that will represent the syncretic culture of India in which Hindus and Muslims live in harmony and are tied by a strong thread of brotherhood. It will represent India’s illustrious history in which a Hindu can serve at a mosque and Muslims patronize temples. The museum will showcase the legacy of Sufis to Muslim rulers who embraced Indian culture.” Talking to TOI, Athar Hussain, secretary of the mosque Trust, said, “We are honoured to have Pushpesh Pant as a consultant. He’s a noted academic, food critic, historian and India’s leading expert on international relations and Indian cuisine. His book, India: The Cookbook (2011), was named by The New York Times as one of the best cookbooks of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prof-pant-curator-of-mosque-museum/articleshow/77940981.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||2 held for cheating CCMB of Rs 43 lakh||HYDERABAD: A civil contractor and his accomplice were arrested on Friday for allegedly cheating the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) to the tune of Rs 43 lakh by submitting fake service tax bills. Nacharam police said that the contractor, K Prabhakar Reddy, and C Ramesh Chandra Prasad provided house-keeping staff to CCMB. Prabhakar forged the service tax bills of CCMB and fraudulently claimed Rs 43 lakh reimbursement. Based on a complaint by CCMB officials, the duo was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-cheating-ccmb-of-rs-43-lakh/articleshow/77938952.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth writes to Rajnath on roads||Secunderabad: Malkajgiri MP Revanth Reddy wrote to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh over the issue of road closures in Cantonment on Friday. In his letter, Revanth said that the frequent road closure by the Local Military Authority (LMA) without implementaton of standard operating procedures (SOP) . “Instruct the LMA to reopen all the roads by implementing SOPs,” the MP urged the Union minister in his letter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-writes-to-rajnath-on-roads/articleshow/77938914.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE’s compartment exam on Sept 22 & 23||Nagpur: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct its compartment examination for Std X and XII from September 22 and 23, respectively. The exam is similar to supplementary exam for Maharashtra state board students. Those who have failed get another chance to appear for those papers and save an academic year. The datesheet for both the classes will be available on CBSE’s website. This exam will be conducted in the shadow of the pandemic and authorities have made it clear that all guidelines have to be followed. Instructions have been released by the CBSE about precautions to be taken by students while appearing for the exam. Masks are mandatory and every student has been advised to carry a personal sanitizer bottle of 50ml. Covid distancing will be maintained which means not more than 15 students will be seated in one classroom. The CBSE has also urged parents to take responsibility of not their child only but also that of others. The board’s instructions clearly mention that parents must ensure student is not sick on the exam day. Board has also asked parents to inform students about the precautions to be taken for preventing contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbses-compartment-exam-on-sept-22-23/articleshow/77938947.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paatil’s ‘Pehchaan Kaun’ howlers embarrass BJP||Gandhinagar: Social media is being flooded with videos of newly appointed Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil, who on a number of occasions appears to have forgotten the names of local BJP MLAs and other leaders. Paatil has been visiting different districts and interacting with workers after taking over as state BJP president. During his recent visits to Rajkot and other places in north Gujarat, Paatil was seen asking leaders their names. He forgot the names of the mayor, MLAs and Rajya Sabha MP and sought to learn their names when he got up to speak. Likewise, he could not recollect the names of several BJP MLAs and leaders during his meetings. Although none of the BJP leaders are keen to comment on Paatil’s inability to identify party leaders by their names at meetings, one leader said, “He has not worked in the state level organisation. He will pick up fast.” Leaders admit though that Paatil’s inability to name leaders is causing much embarrassment. Jayrajsinh Parmar, Gujarat Congress spokesperson said the BJP needs to familiarize the newly appointed state president with its state leaders and MLAs. “C R Paatil cracks jokes publicly by claiming BJP will win all 182 assembly seats. He however does not know the names of even the MLAs of his party. He must apologize to his party leaders for creating an embarrassing situation,” Parmar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatils-pehchaan-kaun-howlers-embarrass-bjp/articleshow/77940195.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Last year, Goa saw one accident death a day||PANAJI: On an average one person died every day in road accidents in 2019, as per the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). A total of 3,490 accidents were recorded in the state in which 349 people died. In most of the accidents it is the drivers’ fault as they occur due to speeding, deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Prabodh Sirvoikar told TOI. To bring down the number of deaths in accidents, the department carries out awareness drives and even educate drivers while challenging them, he said. The traffic cell has also installed speed radars at various places to reduce the accidents, Sirvoikar said. A senior officer said that they have not been able to hold the awareness drives in the state this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but as soon as soon the pandemic subsides, they will restart their awareness activities. The number of ‘traffic accidents’ in the country reduced from 4.7 lakh in 2018 to 4.6 lakh in 2019. However, the death rate in road accidents per thousand vehicles has remained unchanged at 0.6. Maximum increase in number of traffic accidents from 2018 to 2019 was reported in Madhya Pradesh (from 49,080 to 53,379) followed by Rajasthan (from 22,401 to 24,281) and Uttar Pradesh (from 40,783 t0 42,368). While the maximum decrease was reported in Tamil Nadu (from 66,110 to 59,499). In 2019, two-wheelers accounted for maximum fatal road accidentsThese traffic accidents resulted in injuries to 4,42,996 persons and 1,81,113 deaths during 2019. Uttar Pradesh (27,661) followed by Maharashtra (18,524) and Madhya Pradesh (13,497) have reported maximum fatalities in traffic accidents in the country. The three states accounted for 15.3%, 10.2% and 7.5% of the total deaths in traffic accidents respectively and collectively accounted for 33.0% (59,682 out of 1.81 lakh) of the total fatalities reported in the country in 2019. During 2019, two-wheelers accounted for maximum fatal road accidents (58,747 deaths), contributing 38% of total road accidental deaths, followed by trucks/lorries (22,637 deaths) (14.6%), cars (21,196 deaths) (13.7%) and buses (9,192 deaths) (5.9%). Majority of deaths due to two-wheelers accidents were reported in Maharashtra (7,137 deaths) followed by Uttar Pradesh (6,431 deaths). They accounted for 12.1% and 10.9% of the total deaths due to two-wheelers respectively. TOI recently reported that Goa ranks fifth among states and Union territories in the country that have reported high rates of accidental deaths in 2019. This was stated in a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-accidents-in-goa-claimed-nearly-one-life-per-day-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/77940184.cms||Murari Shetye
September 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: No motive yet, Swapnil Walke murder case shifted to crime branch||PANAJI/MARGAO: As the mystery continues over the motive behind the murder of Margao jeweller Swapnil Walke, the state government transferred the investigation to the Goa police’s crime branch. Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena met crime branch and South Goa police officers to discuss the case and issue necessary directions. “It was decided that the case will be transferred from Margao town police to crime branch,” he said, as the case was “sensitive”. Crime branch will take over investigation of the case on Saturday. Meanwhile, two of the three persons detained by Margao town police were on Friday placed under arrest even as the police are yet to disclose the motive. Omkar Patil and Mustafa Shaikh were produced before a local court, which remanded them in 10-day police custody. Weapon recovered from bushes near crime sceneThe accused have been booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. On Thursday, three persons were detained. Two of them, including Patil, were nabbed by crime branch sleuths from Santa Cruz near Panaji earlier that day, while Shaikh surrendered before Margao police later in the afternoon. The knife used by the accused in stabbing Walke was also recovered by police on Friday, from the bushes by the roadside, some 300m from the scene of the crime. Police are on the lookout for two more of their accomplices. Even though police subjected the suspects to sustained interrogation for nearly two days, they were tightlipped over the progress of the investigation. As nothing was found missing from the shop, the initial suspicion about robbery being the motive has been rendered unconvincing. Police had found a country-made pistol, a magazine, an empty cartridge, three live rounds and a knife cover from the scene of the crime after the incident. Investigations into the case confirmed that Walke was shot at by one of the accused using the country-made pistol, and then stabbed with a knife multiple times following a scuffle. The incident has elicited a furore among Margao residents, with many blaming political interference into police functioning for the deteriorating law and order situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/walke-murder-case-shifted-to-crime-branch/articleshow/77940196.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet gives nod to proposal allowing locals to set up solar power plant on rebate||Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet on Friday gave approval for the proposal under which an individual can set up a solar power plant of 25 MW. The Cabinet has given a stamp fee rebate of up to Rs 49,000. As the government aims to cover 10,000 people under the project, it has planned a total budget of Rs 49 crore for the process. Besides, the land use conversion would also be free of cost. The Cabinet has also given nod to a proposal through which the state government would take over the Kharsali-Yamunotri ropeway project. The project was awarded to a private party but got delayed as it was in the court. Subsequently, the government had decided to return the total of around Rs 5 crore, which the private firm had invested in the project. After the payment is made, the government would take over the project and get it done under PPP mode. It was also decided to keep the vigilance department out of the RTI ambit. The Cabinet took the decision as it was found that sharing some vital information under RTI was not possible for the department. In the ongoing financial year, the tender of 148 liquor vends could not be awarded on time. Later, 18 liquor shops were allocated and 132 were left. The cabinet has directed the district magistrates to calculate the revenue of these shops for the remaining part of the financial year. “Out of the total revenue left for the financial year, if an individual was willing to give 75% of the amount, the liquor shop would be allotted to him,” said a source. The Cabinet has given conditional approval to the Juna Akhada to increase the height of Mayadevi temple and Bhairav temple in Haridwar. After the ordinance of the salary and perk cut of MLAs for Covid-19 relief measures, the Cabinet has decided to bring a bill regarding it and table it in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-gives-nod-to-proposal-allowing-locals-to-set-up-solar-power-plant-on-rebate/articleshow/77937528.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 5, 2020||India||65 bypolls in 14 states to be clubbed with Bihar elections||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Friday decided that it will club bypolls in Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in Bihar and 64 assembly seats across 14 states with the Bihar assembly polls expected to be held in October-November. The commission said a key reason for clubbing the Bihar polls with the 65 bypolls — necessitated by various reasons like death, resignation or disqualification of the sitting MLA — was the “relative ease” of movement of central armed police forces and other law and order forces, and related logistical issues. It also pointed to demands from states where bypolls are due to defer the same in view of heavy rains and constraints like the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said given the limited number of central forces that can be spared by the home ministry in view of their continued engagement in theatres like Jammu and Kashmir, it was thought appropriate to time the Bihar polls and bypolls together. The limited forces may also necessitate multi-phased polls in Bihar. Apart from Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant upon the death of Baidyanath Prasad Mahto in February, there are 27 assembly seats vacant in Madhya Pradesh, eight each in Gujarat and UP, five in Manipur, two each in Assam, Jharkhand, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Nagaland and Odisha, and one each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka and West Bengal. The commission on Friday said it had reviewed reports and inputs from chief secretaries/chief electoral officers of many of the states concerned seeking deferment of bypolls in view of several factors. In view of the requirement to complete state polls in Bihar before November 29, the EC said it has decided to conduct all 65 bypolls with the Bihar polls. Announcement of schedule for these polls/bypolls will be made at an appropriate time, the EC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/65-bypolls-in-14-states-to-be-clubbed-with-bihar-elections/articleshow/77941586.cms||Bharti Jain
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||IMS case accused sent to judicial remand||HYDERABAD: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday detained former Insurance Medical Services (IMS) director Ch Devika Rani and eight other accused after registering a case against the accused in the Rs 6.5 crore medical equipment purchase scam and produced them before the local ACB court. The accused were sent to judicial remand for 14 days. The ACB alleged that the accused caused Rs 6.5 crore loss to the government by routing HB cuvettes of Hemocue company procured for Rs 3,300 per unit through Omni Medi proprietor Srihari Babu’s shell companies to sell them to IMS for Rs 16,500 per unit, charging an excess amount of Rs 11,700 per unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ims-case-accused-sent-to-judicial-remand/articleshow/77938985.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Commerce admissions: Provisional merit list out||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University (GU) on Friday announced the provisional merit list for the third round of admission for commerce courses. Around 11,681 candidates have been enlisted. A total of 71 students who had been registered have been dropped from the merit list for not submitting requisite documents. These students still have a chance of making it to the list if they submit the proper documents in the next couple of days, said sources in GU. The students who have been included in the merit list include 11,229 students of Gujarat state board and 452 students of other boards. The admission process for arts courses is also under way at the varsity where two rounds have been completed so far.The third round was announced by the varsity in offline mode where candidates were required to remain present in person. This round was to start from Friday however it was called off after ABVP staged protests, raising concerns over safety of students . The varsity may hold this admission round in online format. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commerce-admissions-provisional-merit-list-out/articleshow/77940226.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Kisan Cong: Extend aid to farmers||Hyderabad: The state unit of the Kisan Congress demanded that the government pay Rs 30,000 per acre as compensation to farmers towards crop damage due to heavy rains. The Kisan Congress said that the state government must immediately announce the agriculture products it will procure from farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kisan-cong-extend-aid-to-farmers/articleshow/77939000.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Owaisi, AIMPLB members to meet CM||Hyderabad: MIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and members of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) will meet CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday to discuss the issue of mosques in new secretariat. “The masjid stood on Waqf land. A mosque should be built at the same place,” said Khalid Saifullah Rahman, AIMPLB secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-aimplb-members-to-meet-cm/articleshow/77938990.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Mescom electrified remote hamlets in a time-bound manner: outgoing MD||Mangaluru: Implementation of centrally sponsored schemes has received a major fillip since October 2018, said Mangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd (Mescom) managing director Snehal Rayamane. These include the integrated power development scheme and Saubhagya scheme aka Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, the progress of which was rather slow in the four revenue districts of the state that make up Mescom’s jurisdiction, she said. Surmising her 22-month tenure as head of the city headquartered discom, Snehal who on Thursday was posted as director, PUE Board, told TOI that Mescom will wrap up the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana in the next two months. Mescom also took up electrification of remote hamlets in a time-bound manner, she said, adding tender premiums for works that were high have been streamlined and brought closer to the schedule of rates. Laying the success of her tenure to the hard work of the linemen, Snehal likened them to soldiers. “We praise our soldiers, but our linemen are no less than soldiers. When they climb the pole, we don’t know if they (will) come down,” she said, putting in perspective the death by electrocution of linemen that Mescom recorded. “It was difficult to work in some very adverse conditions for them, but they lived up to the faith reposed in them,” she said. Acknowledging the backing from various stakeholders to the company’s performance, Snehal said it was a huge morale booster for Mescom that battled vagaries of nature during the last monsoon. “Despite the huge destruction of our infrastructure, we were able to restore power in a record time,” she said. The CMs Annual Ratna award 2019-20 for operational standards was a validation of Mescom’s efforts in meeting stakeholders’ expectations, she said. On her posting as director PUE Board, Snehal who hails from a family of educationists – her father retired as professor from Bangalore University and mother recently as headmistress of a primary school—said education has always been dear to her. “I was a teacher before I joined the civil services,” she said, adding ensuring greater transparency in functioning of the board and making examinations a better experience for students will be her priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mescom-electrified-remote-hamlets-in-a-time-bound-manner-outgoing-md/articleshow/77937563.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 5, 2020||Goa||One-year free treatment, checkups for plasma donors, families: Goa minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that all those who donate plasma would receive free monitoring and treatment through the directorate of health services (DHS) and primary health centres, as well as free executive checkups for one year for their families. The minister said there’s a need to provide donors with incentives. Rane also said the DHS is in touch with the department of food and drugs administration (FDA) to aggressively encourage more pharma employees to donate plasma. He also thanked the employees of a number of pharma companies who already donated plasma. “There should be no fear in people’s minds,” he said. “Plasma can save someone’s life.” Rane said that the director of health services himself has received plasma twice, and that his condition has improved. “When a private hospital asks for plasma, we give them,” he said. “Ultimately it is Goan patients who are being treated. We can’t refuse (to give plasma).” The DHS has made bilingual posters to encourage more donors. “We must target a minimum of 1,000 packs of plasma immediately,” Rane said. “I’m happy that people are not shying away. Donors are asking us to use their photos, so that more people come forward to donate plasma.” Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that seven persons donated plasma on Friday. A 20-year-old was one of them. Meanwhile, Rane said that all medicines and treatment is being given free to patients in government hospitals. “Not a single rupee is being charged from patients,” he said. “The state government is spending all resources to manage the patients. Plasma kits attached to the machine to draw plasma cost around Rs 8,000 per person.” When asked about capping of treatment prices for Covid patients in private hospitals, Rane said he has approved the file and sent it to the chief minister, after which rates will be notified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-year-free-treatment-checkups-for-plasma-donors-families-rane/articleshow/77940241.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Suicides shoot up 19% in Vadodara||Vadodara: Dubbed as Sanskarinagri, Vadodara is considered to be the most cosmopolitan and one of the safest city in the state. But Barodians, it seems, are the most distraught citizens among the urbanites. Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Accidents Deaths and Suicides revealed that the number of suicides in the city jumped by 19% in 2019. In 2018, 183 citizens ended lives in the city and the number went up to 218 in 2019. In fact, the city tops the chart in Gujarat in terms of percentage increase in suicides. Ahmedabad, which has a much larger population than Vadodara, showed just 8% increase in suicides while Surat and Rajkot recorded a decrease of 2.6% and 7.3% respectively. In Gujarat, suicides have gone down by 1.8% between 2018 and 2019. Though, the increase in suicide percentage has revealed the other side of the city’s growth story, psychiatrists aren’t surprised. “The numbers have come as no surprise for me. I have been constantly talking about this increase in suicidal tendencies of Barodians since a couple of years. The cosmopolitan culture that has made this city an attractive destination for outsiders is also one of the reasons for the increase in suicides,” said Dr Yogesh Patel, a city-based psychiatrist. “Suicides happen when people feel depressed, hopeless or lonely. Majority of the Barodians belong to the working middle class who have to slog all day to make ends meet. This leaves them, especially outsiders, who have settled here for work, with very little time to socialize. Many of them don’t have many go-to places and they end up feeling lonely,” Patel told TOI. “Also, there is a break in social fabric as people are preferring nuclear families. So the locals too don’t get much support from their families. The working parents fail to spend much time with their children who feel lonely,” Patel, who runs a suicide helpline, added. His helpline gets many calls from those feeling depressed due to loneliness and showing suicidal tendencies. “Many take to alcohol and drugs that further pushes them to suicide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/suicides-shoot-up-19-in-vadodara/articleshow/77937593.cms||Tushar Tere
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man scalds wife for talking on mobile||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old man from Gomtipur allegedly scalded his wife with a bucket of boiling water simply because he found her talking on a mobile phone. Police officials said that about a month ago the accused, Jahangir Sandhi, had been arrested for an attempt to molest a relative. Inspector Chirag Tandel of Gomtipur police station said they registered a case under Sections 324, 294 (b) and 506 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused and are hunting for him. According to the complaint, the complainant, Shehnaz Sandhi, 40, at about 4pm was talking to her father on her mobile phone. “Jahangir asked her who she was talking to and fought with her and abused her. As their son’s wife and their daughter intervened, Sandhi kept quiet,” added Tandel. After some time, when she was grooming her hair, the accused picked up a bucket of hot water which her daughter had kept in the bathroom and threw the hot water on the lower part of Shehnaz’s body. The FIR mentions that as she screamed in pain, her daughter and daughter-in-law rushed in and snatched the bucket of hot water from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-scalds-wife-for-talking-on-mobile/articleshow/77940974.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees over 1,500 Covid cases for third consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state recorded over 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row and the highest ever in a day, so far, on Friday. With 1,570 new cases, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 87,797. Thirteen deaths for the day took the toll to 1,108. A day after recording 370 Covid positive cases, Jaipur saw a welcome dip on Friday, reporting 290 new cases. City areas, including Sanganer, Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar, remained the worst affected, collectively reporting 109 cases out of the total 290 cases detected on Friday. Attributing the continued rise in cases to the increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said that the state was now aiming to conduct 75,000 tests daily. “Detection is very necessary to contain this epidemic. We have been increasing random sampling and tests across the state. This is the main reason behind the spike in cases,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar and Ajmer continued to remain affected and were major contributors to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur with 271 new cases, Kota (165), Alwar (90), Ajmer (69), Sikar (64), Baran(60), Bikaner(54), Pratapgarh (40) and Rajsamand (38). Meanwhile, the 13 fresh deaths on Friday took the total number to 1,108. Out of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Barmer, while one each occurred in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Sikar. The state health department, meanwhile, stated that they were mulling to start sending Covid reports to registered mobile phones of patients. “The report of Covid tests will be made available on registered mobile numbers from September 7 onwards. We have developed an automatic system to convey the corona test report to the concerned person,” said a senior official. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health department, issued a circular directing authorities to upload corona test sample reports on the website and to ensure those tested get their reports through ‘Raj COVID Info Mobile App’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-sees-over-1500-cases-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/77940243.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees over 1,500 Covid cases for third consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state recorded over 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row and the highest ever in a day, so far, on Friday. With 1,570 new cases, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 87,797. Thirteen deaths for the day took the toll to 1,108. A day after recording 370 Covid positive cases, Jaipur saw a welcome dip on Friday, reporting 290 new cases. City areas, including Sanganer, Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar, remained the worst affected, collectively reporting 109 cases out of the total 290 cases detected on Friday. Attributing the continued rise in cases to the increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said that the state was now aiming to conduct 75,000 tests daily. “Detection is very necessary to contain this epidemic. We have been increasing random sampling and tests across the state. This is the main reason behind the spike in cases,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar and Ajmer continued to remain affected and were major contributors to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur with 271 new cases, Kota (165), Alwar (90), Ajmer (69), Sikar (64), Baran(60), Bikaner(54), Pratapgarh (40) and Rajsamand (38). Meanwhile, the 13 fresh deaths on Friday took the total number to 1,108. Out of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Barmer, while one each occurred in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Sikar. The state health department, meanwhile, stated that they were mulling to start sending Covid reports to registered mobile phones of patients. “The report of Covid tests will be made available on registered mobile numbers from September 7 onwards. We have developed an automatic system to convey the corona test report to the concerned person,” said a senior official. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health department, issued a circular directing authorities to upload corona test sample reports on the website and to ensure those tested get their reports through ‘Raj COVID Info Mobile App’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-sees-over-1500-cases-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/77942515.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees over 1,500 Covid cases for third consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state recorded over 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row and the highest ever in a day, so far, on Friday. With 1,570 new cases, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 87,797. Thirteen deaths for the day took the toll to 1,108. A day after recording 370 Covid positive cases, Jaipur saw a welcome dip on Friday, reporting 290 new cases. City areas, including Sanganer, Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar, remained the worst affected, collectively reporting 109 cases out of the total 290 cases detected on Friday. Attributing the continued rise in cases to the increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said that the state was now aiming to conduct 75,000 tests daily. “Detection is very necessary to contain this epidemic. We have been increasing random sampling and tests across the state. This is the main reason behind the spike in cases,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar and Ajmer continued to remain affected and were major contributors to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur with 271 new cases, Kota (165), Alwar (90), Ajmer (69), Sikar (64), Baran(60), Bikaner(54), Pratapgarh (40) and Rajsamand (38). Meanwhile, the 13 fresh deaths on Friday took the total number to 1,108. Out of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Barmer, while one each occurred in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Sikar. The state health department, meanwhile, stated that they were mulling to start sending Covid reports to registered mobile phones of patients. “The report of Covid tests will be made available on registered mobile numbers from September 7 onwards. We have developed an automatic system to convey the corona test report to the concerned person,” said a senior official. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health department, issued a circular directing authorities to upload corona test sample reports on the website and to ensure those tested get their reports through ‘Raj COVID Info Mobile App’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-sees-over-1500-cases-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/77942516.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees over 1,500 Covid cases for third consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state recorded over 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row and the highest ever in a day, so far, on Friday. With 1,570 new cases, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 87,797. Thirteen deaths for the day took the toll to 1,108. A day after recording 370 Covid positive cases, Jaipur saw a welcome dip on Friday, reporting 290 new cases. City areas, including Sanganer, Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar, remained the worst affected, collectively reporting 109 cases out of the total 290 cases detected on Friday. Attributing the continued rise in cases to the increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said that the state was now aiming to conduct 75,000 tests daily. “Detection is very necessary to contain this epidemic. We have been increasing random sampling and tests across the state. This is the main reason behind the spike in cases,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar and Ajmer continued to remain affected and were major contributors to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur with 271 new cases, Kota (165), Alwar (90), Ajmer (69), Sikar (64), Baran(60), Bikaner(54), Pratapgarh (40) and Rajsamand (38). Meanwhile, the 13 fresh deaths on Friday took the total number to 1,108. Out of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Barmer, while one each occurred in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Sikar. The state health department, meanwhile, stated that they were mulling to start sending Covid reports to registered mobile phones of patients. “The report of Covid tests will be made available on registered mobile numbers from September 7 onwards. We have developed an automatic system to convey the corona test report to the concerned person,” said a senior official. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health department, issued a circular directing authorities to upload corona test sample reports on the website and to ensure those tested get their reports through ‘Raj COVID Info Mobile App’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-sees-over-1500-cases-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/77942514.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC makes its debut on Twitter||Mangaluru: Want to have an online tete-a-tete with Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC)? Then do so @mangalurucorp. With little or no social media presence thus far, MCC late on Thursday announced its arrival on micro blogging and social networking site — Twitter that gives netizens the luxury of an up to 280-character verbal and visual interaction with the civic body. The handle, since its launch, has garnered 11 followers and counting. The urban local body in this coastal city is a newbie to social media compared to Bengaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad and Mysuru civic bodies. While mayor of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is on twitter (@BBMP_Mayor) since April 2015, Hubballi-Dharwad municipal corporation (HDMC) – @HDMCHubliDwd and Mysuru City Corporation - @mysurucitycorp joined twitter in December 2015 and January 2018 respectively. Admitting that he was quite surprised to see that MCC did not have a social media presence, Akshy Sridhar, MCC commissioner told TOI that this was the first step in establishing the civic body’s presence online. “For a city as literate as Mangaluru, the civic body should have made its presence felt online,” he said adding opening the handle will be a boost towards engaging with stakeholders. “We will connect with people through the handle to know what they want,” Sridhar said. The twitter handle will enable MCC to get instant feedback, Sridhar said. “We will look at how to use the handle to expand our interaction with the people,” Sridhar said. Former deputy mayor Purushottam Chitrapur was the first off the blocks to draw attention of @mangalurucorp in pointing out that street lights do not function properly between Kulur bridge to Baikampady along the national highway. This causes problems for motorists at night and will become reasons for accidents, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-makes-its-debut-on-twitter/articleshow/77937589.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||School for underprivileged students in Anand ‘unlocked’||Vadodara/ Anand: Schools that have been shut down since March due to Covid-19 induced pandemic are yet to open across the country. But nearly 400 underprivileged children in Anand are taking regular lessons. Thanks to this ‘schools’ run by 50-year-old Nitin Prajapati. He runs open schools for slum children at four places in Anand.Every weekend, he cycles to these places to teach the street children basics of Gujarati, Hindi and English languages — a practice he began nearly 19 years ago.Prajapati, a resident of Anand’s Chikodhra village, set out to impart education to these kids to fulfil wish of his father who had retired as a teacher in 1998. “When my father – Atmaram Prajapati, who was a government teacher at V J School retired from service as a drawing teacher, he wanted me to continue the tradition of teaching. I have religiously done,” said Prajapati, a graduate from SPU affiliated N S Patel Arts College, who otherwise runs a language centre in Anand.Without any help from government or donation from individuals, Prajapati arranges everything for the kids — be it board, charts, chalks or teaching and learning material, which he himself improvised over the years.“I start with basics like charts of fruit and vegetable names. These charts are hand-made. Also, I have developed ‘Akshar Gyan’ through which those children who don’t know how to read or write are taught basic alphabets or Gujarati, English and Hindi and basic words like ‘uncle’, ‘aunt’ etc before taking them to the next level,” he said.He has also developed flash cards in all the three languages which can easily explain the basic concepts in Braille language to the visually disabled. During the lockdown, he could not arrange the open classes. “I resumed in the unlock phase with masks, sanitizers and following all guidelines including social distancing between the kids,” said Prajapati, who conducts the open schools at grounds in Patodpura near Hadgud, Gamotpura near Gamdi, Ektanagar slum and slum near Ganesh Dairy over bridge in Anand.“Over half of these kids go to municipal schools (which are currently closed) but it is at my school that they are curious to learn,” said Prajapati, a native of Vagosana village, which is now in Gandhinagar’s Mansa taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/school-for-underprivileged-students-in-anand-unlocked/articleshow/77939098.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Must for departments to purchase 25% from MSMEs via GEM portal||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has now made it compulsory for all departments to make 25% of their annual purchases from MSMEs. These purchases will have to be made from the government e-marketplace portal — GEM portal. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal issued an order on Friday which stated that it will now be compulsory for such purchases to be made via the GEM portal. Referring to the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017 and to two subsequent orders by the Government of India dated June 4, 2020 and July 23, 2020, Sehgal said that as per the UP Micro and Small Industry Purchase Policy, 2020 implemented on March 19, 2020, all departments and their subsidiary departments, boards, committees etc have to spend 25% of their annual purchase budget to procure from MSME units and to give a 15% price preference to MSME units from the state. “The step was taken to ensure business for MSME units, promote small and micro units in the state and thereby generate employment,” said an official, adding that these purchases would now be made through the government portal for greater transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/must-for-depts-to-purchase-25-from-msmes-via-gem-portal/articleshow/77941025.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar police gets summons issued for dead men||ALWAR: In a sheer display of callousness, the police in Malakheda in Alwar district of Rajasthan got summons issued against three dead persons on August 31 to get them to appear before an acting magistrate and also put curbs on any illegal activity by them. The matter came to light on Friday. The three include Surjan, who died 35 years ago, Chiranji Meena who died in July last year and Harikishan Meena who passed away in September last year. Their names were among 12 persons who were slapped a notice by the police. The family of the deceased has filed an application in the local court seeking action against the police for harassment. Acting on a complaint of trespassing and causing law and order situation, the Malakheda police did not verify those named in the complaint nor called any accused for investigation. The police also did not pay heed to the son of one of the dead persons, who alerted them that they were making a mistake. “Without the basic investigation, the police approached the court to get a notice issued against all named accused, including the three dead persons. The police recorded the statements of three witnesses in the case but did not bother to cross-check the details of the accused,” a senior police officer said here on Friday. The complaint was filed by one Dr Jagdish Meena on August 17 against a dozen people of Kalasada village for not allowing him to construct a boundary wall on his land. The police blindly acted on the complaint flouting the basic investigating protocol, added a police officer. Once the summon was issued, the police went to the village of the accused and asked them to appear in court. Karan Meena, son of Chiranji Meena, confronted the police for falsely implicating his father in the case. “I asked them how they could do this to a person who died a year ago. They did not listen to me and instead threatened that an arrest warrant would be issued if Chiranji did not appear in court,” said Karan. Alwar superintendent of police Tejaswani Gautam told TOI that the matter will be investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-police-gets-summons-issued-for-dead-men/articleshow/77940278.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||Chlorine gas leak affects scores of people in Aravalli’s Devni Mori village||Palanpur: Hundreds of residents of Devni Mori and adjacent villages in Aravalli district got affected after a cylinder full of chlorine gas leaked on Thursday night. One fire brigade personnel, who was at the spot, fell unconscious and had to be admitted to hospital. Authorities said that the fireman is in stable condition. According to the officials, the incident occurred at about 11 pm on Thursday when chlorine gas started leaking out of one of the three cylinders kept in Devni Mori village. “The chlorine gas cylinders are used for treating the water that is then supplied to 70 villages,” said Jayanti Parghi, sarpanch of Devni Mori village that earned fame after remains of a Buddhist monastery belonging to the third/fourth century were unearthed from there. “Such was the intensity of the gas leakage that many residents of Devni Mori and some adjacent villages suffered from burning sensation in eyes for over six hours,” Parghi added. District collector Amritesh Aurangabadkar and other officials rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation along with a team of officials from Aravalli Disaster Management. Reason for the leakage hasn’t been known yet. “There were several huge underground tanks to supply water to these villages. One of the cylinders that is kept to treat this water got leaked,” said P P Nai, deputy engineer water and sewerage board. The health department has undertaken a survey in the village but locals are scared to even enter their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chlorine-gas-leak-affects-scores-of-people-in-aravallis-devni-mori-village/articleshow/77937671.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Direct Kolkata-London flights get West Bengal govt nod till October||KOLKATA: The state government on Friday gave the nod to regular flights between Kolkata and London in September-October, paving the way for re-establishing direct air connectivity between the two cities after a decade. This is also the first set of Vande Bharat flights to be approved by Bengal since it had stopped clearance to repatriation flights on July 1. “The state government has approved the 12 pairs of flights that have been scheduled under Vande Bharat mission. The first flight will arrive from London on September 16. We are expecting a full-flight minus the seats that will be kept free as per norms. All passengers travelling on these flights will have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 within 96 hours prior to departure. Only those testing negative will be allowed to board,” an Air India official told TOI.  The air connectivity between Kolkata and London is set to be re-established after a decadeAir India will operate a Boeing B-787 Dreamliner aircraft that has 18 business class and 238 economy class seats. While the flight to Kolkata will operate on Wednesday and Saturday, the flight to London will take off on Thursday and Sunday. The return fare has been pegged around Rs 56,000 while the one-way fare is around Rs 32,000. News of the flight’s approval spread cheer in both Kolkata and London with prospective fliers contacting travel agents to finalise their plans. Businessman S P Saharia’s wife, Nirmala, who travels to London twice a year to visit their daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter in Dulwich, had almost given up hope of making the trip this year when she learnt about the flight. “We are thrilled that AI has given the flight and the state government has given its approval,” said Saharia. Restaurateur Navin Joshi’s son Akash, who studies in Sheffield, had also given up plans to visit the family this year but is now getting ready to take the AI flight. “This is the best news we have got in a long time. I hope the flight continues after the Vande Bharat mission,” said Joshi. Physician Lopamudra Nagchaudhuri who lives in north London and visits Kolkata twice a year has also got in touch with her travel agent to book a flight to Kolkata. “She will fly down before Puja to be with her parents in New Alipore,” said her husband Kingshuk Bose. The travel trade fraternity in Kolkata is absolutely ecstatic about the prospect of a direct London flight after over a decade. AI had last withdrawn the direct flight in 2008 and British Airways had followed suit a year later. “There is a very good response to the flight. It will make travel to Europe much easier,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Travel Agent Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni said the industry would do everything to convince the airline to continue the flight. “This is a long-pending demand of travellers, the government and the industry. We will do everything to support the flight and hope AI will reciprocate,” he said. London apart, Kolkata is set to get eight flights to Dubai, another major travel hub. While Emirates will operate three flights, SpiceJet has announced five flights from Kolkata to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/direct-kol-london-flights-get-state-nod-till-october/articleshow/77939129.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Four die in Jodhpur after tree falls due to heavy rain||JODHPUR: Three persons including an auto-rickshaw driver died when a huge tree fell on the auto-rickshaw during the heavy rain here on Friday evening. To take cover from rain, the three persons were standing under the tree. The deceased have been identified as Mohammad Aziz, Manglaram and Narpat Singh. Aziz was the driver of the auto-rickshaw. According to the police, an auto-rickshaw had been parked under a huge tree near 12th Road circle on Friday evening during the heavy rain which lashed the city on Friday afternoon. “They were probably standing under the tree and waiting for the rain to stop. Suddenly, the tree fell on the auto-rickshaw. They had no chance to escape,” the police said. All three got stuck in the auto-rickshaw. The people and the policemen on duty in the area rushed to their rescue but they could not remove the tree. A crane was called in to remove the tree but all three of them had succumbed by then. They were, however, rushed to the hospital but declared brought dead. The heavy rain on Friday threw life out of gear with many areas of the city submerged under water. Water entered many low-lying areas and krishi mandi damaging the grains and cereals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/four-die-in-jodhpur-after-tree-falls-due-to-heavy-rain/articleshow/77939132.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC stay on fee hike GR: No SC relief for Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Friday did not interfere with an interim order of the Bombay HC that had stayed a May 8 government resolution (GR) against fee hike by schools for the academic year 2020-21. The GR, citing powers during the pandemic, barred schools from hiking fees for the year 2020-21 and sought continuation of last year’s fees. It also barred schools from collecting yearly fees at one go, instead asking for it in instalments. The SC, however, gave it liberty to raise the same arguments and apply to vacate the stay before the HC itself. “Without expressing any opinion either way on the merits of the controversy, we permit the state of Maharashtra to approach the High Court” to recall or modify its order, said the bench of Justices Ajay Khanvilkar and Sanjiv Khanna. The Supreme Court directed the state government to submit, within a week, before the high court its reply to the petition filed by the Association of Indian Schools and others against the GR. The HC has to then expeditiously decide the matter. In its June 26 order, the HC had stayed implementation of the GR and all subsequent communications seeking compliance. It had also adjourned petitions against the validity of the GR. While schools claimed that the government is not empowered to regulate fees, the HC had observed the GR was “without jurisdiction”. The HC, however, was also “mindful of the difficulties faced by the parents in these testing times” and directed private unaided schools to consider allowing online payment in instalments. The issue is also of concern to several parents, with 30-odd parents, citing job losses and pay cuts, filing an intervention application before the high court to support the GR and get the stay vacated. But the HC, on August 20, said no intervention by parents was necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-stay-on-fee-hike-gr-no-sc-relief-for-maha/articleshow/77941096.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 5, 2020||Goa||Murder fuels political slugfest in Margao||Margao: A political slugfest has begun in Margao over the issue of jeweller Swapnil Walke’s murder case. On one side, the councillors of Margao municipality owing allegiance to Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, on Thursday, demanded action against those “maligning the name” of Kamat on social media over the issue, while on the other side, BJP Margao Mandal, on Friday, launched a scathing attack on Kamat for providing “safe havens to anti-social elements” for “building his vote bank” in Margao. If the Kamat-affiliated councillors accused the BJP brass of trying to suppress investigations into the case, BJP Margao Mandal president Rupesh Mahatme, addressing mediapersons, dared the councillors to prove their allegations or resign from the party. “If BJP wanted to suppress investigation, the police wouldn’t have cracked the case within 24 hours,” he said. BJP spokesperson Sharmad Raiturkar urged the police to cleanse Margao of all anti-social and criminal elements by keeping a tab on their movements and checking their antecedents. “Don’t wait to act after the crime is committed,” he told the police. “Before the Manohar Parrikar-led BJP government came to power in 2012, there was reign of terror in Margao with people afraid to confront any mischief monger from Moti Dongor. There would be gang wars and deadly assaults by choppers. People haven’t forgotten the recovery of swords from Moti Dongor area. The crime hubs were reined in,” Raiturkar, who lost to Kamat twice in the assembly elections, said. Naming Jakir band, Fakir band and other pockets as crime hubs in Margao, Raiturkar urged people to cooperate with the police and alert them about any anti-social activities taking place of criminal elements taking shelter in their localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/murder-fuels-political-slugfest-in-margao/articleshow/77940408.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockup TikTok-ers now harass teen in public||Ahmedabad: The mother of an 18-year-old girl from Meghaninagar lodged a complaint with the local police on Friday, stating that four men attempted to molest her daughter. The men have been identified as Manish Prajapati, Bharat Mali, Bhavik Mali, and Jaydeep Rajput. The woman said the incident occurred on Thursday, when two of the men grabbed her daughter’s hand and passed lewd comments. The inspector of the Meghaninagar police station, D J Chudasama, said an offence has been registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 354A for sexual harassment and 506(1) for harassing a woman. Moreover, Section 294(b) has been invoked for uttering obscene words. The accused have been arrested. “All the four accused have criminal records and had been arrested earlier for assault,” Chudasama said. “Two of them, Bhavik and Bharat, had made a TikTok video from a police lockup in March. The video had gone viral.” Chudasama said that according to the FIR, when the girl was headed home at about 3pm on Thursday, Manish and Bharat caught her hand in full public view and passed lewd comments. The FIR mentioned that earlier on the same day, when the girl was going to her college to submit some papers, Bhavik and Jaydeep intercepted her and harassed her. “According to the FIR, Bhavik told the girl that his group will kidnap her,” a police source said. “The girl told her mother about the harassment and threats. Later, the woman and her husband approached the four and reprimanded them.” However, the source said, the accused abused them and threatened to kill them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockup-tiktok-ers-now-harass-teen-in-public/articleshow/77940989.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||City teacher gets CBSE Award||Vadodara: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has chosen Sapna Iyer, a primary teacher from city-based Navrachana School, Sama (NSS) for its prestigious CBSE Teachers Award 2019. Iyer is the only teacher from Gujarat and amongst 39 principals/teachers who have been selected for the national award. She will be receiving a certificate and a cash prize of Rs 50,000. A mathematics teacher at NSS, Iyer is qualified with triple masters degrees including an MEd as well as a UGC NET qualification. Adept at the use of technology in schooling, she is also a Microsoft Innovation Educator Expert. “She stands out for her creative methods of teaching mathematics, creating a life-long love for this subject amongst her students and cultivating a genuine interest in it even amongst those who find it challenging,” said Tejal Amin, chairperson of Navrachana Education Society (NES) that manages NSS. CBSE confers the award o publicly recognise contribution of meritorious teachers, especially on the Teachers’ Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-teacher-gets-cbse-award/articleshow/77939155.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Helper at temple murdered in Alwar||ALWAR: A helper at Ayodhya Dham Temple was murdered and chief priest Mahant Baba Purshottam (105) was found injured by Aravili Vihar police in Alwar on Friday. Police said that they received a call from the ashram informing about the body lying in the temple campus. Deceased Ashu Shukla (35) was a resident of Uttar Pradesh. His face was disfigured and it appears that he was hit on the face with a heavy object which led to his death. His body was sent to the mortuary for postmortem. The police team went to the spot with a dog squad to look for clues but failed to find any lead. Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam said that they are investigating the matter and scanning all those who had visited the temple. “It appears to be a matter of personal rivalry. The attacker had attacked on the face of the victim. Prima facie, it doesn’t appear to be a case of dacoity,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/helper-at-temple-murdered-in-alwar/articleshow/77939136.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||No rise in seats but Covid marks drive up science, arts applications||Kolkata: The spike in high aggregates scored in Class-XII board exams, thanks to the formulas framed by the different boards and councils to assess their candidates in absence of certain papers suspended for the Covid-19 pandemic, led to a surfeit of applications for undergraduate science and arts courses. Though both science and arts saw more applications than that last year, it was especially high for science this year, as was reflected by the figures in major colleges affiliated to Calcutta University.  This year, the number of successful HS candidates were 6,80,057 — 10,000 more than last year’s. Even colleges kept the application cut-off similar to last year’s. Yet, the number of applicants in science shot up, showing more students had scored beyond the cut-off, due to the unprecedented marks flow. But with the number of seats not increasing, many high-scorers could not make it to the first round of admissions. In Lady Brabourne College, the number of science applicants rose from 4,719 in 2019 to 9,824 in 2020. Though even the arts departments witnessed a rise in applicants, from 2,606 in 2019 to 4,945 in 2020, the surge in science was more than double. “The reason for rise in applications in the science stream is due to the massive increase in the aggregate and subject marks for even those students who did not take even three science papers in HS,” said Brabourne principal Siuli Sarkar. A similar trend was noticed at Bethune College, where he number of applicants in science was 10,566 this year, while it was 6,849 last time; in arts, 6,448 students applied this year and 4,638 last year. At St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, the number of science applications received this year was 13,482, while it was 11,480 last year. The figure for arts was 6,248 for 2020 and 6,244 in 2019. An official at Maulana Azad College pointed out the trend was similar at their institute, too. “Science toppers mostly want to study physics, chemistry and statistics. Plus-II exams for all three were suspended this year. So, if a candidate scored 100 in HS maths, the cent percent marks were reflected in all his/her suspended subjects, leading to the high scores,” said Saugata Basu, general secretary of West Bengal Government School Teachers’ Association. JU, which will close the process on Friday midnight, received over 25,000 applications in science till August 25. The number in 2019 was around 14,000. JU physics teacher, Partha Pratim Ray, however, said, “This spike can’t only be attributed to excessive marks.” He added the uncertainty over JEE and at the same time, reluctance to study engineering were two more reasons for the glut of science applications. An educationist pointed out that the figures at St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, a private institute, showed science students benefited the most from the Covid-season formula. “Students had to pay to apply at St Xavier’s. Though the number in arts stayed same, science saw a rise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-rise-in-seats-but-covid-marks-drive-up-science-arts-applications/articleshow/77939140.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Peak of 125 cases despite lower testing||Vadodara: The city and district registered yet another peak with 125 new Covid-19 cases being reported during the 24 hours since Thursday evening. The higher cases were despite lesser number of tests being conducted.As many as 2,341 tests were conducted since Thursday evening. This is the lowest number of tests conducted since August 26 when 2,349 tests were conducted. The higher number of cases despite lower tests pushed the positivity rate up marginally as compared to the recent past when it had remained around 5.1. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases in the city and district went up to 8,554. The healthy discharge rate continued for the second consecutive day as 186 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation taking the total number of discharged persons to 6,938. This leaves 1,468 persons under treatment including 55 on BIPAP machines or ventilators and 142 breathing with oxygen support. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/peak-of-125-cases-despite-lower-testing/articleshow/77937774.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Sarpanch, son arrested for taking bribe in Kota district||KOTA: Sleuth of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Kota (rural), on Friday arrested a woman sarpanch of Kotradeep Singh gram panchayat under Budhadeet police station of Kota and her 22-year-old son, for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1,000 from a hand pump mechanic for sanctioning him the hand pump repairing bill payment of Rs 3,100. The two accused would be produced before ACB court in Kota on Saturday. “ACB sleuths of Kota rural, led by inspector Vasudev Singh, arrested Santosh Bairwa (48), who held the post of sarpanch of gram panchayat Kotradeep Singh under Budhadeet police station of Kota, and her son Teerupati Bairwa from their house after the sarpanch allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 1,000 from one Hariom Gurjar, who works as a hand pump mechanic with his father in the village,” said ASP, ACB, Kota Rural, Prerna Shekhawat. The accused sarpanch had demanded from the hand pump mechanic Rs 1,500 for sanctioning the hand pump repairing bill amount of Rs 3,100, following which the mechanic on Wednesday this week reached ACB, Rural and lodged a complaint against the sarpanch, she said, adding that the verification of the complaint was carried out on the same day. However, the bribe amount through negotiation, was settled at Rs 1000, she said. The accused called the hand pump mechanic with the bribe amount on Friday at her house, where the sarpanch allegedly accepted the bribe of Rs 1,000, but meanwhile her son Teerupati intervened in the matter and demanded him to pay half of the bill amount of Rs 1,500. The ACB sleuth, already alert, arrested the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-son-arrested-for-taking-bribe-in-kota-dist/articleshow/77939142.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Set up nutri-gardens in backyard: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: In a significant policy initiative, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to encourage villages to developnutrition gardens in their backyard to combat the problem of malnutrition. The effort aims to develop community led models to bail out children from the vicious cycle of ill-health. “Nutrition should be a way of life for which it is important that all ingredients needed for it must be in the reach of people. Therefore, one must make a habit to grow nutrition in the backyard,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath, launching the Nutrition Month here on Friday. More than 1.2 lakh children in the 0-5 years age group are battling against acute malnutrition. Of these, about 80% can be brought back to normal health by simple interventions at the level of household and community. Asserting that right knowledge and attitude was key to fight against malnutrition, the CM also gave the slogan ‘Uttam Poshan: Uttar Pradesh Roshan’ to emphasise on the importance of nutrition in people’s life and urged people from different walks of life to join the battle against malnutrition. He reminded that community-led initiatives had immense powers and cited the Gorakhpur's encephalitis turnaround story to prove his point. The CM said that the best performing districts would be awarded. Directing stakeholder departments, including panchayati raj, women and child development, agriculture, rural development, food and civil supplies, AYUSH and horticulture to collaborate for development of nutria-gardens in every village, the CM said: “Households and community should be encouraged to start nutrition garden wherever they can so that health boosting vegetables, herbs, medicinal plants and fruits are available to those in need. At the village level, government schools, residential schools, anganwadi centres and gram panchayat should take the initiative by contributing their land for the purpose.” He added that the rich heritage of Ayurveda should be followed in its spirit and an awareness campaign should be launched to tell about the qualities of mint, turmeric, bel, nolna, neem and tulsi. Fixing a goal for officials, he said that every single Severe Acute Malnutrition child in the state should be identified so that concerted efforts could be made to bring down malnutrition by one percentage point in the next six months. “A day-long drive should be conducted to take measures of height and weight of all the children to fix the baseline to gauge future progress. In addition to this, the health department will do a checkup of severe and moderate category malnourished children to achieve the goal,” he said. He also said that district level committees must monitor nutrition status of children in the 3-6 months age group and said directed key departments to present an assessment report by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-set-up-nutri-gardens-in-backyard/articleshow/77941095.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 5, 2020||Ajmer||Man poses as SP ACB, threatens Ajmer builder||AJMER: Petty crimes are on the rise after unlock was initiated in Ajmer. The city has witnessed growth in incidents of online fraud, purse and mobile snatchings and now a miscreant has threatened a builder in Jaipur in the name of SP, ACB, Ajmer. Alwar Gate police registered a case on Friday on the information of SP of ACB Sameer Singh. According to police, the SP lodged a complaint that a builder of Jaipur informed him that he got a call in his name as SP of ACB Ajmer and the caller asked him to give a flat to his known person. The builder had doubts about the caller and he called SP, ACB, Ajmer. He also gave the mobile number and the phone recording to police. Police identified the caller as a resident of Shrinagar Road in Ajmer, but he was not found at the location. Police said the accused has past history and had tried to cheat people in the name of CM Ashok Gehlot’s son as well as threatened SP of Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/man-poses-as-sp-acb-threatens-city-builder/articleshow/77939172.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Udaipur||Man poses as SP ACB, threatens Ajmer builder||AJMER: Petty crimes are on the rise after unlock was initiated in Ajmer. The city has witnessed growth in incidents of online fraud, purse and mobile snatchings and now a miscreant has threatened a builder in Jaipur in the name of SP, ACB, Ajmer. Alwar Gate police registered a case on Friday on the information of SP of ACB Sameer Singh. According to police, the SP lodged a complaint that a builder of Jaipur informed him that he got a call in his name as SP of ACB Ajmer and the caller asked him to give a flat to his known person. The builder had doubts about the caller and he called SP, ACB, Ajmer. He also gave the mobile number and the phone recording to police. Police identified the caller as a resident of Shrinagar Road in Ajmer, but he was not found at the location. Police said the accused has past history and had tried to cheat people in the name of CM Ashok Gehlot’s son as well as threatened SP of Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/man-poses-as-sp-acb-threatens-city-builder/articleshow/77943439.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Back to earlier schedule, banks to be open on Saturday||KOLKATA: Returning to its earlier schedule, all banks in Bengal would now remain open on Saturdays, except on the second and fourth ones. With this, the decision of keeping banks shut on weekends, which started on July 20, would come to an end, stated a circular issued by the state government late on Thursday. Banks will, however, continue to be closed on total lockdown days, which have so far been slated for September 7, 11 and 12 and customer services will be allowed till 2pm only. The former deputy chief secretary of SBI Staff Association, Ashok Mukherjee, said given the current situation, the working hours in the bank would stay curtailed till 2pm. The state, through a notification on July 20, had announced Saturdays to be holidays for bank branches till further notification. It had also given advisory on reduced business hours (till 2pm). The order was endorsed by State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC), which also issued an order, reiterating that all bank branches would remain shut on all Saturdays till August 31. With August ending, SLBC sought clarification from the Bengal government on the functioning of banks on Saturdays. United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) had also written to SLBC, asking for a clarification from the state government. Urging the authorities to continue with the weekend shutdowns for the safety of its employees, the UFBU stated in its letter: “It may please be noted that the said implementation of reduced business hours and closing on Saturday had induced a sense of security among the bank employees and have also helped in containing the growing number of Covid-19 cases among Bank employees in recent times.” However, after considering all aspects, the Bengal government decided to allow banks to go back to its earlier schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/back-to-earlier-schedule-banks-to-be-open-on-sat/articleshow/77939182.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM assures traders of relief in fixed power charges||NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has assured traders and industrialists of relief in fixed power charges in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As businesses and industries were closed during lockdown, traders and industrial unit owners associations have been requesting Delhi government to waive the fixed charges in electricity bills for the lockdown period. The monthly electricity bill comprises fixed charges and energy charges, which is the component of actual power consumed. Fixed charges for commercial and industrial consumers is Rs 250 per kVA in Delhi. A statement from Delhi government said that the CM has met several traders and industrial associations over the last few days and assured them that adequate steps will be taken to provide relief vis-a-vis the fixed power charges that the commercial and industrial units are obliged to pay despite economic losses during the lockdown. It added that the revenue situation of Delhi government has taken a hit, owing to the complete shutdown of businesses and the economy. Kejriwal said that while the decision to impose a complete lockdown then was essential at the time, the capital has now decided to lift the lockdown and it will take time to cover the economic shortfall now that businesses and industries have resumed work. The CM had recently announced that the revenue has fallen from Rs 3,500 crore in April of previous years to Rs 300 crore this year. Kejriwal assured the representatives that steps to provide ease for fixed power charges to owners of commercial and industrial units will be taken by Delhi government as soon as possible, the statement said. The statement further said that following the Unlock guidelines of the Centre, Delhi government has allowed several economic activities in the national capital and the chief minister has announced various measures at several stages to revive the city’s economy. Recently, the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission had announced a new tariff schedule but there has been no power tariff hike in view of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-assures-traders-of-relief-in-fixed-power-charges/articleshow/77939412.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Guard injured as encroachers attack Baran forest squad||KOTA: A forest guard was critically injured in Baran after he was allegedly run over by a tractor and dragged some 200 metres by 5 to 7 people who attacked his patrolling squad during an anti-encroachment drive on Friday, officials said. The incident took place in the early hours of Friday near Agar forest check post and the forest squad succeeded in detaining one of the encroachers, they said. Assistant Conservator of Forest (Baran) Mohammad Hafeez said the department received information about encroachment being carried out on government land at 11pm on Thursday. A squad comprising 12 personnel from Shahabad and Baran forest ranges reached the spot at 1.30am on Friday when five to seven people engaged in the encroachment attacked them with sticks and sharp weapons, Hafeez said. The encroachers then ran their tractor over forest guard Methun Fogdar (24), and dragged him for around 200 metres, but they fled after the vehicle got stuck in a drain, he added. The forest guard was rushed to a hospital in Baran where he is undergoing treatment, the ACF said, adding that he suffered critical injuries. The other personnel of the squad escaped injury, he added. “On a report by forest personnel, police have lodged a case against five identified accused and some others under sections 332, 353 and 307 of IPC and initiated investigation,” said SHO Kasbathana police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guard-injured-as-encroachers-attack-baran-forest-squad/articleshow/77939213.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rashtriya Shala’s ghanis realize Mahatma’s dreams||Rajkot: Made in Rajkot Gandhi-brand edible groundnut oil has not only made a comeback but has created its own niche in kitchen shelves. Rashtriya Shala, founded by Gandhiji in 1921, started the full-fledged sale of various edible and hair oils in December 2018. While the sale volume reached Rs 55 lakh in the financial year 2019-20, the trust has now started home delivery too to encash on the oil’s growing popularity. Ghani or the cold-pressed oil mills was one of the key symbols of economic freedom that Bapu had vociferously promoted along with the charkha to spin Khadi — two epitomes of India’s struggle for independence. Bapu had laid emphasis on promoting the traditional oil processors to empower farmers as well as ensure people get access to unadulterated pure edible oil. The Shala, spread over 13 acres in the city, started providing employment to people in these ghanis in Rajkot, a system that started in 1935 and continued till the 2001 earthquake. The killer quake not only razed the building but along with it left the ghani irreparably damaged. So much so that the Shala could somehow manage to sell oil worth Rs 8 lakh in 2018-19. But things started spinning in their favour in 2018 when the Shala received three electric ghanis as a donation. This started minting fortune by crushing various nuts including groundnut, coconut, castor, sesame to produce fine indigenous edible as well as hair oils. Ghanis were traditionally operated by bulls. In the 1990s, the seed crushing became faster due to the advent of electric ghanis. Managing trustee Jitendra Bhatt said, “In the financial year 2019-20 we sold oil worth Rs 55 lakh and in the current financial year we have set a target of Rs 1 crore. However, the target may get affected by the pandemic but we still hope to get a turnover of Rs 75 to 80 lakh.” For the last two weeks, the Shala has also broadened its customer base by reaching out to individual homes through home delivery of oils. They are also encashing on social media platforms to popularize their products and accepting bookings through phone calls. “We are preparing a mobile app to provide home delivery of our products, of not only oils but spices too. Our oil is costlier than refined oil, as our production cost is much higher,” Bhatt added. The Shala at present sells its oils from its Vidhyanagar road premises, but plans to soon hit the mall shelves too, for which talks are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rashtriya-shalas-ghanis-realize-mahatmas-dreams/articleshow/77939211.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 5, 2020||India||This story has been removed||||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/this-story-has-been-removed/articleshow/77941669.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||JU, RBU to finalize exam format after meeting||KOLKATA: Days after Calcutta University settled to conduct its final year/semester exams for both the undergraduate and postgraduate students in digital mode, the science departments of Jadavpur University will hold a faculty council meeting on Saturday to chalk out the exam modalities they will follow. Rabindra Bharati University is also yet to take a decision, which will be finalized after a meeting with stakeholders. Sources said that though a decision was pending, the method of assessment was likely to be assignment-based and the mode would be online. But, those students who might not have access to internet and would not be able to submit their assignments online, they would be allowed to do so in person. “The final decisions will be known after the meeting,” said a teacher. For practical examinations, a consensus is yet to emerge. However, among the two proposals which will be discussed at the faculty council meeting is to evaluate students from their laboratory experiments that they had carried out his semester and the results that they had systematically preserved. “Another group of faculty members from different departments also suggested holding viva voce over the phone. Which of the two proposals will be finally accepted to mark practical examinations will be decided on Saturday,” added a teacher. After Supreme Court gave a verdict that going by the UGC guidelines, all final-year/semester exams would have to be conducted and cent percent weightage would have to be on assessment of the current year/semester curriculum, different universities and faculties had to tweak their evaluation plans. Some departments in the arts and science faculties at JU had to call back their results, which were prepared based on the state government’s suggested 80-20 formula, under which a percentage of the weightage was given to best scores from earlier semesters. RBU VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri said practical exams for skill-based subjects and performing arts were likely to be held in video conferencing. “For fine arts, like painting, sculpture and applied arts, we will take a decision after a meeting with stakeholders. The practical exams require working in a temperature-controlled studio or in a studio which has a furnace,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-rbu-to-finalize-exam-format-after-meeting/articleshow/77939247.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Trailer falls on bike, kills four||UDAIPUR: Four students, all aged between 17 to 18 years, were killed in a road accident on Wednesday night on the Gogunda-Pindwara highway in Udaipur district, when a gravel-laden trailer overturned and hit them. The incident took place under Bekariya police station limits near a petrol pump when the trailer driver lost control on the vehicle and it turned turtle. According to the police, Dashrath and Prakash Garasiya, residents of Bhutrani Loharcha, were going home on a motorcycle when the trailer fell on them. The trailer also hit two youths Chhagan and Hoorchand Garasiya of Teja-ka-Waas village, who were walking along the roadside. The youths fell on thorny bushes after the collision and sustained head injuries, while the other two were badly caught beneath the gravel load. Sakaram, SHO Bekariya police station, rushed to the spot with team and the bodies were pulled out with the help of a crane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/trailer-falls-on-bike-kills-four/articleshow/77939256.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man gets jail till death for rape of two-year-old||SURAT: A special court hearing cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Friday sentenced a 27-year-old man to imprisonment till death for rape of a two-year-old girl. The brutal crime was committed on March 11, 2019 in Amroli area of Surat. The accused had abandoned the little girl in sugar cane farm after raping her. The girl was found at least 18 hours after she was brutalised by the accused. Additional sessions judge P S Kala convicted Shatrughna alias Bijli Mahantray Yadav, a labourer, for rape, abduction and sexual assault on a minor. The court completed the trial within 18 months despite the lockdown since March. “Considering the heinous nature of crime, the court announced the maximum punishment. The gynaecologist who examined the girl had expressed fear, during hearing in court, that she could have died due to injuries,” said Kishore Revaliya, public prosecutor. According to case details, when the girl’s mother went inside their hut located in an open plot at around 2 pm on March 11, the girl playing outside, went missing. She searched for the girl and informed her husband too, who worked as a mason at an adjoining construction site. When they failed to located her, the parents filed a missing complaint with Amroli police station. Meanwhile, a shopkeeper informed the girl’s father that he had seen the girl with Yadav, who was their neighbour. The shopkeeper said that Yadav had come with the girl and purchased four chocolates for her before going towards the sugar cane farm on Abrama Road. After raping the girl, Yadav had returned to his house. When the girl’s father questioned Yadav, he said he had no knowledge about the girl. Police soon detained him. The minor was left bleeding in the sugar cane farm, from where she was found the next day morning at around 11 am. The girl had suffered 12 outer injuries and had to be operated upon at SMIMER hospital. Police after arresting Yadav said that he was drunk when he committed the crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-gets-jail-till-death-for-rape-of-two-year-old/articleshow/77939260.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Award will motivate me to do more’||Teacher’s Day package Ahmedabad: On Saturday, three from Gujarat will receive the national award for the best teachers. They are Mahipalsinh Jetavat, a teacher at Tidana Primary School at Muli in Surendranagar; Prakashchandra Suthar, the principal of Kanjeli Primary School in Vadali in Sabarkantha; and Sudha Joshi, a teacher at the Secondary School for the Blind at the Blind People’s Association (BPA) in Ahmedabad. Suthar told TOI that the award will motivate him to do more for the students. “Throughout the lockdown, I have tried to devise new ways to reach out to students and ensure that their continuous learning doesn’t suffer,” he said. Suthar is known for his penchant to set up scientific experiments using everyday objects to make science a hands-on experience. He has trained over 2,000 teachers in Gujarat in the basics of equipment-making and designing 70-plus experiments covering all topics of primary classes. “The experiments not only improve the attention span of the students, but also sharpen their understanding of the basic concepts,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/award-will-motivate-me-to-do-more/articleshow/77939252.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Madras Youth Choir: On a song for 50 years now||CHENNAI: For decades, their music has helped to spread the spirit of patriotism, national integration and secularism. But in their Golden Jubilee year, the Madras Youth Choir (MYC) has fallen silent due to the pandemic. Unable to conduct physical performances, the choir is striking the right note online through classes and performances. “We usually perform at least 10 times a year but this year we have had no programmes. Our last event was in December 2019,” says D Ramachandran, artistic director of MYC, adding that they have always remained true to core principles of their founder, the late M B Srinivasan. “As a student, MBS was involved in the freedom movement. He was highly patriotic and was also part of the Indian People’s Theatre Association during pre-Independence days, which aimed to promote patriotism and national integration through art forms such as music, especially that of the choral genre, and dance,” says Ramachandran, who has been with MYC since January 1971. So, when MBS settled down in Madras, his desire was to create a choral group to spread the message of national integration, patriotism, unity, world peace, environmental issues, and also to promote folk songs. “Vasanthi, who later became the vice chairperson of Manonmaniam University, and her husband K Subramanian were close family friends of MBS and they wanted a youth programme for AIR,” says Ramachandran. “So they chose about 20 boys and girls from schools and colleges, and MBS trained them. On August 19, 1970, they presented their first programme and that was the foundation for MYC.” Since it received a rousing response, MBS decided to have it as a permanent choral group. Some of the more popular numbers rendered by the choir include ‘Parukulai nalla nadu’ by Subramaniya Bharathi, the Telugu song ‘Pillallara pappallara’ and the Kannada number ‘Ee mannu nammadu’. “Today, MYC has 40 members of all age groups and our junior choir has about 20 people,” says Leela Natarajan, vice president, MYC, who has been associated with the choir for 11 years. The choir is also recognised by the Sangeet Natak Akademi and perform on invitation at the cultural festivals and programmes of the Akademi. MYC had also travelled to the USA in July 2017 to participate in an international choir festival to mark the birth centenary of John F Kennedy. With the pandemic on, the Golden Jubilee celebrations have been pushed to 2021. “But we train the junior choir on Saturdays and MYC practices every Sunday from 3pm to 6pm online,” says Natarajan, adding that none of them are professional singers but are there for the pleasure of singing together. MYC has also been uploading its compositions on all its social media handles and website. “We post one or two songs every month. The junior choir also had a programme online – since they couldn’t sing as a group, we gave them individual pieces to sing -- and we are coming up with another on September 19,” says Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-youth-choir-on-a-song-for-50-years-now/articleshow/77939267.cms||Priya Menon
September 5, 2020||Delhi||A third of Covid beds occupied by ‘outsiders’ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A third of the total Covid-designated beds in the city’s hospitals are occupied by patients who don’t reside in Delhi. Government sources said that out of 14,151 beds, 4,859 were currently occupied and over 1,500 of these were being used by patients from the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, who had come to Delhi to avail of better healthcare facilities. “Close to 70% beds in Delhi are still vacant. Only three of the 131 Covid-designated hospitals, both private and government, are full. There is no shortage of beds right now, but the increasing number of patients from outside Delhi is a cause for concern,” said a source. In Delhi’s largest Covid hospital — Lok Nayak — nearly 550 of the 2,000 beds are occupied. Of the 500 beds at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, nearly 100 are in use. At Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, the occupancy is 150 out of 1,500 beds and nearly 100 out of 250 beds at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital. The occupancy is higher in private hospitals. Out of 300 beds, 173 are filled up at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, 96 of 207 beds at Holy Family Hospital, 191 of 200 beds at Max Smart Saket and 135 of 150 beds at Max Patparganj. At present, there are no plans by the government to relink hotels with Covid hospitals to create additional health infrastructure. Delhi government figures show that 564 out of 1,205 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied. The demand for ICU beds without ventilators is also high with 541 of 912 such beds currently in use. “ICU beds in a few top private hospitals are all occupied. Over 70% of these patients are from outside Delhi. Many private hospitals also do not have any ICU beds with ventilator support vacant,” said a Delhi government source. Among the government hospitals, at Lok Nayak Hospital 139 of 200 ICU beds with ventilators are vacant, while Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty has a vacancy of 167 of 191 beds. At GTB Hospital, there are only 26 vacant beds out of 100. The government is concerned with the high occupancy rate given the surge in Covid cases and this scenario could result in a shortage of beds for Delhi’s residents. On Friday, 2,914 positive cases were reported in the past 24 hours, the highest since June 27 when there were 2,948 cases. The number of active cases is also increasing, which is pushing the occupancy of beds higher. According to sources, the number of Covid cases being reported daily could increase further as the government is working on increasing the number of tests to 40,000. Over 36,000 tests were conducted over the past 24 hours. The target is to increase it to 40,000 in the next couple of days. Though people prefer home isolation, not every patient can avail of the facility due to lack of infrastructural requirements, like two toilets, or because of family members with comorbidities. Watch A third of Covid beds occupied by ‘outsiders’ in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-third-of-covid-beds-occupied-by-outsiders/articleshow/77939272.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Engineer locks up corona-positive neighbours in Kestopur flat||KOLKATA: A young software engineer allegedly locked the collapsible gate of his neighbour’s flat after coming to know that a few members of the latter’s family had tested contracted Covid-19. The incident took place at an apartment complex in Kestopur Ghoshpara on Friday. Cops from New Town police station scanned the CCTV footage of the building, where the engineer was seen putting up the lock outside his neighbour’s flat around 12.30am on Friday. They detained the techie but later let him go as his neighbour refused to lodge any complaint against him. “I have an infant baby at home. I was concerned about his safety as well as our own. It’s not possible to keep an eye on the family always to ensure that they do not come out of the flat. Hence, I had put up a lock at night and thought of opening it again in the morning,” said the techie, who confessed to the cops and opened the lock around 10am. The family, whose fourth floor flat at the complex was locked from outside, originally hails from Asansol. They had come to the flat last week after admitting one of their Covid positive family members to a city hospital. The patient’s mother-in-law too had tested positive and was kept in home isolation. However, the patient’s son tested negative while the report of her husband is still awaited. “Our entire family has been in home isolation. The only time we have been outside was while admitting my wife to the hospital last Friday. We also got ourselves tested and after my mother tested positive, we have kept her in home isolation following the instruction of a doctor. We are not even visiting her room,” said the victim. Around 6.15am on Friday, the victim’s family realised they had been locked from outside after one of their friends, who came to deliver a barrel of mineral water, couldn’t reach them. “We asked the building association representatives and the security guard about the matter but they had no clue. Then we dialled 100 and sought police help for our rescue,” said the victim, adding “I can’t believe people can be so insensitive like this.” While virologists clarified that living in the same building with a Covid positive neighbour – in home quarantine – is absolutely safe, sociologists opined that one of the reasons behind such hostility towards corona patients is moral panic and fear. “These actions stem from panic and an attempt to protect oneself and the loved ones from the virus,” said Prasanta Roy, a sociologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/engineer-locks-up-corona-positive-neighbours-in-kestopur-flat/articleshow/77939266.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 5, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur lakes a victim of poor sewage management||UDAIPUR: Damaged manholes and leaking sewer lines point to the deplorable condition of lakes in Udaipur. On one hand, fresh rainwater from the catchment areas are filling the lakes steadily, while on the other hand, the lake water is flowing out into waste through damaged manholes and sewer lines that were laid back some 40 years ago. Another problem is the multifarious points of leakage. The sewage and waste water flowing in some open drains leaks through the perforated old walls of the lake, thus, contaminating the water body. The leaking sewer lines are also polluting the groundwater. Environmentalists and lake activists said that after laying of the new sewer system, the old lines need to be properly grouted as these lines are still carting waste water and causing menace. “Last year, I had complained to the administration about leakage in sewer lines and upon my request a group of experts and officials of Udaipur Municipal Corporation inspected various points and found leakages at 28 places, including Lal Ghat, Gangaur Ghat, Rovaniya Ghat, Amar Kund, Nayi Puliya, Kumhariya Talab, Amba puliya etc. The lakes were empty then, but officials didn’t take concrete action and now when the lakes are brimming, crores of litres of water are being polluted,” says Tej Shankar Paliwal, an activist and member of a committee on lakes. “Major problems identified recently are that a portion of sewer line, which is still on lake bed in Kumharia Talab, Rang Sagar is diverting the lake water and wasting it. Lake water seepage is also through manholes near Brahmpol. In non-monsoon season, the waste water leaks through this system into the lakes and contaminate the lake water which is supplied for drinking to the residents,” says expert Anil Mehta, a water scientist. Mehta also informs about an old system of water release through the Jhariya Marg embankment wall of the Swaroop Sagar. “When the lake is full, the release is high. Enormous water which gets released goes waste into drains. The embankment wall along swaroop sagar is damaged due to trees grown on the wall and endangering the strength and durability of this wall,” he says. The experts suggest proper grouting of old sewer lines that was still carrying waste water. The waste accumulated in these lines rots and produce harmful gases and even explosion has taken place earlier this year. Activists also say there is no well-defined system of inspecting and repairing the damaged lake walls. It results in entry of sewage in non-monsoon time and wasting of lake water in the monsoon season. Suggesting remedies, experts say all the domestic connections to the old sewer lines should be attached to the new line. The portion of old line in the lake bed should be removed immediately. The inner city wards along lakes are in smart city area. Smart sensors may be installed to real time monitor the sewer leakage or if there is excessive flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-lakes-a-victim-of-poor-sewage-management/articleshow/77939263.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Footpath School’ is closed, but guru shows the path||Ahmedabad: Finding the ‘Footpath School’ is never difficult in bustling Bhudarpura, as the 19-year-old school is now part of geography of the area. When TOI visited Kamal Parmar, now 73, on the eve of Teacher’s Day, ‘Kamal Sir’ was apprehensive about the re-opening of the school. “Since mid-March, we saw dwindling numbers of the students and after the first lockdown, it was completely shut. It’ll soon be six months now – the longest the school has not seen any students,” says Parmar. “It’s a double whammy for the regular students as they also don’t have access to laptops or smartphones where they can see educational videos.” While the central government’s directives have instructed the educational institutes not to open at least till end of September, city-based educationists fear that the impact of school shutdown could result in high dropout rates, especially in lower strata of the society. Several of the ‘roadside schools’ in the city – many of which were running in evening hours to accommodate working ‘students’ – have stopped operating. But Parmar has not lost hope. “We tried to gather small groups for classes, but it would take more measures to instil confidence and convincing the parents to send their wards. I am eagerly awaiting return of the bustling class with inquisitive children,” said the septuagenarian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/footpath-school-is-closed-but-guru-shows-the-path/articleshow/77939313.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Youth dies in custody, 4 cops suspended in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: A resident of Shravasti district, Wajid Ali, 22, died in police custody on Friday triggering anger among kin, who alleged Ali was killed for failing to cough up bribe demanded by cops. By evening, four cops, including SHO of Gilola police station were suspended and an FIR lodged against them. Soon after news of Ali’s death trickled in, family members and villagers launched protests outside the police station. SP, Shravasti, Anup Singh, told TOI that four policemen, including SHO Vinod Kumar and sub-inspector Vijay Nath have been booked for murder, wrongful confinement and corruption. An officer of deputy SP rank is probing the incident. “The probe will kick off after the autopsy,” he said. A magisterial probe has also been ordered by the local sub-divisional magistrate. “I came to know about my son’s death when I went to the police station with food,” the deceased’s father, Omar Ali, told TOI. He also alleged that SHO Vinod Kumar along with three other cops had raided their home and picked up his eldest son, Saddam, on August 30. “The SHO told me that until Wajid Ali turns up at the police station, Saddam would remain in their custody,” Omar said. Wajid Ali, who was not in town, rushed to Gilola police station on August 31, said his father. Saddam told TOI that his brother, who was married last month, was implicated in a sexual harassment case. “Due to a land feud, our neighbours abducted Wajid and thrashed him on August 29 and later lodged a complaint against him,” he said. Saddam also claimed that cops demanded Rs 50,000 for Wajid’s release. “We took a loan to pay up, but on September 2, they raised the amount to Rs 2 lakh. When we failed to pay the big amount, the cops murdered my brother,” he said. Deputy inspector general of police, Devipatan Range, Rakesh Singh said, allegations of family members would be probed by Bahraich police to ensure transparency in investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-dies-in-custody-4-cops-suspended/articleshow/77941116.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||For Murthal dhabas, latest setback bites more than they can chew||NEW DELHI: It was only recently that the people had restarted congregating at the street-food hub of Murthal, the Covid pandemic having caused big losses for the owners of the numerous dhabas there. As the number of highway users visiting these joints was only picking up after travel restrictions were relaxed there was bad news on Thursday about employees of two popular dhabas testing positive for the coronavirus. The effect was immediate. On Friday, there were visibly fewer stopovers at the eateries TOI’s visit to Murthal on Friday showed both Amrik Sukhdev Dhaba and Garam Dharam, located adjacent to each other, closed and barricaded. While 65 employees were found infected at the former, there were 10 positive cases at the latter. The local administration said the cases were detected during a sampling drive of dhaba workers. While contact tracing is under way, the eatery owners of Murthal are wary of another setback. Even if they disinfect their premises frequently, they felt customers would be too wary to stop for a bite for some weeks at least. Several hundred people had eaten at these two dhabas in the past two weeks. It’s not only those on their way to Chandigarh that break journey at Murthal. People from Delhi drive there over the weekend or early in the morning for a culinary treat. A few hundred metres from the affected eateries, Haveli had plenty of visitors on Friday. However, many said they intended to reduce their exposure to highway dhabas. “I heard about the scare at Amrik Sukhdev Dhaba last night and decided to halt here instead,” said Dinesh Mohan, who was driving to Delhi. “However, my family and I will only use the restroom because eating appears risky.” While one comes across several Mannat dhabas on the highway between Delhi and Chandigarh, the one located a kilometre from the two closed dhabas had dismal business on Friday. Similarly, there were barely a few cars parked at Gulshan Dhaba and Pahalwan Dhaba. Driver Sonu Rajput, sipping tea at a smaller establishment down the road, said, “People obviously don’t want to take risks.” Sahil, who runs an ice-cream stall outside Pahalwan Dhaba, asserted it would be life as usual in the other dhabas, though everyone expected business to be impacted. “We are taking all precautions. So long as people wear masks and use sanitiser, there shouldn’t be problems,” he said, not quite convincingly. Deepak Kumar, executive at Amrik Sukhdev Dhaba, hoped business would resume from Monday. “As per Covid guidelines, our premises were sealed and disinfected. This will continue over the weekend. We can open on Monday with restrictions if we get the go-ahead from the civic authorities,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-murthal-dhabas-latest-setback-bites-more-than-they-can-chew/articleshow/77940421.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 5, 2020||Puducherry||20 deaths, 591 fresh Covid cases in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: The Union territory of Puducherry registered the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours as of 10am on Friday, with 20 patients, including eight women, dying. The death toll is at 280. Six deceased, including a 36-year-old woman, did not have any comorbidities. The deceased were aged between 36 and 81 years. The fatality rate of infection in the territory is 1.73% (national average is 1.74%). The territory registered 591 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 5,218. The positivity rate of the samples (1,846) tested on Friday stood at 32%, which is higher than the national average. The territory has so far reported 16,172 positive cases of which 10,674 patients recovered and were discharged from various institutions. The recovery rate is 66%, which is less than the national average (77.2%). Meanwhile, a seroprevalence survey by Jipmer revealed that one in 20 people in Puducherry district showed evidence of coronavirus infection by the end of July. Experts from the departments of preventive and social medicine and microbiology in Jipmer undertook the community-based survey from August 11-16 drawing blood samples from randomly-selected adults aged above 18 years from 30 different clusters in Puducherry. They studied the presence of antibodies in the blood (serum) 14 days after exposure to the virus. Of the total 869 tested, 43 had antibody against the novel coronavirus (4.9%). The presence of antibody was higher in urban population (5.7%) than in rural population (3.1%) and higher in women (6.3%) than in men (3.6%). The results of the survey reflect the occurrence of exposure in people in Puducherry by July 24. The total number of confirmed cases in Puducherry by July 24 was 2,271 with a cumulative incidence of 0.19% for the population of Union territory (12 lakh). Thus, the proportion of people with the presence of antibodies in blood was nearly 26 times more than that of the cases diagnosed by Real-time PCR test as on July 24, concluded the survey. Jipmer has proposed to undertake a repeat study in the second/third week of September to assess the extent of exposure by the last week of August and further serial surveys at appropriate time points as the pandemic continues. The Puducherry government established 15 Covid-19 focus centres to function as fever clinics to screen, test and collect samples besides monitoring home isolation and treatment of Covid-19 patients. The focus centres will function from Friday, said district collector cum secretary (health) T Arun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/20-deaths-591-fresh-covid-cases-in-pondy/articleshow/77949146.cms||Bosco Dominique
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Students make it extra special for their Covid Warrior teachers||Kolkata: Avishek Sarkar, English teacher at DPS Ruby Park, had to be hospitalised with Covid. But even while fighting the disease from the hospital bed, he prepared class notes, set question papers for online exams, continued his correspondences with his students, updated his colleagues and the day he was discharged, he started taking online classes. His love for his students and commitment did not go unnoticed. The school’s Teachers’ Day programme, which will be held online on Saturday, will start with students felicitating this Covid Warrior. Similar stories poured in from other schools as well. At some institutes, not only the students but also some teachers are putting up online performances to honour their colleagues have fought off Covid. South City International organised its Teachers’ Day programme on Friday itself, where the students’ online programme was streamed on a giant screen at the auditorium for the teachers to watch. Maths teacher Krishanu Mondal and school counsellor Monita Basu have just come out of severe infection and were specially felicitated by students. Mondal was treated at home under hospital supervision and had extreme breathlessness. But despite that, from the sixth day of his illness, he started taking online classes from home. This, in spite of principal John Bagul advising him to take rest. “My commitment to my students comes before everything else, my absence would make them suffer… the school had a special routine for me so that I could take rest between online classes,” Mondal said. The high point of the online Teachers’ Day celebrations at Birla High School for Boys was the fact that principal Loveleen Saigal and another teacher, Shweta Singh, defeated Covid. “As a principal, there are responsibilities that I have to discharge even when I am unwell. I am happy that I could do them and have defeated the disease,” Saigal said. Apeejay School principal Rita Chatterjee is all praise for her English teacher in the secondary section, who fought the disease valiantly but came back to her online classes the moment she was declared Covid-negative. She, however, lost her father to the novel coronavirus. Students at DPS Howrah are specially designing a part of their Teachers’ Day event for their teacher, Payal Sarkar, who along with five family members, had to be hospitalised. “After being discharged from hospital, not for a day did she take a break from classes,” said principal Sunita Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-make-it-extra-special-for-their-covid-warrior-teachers/articleshow/77939276.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 5, 2020||Kochi||Special team submits report on Pettimudy landslide||Idukki: The 13-member special team led by Munnar special tahsildar Binu Joseph, deputed to analyse the damage due to Pettimudy landslide and the steps for the rehabilitation of those affected, submitted a report to the district collector. Officials said that the team submitted the report within 15 days. “The report mainly included the rehabilitation and compensation for survivors. We will call a meeting with KDHP Company and take a final decision on their rehabilitation. The district administration asked the company to provide land and home to survivors. We hope it will take some steps in this direction. If company provides land we can construct homes under Life Mission,” said collector H Dineshan The landslide occurred early on August 7 and 30 houses in four tea estate layams (cluster of workers’ quarters) were destroyed. Twelve persons were rescued and 66 bodies were recovered. Those still missing are Dineshkumar (20), Kasthuri (26), Priyadarshini (7) and Karthika (21), said officials. "We need a government order to issue the compensation to the survivors. A local search is going on to locate missing people. District administration has provided assistance to continue search operations. A father who lost his son demanded that the search should go on,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/special-team-submits-report-on-pettimudy-landslide/articleshow/77939289.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||7/12 extract format changes make document grasp easy||Pune: From October, the 7/12 extracts in the state will be issued in a new format. They will have a land records department’s watermark and the state government’s logo, name and code of the village, and the last entry of the land owner will be struck out. There would be a total of 12 changes in the entire format.Such a change is being made to the record of rights document after 50 years to weed out fraudulent land transactions. The fresh look will make the document simple and easy to understand, state settlement commissioner and director of land records S Chockalingam said. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat approved the rollout at a recent meeting, officials said.“The striking off of the previous owner’s name will indicate clear title of the new owner,” Chockalingam told TOI.The state government approved the proposal that mooted the changes in the document this week. By October, the records will be available to those who have to be issued new documents. The earlier digitised 2.5 crore land records too will be readied in the same manner, deputy collector Ramdas Jagtap said. He is in charge of the digital India land records modernisation programme.Jagtap said the new format will be more informative and easy to understand for a person. “It will include village local government’s directory code, total area of that survey number or sub-survey number, including cultivable land and fallow land. It will give pending mutations and have the last mutation number. A separate village form number will be maintained for agriculture and non-agriculture land,” he said.The mention of agricultural land and non-agricultural land in the extracts will make the purpose clear to a citizen.The 7/ 12 extract (saath-baara utara) is named after the two forms that are used to collect the information for the extract. One is the village form VII which records all details of the owner and his rights to the land, and the other is village form XII which records the agricultural details of the land. Both forms are prescribed in the Maharashtra Land Revenue Record of Rights and Registers Rules, 1971. The information in both forms is filled in the registrar of land records.The document is used to check the ownership of ancestral land in a village. It reveals past disputes or litigation or orders passed that affect the land. It also has a record of all activities carried out on the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7/12-extract-format-changes-make-document-grasp-easy/articleshow/77939306.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Not wearing a mask? Get ready to pay Rs 200 penalty||CHENNAI: The state government can levy up to Rs 5,000 as fine on institutions and Rs 500 on individuals for violation of pandemic rules such as not wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing. On Friday, minutes after the Tamil Nadu Governor gave the nod for the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, the state health secretary issued rules that specified punishments for each violation. Under the new rule, individuals not wearing a mask, covering mouth and nose, will be fined Rs 200. Violating quarantine rules, spitting in public places, not adhering to social distancing norms and following government guidelines within containment zones can attract a fine of Rs 500 for individuals. Gyms, salons and spas, commercial establishments and other such public places violating standard operating procedures or violating guidelines in containment zones will be fined Rs 5,000, said the order issued by health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The appended notification will be published in the TN government gazette, extraordinary on September 4, the order said. Fines can be collected by public health officials, police and local/civic authorities authorised by the district collectors and commissioners. Earlier, a release from Raj Bhavan said the ordinance will permit the state health department to make offences such as not wearing masks, violating social distance and violence against health workers a compoundable offence. “Public health experts have stressed the need for adoption of mandatory wearing of masks, maintaining a physical distance, follow-up of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the permitted activities and in work places and follow-up of quarantine as essential to prevention of spread of disease. Despite aggressive information, education and communication campaigns, even now a section of persons/institutions/shops do not follow it, putting themselves and others at risk of spreading infections,” a release from the Raj Bhavan said. “Violence against the persons implementing these measures has also been brought to the notice of the government,” it said. Not adhering to golden rules of the pandemic and violence is becoming a public health menace amidst the pandemic. “It hinders the state’s effort to prevent the spread of the viral infection in the community,” a state health official said. “While it is necessary to make the violations against lockdown and social distancing measures as compoundable offences, we will be able to use this against any epidemic or outbreaks in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-wearing-a-mask-get-ready-to-pay-rs-200-penalty/articleshow/77939304.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Headmistress of govt school youngest Goan to receive national award||PANAJI: Sindhu Prabhu Desai Nayak, headmistress of the government high school in Molcornem, Quepem, will be the youngest teacher in the state to be accorded the prestigious national award for teachers. Nayak, 37, is among 47 teachers from around India selected for the prize. She will receive a medal and certificate from South Goa collector Ajit Roy on Saturday, which is teachers’ day. “I am elated to receive the national award. It is an overwhelming experience for me. I am glad that my dedicated efforts as a team leader have won nationwide acclaim,” Nayak said. Headmistress of the school since 2016, she has won two national awards in under five years, the other being conferred by the Shikshak Vikas Parishad. “I dedicate this award to the people of Molcornem and the entire squad of government high school for their co-operation and collective efforts in making the planned strategies successful in uplifting the school,” she added. Nayak completed her masters degree in chemistry from Goa University, in which she won the gold medal. She has also taught at St Xavier’s college, Mapusa, Dhempe college, Miramar, and government college, Quepem. The state government, in a press release, claimed that Nayak also developed the curriculum for several state boards, and carried out extensive research into audio-visual aids in chemistry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/headmistress-of-govt-school-youngest-goan-to-receive-national-award/articleshow/77940427.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Testing camps at railway stations, markets, ISBTs||NEW DELHI: While setting up a system to conduct Covid-19 tests on demand is likely to take some time, Delhi government has decided to start testing at weekly markets and outside central government offices. The idea is to expand the testing base and keep a check on the spread of the novel coronavirus in sensitive areas. Weekly markets were recently permitted to function on a trial basis. “We will be writing to the central government departments to allow Delhi government to set up special camps outside their offices to test staffers and visitors. This will help isolate infected individuals and start their treatment immediately,” said an official. A district official said that mobile testing vans were being sent to large construction sites to conduct tests on labourers randomly. “We do not want such sites to turn into super-spreaders of the virus because of infection among workers,” he added. Camps have been set up outside New Delhi railway station and Anand Vihar ISBT to test people coming from other states so that they do not become a source of infection. The Covid situation in other parts of the country, like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, etc, is serious. In a recent meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, it was decided to hold camps at all railway stations and bus terminals. The rising number of cases is getting to the situation prevailing in June, when panic gripped the government and people got scared. However, there is a silver lining to the recent surge in cases. While over 36,000 people were tested on Friday, only 2,914 tested positive. On June 27, Delhi had reported 2,948 cases in a single day despite only 19,000 tests being conducted. Delhi government is rapidly increasing the number of daily tests. The target is to increase their number to 40,000 in a couple of days. All 11 districts that were initially conducting 150-200 tests have expanded the net to 3,000-4,000 people every day. Currently, 207 dispensaries and 38 hospitals (both private and government) are being used to conduct the tests. Testing, tracing and treatment have been the key weapons in Delhi’s ability to contain the spread of the virus to a large extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/testing-camps-at-railway-stations-markets-isbts/articleshow/77939311.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 5, 2020||Surat||‘Maths Magic Box’ gets kids fascinated||Surat: Kids in many schools may find maths as a difficult task, but not in Marathi School Number 2, run by Navsari Municipality. Reason: Assistant teacher, Sharad Patil. Patil, 50, is a 'Maths teacher' and he has developed a unique Multipurpose Mathematics Magic Box to teach kids maths with fun in the primary school. "Kids feel maths is very difficult. Fear of maths has put an enormous impact on the minds of students. When I was a teacher in a tribal village in Bharuch district, I came across many kids who were finding it difficult. So I decided to develop a model which can help kids learn maths with fun. And I developed the 'Multipurpose Mathematics Magic Box'. This box is made of 2 by 2 format using ply and colour. It is divided into six divisions. I have devised the magic box through which children up to Class VII can easily learn maths without fear, said Patil, who won the innovative teachers’ award by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) in 2014 for his 'magic box' innovation. "The magic box provides knowledge of smaller and greater numbers, equal, odd and even numbers, subtraction, multiplication, division, proper and improper fraction, divisibility test factor, geometry imagination circle and its knowledge among others. It's a self learning model as well. Kids can learn on their own. By using this box, kids can learn maths of textbook up to Class VII,'' Patil, who received the National Award To Teachers 2016, told TOI. Patil, who was born into a farmer's family in Maharashtra, migrated to Gujarat with his brother and studied here in the state. Since childhood, he wanted to become a school teacher and make a difference in teaching. "I wanted to contribute to society by becoming a school teacher and I learnt that maths is a major hurdle for kids. I innovated the box and hundreds of kids are learning maths through this box as many schools are using it across the state,'' Patil added. His innovation was also selected for the Indian National Congress Conference held in Chennai in 2011. "Patil was not only an active participant but was also an esteemed member of the innovative teacher's team. His innovation learning maths through different interesting methods to develop critical thinking skills' is a proud contribution for the development of children at their early learning age,” a citation given by IIM-A reads. “I feel happy that my innovation helps kids get interested in maths which otherwise is considered as a difficult subject,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/maths-magic-box-gets-kids-fascinated/articleshow/77939310.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hasanparthy SI, 3 constables suspended||Warangal: A sub-inspector and three constables from Hasanparthy were suspended on charges of corruption on Friday. Police commissioner Pramod Kumar said in his order: “Warangal police commissionerate sub-inspector L Pavan Kumar and three constables T Santosh, S Tirupathi and N Mogili have been suspended on charges of manipulating the amount recovered in a raid from a gambling den at Arepally. Inquiry showed that the accused seized more money than they showed on official records.” In a similar incident, Jayagiri constable Mogili was also accused of corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hasanparthy-si-3-constables-suspended/articleshow/77939334.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Ready to get back on track, Delhi Metro urges people to ‘break the peak’||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is finally going to resume its services from Monday after more than five months. But for commuters, waiting eagerly for the capital’s lifeline to come back on track, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has one request — “break the peak”. The services are opening in a graded manner and Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), which connects north Delhi to Gurgaon, will be first off the block. DMRC plans to operate trains at the maximum frequency possible, but with not more than 50 commuters allowed per coach — 25 seating and 25 standing — its carrying capacity is going to be massively reduced. DMRC has urged people to try travelling at off-peak hours too. “Delhi Metro services are restarting and the biggest challenge for us is to carry passengers while following social distancing norms,” DMRC managing director Mangu Singh said. To maintain social distancing, the number of passengers in a coach “will be much less compared to our capacity earlier and the biggest problem will be the crowding at peak hours”, he said. Singh said DMRC planned to operate train services at maximum frequency and if commuters could somehow avoid the peak hours, the metro would be able to carry the maximum number of passengers through the day. “If they perform their journey at peak time, they may end up missing a train or two because if the arriving train is already running at full capacity, they won’t get entry as per the new norms.” If commuters change their office timing a little, employers won’t have any objection keeping the pandemic in view, said Singh. “It will be a big help for DMRC if commuters do this.” A source said with educational institutions closed and many people working from home, DMRC isn’t expecting a huge rush on Day 1. With only Yellow Line operating on Monday and Tuesday, the interchange rush will also not be there. DMRC will depute frontline teams at station entrances, along with Central Industrial Security Force personnel, to regulate crowding. “Officials at security checkpoints and concourse areas will gauge if social distancing is being maintained and if needed, ask frontline teams to hold entry,” an official said. “Only one gate will open at most stations and it will be segregated for entry and exit.” “Apart from Phase-I trains, 80% of trains have CCTV cameras, through which train operators will monitor social distancing and relay information to the operation control centre, which will inform station controllers,” he added. “In case a train is arriving full, announcements will be made at the platform, asking commuters to wait for the next train. Only as a last resort, trains will skip stations.” Empty standby trains may be run if trains keep arriving full at stations in the middle of a corridor. Watch Delhi Metro urges people to 'break the peak'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ready-to-get-back-on-track-metro-urges-people-to-break-the-peak/articleshow/77940431.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Record 19,218 cases in Maharashtra , 350+ deaths again||MUMBAI: On the 180th day since the first Covid-19 case was detected in the state, Maharashtra added 19,218 new cases, its highest ever single-day increase. Even Mumbai, which has been reporting a jump in cases for the past week, added 1,929 cases, its second-highest daily increase and the highest in the last 69 days, the last being on June 27. The total cases in the state is now at 8,63,062, of which Mumbai accounts for 17.6% (1,52,024). There are 2.1 lakh active cases in the state at present and over 22,000 in the city. Active cases are on the rise due to the high number of additions. Maharashtra has also been adding more than 350 deaths for the past two days. On Friday, it reported 378 deaths, taking its total Covid-19 fatalities to 25,964. Mumbai reported 35 deaths, taking its toll to 7,799. A senior state official said the spike in cases in Mumbai can be attributed to movement and free mingling of people during the ten days of the Ganesh festival and the subsequent unlocking. BMC chief IS Chahal though attributed the rise to increased testing. “In Mumbai, we had done approximately 4,000 tests every day in May and June. We took it to 6,500 (excluding rapid antigen test) in July by abolishing prescriptions. In August, we increased testing to 7,700 (zero rapid tests included) every day. For the last seven days, we have been carrying out 9,000-10,000 tests every day,” Chahal said. The commissioner said last week, individual wards were given a daily testing target of 14,000-15,000 tests. He added the city has 23,000 Covid beds, of which 8500 are occupied. Of the deaths 378 deaths reported across the state on Friday, 248 were from the last 48 hours, 78 from last week and 52 from the week before that, the state update said. The Mumbai region’s addition in cases was higher that Pune circle on Friday. It added 5,091 cases and 67 deaths, while Pune circle added 4,744 cases and 119 deaths. Mumbai region on Friday crossed 3.5 lakh cases, taking its total cases to 3,51,459 and the fatalities to 13,156. In MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli, which has witnessed a spike again since Ganpati, registered 486 cases. The twin city, which had crossed 30,000 patients on Thursday, also reported 9 deaths, taking its patient tally to 30,540 and toll to 665. KDMC’s health department claimed that relaxation in lockdown curbs has led to rise in number of patients and has appealed people to follow social distancing norms. Badlapur city, with around 3.5 lakh population, has also witnessed a marginal rise for the past two days. In July cases were high there but in August the numbers were under control with hardly 50 fresh cases a day. Health officials said that on Thursday, Badlapur had 88 new patients while on Friday it added 79 cases, taking its tally to 4,410, including 73 deaths. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation recorded 419 fresh cases, taking its total Covid count to 27,531, while four deaths took the toll there to 615. Thane city reported 278 new cases, taking its tally to 27,013, while two deaths took the toll to 853. On the positive side, on the third day in a row, the state saw over 13,000 recoveries, taking its total recoveries to 6.25 lakh, with a rate of recovery of 72.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/record-19218-cases-in-state-350-deaths-again/articleshow/77941153.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 5, 2020||Pune||Book club goes online, connects readers from Hong Kong to the US||Pune: From a small and cosy affair with a bunch of bibliophiles meeting once a month to discuss poetry and literature, The Book Club Pune has gone virtual, drawing in people from Hong Kong to Minneapolis in the US. The pandemic did not affect its activities, rather it gave the small group of booklovers an impetus to scale up. Initially, the members interacted on the video-conferencing platform, Zoom. A poetry or prose, or even an author, would be the point of discussion. There would also be a brief question and answer session from viewers. But the platform came with obvious limitation in the number of people who can be involved. So, the club decided to move to social media as well, with four books and their authors up for discussion every month. “We started 20 years back and did a lot of things within our small community. There were poetry slams, performances, dramatic readings of Shakespeare and even literature quizzes,” said Satish Khot, who founded the club along with others. Retired bureaucrat Shripad Bhalerao, who was one of the guests, spoke about his book based on his time in the bureaucracy. In a slight tweak of the format, more time was devoted to interactive session. “People are indeed interested in discussions on classics and their authors. Since many evinced interest in these sessions, we decided to broadcast our online Sunday sessions on Facebook Live. Hundreds turned up for these broadcasts,”Khot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/book-club-goes-online-connects-readers-from-hong-kong-to-the-us/articleshow/77939318.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: August car sales slump after steady rise over 3 months||NEW DELHI: In July, there was a five-fold increase in car sales in Delhi compared with May and it was expected that a steady increase in vehicle registration would continue. However, the registration figures for August have proved to be a dampener. In August, 23,316 vehicles were registered, including 6,603 cars, which was a dip of 37.8% compared with 37,490 vehicle registrations, including 10,485 four-wheelers, a month earlier. Compared with August 2019, the dip was even sharper at 46.9%. Last year, 43,951 vehicles were registered in August. “The total number of vehicle registrations in August could go up as paperwork done at the end of the month is yet to be added, but they won’t lead to a substantial increase. In fact, August 2019 had also witnessed a substantial dip compared with July last year as that month saw one of the biggest dips in vehicle sales in the capital’s history,” said a Delhi government official. Vehicle registration in Delhi restarted on May 4 when many relaxations were announced by the Centre during Lockdown 3.0. While online sales of vehicles started in April and 912 two-wheelers and 944 four-wheelers were sold, registration began only in May. In all, 8,861 vehicles were registered then. “The sale of four-wheelers has picked up in the past couple of months, while two-wheelers sales were about three times that of four-wheelers in previous months. Four-wheelers saw more growth in July. Even in August, the decrease was sharper in case of two-wheelers compared with four-wheelers,” the official said. Compared with August 2019, car sales in the same month this year saw a dip of 31.9%. However, the dip in sale of two-wheelers was steeper at 51.2%. Apart from the 16,713 two-wheelers and 6,603 four-wheelers registered as personal vehicles in August, 325 goods carriers, nearly 300 three-wheelers and 635 e-rickshaws were also registered. This took the total number of vehicles registered to 24,714. Compared with January, when Covid-19 was yet to become a part of a Delhiite’s daily lexicon, registration of cars dipped by 83.3% in May. The drastic gap, however, slowly started closing and, when compared with corresponding months in 2019, the dip was significantly reduced in June. The dip compared with June 2019 was 31.6% and 22.9% in July. It was expected that the gap would become narrower in August, but sales have been unexpectedly low. Compared with the period between April and August 2019, when 2,47,461 vehicles were registered, the same period this year saw a total registration figure of 1,03,410, a dip of 58.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aug-car-sales-slump-after-steady-rise-over-3-months/articleshow/77939328.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 5, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Record 19,218 cases in Maharashtra , 350+ deaths again||MUMBAI: On the 180th day since the first Covid-19 case was detected in the state, Maharashtra added 19,218 new cases, its highest ever single-day increase. Even Mumbai, which has been reporting a jump in cases for the past week, added 1,929 cases, its second-highest daily increase and the highest in the last 69 days, the last being on June 27. The total cases in the state is now at 8,63,062, of which Mumbai accounts for 17.6% (1,52,024). There are 2.1 lakh active cases in the state at present and over 22,000 in the city. Active cases are on the rise due to the high number of additions. Maharashtra has also been adding more than 350 deaths for the past two days. On Friday, it reported 378 deaths, taking its total Covid-19 fatalities to 25,964. Mumbai reported 35 deaths, taking its toll to 7,799. A senior state official said the spike in cases in Mumbai can be attributed to movement and free mingling of people during the ten days of the Ganesh festival and the subsequent unlocking. BMC chief IS Chahal though attributed the rise to increased testing. “In Mumbai, we had done approximately 4,000 tests every day in May and June. We took it to 6,500 (excluding rapid antigen test) in July by abolishing prescriptions. In August, we increased testing to 7,700 (zero rapid tests included) every day. For the last seven days, we have been carrying out 9,000-10,000 tests every day,” Chahal said. The commissioner said last week, individual wards were given a daily testing target of 14,000-15,000 tests. He added the city has 23,000 Covid beds, of which 8500 are occupied. Of the deaths 378 deaths reported across the state on Friday, 248 were from the last 48 hours, 78 from last week and 52 from the week before that, the state update said. The Mumbai region’s addition in cases was higher that Pune circle on Friday. It added 5,091 cases and 67 deaths, while Pune circle added 4,744 cases and 119 deaths. Mumbai region on Friday crossed 3.5 lakh cases, taking its total cases to 3,51,459 and the fatalities to 13,156. In MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli, which has witnessed a spike again since Ganpati, registered 486 cases. The twin city, which had crossed 30,000 patients on Thursday, also reported 9 deaths, taking its patient tally to 30,540 and toll to 665. KDMC’s health department claimed that relaxation in lockdown curbs has led to rise in number of patients and has appealed people to follow social distancing norms. Badlapur city, with around 3.5 lakh population, has also witnessed a marginal rise for the past two days. In July cases were high there but in August the numbers were under control with hardly 50 fresh cases a day. Health officials said that on Thursday, Badlapur had 88 new patients while on Friday it added 79 cases, taking its tally to 4,410, including 73 deaths. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation recorded 419 fresh cases, taking its total Covid count to 27,531, while four deaths took the toll there to 615. Thane city reported 278 new cases, taking its tally to 27,013, while two deaths took the toll to 853. On the positive side, on the third day in a row, the state saw over 13,000 recoveries, taking its total recoveries to 6.25 lakh, with a rate of recovery of 72.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/record-19218-cases-in-state-350-deaths-again/articleshow/77942343.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Net profit: Teachers crack technology puzzle||Ahmedabad: For Jinesha Shah, the principal of Sajna Talavdi Primary School near Karamsad in Anand district, the initial few days of Covid-19 lockdown were difficult. “Challenge was to keep the students engaged and ensure that they learn something every day. We then devised a plan where we made group of the parents and started giving instructions about craft and other subjects. On September 5, it will be culmination of 160 days,” she said, adding that she also went to the students’ home to interact with small groups. “But working with new tools and technology has opened a new vista for us.” Prof Vijaya Sherry Chand, chairperson of the Ravi J Matthai Centre for Educational Innovation (RJMCEI) at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), said that Covid-19 scenario has made teachers realize possibilities of technology. “The teachers have tried it and have found that it is not difficult. However, they have struggled to reach students with no internet connectivity or technology support at home,” he said. Identifying challenges for the teachers, Prof Sherry Chand said that remedial work along with the current year’s instruction, will be one. “Second, is there a need for some accelerated learning methods, given the time lost? Third, given how children mingle freely, and the possibility of the virus remaining for a long time, should new behaviour norms be thought of?” he asked. “Any disruption in education is an opportunity to redress past inequalities and deficiencies—now is the time for the state to urgently develop a new vision and communicate it to its teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/net-profit-teachers-crack-technology-puzzle/articleshow/77939321.cms||Parth Shastri
September 5, 2020||Hubballi||Massive plantation of ganja discovered in C’durga||Davanagere: Rampura police on Friday discovered a massive plantation of ganja spanning 4acre private land at Odeyarahalli village in Molakalmuru taluk. The police team, led by PSI Guddappa, uprooted over 2,500 ganja plants from 1.5acre by Friday evening. The rest, 7,500 plants, would be rooted out on Saturday and it is indeed a task, said Chitradurga SP G Radhika. “We may get over 20,000kg of ganja plants from 4acre and 20gunta land on survey No. 20 of Odeyarahalli village, and it is worth over Rs 2 crore,” the SP said, adding the plants have grown 2.5m tall, and they would have been ready for harvesting in a few days. The cultivation of ganja could not easily be spotted as the land is surrounded by hillocks and a thick forest cover. Also, the cultivators had put up a green net along the boundary, apparently to camouflage the crop. “We are investigating the case, and the culprits will be booked as per law. Stringent action awaits them,” the SP said, withholding the names of the accused as doing so would hamper the investigation. Rampura police have registered an FIR in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/massive-plantation-of-ganja-discovered-in-cdurga/articleshow/77935615.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Three crocs rescued in 4 hrs in Vadodara||Vadodara: Three crocodiles were rescued from different areas of the city within four hours on Thursday night. Volunteers of Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) rescued the first crocodile near a residential colony in Manjalpur area. A local spotted an eight-foot-long crocodile near Vishwajyot Society at about 9 pm following which WRT volunteers rushed to the spot. They rescued the crocodile that had ventured out of a storm water drain nearby. Another crocodile was rescued near Parshuram Colony in Sayajigunj. The two-feet long reptile had crawled out of Vishwamitri River located nearby. At about 11.30 pm, WRT volunteers got a call that a five-feet-long crocodile was spotted near a hospital in Kalali area. They rescued the reptile and handed it over to the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-crocs-rescued-in-4-hrs-in-vadodara/articleshow/77937819.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||US happy to help in China-India border dispute, says Trump||WASHINGTON: The United States is ready to help resolve the dispute between India and China over the mountain border running through the western Himalayas, President Donald Trump said on Friday. Trump told reporters the situation was "very nasty," adding that the two countries were "going at it much more strongly than a lot of people even understand." Both sides deployed additional forces along the frontier after a clash in June, during which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in hand-to-hand fighting. The defense ministers of India and China were due to hold talks in Moscow on Friday, the highest level face-to-face political contact since tensions flared along the disputed mountain border in May. A US government source told Reuters in Washington the US assessment is that neither China nor India are interested in pushing the dispute to the point that they would engage in war. Trump, asked about the dispute at a news briefing in the White House, said Washington was talking with both countries about what it could do to help defuse the situation. "We stand ready to help with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help," he said. Trump has offered to mediate between the two nuclear-armed nations in the past. China has said that there is no need for a third party to mediate and India has also appeared cool to the idea. Watch US is ready to help in India-China stand-off: President Donald Trump||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-happy-to-help-in-china-india-border-dispute-says-trump/articleshow/77941720.cms||---
September 5, 2020||World||US happy to help in China-India border dispute, says Trump||WASHINGTON: The United States is ready to help resolve the dispute between India and China over the mountain border running through the western Himalayas, President Donald Trump said on Friday. Trump told reporters the situation was "very nasty," adding that the two countries were "going at it much more strongly than a lot of people even understand." Both sides deployed additional forces along the frontier after a clash in June, during which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in hand-to-hand fighting. The defense ministers of India and China were due to hold talks in Moscow on Friday, the highest level face-to-face political contact since tensions flared along the disputed mountain border in May. A US government source told Reuters in Washington the US assessment is that neither China nor India are interested in pushing the dispute to the point that they would engage in war. Trump, asked about the dispute at a news briefing in the White House, said Washington was talking with both countries about what it could do to help defuse the situation. "We stand ready to help with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help," he said. Trump has offered to mediate between the two nuclear-armed nations in the past. China has said that there is no need for a third party to mediate and India has also appeared cool to the idea. Watch US is ready to help in India-China stand-off: President Donald Trump||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-happy-to-help-in-china-india-border-dispute-says-trump/articleshow/77941721.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Five youths lose Rs 2.5L to job fraud, two in police net||Pune: The Swargate police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old woman from Dhule in a job fraud case registered in 2019. This was the second arrest in the case. On August 31, a 25-year-old man from Kolhapur was arrested. Police said the duo had allegedly cheated five youths to the tune of Rs 2.5 lakh after promising to help them secure jobs in software companies. One youth lodged an FIR in 2019, following which the police started their investigation. The suspects — Deepali Rajput and Suresh Kamble, both friends — had opened a placement agency in Swargate, the police said. The police added that the two had promised to help the youths find jobs and convinced them to shell out money. On the investigation following the complaint, senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawadi said, “The suspects had shut down the placement agency in a rented premises; their whereabouts were unknown. During the course of the investigation, we came to know that Kamble was in Kolhapur. A team went there, but he was not at home.” The police told their Kolhapur counterparts to alert them when Kamble gets home. “On August 30, we got a call from Kolhapur. We rushed there, arrested Kamble and brought him to Pune,” Naikawadi said. “During questioning, Kamble revealed the name and address of his accomplice, Rajput, who was residing in Dhule. We then arrested her,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-youths-lose-rs-2-5l-to-job-fraud-two-in-police-net/articleshow/77939329.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Metro underground tunnel reaches Civil Court station||PUNE: The portion of the underground Metro tunnel between College of Agriculture and Civil Court in Shivajinagar is nearly complete. A tunnel-boring machine has reached the Civil Court station site. The remainder — a 50-metre stretch — will be excavated using controlled blasting, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) officials said. Once this is complete, the TBM will be pressed into action to dig a tunnel towards Kasba Peth, from under the Mutha. “The TBM has reached the site of the Civil Court station, which is being developed as an interchange station as two lines meet here. Here, commuters will be able to switch from the underground line to the elevated line. Since the excavation of underground station is still underway the TBM has not moved forward. We plan to dig a 150-metre tunnel, of which excavation of a 100-metre stretch has been completed,” a MahaMetro official said. The MahaMetro plans to complete excavating the remainder in the next three weeks. “A controlled blasting method will be used, in which the rocks under ground will be blasted apart. All the required precautions have been taken at the site,” an official said. “We are regularly checking the buildings above the tunnelling path. No damage will be caused to these structures as the work is being done 28 metres below the ground. Also, regular checks of the status of the rocks are being carried out at the work site. So far, the tunnelling and station work have not faced any major challenges, mainly because of the uniform basaltic rock through the path,” the official said. The Civil Court station is the deepest station on the underground line. Immediately after this station, the Metro line will go deeper, as it goes under the river. The MahaMetro said about 60% of the excavation for the Civil Court station has been completed so far. The work has been expedited since last month, after more workers resumed work. Two parallel tunnels are being excavate for the up and down lines. Another TBM is 200 metres away from the Civil Court station site, the official said. Watch Pune: Metro underground tunnel reaches Civil Court station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-underground-tunnel-reaches-civil-court-station/articleshow/77939322.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Why competition for MBBS will be tougher this year||CHENNAI: Fewer students from Tamil Nadu will appear for NEET 2020, but fresh Class XII passouts are likely to face tougher competition from break-year students. And, more than 200 seats will be deducted from the seat matrix to fulfil the government school students’ quota. On September 13, 1.17 lakh students will appear for the exam –17% less than the 1.40 lakh of NEET-2019 – but will be faced with a series of challenges. First, there will be only 50 new seats in the 26 state-run and state-managed colleges – 3,300 against 3,250 last year – and no new state-run medical college will begin functioning. The government is waiting for Medical Council of India (MCI) officials to inspect campuses of 11 new medical colleges. “By next academic year, we will have 1,650 more MBBS seats,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. But not all these 3,300 seats will be available for students. Apart from 15% of seats for all-India quota, seats will be deducted for disabled and 7.5% of seats for government school students. “This is likely to set aside 228 seats in government medical colleges (including category A and category B colleges) and about 159 seats in private self-financing medical colleges under government quota. While this is expected to be a huge boost to the government school students, it will increase competition for non-government school students,” said student counsellor Manickavel Arumugam. The MCI has allowed one new self-financing college to admit 150 students and two deemed universities to add 100 seats each. Tuition fee for deemed universities is an average of Rs 20 lakh a year and admissions are done online by the directorate general of health services. The state medical selection committee will allot students to self-financing colleges, where up to 60% of seats are allotted based on NEET scores. Although the politics-induced uncertainty over NEET was again trashed by the Supreme Court on Friday, parents and students fear cut-offs could increase. “Last year, cut-offs jumped by more than 100 marks compared to 2018. Now, with an additional four months to prepare, aspirants, especially those who took a break year, will score well,” said R Geetha, whose daughter passed Class XII in March and has been taking mock tests since then. Unlike any other year, even state board schools and teachers were praying for NEET, because this year their wards ended up with poor overall marks, after having gone through a heavy revised syllabus, tough question papers and tougher evaluation. “CBSE rubbed it in by being lenient in examination due to Covid-19 concerns, and awarding high scores to its students,” said Raj Shekar S, who teaches biology for Class XII in a state board school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-competition-for-mbbs-will-be-tougher-this-year/articleshow/77939340.cms||Pushpa Narayan
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Book bank in govt school cultivates love of reading in students||Mysuru: In Government Higher Primary School, Chatnalli I, in Puttegowdanahundi in Mysuru taluk, headmistress Kumuda Prasad, 50, started a book bank which now has over 4,000 books of various titles. This book bank was initially started with a few textbooks collected from the students who were promoted. Now it has become a full fledged book bank with thousands of titles on various subjects. From students to villagers, everyone is allowed to come and read at this book bank. “I started this book bank as a textbook bank. However now, with the help of donors and NGOs, we have all kinds of books from literature to spirituality and science. Villagers, our students as well as our past students come here to read books,” she said. This higher primary school has 130 students studying between class I and VII, and five teachers. This book bank was started in 2015 with the primary objective of collecting the textbooks of students who are promoted from one class to another, to help freshers. “The book bank helped us to ensure that all the students got their textbooks from day one of the new academic year. We later decided to expand the library with other books also,” said Kumuda Prasad. “Rural Literacy and Health Programme (RLHP), an NGO, donated 1,000 books to our book bank. Similarly, many donors donated 50 to a 100 books. This is how we were able to take the number of titles to 4,000 books,” she explained. “We teachers made an arrangement to ensure that this book bank is opened by 8.30 am. As we keep newspapers, magazines, books on literature, science and health, the locals also come the the school and read. Our past students also visit the school to refer to the books they require. We take feedback from all the visitors on their experience and how we can improve the system,” says Kumuda. According to the schoolteachers, the students have cultivated a love to read magazines, newspapers and books. “We succeeded in our idea of helping the students to start reading books,” said Kumuda. Kumuda, who was born in Bengaluru, has been a teacher for the last 30 years. She is the only member of her family who has selected this profession. She started her career as a teacher in KR Nagar taluk of the district, and served in many schools in the district in various capacities. She is working in this school for the last six years.  Mysuru Rural block education officer Krishna said, “This book bank is helping locals and students to inculcate the reading habit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/book-bank-in-govt-school-cultivates-love-of-reading-in-students/articleshow/77938276.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Development projects at Jog Falls draw flak from activists||Shivamogga: MP B Y Raghavendra’s Rs 120 crore development package for Jog Falls in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district has irked environmentalists. They have claimed that most of the projects that are planned under this project will harm the environment. “Development is a robbery in the name of the world renowned Jog Falls. The government has already polluted the environment surrounding the falls, and now Raghavendra says that the state government has approved a Rs 120 crore development project at the falls,” said Sagar based environmentalist Akhilesh Chipli. Akhilesh said that the special illumination at Jog Falls during the night, which highlights the cascading falls in different hues, is a threat to nocturnal creatures. The Sharavathi Valley is rich in flora and fauna. During the night, bats and nocturnal birds fly freely in the valley near the falls. We can find rare species of butterflies, which are almost endangered. The artificial lights are harming the natural habitat,” Akhilesh said. However, the Jog Development Authority officials informed TOI that there is no written complaint by any environmentalist regarding this issue. Very few travellers and tourists stay till 8pm at the falls. “We illuminate the falls twice a night, when we have more than 20 people. If environmentalists raise queries through an official platform, higher officials will respond to their concerns,” said program coordinator of the Jog Development Authority, Nissar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/development-projects-at-jog-falls-draw-flak-from-activists/articleshow/77938001.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Vid Covid cases surpass 70k mark, last 11k in just 4 days of Sept||Nagpur: Reporting more than 3,000 new Covid cases for the second day in a row, Vidarbha surpassed the 70,000-cases mark in 177 days. Of these, 11,137 cases came in just four days of September. Covid deaths too are increasing across Vidarbha now, though Nagpur is still the hotspot. Total 71 deaths were reported on September 4, second consecutive day of highest single-day spike in deaths. Out of these, 39 deaths came from Nagpur district. These include 33 from Nagpur city, 5 from Nagpur rural and 1 from other state. Yavatmal reported 9 deaths, followed by Amravati (7), Chandrapur (4), Buldhana (4), Akola (3), Bhandara (2), Wardha (2), and Gondia (1). Only Washim and Gadchiroli did not report deaths. Total death toll reached 1,854, with 265 reported in 4 days of September. Among the 3,127 new cases on Friday, which brought up the 70,000 mark, Nagpur once again reported highest 1,656 cases. The rest were in Bhandara (139), Wardha (168), Gondia (153), Chandrapur (279), Gadchiroli (15), Akola (129), Amravati (188), Yavatmal (197), Buldhana (91), and Washim (112). Nine of the 11 districts reported over 100 cases. Recoveries continued, with highest ever 2,041 patients recovering on Friday. These include Nagpur (1,228), Amravati (179), Buldhana (167), Yavatmal (150), Chandrapur (132), Gondia (54), Bhandara (38), Akola (31), Washim (26), Wardha (18), and Gadchiroli (18). With 44,646 out of 70,050 cases recovered, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is around 64%. Amravati: Seven Covid deaths and a spike of 188 cases took the district’s toll to 147 and count to 6,509 on Friday. With 179 getting discharge, recovered patients reached 4,942. This left 1,420 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 334 in home isolation. Seven persons, including one female, died during treatment today. The deceased were from Arvi, Chandur Bazar, and five from the city, including from Kishor Nagar, Chhabada Plots, Colonel Colony, Krush Nagar and Swawalambi Nagar. The rural belt reported 69 cases today to take its count to 1,893. Paratwada reported 11 cases while Chandur Railway reported nine. Dhamangaon Railway reported eight while Achalpur seven. Daryapur reported four while three each came from Morshi, Chandur Bazar and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. Two cases each came from Pimpri Yadgire, Bhatkuli and Mozari. A case each was reported from six rural places while five from outside the district tested positive. In city, Sharda Nagar reported 10 cases while Sai Nagar reported eight and Gopal Nagar seven. Ravi Nagar reported five while Kanwar Nagar reported eight. Other cases came from different localities of the city. Yavatmal: There were 9 deaths, 3 each from Yavatmal and Digras, and one each from Ralegaon, Darwha and Arni. The deceased were in the age group of 54 to 75. There are 197 new positive patients, 124 men and 73 women, with 44 from Yavatmal city. There are 976 active patients in district, with 725 in Covid care centres. Total 251 persons are in home quarantine while 207 are in isolation wards. 150 patients were discharged from GMC on Friday. Buldhana: Record 167 patients were discharged in Buldhana on Friday, when 91 tested positive. Four deaths were reported. The deceased include a 73-yr-old man from Sindkhed Raja, 60-year-old man from Buldhana, 70-year-old woman from Malkapur and 74-year-old man from Lonar. Buldhana now has 3,605 cases, 2,572 of them recovered, and 53 deaths. Total 980 patients are undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: Allegations of mismanagement and lack of facilities at Covid Hospital at Chandrapur GMCH poured in as district posted new record single-day spike of 279 patients, taking the total to 3,446. In all 132 patients were discharged, taking their total to 1,608. This left 1,799 active patients. Four deaths were reported during the day. MNS corporator Sachin Boyar inspected Covid Hospital in GMCH and alleged mismanagement and lack of facilities. Suspected patients are kept in hospital without treatment as reports take four to five days, he said. He charged many patients complained of lack of water supply in toilets. He also alleged one suspected patients died for lack of treatment, though his report turned out negative. District collector Ajay Gulhane claimed there were enough facilities and good stock of antigen test kits. He claimed around 1,300 tests are being done daily compared to 500 earlier. He also said over half a dozen private hospital were also opened for Covid-19 treatment at government rates. Meanwhile, 160 jail inmates and three jail officers tested positive in Chandrapur Centeral Jail. Health officials have established a special Covid Hospital in jail premises. New convicts will now be kept in temporary confinement at tribal hostel, and shifted to jail only after corona test. Akola: Total 129 tested positive on Friday, taking total number in district to 4,356. Three patients died on Friday, a 55-year-old woman from Malkapur, 65-year-old woman from Telhara, and 60-year-old man from Murtizapur, taking death toll of Akola to 163. 31 patients were discharged, leaving 819 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Total 139 new cases and 2 deaths were reported in Bhandara district. With this, total cases reached 1,746 and death toll reached 30. On Friday, 38 patients were discharged, taking total recovered patients to 907. Now, Bhandara has 809 patients under treatment. Wardha: In a surge, 168 cases were registered in district with two deaths, including a 50-year-old man of Wardha and a 59-year-old woman of Hinganghat. The highest cases were from Wardha (78), others being Hinganghat (35). Ashti (17), Selu (16), Deoli (9), Arvi (6), Karanja (4) and Samudrapur (3). On Friday, highest 1,316 test reports were received, the first time over 1,000 reports were received in one day. Meanwhile, 18 were discharged, taking Covid free patients to 826. There are 605 patients undergoing treatment. After two deaths on Friday, toll reached 31. Gondia: Posting third consecutive single-day over 100 spike, Gondia took its count over 2,000, with active cases touching 900 mark with 153 new cases. A 45-year-old patient of Ram Nagar died while 54 patients recovered. Gadchiroli: Total 15 new patients were detected while 18 were discharged, taking total number of cases in district to 1,229 and recovered patients to 927. Now, 301 patients are under treatment. The 15 positive patients include 3 of Gadchiroli who travelled back from Nagpur and Aurangabad, a health worker in Chamorshi, a teacher who was on duty at Covid Care Center in Mulchera, and others were close contacts of positive patients. Washim: Total 112 new cases were reported in Washim which took total to 2,050. With 26 in a day on Friday, 1,442 of them have recovered. Washim reported no Covid deaths on Friday. With death toll at 36; total 572 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-covid-cases-surpass-70k-mark-last-11k-in-just-4-days-of-sept/articleshow/77940123.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Ready ambulance, tracking comorbid, walk-in admission must to control deaths: Chahal||Nagpur: Indirectly pointing out lack of a proper system in the district, Mumbai municipal commissioner IS Chahal said ready ambulance service, focused testing, tracking of comorbid, walk-in admission and patients’ clinical management was needed to control Covid-19 deaths. He said no one in the world knew when this pandemic will end, so there is no need to fear rise in cases, but focus should be on equipping infrastructure to prevent deaths. Chahal along with four front-line Covid experts from Mumbai held daylong meeting with officials and doctors in the presence of home minister Anil Deshmukh, guardian minister Nitin Raut. They laid out a road map for containing spread and controlling high growth rate of deaths in the district. In a press conference later, Raut said an online dashboard will soon give information of vacant beds in government as well as private hospitals. “We will develop war room at all government and private hospitals, and 10 zones, which will be linked to the war room of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to give exact status of beds,” he said. One testing laboratory, one Covid Care Centre (CCC) and online bed management will be developed in each zone. Contact tracing will be improved with more testing too. Raut also promised more manpower by roping in retired doctors, nurses, and medical students from foreign countries now staying in the district. “I have also directed the administration to consult doctors of private hospitals of adjoining districts to work here,” he said. Raut said Deshmukh’s initiative to bring experts from Mumbai is going to benefit district and give desired results. Asked whether 5,000 tests per day were enough in the district, Chahal said, “Number of tests doesn’t matter. Rapid antigen kits should not be wasted and used only in emergency cases. Comorbid should be tracked by reaching all households. There should be focused testing. Nagpur needs to cut time taken to get test results, so treatment can start sooner.” During meeting with doctors, four front-line Covid experts from Mumbai expressed the need for Dedicated Covid Hospital for kidney dialysis patients. “Number of deaths in patients requiring kidney dialysis is high. A hospital with good dialysis facilities should come forward and do it,” they said. Chahal also said, “Nagpur needs at least 100 or more ambulances. There is no need to buy ambulances. At Mumbai, we converted spacious vans into ambulance. Covid patients only need immediate admission and oxygen, so any vehicle can be an ambulance. Also, Covid patients can walk and sit, so no need for stretchers.” On majority of patients choosing home isolation, Chahal said only 17% symptomatic patients need hospitals across the world. “But asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients without isolation facility in homes like separate washroom, bedroom etc should be compulsory admitted in CCCs to contain spread and safeguard comorbid,” he said. Asked whether the district was doing well, Chahal said, “Good or bad does not depend on number of cases and number of tests in a day. Patients getting walk-in admission, treatment and deaths under control mean it is good.” As for Nagpur, officials are doing good work and plan to increase beds and implement various measures, he said. “This battle against the invisible enemy is going on across the world. And today no one can say when our battle is going to end. Therefore, we need to win the battle every day by having proper infrastructure,” he said. Chahal pointed out, “A patient in Mumbai has been testing positive for 100 days, over 15 tests. Our priority should be to see he survives and returns home in good health.” Raut said, “We have managed to increase recovery rate to 66% in the district. Case fatality rate is 3.03%. By adopting the suggestions of experts, we will improve further. IAS-led team has been appointed for each of the 10 zones. Deputy collectors will also be roped in soon.” Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said there was no shortage of beds and 423 beds were available on Friday. Chahal said, “Online dashboard can resolve problem of bed shortage. Every person wants his/her family member to be admitted soon in a hospital. Sometimes there might be beds but wrong information goes out. Therefore, online bed management should be started soon with centralized admission and information system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ready-ambulance-tracking-comorbid-walk-in-admission-must-to-control-deaths-chahal/articleshow/77940157.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||My door open for citizens all day, says new CP Kumar||Nagpur: The new city police chief Amitesh Kumar, who took over from Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay on Friday said he citizens could meet him on any working day from 10 am to 7 pm at his office. He also said the security and safety of the Nagpurians would be among his core priorities. Kumar, an IPS officer of 1995-batch, had earlier served in city between 2005 and 2007 when he had been DCP zone-II and traffic. He also warned people against violating Covid rules like not wearing masks in public and cautioned he would invoke the Epidemic Act against them. “No filtering. My doors are open for all on working days for sharing their grievances and complaints,” said Kumar adding his public interactions would take place following the Covid guidelines. Son of a district and sessions judge, Kumar is a post-graduate in law and cyber law apart from having a degree in economics. Kumar, whose name is associated with the investigation into international match-fixing scam involving West Indian all-rounder Marlon Samuels, said he would not tolerate anyone toying with laws of the land. “Will crackdown upon anyone with legal actions whether under MCOCA (organized gang) or MPDA (dreaded goons) to tackle them hard with strict applications of the laws,” said Kumar whose first day in the office included engagements with the visiting team of specialists from Mumbai under state home minister Anil Deshmukh to assess the Covid situation. “Good people must have faith on policing. Enough would be done to deter the criminal elements,” he said. It is learnt Kumar had a brief meeting with DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane but his meetings with the rest of the senior officers is expected to take place after the send-off to Upadhyay who would be heading to Mumbai as Addl DG, traffic. “With the support of the citizens and police force, I would try to take policing to higher level. Focus would be to address the grievances of the people on priority,” he said. Kumar also said he was privileged to have good predecessors who left big impression of their work. “Traffic would be my priority and there would be zero tolerance towards violations like triple seat riding,” he said. Kumar also said there would be public awareness drives to increase the cyber awareness among citizens as such crimes are on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/my-door-open-for-citizens-all-day-says-new-cp-kumar/articleshow/77940063.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||New website for Tadoba booking runs into trouble||Nagpur: Even as tiger reserves in Madhya Pradesh will start advance bookings for safari in core area from September 7, confusion prevails in Maharashtra where tourists and resort owners are unable to make bookings from the official website mahaecotourism.gov.in. Though advance booking can be done 120 days before, due to Covid-19 spread in the state there was restriction on inter-district travel. After Unlock-4, this restriction has been removed from September 1 and now tour operators and resort owners are flooded with calls for booking, especially for Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). “We are unable to make bookings from the official website in any of the tiger reserve. Tadoba has opened a separate website in the name mytadoba.org but it too is also not accepting bookings. We are getting calls from various towns for accommodation but we are not able to book as safari is unavailable,” said a section of resort owners. For the past five months, the parks have been closed and revenue from tourism has been zero. Though tourism was allowed in Tadoba, Pench and Melghat buffer, not many tourists took safari owing to travel restrictions and to some extent opposition from local villagers. PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar told TOI that there was an issue with the Tadoba website but it will be sorted soon. “In a week’s time visitors will be able to make advance bookings. As it is till August 31, inter-district travel was banned.” TATR field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “As the new Tadoba website has no approval, it has not been allowed to start. The park is expected to open from October 1, depending on the condition of roads. Otherwise, it will open from October 15.” The NTCA has already allowed tourism in parks from June 6 with certain conditions like 50% vehicle carrying capacity among other rules. A section of field directors said they will open bookings after an official communication from PCCF (wildlife) as parks were closed on his directions. According to sources, the new Tadoba website is mired in controversy. It was arbitrarily prepared without floating any e-tenders and government sanction. The new website has been designed violating MoU with Mahaonline-TCS. On March 31, 2020 the 10-year pact with TCS has ended. Now, Mahaonline has become MahaIT. It is fully owned by the state government. Hence, tourism bookings will be handled by the government now. Dilip Borkar, in-charge of online bookings of all the parks, said, “I have no intimation about new website of TATR. Now, all the online bookings will be handled by MahaIT,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-website-for-tadoba-booking-runs-into-trouble/articleshow/77940109.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Hydroponic weed worth Rs 7.8 lakh seized at Bengaluru airport||BENGALURU: In the third case of drug seizure in five days at the air cargo section of Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), customs officials seized a top variety of hydroponic cannabis worth Rs 7.8 lakh on Friday. Smuggled from the US, it was hidden inside ‘construction equipment’. Around 8.5kg of cannabis had been seized on Monday and over 700grams of cocaine on Wednesday. Sources with Bangalore customs said two air-tight packets containing 485grams of hydroponic cannabis were concealed in equipment which was declared as a construction kit. “On specific information, we scanned the shipment and found marijuana inside,” said an investigating officer from KIA. Hydroponic weed is grown without water in a controlled indoor environment often using artificial lights. It’s said to be extremely potent and is much in demand and expensive. “We believe this high-quality weed from the US was smuggled into Bengaluru through courier for local usage. The seeds are said to be cultivated locally under controlled conditions to multiply the plants for further sale. We are trying to track down the receiver,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hydroponic-weed-worth-rs-7-8l-seized-at-kia/articleshow/77938158.cms||Petlee Peter
September 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Women education pioneer honoured by staff, students||Guntur: It is a different kind of Teachers’ Day for teachers and students at Government Women’s College in Guntur as they paid rich tributes to veteran politician and philanthropist Tellakula Jalaiah. Jalaiah would be remembered as ‘guru’ for his services for empowerment of girls’ education. As the college was closed due to Covid-19, the teachers and former teachers decided to organise a small programme to pay tributes to Jalaiah on Saturday via virtual mode. Jalaiah, who served as municipal chairman during the British regime, was responsible for getting a college for women in Guntur. It was the second exclusive higher educational institution for women in the composite state of Madras (Andhra and Tamil Nadu). “Jalaiah, a school pass out, was a smart politician. He spent many sleepless nights to achieve the college for Guntur. Knowing fully well that it is difficult to get the college to a small town like Guntur, Jalaiah played his cards well. He met district collector Hope’s wife and put forward a resolution cleared by the civic body to open an educational institution for women in her name and requested her to grant permission,” recalled Dr DAR Subramanyam, former principal, TJPS college. Floored by Jalaiah’s proposal, the lady prevailed upon her husband and got the government to open the college for women within no time, he said. The college was initially named as Lady Hope Women’s college when it was set up in 1942. Till then, the lone women’s college was in Madras (now Chennai). Post-independence, the Guntur college was renamed as Government Women’s College, he said. Guntur Women’s College has helped many students from AP to pursue higher education dreams in last 75 years. Jalaiah also served as Guntur city legislator between 1955-62. He was a member of both senate and syndicate of Andhra University. He also founded TJPS degree college in the city in 1971. “During the golden jubilee celebrations of the college held in 1994-95, then principal Dr Sarada and many former teachers like us requested the government to rename the college as Tellakula Jalaiah memorial Government Women’s College as a mark of respect to the leader. But the TDP government did not approve it,” said a retired teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/women-education-pioneer-honoured-by-staff-students/articleshow/77940424.cms||Samdani MN
September 5, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Youth cites cop harassment, drowns self||VIJAYAWADA: Alleging police harassment, a youth ended his life by jumping into the river at Paritala village of Kanchikacherla mandal in Krishna district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Munnagi Rajasekhar. According to family members, Kanchikacherla police had allegedly been targeted and beaten Rajasekhar for being a TDP supporter and booked in a gambling case. Police denied assault allegations and said that Rajasekhar was picked up along with four of his friends while they were playing cards late at night. Speaking to TOI, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu said that Rajasekhar was released on bail and was later summoned back to the police station after they found him putting a WhatsApp post claiming that his friends were spared after a politician’s call. “The station officer counselled Rajasekhar. A DSP-rank officer is inquiring into the incident,” the SP told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-cites-cop-harassment-drowns-self/articleshow/77940426.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||8 yrs on, Karnataka govt to implement panel report to fight drug menace||BENGALURU: Facing flak from various quarters in the wake of the drug controversy surrounding Sandalwood, the government has decided to implement the 2012 report submitted by the assembly’s petitions committee headed by then deputy speaker N Yogish Bhat. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said a new policy will soon be rolled out after incorporating recommendations made by the committee’s report. It will aim to fix responsibility on managements of educational institutions if their students are found to have consumed or peddled narcotics. With the government deciding to implement the report, the focus is not only on the film industry but also educational institutions, business houses, industrial hubs and sections of high society. “Successive governments had ignored the report, which has some vital insights about the drug mafia and talks about the involvement of those in power. We will bring in stringent laws to address the menace and will effectively use existing ones too,” said Bommai. The petitions committee had taken up a suo motu case on the basis of reports about drug trade thriving on the premises of educational institutions. The report said peddlers were mainly targeting students, especially girls. It also highlighted the complicity of the police department and forensic science laboratory (FSL). The report said there were 9,977 cases of missing girls and atrocities against women in 2010 and the number increased to 10,528 in 2011. The number stood at 8,255 till September 2012. Bhat said these missing cases were largely linked to the drug menace rampant in urban and semi-urban areas and indicated the deep nexus between the drug mafia and prostitution racket. While the report was tabled in the assembly in December 2012, it was soon forgotten with the state going to assembly polls and the new government which took charge in May 2013 ignoring it. Low conviction rateIn the first place, only a few suspects were being nabbed. And even those arrested were easily getting off the hook because of the weak case built by investigators, leading to a low conviction rate. This can happen only because of connivance of police and FSL. We need to break this link N Yogish Bhat, former deputy speaker||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/8-yrs-on-govt-to-implement-panel-report-to-fight-drug-menace/articleshow/77938116.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Manekbaug man found murdered||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Manekbaug area of city was found murdered, with multiple stab wounds to his body, in the Mumatpura area of the city on Friday morning. According to an FIR filed with Sarkhej police, the man was identified as Pramod Patel, 43, a resident of Pranav Apartments in Manekbaug, who worked at a nursery in Mumatpura. Inspector B B Goyal of Sarkhej police said Pramod’s body was found in the bushes near the Force Motors service station in Mumatpura. The deceased’s brother, Jayesh Patel, 37, a resident of Patelvaas in Mohanpura village of Bhiloda taluka in Arvalli district, in his FIR states that Pramod was married to Kinjal, 25, and had a four-year-old son. He was living at his in-laws’ place in Manekbaug and worked at the nursery where he had gone last on Thursday, when he did not return till late night. Kinjal then called her husband’s cousin, Kirit Patel, and her uncle Hasmukh Patel, saying Pramod had not returned and was not responding to calls. Kirit and Hasmukh had gone to look for Pramod at his employer’s home near Shyamal Crossroads where they learned that Pramod had left work at around 6.30pm on Thursday. They approached police and they began searching for Pramod near his work place in Mumatpura. When they were searching for him, they found his body, with multiple stabs to his head, face, neck and back. His scooter was lying in the bushes near the body. Sarkhej police registered a case of murder and began an investigation. Goyal said they did not get any clues about the perpetrator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/manekbaug-man-found-murdered/articleshow/77941024.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Once a teacher, always a mentor||AHMEDABAD: It was May 22, Mahendra Sanghpal remembers vividly, when he reached the home of Hareram, 21, his former student, and told him not to worry. “I got his belongings and took him with me. I got him shelter in Paldi and ensured he gets two meals a day till he gets another job,” says Sanghpal. Sanghpal, a special educator at the School for Deaf-Mutes Society on Ashram Road, had heard about Hareram’s plight. The orphaned youth with a speech and hearing impairment, had passed out from the school after Class VIII in 2017, and was working as a cook at an eatery in the city. The lockdown forced the owners to shut shop and fire the staff. Hareram found it difficult to sustain himself and pay his rent. His friends told Sanghpal that Hareram was in depression. “I was in touch with him and initially tried to supply him ration kits regularly. But it was not enough. In May – after getting to know about his condition – I reached out and helped him find shelter with an organization that has also offered him odd jobs and regular meals,” said Sanghpal, who said that once a teacher, once gets attached to students as lifelong mentors and always wish the best for them. “Currently, there are only two students in our hostel and both are orphans and have nowhere else to go. It’s our duty to ensure their well-being as we not only remain teachers for them, but become their parents in a sense,” he said, adding that Covid-19 will affect special children more in terms of continuation of their education. “We do conduct online classes for such children, but it cannot replace the classroom as we can’t ascertain whether every student has understood things properly.” Sanghpal is also known for organizing trips for the students with impairment. “Donors come forth for meals or sponsoring education, but I realized that these children’s exposure to the outside world is important, and thus I started reaching out to the friends and family to ensure they also trek, go to places and ignite their curiosity,” said Sanghpal, who holds a doctoral degree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/once-a-teacher-always-a-mentor/articleshow/77939566.cms||Parth Shastri
September 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur village teacher brings world to his students’ homes||Guntur: A school teacher from a small village in Guntur who had been instrumental in using technology to connect the world did not sit back when the Covid-19 pandemic brought the world to a grinding halt. Patcharu Harikrishna from the Zilla Parishad High School in Bhattiporu mandal’s Illavaram village set his focus on class 9 students, who would enter class 10 for the academic year 2020-21, as he felt they would suffer the most if re-opening of schools faced further delay. He set about his task and got a list of students from headmaster Nageswara Rao. Harikrishna collected the students’ phone numbers as soon as schools closed down in March and started giving online lessons on Zoom since April itself. He even opened Facebook accounts for his students and started streaming lessons so that they could easily revisit their lessons later. But he did not stop at that. Harikrishna went on to rope in experts from abroad and tracked down educators from across the world to take online classes for his students. He even used videos on Youtube channels of teachers to educate his students. “Only few of the 40 students had their own phones during the initial days (of the lockdown). I took the help of local elders and parents and asked them to provide their phones for at least a few hours for these lessons,” Harikrishna told TOI. While he initially taught students English and communication, he went on to get teachers to provide lessons in the sciences and mathematics. “It was like a dream come true for us as we could freely interact with teachers from all over the world thanks to Harikrishna sir,” said Prasunamba, one of his students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-village-teacher-brings-world-to-his-students-homes/articleshow/77940411.cms||Samdani MN
September 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Integrated terminal site inspected by collector||Vijayawada: Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz on Friday conducted inspections at Vijayawada airport where construction of an integrated terminal is set to start. According to Airport Authority of India (AAI) officials, the project which is estimated at Rs 470 crore would commence in the next 10 days. They are confident about getting necessary permissions from the Centre. The integrated terminal would come up behind the existing Vijayawada Airport in Gannavaram. This terminal will be constructed in 3.5 lakh sq feet area where both domestic and international services would be integrated. In addition to that, the collector informed that another Rs 27 crore would be spent on apron link taxi way. The integrated terminal would be able to handle 400 foreign passengers and 800 domestic passengers at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/integrated-terminal-site-inspected-by-collector/articleshow/77940461.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Special train being run for NDA and INA aspirants||VISAKHAPATNAM: In view of the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Indian Naval Academy (INA) examinations to be conducted by the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) in Visakhapatnam on September 6, the East Coast Railway (ECR) will be running special trains between Ichchapuram and Visakhapatnam. This is being done for the convenience of candidates appearing from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. “Over 4,500 candidates will be attending this exam from this region,” said a railway official. The train — 05831(Ichchapuram-Visakhapatnam ) — will start from Ichchapuram on September 5 at 5pm, will reach Palasa at 5.39pm, Srikakulam Road at 6.35pm, Vizianagaram at 7.30pm before finally halting in Visakhapatnam at 9pm. In return direction, train 05832 will leave Visakhapatnam at 6.30 pm on September 6 to reach Ichchapuram at 10.30pm. The train will have 16 general and two second-class compartments. “All norms of social distancing, wearing mask, carrying admit card are to be strictly followed by candidates” the railway official said. The special train will have stoppages at Sompeta, Palasa, Naupada, Kotabommali, Srikakulam Road, Chipurupalli, Vizianagaram, Kottavalasa between Icchapuram and Visakhapatnam stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-train-being-run-for-nda-and-ina-aspirants/articleshow/77940436.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 5, 2020||Trichy||More accidents during peak hours in Trichy city||Trichy: Most number of accidents in the city takes place during peak hours in the morning and evening, as per the report by National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) on Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India (2019). The report states that Trichy city recorded 517 road accidents in 2019 in which 104 people were killed and 585 injured. The report says 107 accidents occurred between 6pm and 9pm, 90 between 9am and 12 pm and 80 between 3pm and 6pm. The least, 19 accidents, happened between midnight and 3 am. “Everyone is busy in the morning while going to work and in the evening while returning home. They have the tendency to rush ending up in accidents. Besides us educating people, everyone should follow traffic rules to avoid such incidents,” DCP (crime and traffic) R Vetharathinam told TOI on Friday. Traffic south investigation wing inspector of police (Trichy city) pointed out that more fatalities occurred between 9pm and midnight, although only 62 accidents were recorded. “High speed and issues with visibility leads to fatal accidents,” said Sindhunathi, adding that wearing helmet saved the lives of many in accidents, while rash driving caused deaths despite wearing a helmet. Stating that incidence of drunken driving was not alarming, Sindhunathi said distraction while driving also led to accidents. On the accidents on national highways, the DCP said that only 10km of NH passes through the city. “In our jurisdiction, we have put up barricades at Senthanneerpuram and Sanjeevi Nagar to alert drivers in the early hours to avoid accidents,” he said. The DCP also said that the city recorded 238 accidents till August this year, as against 343 accidents during the same period last year. In 2018, 602 accidents were recorded. In 2019, the city recorded an average of 43 road traffic accidents every month. The city did not witness any accidents under the heads – railway accidents and railway crossing accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-accidents-during-peak-hours-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77940440.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||RBI revamps rules for priority sector loans, adds startups||Mumbai: The RBI has overhauled its priority sector lending (PSL) norms to boost fund flows to districts that have been excluded and has doubled its limit for health infrastructure to Rs 10 crore, and for renewable energy to Rs 30 crore. According to the new norms, loans of up to Rs 50 crore to startups (as defined by the industry ministry) also qualify as PSL.With agriculture being the only sector expected to grow this fiscal year, the RBI has decided to ramp up credit flow to this segment and said targets prescribed for small and marginal farmers and weaker sections will be increased in a phased manner. Banks can now lend up to Rs 5 crore to Farmer Producer Organisations and individual households can get loans up to Rs 10 lakh for renewable energy generation. Banks can also give loans up to Rs 5 crore for setting up schools, drinking water facilities and sanitation facilities. Post Covid-19, healthcare, sanitation and startups have emerged as focus areas and the government is keen to support these sectors. Clean energy is another key area that has received atention in recent years.“The inclusion of startups in PSL will reduce their cost of capital by allowing them better access to bank credit. Going forward, equity infusion will not be the only route to follow when startups need funds for working capital requirements, and this will greatly ease the risk of ordinary shareholders being wiped out due to ‘down-rounds’,” said SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh. However, to boost lending to startups, it is also imperative to set in place an institutional mechanism as they don’t have collateral and performance evaluation mechanism matrix, he added. The RBI last revised PSL norms in 2015.The new norms will benefit microlenders who cater to the priority sector as defined by the RBI. This is because banks have been allowed to buy such loans or invest in securitised assets, representing loans to various categories of priority sector, except ‘others’ category, and these will qualify for priority sector.“The revision in guidelines will incentivise credit flow to specific segments like clean energy, weaker sections, health infrastructure and credit-deficient geographies. These measures are also aligned to focus areas of development according to extant policy environment and will support funding requirements in these specific sectors,” Crisil Ratings senior director Krishnan Sitaraman said.The fresh categories eligible for finance under priority sector include loans to farmers for installation of solar power plants for solarisation of grid-connected agriculture pumps and loans for setting up Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) plants. According to the RBI, the revised guidelines will correct the regional disparities in the flow of priority sector credit. This has been done by giving higher weightage to fresh loans in “identified districts where priority sector credit flow is comparatively low”.The priority sector norms were last revised in 2015 and new segments — including medium enterprises, social infrastructure and renewable energy — were included. In recent years, home loans have dominated priority sector lending as these were seen as the safest in this category by banks. Around 40% of bank loans are to mandatorily be made in the priority sector. Lenders who fail to do so are penalised by being forced to invest in low-yielding government investments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rbi-revamps-rules-for-priority-sector-loans-adds-startups/articleshow/77941126.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Just 50 cornea donations across Maharashtra in six months||PUNE: The state is reeling under a severe shortage of corneal tissues in the wake of the pandemic, the lockdown, and restrictions imposed on voluntary eye donations. The state has recorded donations of just 50 corneas in the last six months (March to August). Prior to the pandemic, the state's half-yearly collection of corneal tissues through deceased donors had always been at least 2,500. A patient from the state needing an emergency corneal transplant was finally referred to L V Prasad Eye Hospital in Hyderabad where he found a donor cornea and his eye could be saved. Nearly 800 people in Maharashtra, including over 100 from Pune Metropolitan Region, are waiting for corneal transplant services to normalize. “A total of 25 deceased donors donated 50 corneas in the last six months in Maharashtra. That means a 98% drop in eye donations across the state,” eye surgeon Vardhaman Kankariya said. He is the secretary of Maharashtra Ophthalmic Society, a statewide organisation of eye surgeons. Kankariya said the drastic drop has also been aggravated due to the pandemic and the lockdown. Voluntary eye donation, the most important source for corneal tissue, has dropped due to government and academic bodies’ guidelines, he added. “Besides, most medical colleges and hospitals, which run the corneal retriever programme and constitute a major source for corneal tissues, have been converted into Covid-19 centres. They cannot participate in eye donation drives. There is further decrease as Covid-19 test has been advised to every eye donor and for the technician who is retrieving the cornea,” Kankariya said. Senior eye surgeon Madan Deshpande underlines that the Union government guidelines have restricted voluntary eye donation, the main source of corneal collection across India. “The Union government guideline has restricted voluntary eye donation because the cause of death is usually not known when a person dies at home. As per the guidelines, a person who has died in a hospital can donate his/her eyes as the cause of death is known and a quick Covid-19 test can be run to rule out infection,” Deshpande said. Government guidelines clearly state that the donated corneas should only be used for therapeutic purposes and not for optical or granting vision. “Prior to the pandemic, approximately 200 surgeries were carried out in Maharashtra every month in which corneal tissues were used for therapeutic purposes. Such surgeries are likely to have dropped to 10 per month now,” Kankariya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-50-cornea-donations-across-state-in-six-months-of-pandemic/articleshow/77939349.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Drug racket busted after month’s work: Bengaluru Police commissioner||BENGALURU: Police commissioner Kamal Pant on Friday said arrest of RTO staffer K Ravi Shankar was the result of more than a month’s homework. According to Central Crime Branch (CCB) sources, statements made and leads provided by Shankar led to the arrest of Sandalwood actress Ragini Dwivedi. Shankar has known her for many years. “They both would attend rave parties where drugs were supplied abundantly. Shankar and Ragini also peddled drugs in such parties. Rahul Tonse and Viren Khanna, the event managers arrested, are also prominent peddlers,” sources added. Pant, however, said they are pursuing an ‘organised drug racket’ in the city with international connections. “A few months ago, we received a credible tip-off that Shankar was a prime drug peddler. Since then, we kept a watch on him. Many individuals, including celebrities, were also under the scanner,” he said. “Shankar and Tonse have confessed to purchasing drugs mainly from a foreign national living in Bengaluru. Wait for a few days and we will come out with more details and possibly more arrests,” he said, adding: “Drugs were also purchased from Punjab, Mumbai, Goa and Andhra Pradesh, besides some foreign countries.” Asked whether more celebrities from Sandalwood will be questioned, Pant replied, “The matter is under investigation. Whenever we come across evidence, we shall reveal the name and other details.” ‘Vital docus seized from Ragini’s flat’In a day of fast-paced developments, Ragini, who had been asked to appear before CCB on Thursday, woke up on Friday morning to the knocks of CCB personnel who landed at her apartment in Judicial Layout near Yelahanka with a search warrant from court. According to joint commissioner Sandeep Patil, they recovered “important material and documents which are relevant to the on-going investigation” during the raid on Ragini’s flat. As the raid was under way, Dwivedi left home around 9.30am in her SUV and reached the CCB office by 10.15am. After questioning her for more than seven hours, police announced her arrest around 6.30pm. Will review progress; op to continueWe have asked officials to find the drug source. Police have been asked to step-up efforts in Tier-2 and 3 cities and in various districts. I will review the progress with SPs and IGs through video conferencing on Saturday. Our operation against drugs will continue for some more days Basavaraj Bommai | Home ministerActress threatens to name IPS officersA Sandalwood actress has threatened to reveal the names of police officials, including IPS officers, and other VIPs who attended rave parties if she’s hauled up in the drug-peddling case. “I am from a reputed family and have been watching my name being unnecessarily dragged for some time. If they continue to disturb me, I will reveal the names of police officers and other dignitaries who attend rave parties and are fully aware of the drug mafia,” a CCB police quoted the actress as saying. Asked whether police will reinvestigate a five-month-old accident case allegedly involving another actress and drug scandal suspect, police commissioner Pant said: “If we find the ongoing probe has any link to the accident case, we will reopen it” A high-end SUV had rammed the pillars of a railway underbridge in Vasantnagar at midnight in first week of April during lockdown. The actress and her friend sustained injuries and it was strongly suspected that the former was at the wheel. However, traffic police had filed a chargesheet saying the friend was driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drug-racket-busted-after-months-work-top-cop/articleshow/77938038.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Teachers take to alternative jobs as institutes hold back payments||VISAKHAPATNAM: K Ramesh Babu was a teacher at a vocational junior college in Amalapuram. Now he has taken to selling vegetables in order to sustain his family since the Covid-19-caused lockdown forced educational institutions to shut. Dharma Rao, a physics teacher at a private institute in Visakhapatnam is now going back to Srikakulam where he will undertake farm work. Another maths teacher of a private school has also resorted to MNREGA work. The Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown has taken an immense toll on teachers working within private institutions. Many teachers have vacated their rented homes in the city and returned to their rural residences. Some have taken up farming while others have sought opportunities in other rural professions. The lives of thousands of teachers and lecturers in Andhra Pradesh have turned upside down. With educational institutions shut and fee payments due, several schools and colleges only paid half salaries for the first couple of months of the lockdown. Then the schools shifted to a ‘no-work-no-pay’ model, except for those institutes which could switch to online teaching. Even working teachers and lecturers are not receiving their salaries in full for the last five months. Temporarily retrenched teachers are now worried whether they will have their jobs when the institutions finally reopen. The situation is the same across private schools, engineering colleges and institutes teaching professional courses. There are around 17,000 government-recognised private schools in AP with combined faculty strength of nearly 1.5 lakh. It is estimated that another 1.5 lakh teachers work in other private institutions. Didde Ambedkar, state president of ‘Private Teachers, Lecturers Union’ (PTLU) said, “Teachers have been forced to take up petty jobs to tide over the crisis. It is unfortunate to see such well-educated teachers go hungry. September 5, 2020 would be observed as a black day. We will hold state-wide protests on Saturday.” Meanwhile, the director of school education, V Chinaveerabhadrudu, in a memo dated September 1, asked officials to issue show-cause notices to managements of private institutions who have not paid salaries to their staff for the last few months and have retrenched staff without following due process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/teachers-take-to-alternative-jobs-as-institutes-hold-back-payments/articleshow/77937877.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Lane for 2-wheelers from Head PO to MGR statue||Trichy: While the national crime record bureau (NCRB) report underlined the high number of fatalities in accidents involving two-wheelers in 2019, Trichy city police have already planned to create a separate lane for two-wheelers. Of the 104 people who died in 517 accidents in the city, 34 lost their lives in accidents involving two-wheelers — 25 of them being riders while nine were others hit by two-wheelers. Most of the fatalities involved accidents between two bikes or between bike and a heavy vehicle. The city police had already embarked on a plan to bring down the fatalities in August. City police commissioner J Loganathan consulted district collector S Sivarasu and corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian at the collector office on Friday in this connection. The officials chose the stretch between Head post office roundabout and MGR statue for making a separate lane for two-wheelers. “The project is ready to be implemented on the stretch on a pilot basis,” CoP Loganathan told TOI. The project includes a separate lane for two-wheeler riders and separate signal for them. Deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vetharathinam mentioned the unexpected fatalities of two-wheeler riders during the Covid-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lane-for-2-wheelers-from-head-po-to-mgr-statue/articleshow/77940447.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 5, 2020||Pune||Scooterist booked for snatching smartphone||Pune: A scooterist snatched a smartphone worth Rs15,000 from a woman (30) while she was talking on it in front of a housing society on NIBM annexe road at Mahammadwadi in Kondhwa on Thursday evening. “The woman, a homemaker, from Kondhwa was on an evening walk. She was talking on the cellphone, when the scooterist came from behind, snatched her phone and fled in the direction of Undri,” senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police said. The woman raised an alarm, but passers-by did not help. She informed the police after two hours. “The woman couldn’t see the suspect’s face, nor could she note down the vehicle’s registration number because of the darkness. She told the police the suspect was aged around 20 to 22 years,” Gaikwad said. He said they were analysing the CCTV cameras’ footage from the vicinity to identify the routes the suspect took. “We hope to solve the robbery case at the earliest,” he added. The Kondhwa police have registered an offence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against the scooterist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scooterist-booked-for-snatching-smartphone/articleshow/77939341.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid tests at IGI’s T3 for transit flyers from abroad||NEW DELHI: The Delhi airport has become the first such facility in the country to set up an on-site Covid-19 testing centre for its transit flyers from abroad. The facility is coming up at the T3 multilevel car parking for those international flyers who are scheduled to board a connecting domestic flight and already don’t have a negative RT-PCR certificate. They are likely to get the results in four-six hours. The laboratory, constructed in a 3,500-square-meter area, will be operational by mid-September, the airport authorities said on Friday. Sample collection stations have been built near the arrival pier. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which manages Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), has collaborated with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, a Delhi-based laboratory associated with Delhi government to test Covid-19 samples. Until the results are confirmed, these passengers will be isolated at the waiting lounge or may opt to stay in a hotel. In case of passengers with positive results, the respective state authorities will follow the protocols decided by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Those testing negative will be allowed to carry on with their onward journey. The laboratory will act as a key facility for the safety of passengers as the central government is preparing to open the sky more with air bubbles, a source said. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of DIAL, said, “The pilot initiative has been taken to ensure testing of all arriving international transfer passengers scheduled to board a domestic connecting flight. The laboratory has been adequately equipped for testing and sample collection that will be conducted in compliance with the protocols established by ICMR and NABL.” “As India enters a crucial stage of further relaxing international borders, it was imperative that a comprehensive strategy is put in place,” said Dr Rajat Arora, director of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre. According to the Union health ministry guidelines, international arriving passengers having a RT-PCR negative certificate are already exempted from institutional quarantine arranged by state authorities and allowed for onward air journey. This exemption is available if the test was conducted within 96 hours before undertaking the journey. Now, the rest of these international passengers can use this RT-PCR testing facility on landing at IGIA. A Covid-19 negative report will allow these passengers to take a connecting flight to other domestic destinations without going to a quarantine facility in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-tests-at-igis-t3-for-transit-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77940445.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Server glitch: Kailash Gahlot promises quick fix as many stranded at PUC centres in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It was on August 3 when Mahesh Sharma, a resident of Dwarka, was celebrating Rakshabandhan that the pollution under control certificate (PUCC) of his car expired. Since it was a holiday, Sharma decided to get his car checked for pollution the next day, knowing little that it was the beginning of a 19-day ordeal. “I have been getting messages from the transport department to get my PUC check done but since I have been working mostly from home, I thought I will get it done when I venture out,” Sharma said. The day after, he went to a PUC Centre at Dwarka Sector 22, the one closest to his house, while out to buy milk. “The attendant said the server is down and asked me to try my luck after a few hours. The same thing happened for two days and then I went to a centre at Sector 23 and then Sector 9, with the same results,” he said. It is then that he read about the department’s special drive against polluting vehicles and the hefty fine of Rs 10,000 for not carrying a valid PUCC. “I started taking photographs of non-functional PUC centres so that I have a valid reason if caught by authorities on road as I sometime go to office,” he said. He finally got a PUCC on August 22. Sharma is not the only vehicle owner in Delhi who had to make multiple visits to PUC centres. “Most vehicles have been lying parked during the lockdown and I even have a BS-IV car that is only slightly older than a year. Either the transport department should rectify its PUC centres or at least allow vehicles that are obviously not polluting,” said Ankit Srivastava, a Sheikh Sarai resident. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the department had been rectifying the problem, with visible results. The problem is at the end of National Informatics Centre (NIC), which maintains the cloud server and ensures connectivity with the centres’ Vahan software. A meeting was chaired by Gahlot on August 27, following which a field inspection of PUC centres was carried out. “NIC was asking to increase memory and we did that, but still there are some problems,” Gahlot said. If a vehicle is being tested and the server is down even for a second, the system has to be restarted and the process has to be repeated, he added. Gahlot said the server could be changed but all servers wouldn’t support the centralised Vahan portal. “However, the situation is much better now. I will request people to keep some patience as the issue will be completely rectified soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/server-glitch-gahlot-promises-quick-fix-as-many-stranded-at-puc-centres/articleshow/77939375.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 5, 2020||Trichy||13th century tablet in Vandavasi has a Thiruvanaikoil temple connection||Trichy: A Tiruvannamalai based history enthusiast group has decoded a 13th century stone tablet with inscriptions that talk about the donation of a cultivable land in Vandavasi by a chieftain to maintain a garden of Thiruvanaikoil Jambukeswarar temple in Trichy. The stone tablet also has a pictorial representation explaining the history of Jambukeswarar temple, situated about 250 km from the village in Tiruvannamalai district.According to the Tiruvannamalai District Centre for Historic Research, the locals in Aachamangalam village near Vandavasi informed about the tablet to the authorities. The tablet measuring four feet in height and two feet in width was inscribed with Tamil letters and remained intact. The research group after decoding the letters said that the land in which the stone tablet found was donated to maintain the garden supplying flowers to Jambukeswarar temple through the revenue generated from it. The stone tablet that belongs to the period of Sadayavarman Sundara Pandian mentions that the land was donated by a chieftain called Vikra Pandya Sambuvarayar. The other side of the stone tablet has pictorial representations of a trident, an elephant, spider and Jambul tree, indicating the history of Thiruvanaikoil temple.“It is rare for a chieftain to donate land for a temple situated 250 km away. Although there are other renowned Siva temples in Chidambaram and Tiruvannamalai, it is surprising to note the devotion for a far off temple,” S Balamuragan, secretary, Tiruvannamalai District Centre for Historic Research said. The research group said that usually such stone tablets mentioning the history of a temple are found within the vicinity of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/13th-century-tablet-in-vandavasi-has-a-thiruvanaikoil-temple-connection/articleshow/77940468.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Burglary gang busted, two arrested||Vadodara: Crime branch sleuths have busted a gang and arrested two burglars who committed three burglaries in the city over the last few months. The cops said that three other burglars, who are members of the same gang, are yet to be nabbed. The gang has committed burglaries in Surat, Anand and Vadodara. “We had received information following which we arrested two burglars on Ajwa Road. We seized gold ornaments worth Rs 90,000, cash, three mobile phones and a car worth Rs three lakh from the accused,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Those arrested have been identified as Rajendrasinh Tilpitiya, a resident of Ajwa Road and Amrutsinh Sikhligar, a resident of Surat. The cops are searching for Anilsingh Khinchi, resident of Madhya Pradesh, Bhilsingh Sikhligar and Ayasigh Sikhligar, both residents of Kheda. Police said that the gang had committed seven burglaries in Surat. The gang used to do recce in different cities and then burgle homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglary-gang-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/77937887.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: They went out of their way to see students don’t get left behind||NEW DELHI: From a teacher who sought the help of a courier boy and shop assistants to trace children for her online classes to others who took classes even while working at Covid quarantine centres, the city’s educators are not shying away from their new responsibility. In recognition of their efforts, Delhi government will felicitate eight of them on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Saturday. Among the eight, identified by deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia during his school visits, is Sarita Rani Bhardwaj, social science teacher at Government Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, B-3, Paschim Vihar. She felt bothered when she could not locate the children of Class VI who were to attend her online classes. Bhardwaj first asked students on the WhatsApp group to take the help of their parents and check for the missing students around the colony. When this didn’t achieve the results she wanted, Bhardwaj, who is four years away from retirement, requested assistants at a local shop to visit the addresses she gave them. “Even after this, there were children missing, so I paid a courier boy to go to the homes of such students and give them my phone number,” said Bhardwaj. Her persistence paid off. Reena Malik persevered in a similar manner to trace a single student. The teacher of a school in Sector 6, RK Puram, did not give up tracking her student in Uttarakhand and eventually managed to make the girl a part of her online classroom. Raj Kumar Dhaliya, a Sanskrit teacher at RPVV, Sector 21, Rohini, and Alok Kumar Mishra of Government Senior Secondary School, Mangolpur Khurd, have combined teaching with their work at the Covid quarantine centre in Narela. “After a 12-hour shift, I return home but to a separate room,” said Dhaliya. “Since I have two children, I don’t want to take the risk of infecting them.” Mishra has a similar routine, but the two teachers find the time to fulfil their teaching responsibilities too. Rajendra Prasad Sharma, a sociology teacher in a Jharoda Kalan school, conducts surveys at Covid containment and buffer zones, but also makes time to send notes to his students. “When the Class XII online classes started, I found only the main subjects being taught, not sociology. However, I couldn’t let my students lag. Initially I sent them videos and when those took time to transmit, began sending them audio notes on WhatsApp,” said Sharma. Komal, who teacher in a Sector 6, RK Puram, school, too has been making videos and circulating them among her students since April, while science teacher Ravinder Kaur of Kautilya Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya began online teaching even earlier, presciently deciding it was the way forward. Neena, a happiness co-ordinator at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Prashant Vihar, took on the important task of looking after the mental wellbeing of students, getting both parents and students to together perform mindfulness activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-went-out-of-their-way-to-see-students-dont-get-left-behind/articleshow/77940473.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports over 10k Covid-19 cases for 10th day; 76 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,776 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 4,76,506. The toll jumped to 4,276 as 76 more people died due to the disease. As many as 12,334 patients were declared cured, the highest single-day recovery in the state. Chittoor and West Godavari districts crossed 40,000 Covid-19 cases, after East Godavari, Kurnool and Anantapur. East Godavari reported the highest number of infections with 1,405 fresh cases, followed by Nellore (1,270) and Prakasam (1,256). With only 2,954 active cases, recovery rate in West Godavari stood at about 93%, the highest among all districts. Krishna is the only district to not touch the 20,000 case milestone. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-over-10k-covid-19-cases-for-10th-day-76-deaths/articleshow/77939378.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Railways urges PMC to provide facilities for waiting passengers||PUNE: The railway authorities have urged the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to provide basic facilities to passengers waiting outside the station for long hours to catch trains, but the civic officials said it was the responsibility of the railways to take care of its passengers and not them. Renu Sharma, the divisional railway manager, Pune, told TOI that she had written a letter to the PMC requesting for mobile toilets and resting places for passengers waiting outside the station. “The Covid situation does not allow us to open the station or the platforms for them. Even then, we are allowing passengers to enter the platforms three hours before the arrival of a train,” she said. Dnyaneshwar Molak, PMC’s deputy commissioner and the head of the solid waste management department, said while he would have to check about the letter, the civic body could not do anything to provide facilities to passengers. “These people are railway passengers with tickets, and they are waiting on the premises of the Pune station, which comes under the railways. It is the railways which needs to provide them with the facilities and not us,” Molak told TOI. Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “It is not right for the railways to request the PMC to provide basic facilities to people waiting to catch trains. After all, these people have tickets and are railway passengers.” Nikhil Kachi, a member of the divisional railway users’ consultative committee, said, “In the meeting held last month, I had raised the issue, following which the officials gave assurance of taking necessary steps. Why don’t they understand that the passengers are at a greater risk of being infected if they have to wait outside the station?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-rail-division-urges-pmc-to-provide-facilities-to-passengers-waiting-outside-station/articleshow/77939377.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 shows why bus stands, markets should be outside city||Trichy: If the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed many vulnerabilities, one of them is of the centralised nature of key infrastructure facilities in the core city that attracts a significant floating population. Call it lack of vision and pragmatism on the part of policy makers, what we see are bus stands, markets and district collectorate inside the city. These have not just served to keep the congestion alive, but also robbed a city like Trichy of its potential to expand. It’s now known that Covid-19 precautionary measures such as prevention of overcrowding and social distancing will be the new normal. In Trichy, a majority of the prominent public establishments including bus stand, district collectorate, vegetable market and the government medical college hospital are within the core city. With infectious diseases such as Ebola, SARS and Covid-19 surfacing quite frequently, experts have highlighted the need to decentralise these establishments and come out with a plan to create a low-density population with planned development. They point to neighbouring Karur and Thanjavur districts which have their collectorates on the outskirts unlike the Trichy collectorate. The facility attracts people from various parts of the district. The central bus stand that caters to the mofussil bus services, Gandhi market and government medical college hospital are within the city’s jurisdiction. While on the one hand, Covid-19 has spurred talks about the need for a second capital for the state, a debate is also on about spreading the establishments on to the city’s periphery. “It is high time we realised the importance of utilising the land on the outskirts and suburbs. Since infectious diseases have been emerging too quick in the past two decades, decentralisation is vital,” Dr M A Aleem, member, Trichy district welfare fund committee said. The pandemic has exposed a dire need to decongest the city and spread out the population and promote urban development on the outskirts and smaller towns for equitable development. “The pandemic has rung the alarm bell, urban local bodies should focus more on decentralisation,” Dr N Muthusamy, urban analysis and planning expert from Coimbatore said. Experts pointed out that settlements in Singapore and South Korea, although densely populated, have well-planned infrastructure that helped them to minimise the Covid-19 impact. With Trichy city having very limited area, outskirts such as Panchapur, Pirattiyur and Chennai bypass can be developed to promote the city’ growth. Promoting more sophisticated urban primary health centres in the city and moving the government hospital to outskirts was another option being put forward to regulate population density.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-shows-why-bus-stands-markets-should-be-outside-city/articleshow/77940462.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Rhea’s brother held by NCB, no drugs found||Mumbai: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drug angle in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, on Friday arrested his actor girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. The NCB has not recovered any contraband from them, officials said.Both will be produced in a court on Saturday. The duo has been booked under sections that pertain to production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase and transport of narcotic or psychotropic substance and abetment and conspiracy under the NDPS Act. The offence carries a maximum punishment of one year and a fine.The arrested duo had procured marijuana from drug peddlers for Rajput, officials claimed. The duo, however, did not use marijuana, sources said. Officials are also probing the role of Rhea based on the chats recovered from her mobile.NCB officials said the drug, Bud, a curated form of marijuana, is in demand in Bollywood and sold for around Rs 5,000 per gram and claimed that it want to uproot the drug cartel in Mumbai, especially Bollywood.Rhea Chakraborty in an interview had said Rajput used to smoke marijuana. “Sushant used to smoke marijuana and drink regularly.” The Enforcement Directorate probing the money laundering angle had found chat messages pertaining to drugs on Rhea’s mobile that triggered this investigation. The ED had passed on the details to the NCB. The ED had cloned her mobile and found her involvement in purchase, consumption, transportation and usage of contraband, NCB had claimed. Officials said her Whatsapp chats with other entities point to conspiracy and abetment. Earlier in the day, NCB carried out searches at Rhea’s Bandra residence where she stayed with her brother Showik, and Miranda’s flat in Sahar village. Both were brought to the NCB office where they were questioned before placing them under arrest at 9pm.NCB had earlier arrested another ‘drug supplier’, Basit Parihar, who has been remanded in custody till September 9. “Basit Parihar has not only admitted to having purchased and sold marijuana, but he has said he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Kaizan (two other suspects) as per Showik’s instructions and was directing them to deliver it to Samuel,” Parihar’s remand application states.Zaid Vilatra was arrested Wednesday, while Kaizan Ibrahim was being questioned by officials. He is likely to be arrested by Saturday morning, officials said.Basit’s lawyer Tarak Sayyed said, “These are youngsters from affluent families. How is the NCB branding them drug peddlers? They have been remanded in custody though nothing has been recovered from them and the sections under which they are arrested are bailable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rheas-brother-held-by-ncb-no-drugs-found/articleshow/77941133.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 5, 2020||Goa||Digambar Kamat asks govt to restore Margao CCTV cameras||PANAJI: The murder of a jeweller in Margao prompted leader of the opposition and Congress MLA Digambar Kamat to highlight the defunct CCTV cameras in the commercial capital. Kamat, the local MLA, asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to have a strategy in place to crackdown on unlawful elements and restore people’s confidence. “CCTV cameras in Margao need to be restored immediately,” said Kamat. CCTV cameras were installed in Margao in 2013 at a cost of Rs 18 lakh from the MPLAD funds. South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha had sanctioned the funds for Margao during his earlier tenure, while then Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik had sanctioned funds for Fatorda. The cameras were never maintained, while the CCTVs for Fatorda were never installed. Video footage recorded by a local resident helped nab the three accused of shooting and stabbing Swapnil Walke in an attempt to rob his store. The ghastly incident shocked Goa and prompted the opposition to question the state’s ability to deter miscreants and criminals. Congress has repeatedly slammed the government for spending on projects such as IFFI, while the safety and security continues to suffer. A few days earlier, Congress had stated said that the rising crime graph was the result of the vacancies in the police department. Meanwhile, state Congress president Girish Chodankar asked whether the delay in granting promotions to various posts in Goa police and the law department was because of the inefficiency of Goa Public Service Commission or interference of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-asks-govt-to-restore-margao-cctv-cameras/articleshow/77940487.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||‘Police bid to frame activists in northeast Delhi riots’||NEW DELHI: Civil society members Harsh Mander, Yogendra Yadav, Umar Khalid and others on Friday alleged that Delhi Police was trying to falsely implicate activists who participated in anti-CAA, NRC and NPR movements as the masterminds of the communal violence that took place in northeast Delhi in February. In a virtual press conference, the activists released a statement signed by 1,000 people, including academicians and researchers from across the world, stating that “the supporters and participants of the protests continue to be summoned by police, harassed and subjected to long interrogations”. The statement also alleged that many functionaries and supporters of BJP, who were seen inciting people and making hate speeches, had been let off. Mander, activist and founder of Karwan-e-Mohabbat, claimed that the conspiracy behind the violence was “to punish and crush” the largest non-violent movement in Independent India. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav alleged that Delhi Police’s investigation was itself a conspiracy. “Many of those arrested were initially in different FIRs. It was only after they secured bail in the cases for which they were initially arrested that police implicated them in the conspiracy case under UAPA. Is this a ploy to keep protesters in jail for long periods without the need to provide evidence or frame charges?” he asked. DU professor Apoorvanand said that on February 25 Press Information Bureau had called the riots spontaneous. “However, just a few days later, the home minister contradicted his previous statement and stated in Lok Sabha that the riots were a pre-planned conspiracy,” he added. Khalid and Delhi AISA in-charge Kawalpreet Kaur, both summoned by police in connection with the riots, asked, “Why is the chronology by police silent on the two incidents of shootings on protesters at Jamia Millia Islamia and Shaheen Bagh on January 29 and February 1?” They claimed that the police’s action “erodes public faith in rule of law and chokes democratic dissent.” Delhi Police refused to comment on the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-bid-to-frame-activists-in-ne-riots/articleshow/77939403.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Slow pace of UGD work irks Annamalai Nagar residents||Trichy: The slow pace of work by Trichy Corporation in constructing the underground drainage (UGD) system in Annamalai Nagar falling under K Abishekapuram zone is causing inconvenience to the locals. Adding to the woes, delay in completing the stormwater drain work and relaying the residential roads has made the stretch unmotorable.Covered under UGD phase II at an estimated cost of Rs 344 crores, Trichy Corporation took up the underground pipe installation and chamber construction work in 2018. Annamalai Nagar that has a mix of residential settlement and commercial establishments also serve as a parallel link road to the congested Karur bypass road. The civic body has managed to complete the stormwater drain works in only one side of the road. While on the other side, the work is at snail’s pace. “People who come in cars are unable to access the hospitals situated there. The recent rains have made the road highly unmotorable and the civic body is hesitant to rework even the top surface,” S Manivannan, a local resident said. As the road dug for installing pipes were not properly covered after the recent rains it looks like a swamp. Movement of cars is restricted to only one direction as pending work has eaten up a wide portion of Annamalai Nagar road from being used. “We have planned to refurbish the road temporarily. The pending work will be expedited,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/slow-pace-of-ugd-work-irks-annamalai-nagar-residents/articleshow/77940471.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kochi||CPM in campaign mode, blames oppn's 'negative politics'||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a run-up to the local body election, the CPM state secretariat on Friday decided to organise a grassroot campaign against the politics of violence being promoted by the Congress in the state. The party leadership felt the Congress leadership should be exposed on the murder of two DYFI activists in Venjaramoodu, Thiruvananthapuram. Party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who briefed the media about the party deliberations, also replied to allegations against his son Bineesh Kodiyeri, saying nobody would protect him if he is found guilty in the Bengaluru drug or gold smuggling cases. "Whoever claims to have evidence against him should pass them on to the central agencies probing these cases,” he said. The CPM state secretary said Bineesh had already clarified his stand on the charges. “The attempts to target me mentally would not succeed. I am ready to face this and worse. Let the media trial and investigation continue,” he said. On the party campaign, Balakrishnan said mass gatherings would be organised across the state on Congress violence on September 23, the martyrdom day of Azheekodan. “MLAs and people's representatives will attend these gatherings to be held as per the Covid-19 protocol,” he said. The party will also take up other modes of campaign to expose the violent politics practised by the Congress. The leadership has appealed to workers not to get provoked by the opposition acts, he said. Balakrishnan said the CPM state secretariat had decided to provide financial support to families of Mithilaj and Haq Mohammed who were murdered in Venjaramoodu late on Sunday night. “The party will take over the education of their children; we won’t allow the families to be orphaned," he said. The party state secretariat also targeted the Congress for its "negative politics". "The Congress was silent on many issues of conflict between the state and the Centre. The latest is the GST issue, where the state is denied Rs 16,000 crore in arrears. We have demanded it strongly; the CM and the finance minister have written letters to the Centre, which wants the state to borrow money to compensate that. What is the Congress stand on it? Did they say anything?,” he asked. He also questioned the Congress's silence on the 100-day projects announced by the LDF government. “There are many revolutionary decisions. There is a project to provide laptops to five lakh students. Did the Congress say anything? Do they have any suggestion on this?” he asked. The party secretariat has directed all district committees to start preparing for the local body polls. It has asked party leaders to come up with innovative campaign ideas in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-in-campaign-mode-blames-oppns-negative-politics/articleshow/77942827.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM in campaign mode, blames oppn's 'negative politics'||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a run-up to the local body election, the CPM state secretariat on Friday decided to organise a grassroot campaign against the politics of violence being promoted by the Congress in the state. The party leadership felt the Congress leadership should be exposed on the murder of two DYFI activists in Venjaramoodu, Thiruvananthapuram. Party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who briefed the media about the party deliberations, also replied to allegations against his son Bineesh Kodiyeri, saying nobody would protect him if he is found guilty in the Bengaluru drug or gold smuggling cases. "Whoever claims to have evidence against him should pass them on to the central agencies probing these cases,” he said. The CPM state secretary said Bineesh had already clarified his stand on the charges. “The attempts to target me mentally would not succeed. I am ready to face this and worse. Let the media trial and investigation continue,” he said. On the party campaign, Balakrishnan said mass gatherings would be organised across the state on Congress violence on September 23, the martyrdom day of Azheekodan. “MLAs and people's representatives will attend these gatherings to be held as per the Covid-19 protocol,” he said. The party will also take up other modes of campaign to expose the violent politics practised by the Congress. The leadership has appealed to workers not to get provoked by the opposition acts, he said. Balakrishnan said the CPM state secretariat had decided to provide financial support to families of Mithilaj and Haq Mohammed who were murdered in Venjaramoodu late on Sunday night. “The party will take over the education of their children; we won’t allow the families to be orphaned," he said. The party state secretariat also targeted the Congress for its "negative politics". "The Congress was silent on many issues of conflict between the state and the Centre. The latest is the GST issue, where the state is denied Rs 16,000 crore in arrears. We have demanded it strongly; the CM and the finance minister have written letters to the Centre, which wants the state to borrow money to compensate that. What is the Congress stand on it? Did they say anything?,” he asked. He also questioned the Congress's silence on the 100-day projects announced by the LDF government. “There are many revolutionary decisions. There is a project to provide laptops to five lakh students. Did the Congress say anything? Do they have any suggestion on this?” he asked. The party secretariat has directed all district committees to start preparing for the local body polls. It has asked party leaders to come up with innovative campaign ideas in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-in-campaign-mode-blames-oppns-negative-politics/articleshow/77939399.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man feeds insecticide-mixed milk to one-day old daughters||HYDERABAD: A man has been taken into custody for poisoning his newborn twin daughters as he did not want two more girls in the family and instead wished for a male child. The man, Chennakeshavulu, decided to kill the infants on Wednesday, a day after they were born. He mixed pesticide in milk and fed it to the twins in the hospital in Kosgi town of Narayanpet. His wife, who noticed that the children and fallen sick, called for help. Meanwhile, Chennakeshavulu ran from the hospital. CCTV footage has showed him purchasing pesticide from a shop. The infants were shifted to Ravi Children’s hospital in Mahbubnagar. State tourism and sports minister Srinivas Goud, who visited the hospital said the cost of the infant’s treatment will be borne by government. He added that the culprit would be punished. The hospital authorities said that the twins were recovering. Chennakeshavulu’s brother and sister said that he had committed a shameful act and should be punished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-feeds-insecticide-mixed-milk-to-one-day-old-daughters/articleshow/77939400.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 5, 2020||Trichy||College students seek cut in online class hours as they are glued to devices for 6 hrs||Trichy: While it has been a month since online classes began in arts and science colleges, students have been seeking a reduction in the number of daily hours citing multiple difficulties.Online classes began in the first week of August on the direction of the higher education department to colleges and universities. Institutions were asked to conduct six to seven hours of classes every day to cover the syllabus. While many students are attending online classes through their mobile phones, they fear over-exposure to radiation if they have to be glued to their devices for not less than 6 hours. G Sathyapriya, a student of Urumu Dhanalakshmi College, said that prolonged classes cause eye irritation for many students like her who wear glasses. “Beyond attending online classes, we have to rely on these gadgets for taking notes which exposes us more to the devices,” she said. “It would be helpful if the total number of hours are reduced as three chapters out of a total five in every subject have already been covered by many colleges in the last one month,” said S Ramalingam, a final year undergraduate student. Data consumption has been another issue faced by students. Over 3GB data was consumed in the initial days but it came down in the recent days. Following increasing demands from students to bring down the number of online hours, Urumu Dhanalakshmi College directed its teachers to cite the state government’s orders in this regard. Bharathidasan University registrar G Gopinath told TOI that they had asked colleges to plan classes in such a manner that students are not stressed up. He asked colleges to balance online classes by giving field work to students instead of keeping them in online classes for 6 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/college-students-seek-cut-in-online-class-hours-as-they-are-glued-to-devices-for-6-hrs/articleshow/77940477.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 5, 2020||Pune||IPC crimes in Maharashtra went up by 20% in 2018: CID report||PUNE: The state criminal investigation department (CID) on Friday reported an almost 20% increase in Indian Penal Code crimes across Maharashtra in 2018 as compared to 2017 in its “Crime in Maharashtra 2018” report released on Friday. “The state’s annual crime statistic report (which usually comes by the end of the following year — 2019 in the instant case) got delayed partly on account of the delay in the release of National Crime Record Bureau’s ‘Crime in India Report for 2018’ and the Covid-19 pandemic, entailing deployment of our men to various places across the state,” Prakash Gaikwad, the CID’s superintendent of police (law and research), told TOI. The NCRB is yet to release its “Crime in India 2019” report. It would also have an effect on the CID’s 2019 report, which might not come by the end of this year, another CID officer said. Asked about the purpose served by such delayed reports, Gaikwad said, “These reports are of immense significance for all police commissionerates and district police units in the long-term analysis and assessment of the crime pattern, to plan, and make vital policing and strategic decisions. This includes prevention action, conducting research on crime related issues and providing data to NGOs and social workers.” A synopsis related to the 2018 CID report stated that Maharashtra recorded a crime rate (incidences per 1 lakh population) of 285.3. The state accounted for 3.46 lakh out of the total 31.32 lakh crimes in the country in 2018. Another 1.69 lakh cases were registered under special and local enactments such as MCOCA, MPID and Bombay Police Act. The IPC crimes like murder, dacoity, robbery and property offences went up by 19.87% in 2018 as against 2017, but offences under special/local laws reduced to 5.31% during the same year. In 2017, the state had registered 2.88 lakh IPC crimes and the same went up to 3.43 lakh in 2018. Offences related to dacoity increased by 17.94%, robbery by 15.18% and crime against women by 10.95%, the report stated. Gaikwad explained, “The crime rate increases every year because of an increase in population. Besides, the police in states like Maharashtra are far more accessible and registration of FIR is easier. Property and body offences, and crime against women increased in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nagpur, but cases filed under special/local laws declined because of constant police action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ipc-crimes-in-state-went-up-by-20-in-2018-cid-report/articleshow/77939393.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur collector urges cured patients to donate plasma to save critically-ill||Trichy: Stating that plasma therapy is effective in curing critically-ill Covid-19 patients, Thanjavur collector M Govinda Rao has appealed to recovered patients to donate plasma.He was speaking at an event on Friday organised to send off two critically-ill Covid-19 patients - Baskar, 57 and Ramesh, 58 - at the Thanjavur Government Medical College who recovered after undergoing plasma therapy. The hospital has cured 5,918 patients who were admitted with Covid-19 infection. The collector said that 30 people have registered to donate plasma of which five have donated so far. “We urge everyone of the 5,918 people to come forward and donate their plasma which will help save lives of people like Baskar and Ramesh,” said the collector. While 119 people have died so far, the district has maintained a recovery rate of 84.2% out of 7,026 people infected so far. More than two lakh people have been tested in 4,336 medical camps organised across the district. Rao asked people to approach health centres to get themselves tested in case they have symptoms. He said that it becomes difficult to save patients if the infection worsens and treatment is delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-collector-urges-cured-patients-to-donate-plasma-to-save-critically-ill/articleshow/77940490.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Homebuyers entitled to full refund for delays||CHENNAI: Homebuyers are entitled to a full refund if a housing project does not adhere to the construction time schedule, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has ruled. It directed a developer to refund money to two customers for failing to complete construction within the stipulated time. The case pertains to a villa project on the outskirts of the city, where the two homebuyers booked a villa by paying 10% of the total unit cost as advance. They sought a refund later. In a recent order that was made public on Thursday, TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan said Rule 19(2) of the Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, states that an allotee is entitled to a full refund at any time if the builder has not followed the time schedule. Noting that construction had not commenced on the land earmarked for the villa, the realty regulator asked the developer to repay the entire money with an interest of 7%. The repayment should be within 30 days from the date of receipt of this order, the adjudicating officer added. The direction was regarding a villa project titled ‘Humming Garden’ at Thaiyur in Kelambakkam developed by Alliance Villa Pvt. Ltd. While the total cost of the villa was Rs 1.3 crore, the homebuyers paid Rs 16 lakh. Separate agreements for construction and sale of land were entered between the developer and the two customers on January 25, 2019. According to the complainants, a copy of agreement and title deeds were not furnished to them. On April 10, 2019, the homebuyers, sought cancellation of the booking and refund of their money. In response, the promoter informed them about deduction of 10% of the value of the villa. The developer, however, denied all the allegations saying the charges were false. Pointing out that the complainants expressed their financial inability and sought refund, the promoter stressed that the developer is entitled to deduct 10% of the total value of the villa as per the terms of the agreement. Photocopies of the agreements were also furnished to the complainants. The developer added that homebuyers rushed to the TNRERA when the period for completion of the villa construction was October 2020, which was not yet over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buyers-entitled-to-full-refund-for-delays/articleshow/77939405.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 5, 2020||Goa||Cong gearing up for polls: Chodankar||Panaji: As part of an effort to strengthen its organisational reach in the state, Congress on Friday dissolved the block committees in St Andre, Pernem, Dabolim and Madkai constituencies with immediate effect. The party stated that the blocks will be reconstituted in the coming weeks after consultations with local stakeholders and party members. The reorganisation process also saw Manuel Colaco being appointed as the president of the Quepem block, over a year after the block was dissolved. “The other office bearers and members of the block will be appointed within 15 days,” party vice-president M K Shaikh said. State unit president Girish Chodankar said that the party was gearing up for the coming elections and was working to build up the party at the grassroots. “Panaji and Shiroda blocks will also be reconstituted,” Chodankar said. Congress suffered a severe setback after 10 of its MLAs defected to BJP in 2019, forcing it to dissolve the respective blocks. It was only in August that Congress appointed block presidents to seven of the ten constituencies. Meanwhile, the party appointed Umesh Talavanekar as general secretary and Ajit Bhakal as secretary of North Goa district Congress committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-gearing-up-for-polls-chodankar/articleshow/77940483.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Teachers’ Day celebrations get a new meaning in changing times||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Teachers’ Day celebrations will move online this year. Students are making videos, putting up a show over video conference and coming up with other innovative ways to show their appreciation of their teachers. Some students have been practising for a few weeks to put up an entertaining show for their teachers. “Last month, we formed a committee of students, who wanted to volunteer to arrange a programme. There are 20 of us who, will give an A cappella performance featuring a medley of old Hindi and English songs. It has been tough to practise from homes but the effort is nothing compared to the lengths that our teachers have gone to teach us during the lockdown and give us some sense of normalcy during these trying times,” said Anusha Kale, student of Std X. Schools also want to show appreciation to their staff for being so resilient as they had to completely change their mode of operations by going online. Amruta Prabhu, principal of HDFC School Pune, said, “Our senior students planned a virtual assembly for the teachers. That apart, we will also be collaborating with our sister schools in Bengaluru and Gurgaon for a session with the managing director and trustees. Teachers across the country have shown extraordinary tenacity and forthrightness in taking this challenge head on in spite of several hurdles.” Jayshree Venkatraman, principal of SNBP International School, said that her students have planned a special event for the day based on role reversal. “The senior students will take over classes for the day where they will tell stories that the teachers came up with. The teachers will attend classes along with junior students. They will also make e-cards and certificates for their teachers. It is all the more important to celebrate Teachers’ Day this year because it has been a roller-coaster ride with no end to challenges, but they continue to inspire,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-day-celebrations-to-go-online/articleshow/77939402.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Students link up with favourite teachers||New Delhi: “Come what may, the show must go on. Covid must have been a hurdle in everyone’s life, but it has definitely not stopped it,” says the video invite to the Teachers’ Day celebration at Bluebells School International. On Saturday, the students will present on screen pre-recorded performances in honour of the teachers. “We have made a short movie and there is a fusion dance by students and teachers and a rendition of ‘Dil hai chhota sa’ by Bluebellians, former and current,” said Darshan Ram, president, Bluebells Students’ Council. Covid-19 does not appear to have dampened the spirit of the students or teachers if plans for Teachers’ Day on Saturday are proof. At DAV School, Pushpanjali Enclave, the students have recorded several cultural items. Shefali Arya, home science teacher, was excited about this new mode of celebrating, but added, “It is different when you are physically with the students. The enjoyment is bigger.” Jagriti Gehlout, English teacher at School of Excellence, looked at photographs of the occasion in 2019. “Students try and make you feel special in one way or another,” she said. “They have been sharing their creations with us, writing thank-you notes to us.” She particularly recalled one in which a student had written, “You call yourself jolly Jagriti, but I call you pretty too. You say you are an English expert, but I say you are a teacher expert.” Kuhu Aiejaz of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said students had made e-cards for the teachers. Principal Ameeta Mulla Wattal has already sent handwritten notes and chocolate to the teachers. She revealed, “There will be a stand-up comedy act by Vasu Primlani for the teachers. They can sit with their chocolates and enjoy the show tomorrow. The teachers will enjoy online games, while the students will conduct classes” At The Indian School, Tania Joshi, principal, said, “There will be singing and dancing. Teachers will also be given titles. There is also a professional singer who will sing songs that teachers request.” The students of the school turned teachers on Friday. Similarly in Ahlcon School, Teachers’ Day celebrations began on Friday with online music and other programmes organised by the students. “The virtual world has made teachers and students come together even more strongly,” opined Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Schools. “The power of technology has been leveraged to full advantage. The title allocation, asynchronous dances, songs, plays stitched together to give a real-time effect all have reduced the feeling that teachers and students are missing the physical school. Institutions are learning to adapt fast to the emerging realities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-link-up-with-favourite-teachers/articleshow/77940495.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 5, 2020||World||Thai government nixes China short cut to Indian Ocean||BANGKOK: Amid the border standoff between India and China, the latter has suffered a severe blow from Thailand, which said it will scrap the Kra Canal project that Beijing wanted to build to shorten its access to the Indian Ocean, according to a media report. Not only that, the Thai government has also given in to the public pressure and delayed the purchase of two Chinese submarines worth $724 million. As per a TFIPOST report, China was pinning its hopes on the Kra Canal project, a proposal to construct a 120-km mega canal cutting through the isthmus of Kra in Thailand. The Thai canal could have been a crucial strategic asset for China, allowing its navy to quickly move ships between its newly constructed bases in the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean without diverting over 1,100 km south to round the tip of Malaysia. “This was in line with Beijing’s long-term ambitions to bypass the Strait of Malacca,” TFIPOST wrote||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/thai-government-nixes-china-short-cut-to-indian-ocean/articleshow/77941728.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||No break in 121-year-old tradition as Kumari Puja gets RKM nod||Kolkata: There will be no deviation from the 121-year-old tradition of hosting Kumari Puja at Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math. After several meetings, the monastic order has decided to go ahead with the rituals with all necessary restrictions and precautions to prevent any Covid infection.Since 1899, RKM has been celebrating the Mahaashtami with Kumari Puja, in which a girl younger than seven-eight years is worshipped as the Mother Goddess or Devi Durga. Devotees throng the campus on the day to witness this special occasion and those who cannot visit, tune in to TV channels or check online for the live broadcast. The occasion is also popular among Bengalis settled abroad. The RKM had been flooded with queries about the Kumari Puja, since the announcement of the Kathamo Puja on August 12.The Belur Math high command was initially in a dilemma about conducting Kumari Puja because of the Covid situation. But late on Thursday, it decided not to deviate from the tradition. Kumari Puja was initiated at Belur Math by Swami Vivekananda in 1899 as a mark of respect to Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa who believed that little girls were manifestations of the divine mother because at that age they are away from negative influences of the materialistic world. She is dressed in a red Benarasi sari and decked up with ornaments, much like the Durga idol, and worshipped by the monks. Unlike the previous years, the gates of Belur Math would remain closed to devotees during Kumari Puja. They will have to contend with the live broadcast and online stream. “We shall allow only the child’s parents to accompany her,” Swami Suvirananda said.The identity of the child is not revealed before the puja. However, sources said this year, a child of four-five years would be selected. She and her family will be tested for the virus and will be requested to follow strict isolation protocols. “Only the pujari and two-three key people in Belur Math will be allowed near her. They will all be screened before participation. The safety of the child is our primary concern,” said general secretary of RKM Swami Suvirananda.Belur Math gates were opened with restrictions on June 15. However, the rising number of Covid cases and sporadic infections among insiders forced the Mission to shut the gates for visitors on August 1. They said that just temperature scan was inadequate to detect asymptomatic carriers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-break-in-121-year-old-tradition-as-kumari-puja-gets-rkm-nod/articleshow/77939404.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Manapparai municipality to offer internships||Trichy: The Manapparai municipality in Trichy district has invited fresh engineering graduates to apply for an internship programme in the urban local body’s infrastructure projects under the Union government;s The Urban Learning Internship Programme (TULIP). The applicants should apply for the internship within 18 months of their graduation. The interns will be posted for a duration of six months in road development, drinking water supply and maintenance and wastewater management projects in Manapparai. No stipend will be provided for the exposure, K Muthu, commissioner of Manapparai municipality said. Applicants have been told to apply online on www.internship.aicte-india.org before September 11. On successful completion of the programme, the graduates will be given certification. Officials said that completion certificate will not vouch for a permanent job opportunity in the urban local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/manapparai-municipality-to-offer-internships/articleshow/77940500.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Traders want govt to reopen Gandhi market||Trichy: For the second time in a week, the Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, a federation of traders’ associations has urged the Trichy district administration to reopen the Gandhi market that was closed post the Covid-19 outbreak. In a written submission to district collector S Sivarasu on Friday, the traders pointing out the assurance to reopen the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai, have sought a similar decision in the city. The traders also sought the district administration and government to take measures to vacate the Madras high court stay order on reopening of the market. “Government has announced a slew of measures such as inter-district bus transport and train services from September 7. The district administration too should reopen the Gandhi market and restore our livelihood,” Ve Govindarajalu, stet general secretary of the federation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-want-govt-to-reopen-gandhi-market/articleshow/77940510.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Complaints against buses rise, owners insist on fare hike||KOLKATA: The traffic cops have been flooded with complaints — such as charging of excess fares, no service beyond a point and time and no issuing of tickets — from private bus passengers. Bus owners admitted there were problems, but insisted that the sector was in a “coma” that needed government intervention and a fare revision for them to stay afloat. The death of a driver and the diagnosis of several others with Covid-19 has led to further problems in providing services, they insisted. They added that only a few workers were turning up for work, leading them to “tweak” their practices. TimesViewPassengers cannot be cheated. Bus owners may have problems with the government-advised fares but that does not mean paying passengers can be held to ransom. A crackdown is needed urgently.On the other hand, several commuters have alleged harassment by bus operators over the past week. Cops are now preparing a list of complaints that they plan to share with the transport department. They said any bus worker charging extra will be penalized. “They are fleecing the common man,” tweeted a commuter, pointing out that several buses in the north were charging Rs 10 as the minimum fare. Another commuter, Amrita Banerjee, posted on Kolkata Police’s Facebook page: “The two buses — 18B/1 and the Anandapur-Sarada Park minibus — that connect my home with Behala Chowrasta have stopped operations. Instead, a few of them are now plying without boards and demanding excess fares.” Others complained of buses not completing their trips. Bus owners, meanwhile, said that while part of the claims are true, including asking for higher fares, they insisted that allegations of incomplete trips were unheard of. Some of them said that with losses all around, they have left it at the discretion of drivers and conductors to run the trips. “The situation is unlikely to improve till local trains resume services or the government plays a more active role. An experts’ panel promised a fare revision but met us just once,” said Tapan Banerjee, general secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plaints-against-buses-rise-owners-insist-on-fare-hike/articleshow/77939409.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Slain Maoist saved senior leader twice||HYDERABAD: Bhadradri Kothagudem police handed over the body of a 26-year-old Maoist, killed in exchange of fire with police at Gundala, to his family on Friday. Family members told police that the slain Maoist, Shankar, had twice saved the life of Maoist party’s Telangana state committee secretary Yapa Narayana alias Haribhushan. Shankar was a native of Polampalli in Arlapalli of Sukma district, Chattisgarh. According to police, Shankar was an Area Committee Member (ACM) who worked as CPI (Maoist) party’s Telangana state committee secretary Haribhushan’s special protection team commander and also as a member of Maoist party action team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slain-maoist-saved-senior-leader-twice/articleshow/77939410.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Demand for online tutors soars, pay increases 28%||CHENNAI: Chennai-based techie Sandhiya Dass, who loved training her junior colleagues at work, never imagined she would quit her job to pursue her passion for teaching. This Teachers’ Day, 31-year-old Dass is proud to have taught 50 kids to code in the past one year and also relieved that her passion helped settle her family debt in the process. Dass was a tutor on the edtech site WhiteHat Jr. Despite the pandemic forcing teachers into the digital medium, HR consultants and online job portals report an unprecedented rise in job opportunities for educators and trainers, thanks to a boom in digital learning and emergence of well-funded corporate players in the space. The demand for skilled teachers who can adapt to the digital mode of delivery is also pushing up pay packages, the experts said. Job portal Naukri.com has seen a four-fold growth in demand for teaching professionals for e-learning in the past few months when compared to 2019. Similarly, job listings for work-from-home roles within the education sector have increased by 3.5 times since the pandemic began, the company said. A glance at the site shows there are 11,000 teaching openings in the e-learning industry currently. Further, average salaries for roles posted by recruiters shows a 28% rise from pre-Covid levels, data from Naukri.com suggests. HR consulting firm TeamLease Services has seen almost a 40% jump in teachers applying for e-learning jobs on their portal between June and August. Around 25,000 – 30,000 new teacher openings have emerged in the past three months, the company said, noting that 10% of this demand comes from Chennai. “For teachers who can cope with the digital shift, there are exciting times ahead as pay structures will be different and salary packages will be around 30% higher with digital learning companies,” Neeti Sharma, senior vice president, TeamLease Services said. As edtech players such as Byju’s, WhiteHat Jr, Unacademy, Toppr and others kick off an expansion spree armed with fresh funding from global investors, the hiring trend in the teaching space is expected to continue. For instance, edtech startup WhiteHat Jr, which teaches online coding to kids, is ramping up its women-only teacher base in India at a rate of “220 teachers a day” with a plan to cross 20,000 teachers by the end of 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-for-online-tutors-soars-pay-increases-28/articleshow/77939414.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 5, 2020||Faridabad||One in 10 Gurugram residents has Covid antibodies: Sero survey||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH: Only 8% of Haryana’s population has developed antibodies against Covid-19, according to the results of a sero-survey that was held last month and covered nearly 19,000 people in all 22 districts of the state. The findings were released on Friday. In contrast, in the two sero-surveys conducted by Delhi in June-end and August first week, covering 21,000 and 15,000 people respectively, 23% and 29% were found to have antibodies. In two key takeaways, urban areas and NCR districts reveal a higher exposure. While sero-positivity in urban areas is 9.6%, it is 6.9% in rural areas. Faridabad (25.8%) has the highest sero-positivity rate in the state, followed by Nuh (20.3%) and Sonipat (13.3%). Districts with a sero-positivity rate higher than the state average are Karnal (12.2%), Jind (11%), Gurugram(10.8%), Kurukshetra (8.7%), Charkhi Dadri (8.3%) and Yamunanagar (8.3%). At 1.1%, Rohtak has the lowest sero-positivity. Other districts with sero-positivity lower than the state average are Panipat (7.4%), Palwal (7.4%), Panchkula (6.5%), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala (5.2%), Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar (3.4%), Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendergarh (2.8%) and Kaithal (1.7%). Faridabad also has the highest sero-positivity rate among both urban and rural areas, 31.1% and 22.2%, respectively. Gurugram’s urban areas have a sero-positivity rate of 18.5% while its rural areas have 5.7% exposure. So far, Haryana has recorded 71,983 Covid-19 cases and 759 deaths. It has a recovery rate of about 80%. Dr SB Kamboj, the Haryana director general (health services), said that as the majority of people in the state are still vulnerable, all containment measures need to be continued with the same rigour. The sero-survey — the first in the state — was conducted over three days, starting August 21, in collaboration with the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh. A total of 18,905 samples, or 850 from each of the 22 districts (500 from rural and 350 from urban), were collected. The health department selected 16 clusters — 12 rural and four urban — for taking blood samples, which were tested for IgG antibodies. The data was collected using GPS and uploaded to a mobile app. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), said the findings will be useful in designing strategies and implementation of containment measures in Haryana. “It will help us to determine the burden of Covid-19 at the community level and monitor transmission trends,” he said. Arora said the reason for the higher sero-positivity rates in NCR districts could be the high density of population in urban slums and daily movement of a large number of people in the region. Asked why the survey results had thrown up a big difference between Gurugram and Faridabad, a senior health official said Faridabad had ramped up testing much later and initially didn’t test many people with Covid symptoms or influenza-like illness (ILI). Had their samples been taken at the time, he added, they might have returned positive. Till about a month ago, Gurugram had the highest number of Covid cases in the state, after which it was overtaken by Faridabad. As of Friday, Gurugram’s caseload stood at 12,750 while that of Faridabad was 13,338. In the case of Rohtak, the official said that the sero-positivity rate may be low because of the district’s late surge in mid-July. Antibodies usually appear after 21 days of recovery, and therefore, they may not have developed when the survey was held in August. “Also, a majority of Rohtak’s population lives in a rural set-up, which could have led to low positivity,” said a senior health official. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, cities have struggled to contain cases in dense clusters, where maintaining social distancing is difficult. Apart from Haryana, states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have also completed the first round of sero-surveys. Around 57% in Mumbai’s slum and 16% in its non-slum areas had exposure while in Tamil Nadu, the sero-positivity was 21.5%. In Gujarat, the first round showed 17.6% sero-positivity while in the second survey, 23.2% had antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/one-in-10-gurgaon-residents-has-covid-antibodies-sero-survey/articleshow/77941815.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Gurgaon||One in 10 Gurugram residents has Covid antibodies: Sero survey||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH: Only 8% of Haryana’s population has developed antibodies against Covid-19, according to the results of a sero-survey that was held last month and covered nearly 19,000 people in all 22 districts of the state. The findings were released on Friday. In contrast, in the two sero-surveys conducted by Delhi in June-end and August first week, covering 21,000 and 15,000 people respectively, 23% and 29% were found to have antibodies. In two key takeaways, urban areas and NCR districts reveal a higher exposure. While sero-positivity in urban areas is 9.6%, it is 6.9% in rural areas. Faridabad (25.8%) has the highest sero-positivity rate in the state, followed by Nuh (20.3%) and Sonipat (13.3%). Districts with a sero-positivity rate higher than the state average are Karnal (12.2%), Jind (11%), Gurugram(10.8%), Kurukshetra (8.7%), Charkhi Dadri (8.3%) and Yamunanagar (8.3%). At 1.1%, Rohtak has the lowest sero-positivity. Other districts with sero-positivity lower than the state average are Panipat (7.4%), Palwal (7.4%), Panchkula (6.5%), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala (5.2%), Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar (3.4%), Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendergarh (2.8%) and Kaithal (1.7%). Faridabad also has the highest sero-positivity rate among both urban and rural areas, 31.1% and 22.2%, respectively. Gurugram’s urban areas have a sero-positivity rate of 18.5% while its rural areas have 5.7% exposure. So far, Haryana has recorded 71,983 Covid-19 cases and 759 deaths. It has a recovery rate of about 80%. Dr SB Kamboj, the Haryana director general (health services), said that as the majority of people in the state are still vulnerable, all containment measures need to be continued with the same rigour. The sero-survey — the first in the state — was conducted over three days, starting August 21, in collaboration with the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh. A total of 18,905 samples, or 850 from each of the 22 districts (500 from rural and 350 from urban), were collected. The health department selected 16 clusters — 12 rural and four urban — for taking blood samples, which were tested for IgG antibodies. The data was collected using GPS and uploaded to a mobile app. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), said the findings will be useful in designing strategies and implementation of containment measures in Haryana. “It will help us to determine the burden of Covid-19 at the community level and monitor transmission trends,” he said. Arora said the reason for the higher sero-positivity rates in NCR districts could be the high density of population in urban slums and daily movement of a large number of people in the region. Asked why the survey results had thrown up a big difference between Gurugram and Faridabad, a senior health official said Faridabad had ramped up testing much later and initially didn’t test many people with Covid symptoms or influenza-like illness (ILI). Had their samples been taken at the time, he added, they might have returned positive. Till about a month ago, Gurugram had the highest number of Covid cases in the state, after which it was overtaken by Faridabad. As of Friday, Gurugram’s caseload stood at 12,750 while that of Faridabad was 13,338. In the case of Rohtak, the official said that the sero-positivity rate may be low because of the district’s late surge in mid-July. Antibodies usually appear after 21 days of recovery, and therefore, they may not have developed when the survey was held in August. “Also, a majority of Rohtak’s population lives in a rural set-up, which could have led to low positivity,” said a senior health official. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, cities have struggled to contain cases in dense clusters, where maintaining social distancing is difficult. Apart from Haryana, states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have also completed the first round of sero-surveys. Around 57% in Mumbai’s slum and 16% in its non-slum areas had exposure while in Tamil Nadu, the sero-positivity was 21.5%. In Gujarat, the first round showed 17.6% sero-positivity while in the second survey, 23.2% had antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/one-in-10-gurgaon-residents-has-covid-antibodies-sero-survey/articleshow/77940507.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Water tariff deduction forunits hangs in limbo||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) said that a proposal to reduce the raw water tariff for Verna industrial estate to Rs 15 instead of Rs 25 per cubic metre of water is stuck with the industries department. Until the government takes a decision, pending dues of Rs 3 crore will remain as arrears on GIDC’s account books for which action has to be taken. GIDC chairman Glen Ticlo said that the corporation had moved a proposal to the state government asking if the raw water tariff could be reduced as per the demand of Verna industrial estate. “Manohar Parrikar, who was the chief minister at that time, had promised a rebate to the industries, but there is nothing in black and white from the government asking us to give a subsidy to the industries. Until the government tells us to do it, we have to charge them Rs 25,” said Ticlo. GIDC has threatened to cut off the water supply to the industrial estate if industrial units do not pay up Rs 3.4 crore as payment for raw water supply within 10 days. The government has also warned the entrepreneurs that if the amount is not paid within the stipulated time, the matter will be referred to the revenue court for recovery proceedings. The government’s failure to keep the promise made by Parrikar and subsequently by chief minister Pramod Sawant, has drawn the industry’s ire. Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) wrote to Sawant a few days earlier reminding him of the BJP government’s promise in 2018 to bill industrial units for raw water at Rs 10 per cubic metre instead of Rs 25 per cubic metre. “The proposal was sent by GIDC to the government, but there has been no response since then. GIDC cannot reduce the water charges without the government’s permission and the industry cannot pay less without the government’s formal approval,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-tariff-deduction-forunits-hangs-in-limbo/articleshow/77940503.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||EMIs not paid, banks phoning govt staff: GFP||Panaji: The state government is deducting monthly instalments from the salaries of government employees as EMIs for home loans, but instead of depositing the funds with the banks, the money remains with the state treasury, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Friday. GFP said that a nationalised bank is calling up government employees and telling them that the housing loans taken under the Housing Building Allowance (HBA) Scheme will be declared as non-performing assets if the instalments are not paid on time. “For the last three months, the EMIs are being deducted but the money is not being deposited in the bank,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. Director of accounts Dilip Humraskar told the GFP delegation that the directorate of accounts does not deduct the instalments and has no role to play in the EMIs other than disbursing the amounts sanctioned by various departments as salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/emis-not-paid-banks-phoning-govt-staff-gfp/articleshow/77940501.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Rare viper spotted in Pavagadh hills||Vadodara: They were out for trekking at Pavagadh on a rainy morning on Monday. But this group of Barodians hadn’t expected to bump into a reptile that is rarely seen in central Gujarat. The group spotted a Bamboo Pit Viper crawling on a tree in the dense bushes in Pavagadh on August 31. “It is for the first time that this reptile has been photographed in central Gujarat. We all were very excited to spot it,” said Kartik Upadhyay, one of the group members. While Tez Zardari photographed the reptile, the other group members including Chetan Panchal, Mittal Patel and Rahul Bhatt documented it.Upadhyay said that the viper is venomous and is usually bright green in colour. This slow moving reptile feeds on small rodents, birds, frogs and lizards. The female doesn’t lay eggs but gives birth to little snakelets. It is usually seen in southern parts of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rare-viper-spotted-in-pavagadh-hills/articleshow/77937930.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||One arrested with ganja, cops probing link to Arpora party||PANAJI: The Goa police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested one person for allegedly supplying drugs at a party in an Arpora villa organised by Bollywood actor Kapil Jhaverri. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena told TOI that the police team, led by Rahul Parab, arrested the accused with 68g charas worth Rs 90,000, in Calangute. The person’s name came up during investigation into the Arpora party. “Crime branch is investigating his link to the recent party at Arpora,” Saxena said, adding, “We are trying to find out how he got in touch with the party organisers, and how he got the drugs” On August 16, Goa police had busted a drug-fuelled party at a villa in Arpora, arrested 23 persons including 6 foreigners, and seized drugs including cocaine, MDMA and ecstasy worth Rs 9 lakh. The party was hosted by Jhaverri, who organised the party by contacting “customers” on the phone. The guestlist was limited to his close circuit, the crime branch SP had said. Crime branch filed an FIR against those arrested for endangering public safety and also under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Police said the revellers were mostly between 25-40 years of age, and that none of them were students or government employees. Of the 23 arrested, three foreign women have been held in a narcotics case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-arrested-with-ganja-cops-probing-link-to-arpora-party/articleshow/77940525.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI polls to be held today||Ahmedabad: After much hue and cry, being deferred once and amid echoes of being deferred again, the polls for key posts of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) will be held on Saturday. Natubhai Patel, managing director of Meghmani Organics, will take charge as president of GCCI on Sunday for the year 2020-21. He will replace Durgesh Buch. The annual general meeting of the industry body will also be held on Saturday evening. Some 3,200 members of GCCI are supposed to vote on Saturday, however, sources said that the voter turnout is expected to be less because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Since the past two years, the polling process did not take place at GCCI because candidates won uncontested. However, this time around, a strong contest for key posts of senior vice-president and vice-president are expected, for which Pragati panel and Atmanirbhar panel have been formed. Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), who leads the Atmanirbhar Panel is in the fray for the post of senior vice-president against Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group – a logistics firm. On the other hand, for the post of vice-president, Bhavesh Lakhani, convener, BJP Business Cell for Gujarat, is in the fray against K I Patel, founder of Aries Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-polls-to-be-held-today/articleshow/77941038.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Surat||GujCET 2020 results to be out today||Ahmedabad: The results of Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GujCET) 2020 will be declared online at 8am on Saturday on official website of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). The marksheets will be handed to the students along with the Class XII (science) supplementary board exam results, the date for which will soon be announced, GSHSEB said in a statement on Friday. The details for availing the duplicate OMR copies for various subjects will soon be announced by the board, it added. After being cancelled thrice due to Covid-19 crisis, GujCET was held last month. It was the first such exam in the state, held amid the coronavirus pandemic, where such a large number of students took the offline (pen & paper) exam. Of the 1.2 lakh candidates who had registered, 1 lakh took the exam with various precautionary measures in place. About 50,000 students from Class XII (Science) Group A, and about 77,000 from Class XII (Science) Group B and less than 500 from Class XII (Science) Group AB had registered for GujCET this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujcet-2020-results-to-be-out-today/articleshow/77936817.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Humiliated by neighbour, 16-year-old jumps off terrace in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old boy was left battling for life after allegedly jumping off the fourth-floor terrace of a building in Chirag Dilli on Friday. His family members told police that a neighbour humiliated him by forcing him to work at his servant after he accidentally broke his iPhone. The teenager knocked down the neighbour, Honey, with his bicycle on Thursday night and his phone fell down and broke. Though the teenager’s father promised to repair the phone, Honey kept asking for Rs 62,000 to buy a new device. He then forced the boy to work at his house till the phone’s cost was repaid. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that police were informed about the incident around 3.50pm by a hospital in Malviya Nagar. By the time police reached there, the child had been shifted to Safdarjung Hospital for treatment of multiple injuries. Before his condition deteriorated, the teenager told police that on Thursday evening he was riding his cycle from his father’s shop to his house when he lost his balance and hit Honey. Because of this, Honey’s phone fell down and got cracked. The neighbour created a ruckus and demanded money to repair the phone. The boy’s father soon reached there and promised to pay for the repairs. However, family members said that Honey returned on Friday and asked them to pay Rs 62,000 as the phone’s cost. The teenager alleged that Honey dragged him to his house and made him do sit-ups. He then asked him to work as his servant until his father paid the money. After sometime, the teenager told Honey that he was going back to his house for lunch. He decided to end his life because he felt humiliated by the treatment meted to him and his father. Police said Honey is a property agent. He has been arrested and charged for assault, illegal confinement and criminal intimidation. He might be charged for abetment to suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/humiliated-by-neighbour-16-yr-old-jumps-off-terrace/articleshow/77939474.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid effect: Telugus stranded after Malaysia bans entry of Indians||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hundreds of Indian immigrants, particularly from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, along with Telugu-origin Malaysians and their relatives are left in the lurch after Malaysia barred people from India to enter the country, starting September 7, over Covid-19 fears. The ban is likely to continue at least till December. The Malaysian government on Thursday issued a notification banning tourists from 11 “high risk” countries, including India, to tackle Covid-19. Travel agents from Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad and immigration officials at Visakhapatnam International Airport and Rajiv Gandhi International Airport claimed that people from the two Telugu-speaking states would be the worst sufferers. “Over five lakh Telugus have made Malaysia their home and they and their relatives often shuttle between India and Malaysia. In addition, there are close to one lakh immigrants from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala, working in Malaysia. The decision would affect them,” Ganesh Rao Susarla, a Hyderabad-based travel agent and executive member of Travel Agents Association of India, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugus-left-high-dry-as-malaysia-bans-fliers/articleshow/77939456.cms||Arpit Basu
September 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid effect: Telugus stranded after Malaysia bans entry of Indians||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hundreds of Indian immigrants, particularly from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, along with Telugu-origin Malaysians and their relatives are left in the lurch after Malaysia barred people from India to enter the country, starting September 7, over Covid-19 fears. The ban is likely to continue at least till December. The Malaysian government on Thursday issued a notification banning tourists from 11 “high risk” countries, including India, to tackle Covid-19. Travel agents from Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad and immigration officials at Visakhapatnam International Airport and Rajiv Gandhi International Airport claimed that people from the two Telugu-speaking states would be the worst sufferers. “Over five lakh Telugus have made Malaysia their home and they and their relatives often shuttle between India and Malaysia. In addition, there are close to one lakh immigrants from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala, working in Malaysia. The decision would affect them,” Ganesh Rao Susarla, a Hyderabad-based travel agent and executive member of Travel Agents Association of India, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugus-left-high-dry-as-malaysia-bans-fliers/articleshow/77942375.cms||Arpit Basu
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Collector warns against illegal mining in Pudukottai||Trichy: Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari has warned of criminal action against those indulging in illegal mining and transportation of minerals such as river sand, blue metal and clay. She said cases will be filed against the perpetrators under Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957 by the revenue divisional officer. Mining of river sand, blue metal and clay without permission is punishable offence. Vehicles used for transporting minerals and equipment used for mining them will be confiscated apart from booking them. Vehicles and equipment will be returned only after the final court verdict. The collector said that those indulging in such acts will be imprisoned for five years apart from being asksed to pay a fine of Rs 5 lakh under the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/collector-warns-against-illegal-mining-in-pudukottai/articleshow/77940514.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Experts: Consider existing infra before allocating higher FAR||Panaji: While preparing a fresh outline development plan and land-use map for Panaji and Mapusa, planning authorities need to consider the existing infrastructure and environmental conservation before allocating higher floor area ratio (FAR) or permitting development in new zones, said the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) Goa chapter in an open letter to the town and country planning (TCP) department. The IIA–Goa welcomed the move to create higher density zones in the two urban locations, but said that infrastructure required to sustain high rise zones should be put in place first. In the letter, which is also addressed to North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA), Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA) and TCP minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, IIA said that instead of creating newer residential areas, existing residential blocks which are old and unplanned should be encouraged to go for redevelopment. “It is seen that high FAR has been proposed for properties on sloping lands, some of which are too steep to be considered feasible for construction. The PDA needs to study the gradients of such sites and rectify all anomalies, wherever detected. Similarly, new public roads are proposed which do not have a feasible road gradient,” said chairman of IIA–Goa Manguesh Prabhugaonkar. IIA has also expressed concerns over incremental, minor or localized zone changes during the planning process. The impact of isolated increase in FAR based on requests will affect the entire city, said IIA. Prabhugaonkar has recommended that planning authorities need to look at infrastructure requirements, traffic projections, green cover areas and open spaces before charting new commercial or residential areas. Commercial areas in the central business district and its increasing demands of traffic, mobility networks and basic infrastructure for the future times should also be a concern. The commercial areas in peripherals, fringe sectors should also help the towns to reduce traffic chaos in our towns,” said Prabhugaonkar in the recommendations. The planning process, said IIA, needs to include decentralized parking facilities, public transport facilities, services and amenities at the neighbourhood level which will help decongest the entire city, whether Mapusa or Panaji. “Modes of transportation and networks required for its infrastructure as an alternative has to be superimposed over the zones of planning areas. Mass rapid transit systems can connect the cities’ growth areas to developing fringe areas and also discourage the use of private transport,” said IIA as part of the recommendations. IIA has also stressed on a focused approach towards restoring natural resources. “It is our belief that adequate representation to various built and unbuilt buildings and spaces along with environmental heritage are required to be maintained for our future generations,” said the letter. Last month, the planning authorities put up the land-use map and land-use register for Mapusa and Panaji for public scrutiny, and has invited suggestions and objections from citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-consider-existing-infra-before-allocating-higher-far/articleshow/77940512.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 5, 2020||Chennai||SC rejects serving district judges’ case for elevation to HC||Chennai: The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea moved by a group of directly recruited district judges challenging the decision of the Madras high court collegium in not considering their candidature for elevation as high court judges. It was their case that though they have not completed 10 years of service as a judicial officer, which is mandatory for such elevation, they had additional experience of more than 9 years as advocates before being appointed as district judges. Therefore, their experience both as an advocate and judicial officer should have been considered for the elevation, they contended. Dismissing the plea, the bench comprising Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna, and Justice V Ramasubramanian held that the claim of the petitioners is wholly untenable and misconceived. “The queue to which a person is assigned depends upon his status on the date of consideration. If a person is an advocate on the date of consideration, he can take his place only in the queue meant for members of the Bar. Similarly, if a person is a judicial officer on the date of consideration, he shall take his chance only in the queue meant for service candidates.” Hopping on and hopping off from one queue to the other, is not permissible, it said. Today, if any of the petitioners cease to be judicial officers and become advocates, they may be eligible to be considered against the quota intended for the Bar. But while continuing as judicial officers, they cannot seek to invoke an explanation that applies only to those who have become advocates after having held a judicial office, the court added. If clubbing (of experience) is permitted, it should be permitted even for the contesting respondents, which if done, would upset even the seniority of the petitioners, the court said while dismissing the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sc-rejects-serving-district-judges-case-for-elevation-to-hc/articleshow/77939424.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Trichy||Heavy rain in Trichy city||Trichy: Uninterrupted rain for about an hour that lashed several parts of Trichy city inundated low lying areas on Friday night. Parts of Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar and Chathiram bus stand witnessed inundation even in commercial establishments. The heavy downpour started around 7pm and went for more than an hour, leaving most parts of Trichy city flooded for a while. “It just rained for an hour, arterial roads in Thillai Nagar started to brim with water. If the rain had continued for a few more hours, several houses would have been affected,” said K Krishnan, a resident of Thiruverumbur. Since smart cities mission project including redevelopment of stormwater drains are underway in Woraiyur and Thillai Nagar areas, locals suspect the construction work might have impacted the usual flow of run-off water. Melapudur subway and parts of Palakkarai also saw heavy downpour and inundation lasting for hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-rain-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77940519.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Trichy||BDU asks depts, colleges to prepare for final exams||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has asked all its departments and affiliated colleges to make necessary arrangements for the conduct of final semester examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate students. Students who have paid fees for April 2020 examination will be allowed to appear for the exams which are expected to be scheduled from September 15 to 30, BDU registrar G Gopinath said on Friday. He stressed on following standard operating procedure issued by state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) during the conduct of the examination. Except for final year outgoing students, students in the remaining years were declared pass without appearing for the semester examination. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had a few days back declared that students who have paid fees for their arrears will be declared pass without appearing for the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-asks-depts-colleges-to-prepare-for-final-exams/articleshow/77940522.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||YouTube classes for ICSE, ISC||Kolkata: Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has taken an initiative to restart live teaching sessions with ‘CISCE virtual learning series’ on its YouTube channel. It will initially be for exam-level classes of IX to XII. In a circular to the heads of schools, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said While a large number of schools have been doing well with online teaching and continuing with scheduled syllabuses for all classes, especially at boards level, an equally large number of schools were not being able to do so for various reasons. “The Council has decided to take the initiative to restart its live teaching sessions, live streaming the lessons on YouTube. This will provide the CISCE accessibility to wider coverage, enabling it to reach out to all its schools, especially those located in semi-urban and rural areas. These lessons will be conducted by experts for all major subjects at ICSE and ISC levels. The inaugural session will be launched on September 9 at 10 am,” the circular said. There will be a slot for question-answer sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youtube-classes-for-icse-isc/articleshow/77939499.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chennai||Govt rejects Perarivalan’s plea for 90 days parole||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government has rejected Rajiv Gandhi assassination life convict A G Perarivalan’s application seeking 90 days parole. “The government has rejected the application as he was found ineligible for such ordinary leave under the prison rules,” the state’s prosecutor told the Madras high court on Friday. Recording the submission, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani adjourned the plea to September 8 for orders. The issue pertains to a habeas corpus plea moved by Perarivalan’s mother Arputham, seeking 90 days parole for her son on medical grounds. During the course of hearing, the court was informed that the inspector general (IG) for prisons has rejected the application as Perarivalan was found ineligible under the prison rules. It was added that the application had been forwarded to the state government as it has powers to exempt such conditions and grant leave. When the plea came up for hearing, additional public prosecutor R Prabhavathi submitted that the parole application made by the convict was rejected by the state too. According to the petitioner, her son, who is in prison for more than 29 years, needed immediate medical attention in view of various ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-rejects-perarivalans-plea-for-90-days-parole/articleshow/77939516.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||HC grants bail to 3 Ramesh hosp staff||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Friday granted bail to three staff members of Ramesh Hospitals who were arrested in Swarna Palace fire mishap case. Dr Kodali Rajagopala Rao, Dr K Sudarshan and Pallapotu Venkatesh were arrested by Governorpet police after a major fire broke out claiming 10 lives in Swarna Palace Hotel that was turned into a Covid-19 care centre.They were sent to judicial remand by the Vijayawada metropolitan sessions court. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-grants-bail-to-3-ramesh-hosp-staff/articleshow/77939528.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University viva, practicals for UG, PG classes from September 10, exams from September 17||CHANDIGARH: Final-year students’ viva-voce and practical examinations of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) colleges affiliated with Panjab University will start from September 10 through online mode. PU vice-chancellor professor Raj Kumar also approved the decision to conduct UG and PG examination from Friday, September 17. A communication sent to all principals of affiliated colleges of the university by controller of examination on September 4 stated that the university has allowed the viva-voce and practical examinations of undergraduate, postgraduate, diploma and vocational courses from September 10 to 15 through online mode in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 196 colleges affiliated with the university were asked to make necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of the vivavoce and practical examinations. The university has also asked the colleges to submit a list of examiners who will conduct the practical and viva-voce exams. All the colleges were asked to complete the process of the online viva and practical by September 17. Awards are to be submitted online at the e-mail address shared by the university examination branch. Highly placed sources in the university said in a meeting conducted by vicechancellor Professor Raj Kumar on Thursday, the decision was taken to conduct online practical examinations of final year students. It was also decided that an internal examiner will hold the practical exam as it is not possible to have external examiners during a pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-viva-practical-exams-for-ug-pg-classes-start-on-sep-10/articleshow/77937976.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||No need to clean veggies, fruits with soap or sanitizer: Experts||Nagpur: Owing to Covid-19 fears, some people have started washing almost everything with soap that they bring from outside. Be it vegetables, fruits and packed dairy products — many people are making it a point to wash them with sanitizers, soaps or chemicals. Taking advantage of the fear, many individuals, shops and suppliers are claiming to provide ‘sanitized’ or ‘disinfected’ fruits and vegetables. TOI conducted a fact check of this and found there is simply no need to use soap, chemicals or sanitizers to wash vegetables. Normal tap water wash is more than enough.In fact, according to doctors, use of dish soaps or any kind of soap has always been harmful for consumption and may lead to various health problems. “Washing vegetables and fruits with normal water is enough. Using soaps, sanitizers or drying them under the Sun for hours will do nothing good but will result in loss of nutritional values. Instead, people should wash hands with soap, wear mask and follow Covid distancing religiously,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade. According to her, washing fruits and vegetables with water gets 90-99% of germs out.“We don’t have any evidence that fruits, vegetables or food packaging are transmission vehicles for coronavirus. Even keeping eatables out under the Sun for hours is not based on any science,” she added. Meanwhile, social media is abuzz with farm fresh vegetable and fruit suppliers who claim to have been providing ‘sanitized’ farm products. TOI talked to directors/managers of three such commercial home delivery suppliers. All of them said they don’t use any sanitizer or disinfectant but try to reduce human contact during supply chain.“We provide farm fresh fruits and vegetables. We ensure least human contact by curtailing supply chain from farm to consumer. But, we don’t use any chemical or disinfectant to wash fruits/vegetables. People should also not use such things to clean vegetables,” said Archana Singh, supply manager of a home delivery web app.“Our aim is to keep our consumers safe by ensuring they get hygienic, healthy fruits and vegetables delivered at home. We ensure all major precautions like sanitizing hands, wearing gloves and mask, screening of every worker before delivering goods. With this, we can claim that we are providing sanitized vegetables,” said Sandeep, who runs a farm to home app in city. TOI also scanned the guidelines provided by authorities like World Health Organization, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), and even US FDA. No health authority has recommended use of disinfectants while washing vegetables and fruits. What WHO Says… No evidence that people can catch Covid-19 from fruits and vegetablesWash fruits and vegetables the same way you would in any other circumstancesBefore handling them, wash your hands with soap and waterThen wash fruits and vegetables thoroughly with clean water, especially if you eat them rawWhat FSSAI Says… Keep recently purchased fruits and vegetables in their packaging itself in an isolated corner of house for some timeThen wash vegetables thoroughly using lukewarm water Vegetables and fruits should be cleaned using drinking or potable waterAvoid using disinfectants, soaps or cleaning wipes to clean vegetables/fruitsSink and platform used for washing vegetables and fruits must be cleanedWhat US FDA Says… Wash hands for 20 seconds with warm water and soap before and after washing fruits/veggiesWash fruits/veggies before you peel it, so dirt and bacteria aren’t transferredGently rub produce while holding under plain running water. There’s no need to use soap Use a clean vegetable brush to scrub melons and cucumbersDry produce with a clean cloth or paper towel to further reduce bacteria that may be presentRemove outermost leaves of a head of lettuce or cabbage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-need-to-clean-veggies-fruits-with-soap-or-sanitizer-experts/articleshow/77937980.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 5, 2020||Goa||Will instruct agency to clear beach waste: Tourism dir||Colva: Large quantities of garbage have been piling up along the Salcete coastal belt from Cavelossim to Betalbatim. Mounds of garbage can be seen all over the stretch, giving a very ugly look to the beach stretch. When the issue was brought to the notice of the director of tourism Menino D’Souza, he termed it as “unacceptable”, and assured that he will get the Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), which is contracted by the government to keep the beaches clean, to “immediately clear the waste”. Last month, huge amounts of garbage like plastic and cement bags, tetra packs, discarded fishing nets and ropes, kept washing on the shore. TOI has highlighted the issue several times. Speaking to TOI, local fishermen alleged that the beach cleaning personnel collect the garbage and then dump heaps of it among the beach vegetation or shrubbery. Some of the garbage is left close to private shacks which are in the process of starting business. A private shack owner said he spent time, money and labour to clear two mounds of garbage from the vicinity of his shack, adding that the government is “wasting public money on the beach cleaning agency”. In April this year, waste was dumped on the sand dunes and at that time tourism officials said that since the Saligao garbage plant does not accept plastic, the waste was kept for drying. This, they said, would then be baled and disposed of. However, the waste was not cleared and once it dried the top layer was carried away by the wind deeper in the shrubbery, only worsening the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-instruct-agency-to-clear-beach-waste-tourism-dir/articleshow/77940527.cms||Nisser Dias
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Tabla master takes gifted student duo under his wing||HYDERABAD: At a time when people are extra cautious when it comes to opening their doors even for relatives, a tabla guru from the city gave accommodation to two of his students to ensure that they continue studying. P Murali, a teacher from Telangana Social Welfare Residential Fine Arts School, said that his students—N Ebenezer and T Rishi Pavan, are gifted. He said that they are due to appear for their certificate course examination next year and added that he is also helping them prepare for the examination. “They play tabla beautifully, learn quickly, and have the passion and potential to excel in this field,” said the 54-year-old adding that both of them are now staying with his family of five. Murali, who has held concerts in several countries, said that he has trained several children in the past 25 years, but not many continue in the field. “Many learn tabla for a few years and leave for higher studies or take up some job. But these two want to continue in the field,” he pointed out. Initially, the boys attended online classes along with other students, but he felt that they would learn better if they attended classes in person. “Having them at home is yielding better results. I work and practice with them. In their free time, they get to access my computer and hear legendary artists playing. They play tabla by following the laya of the vocal instrument in videos,” said Murali adding that the boys also enjoy spending their free time playing tabla with his teenage son. Fourteen-year-old Ebenezer, who is staying at Murali’s house for about a month now, said that they get to practice from 5 am every day. “Back in the village, we have a general store and whenever my father goes out, I have to take care of the business, but here there is no such disturbance. We start practice from 5 am and continue till 9.30 am. In the evening, we again start at 5 pm and practice goes on till at least 9 pm,” he added. In between, we study theory,” he added. Pavan, who is in Class 8 said that he hardly used to practice for an hour back at his village in Khammam, but practices for about 6 to 8 hours now. Murali also gifted tablas to three students hailing from economically backward families so that they can practice at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tabla-master-takes-gifted-student-duo-under-his-wing/articleshow/77939512.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 30 lakh, gold stolen from locked house||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 10 sovereigns of gold and Rs 30 lakh from a house in Chitra Nagar, Saravanampatti, on Friday. Houseowner K Duraisamy, a retired private firm employee, and his wife, had left for Keeranatham to attend a function on Friday at 4am, police sources said. “He had kept 30 lakh received after selling a property at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Wednesday. The couple returned home around 8am to find the front door broken open and the valuables missing,” a police officer said. Inspector Sangeetha, deputy commissioner E S Uma and assistant commissioner Rajkumar visited the crime scene and conducted inquiries. Fingerprints were lifted from the crime scene. There were no CCTV cameras in the residence, Uma said. “We collected footage from a camera installed at a nearby house. Neighbours had not noticed any suspicious activity. We suspect the involvement of people who knew about the land deal.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-30-lakh-gold-stolen-from-locked-house/articleshow/77939525.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC opens 14 centres for free dengue check||NEW DELHI: To control the spread of vector-borne diseases and identify areas where cases related to dengue, chikungunya and malaria are spreading fast, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to intensify testing in its areas. It has opened 14 centres where a free facility for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test for dengue platelet count will be provided to detect any vector-related infection. Anyone with symptoms such as long fever or a test recommendation by government hospitals or dispensaries can visit a centre. SDMC has hired a private company for the project. Each test, free for beneficiaries, will cost SDMC Rs 248, said an official. “If required, the public health department will intensify exercises like fumigation and spraying of insecticides to curb breeding of mosquitoes in identified areas,” said SDMC mayor Anamika Mithlesh. “We will simultaneously pursue residents to check mosquito breeding at home. Domestic breeding checkers will also make special rounds,” she said. The 14 centres are SDMC polyclinics at Lajpat Nagar, Badarpur, Jangpura, Mehruali, Masjid Moth, Munirka, Gummenhera, Uttam Nagar, Purnima Sethi Super Specialty Hospital, Polyclinic and Maternity Centre at Tuglaqabad, Primary Care Centre at Fatehpur Beri, School Health Scheme at Najafgarh, Chest Clinic at Bijwasan and Tilak Nagar Hospital. The corporation is also upgrading its online education system with the support of Doordarshan. “We are encouraging parents to watch Swayam Prabha channel,” said Mithilesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-opens-14-centres-for-free-dengue-check/articleshow/77939592.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Slate chairman sponsors 13 children who lost dads to Covid||Hyderabad: Vasireddy Amarnath, an academician, has taken up the responsibility of thirteen of his students and decided to provide free education to them after they lost their parents to coronavirus. All these students are studying in various branches of Slate school and are aged between three and fifteen years. “When I heard that a parent of one of our students died of coronavirus, I went to their house with the intention to offer free education to two children in the grieving family, but after seeing their plight, I decided to provide free education to all four children in the family,” said Amarnath adding that it is heartbreaking to see families worrying about their children's future after losing the earning member. The chairman of the school said that if any of his students lose their parents to coronavirus in the future, he will stand by them as well. Amarnath, who is now sponsoring 13 students from six families who lost their fathers to Covid-19, said this was the least he could do for his students who put their trust in his school. “Life seemed to have come to a halt when we lost our father, uncle, and grandfather all in a span of just one day... My mother was devastated. She was worried about how she'd manage our education, home, and everything. When Amarnath sir visited us, he not only consoled each one of us, but assured my mother that my education would henceforth be his responsibility,” said a student of Slate-Abids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slate-chairman-sponsors-13-children-who-lost-dads-to-covid/articleshow/77939533.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Won’t allow screening of Kangana films in Maha: Sena||Yavatmal: The district unit of Shiv Sena on Friday protested against actress Kangana Ranaut for comparing the state’s capital Mumbai with Pak-Occupied Kashmir (PoK).Sainiks assembled at Datta Chowk here at 5pm and amid sloganeering soiled the actress’s portrait with footwear garland.“Kangana is indulging in defaming Mumbai police, Maharashtra and state government by targeting CM Uddhav Thackeray and his family. The actress is acting like a BJP spokesperson,” said district unit president Parag Pingle.“Kangana should apologize failing which Sainiks won’t allow her films to be screened in the state,” threatened deputy district chief Pravin Pande.“If Kangana feels insecure in Mumbai, she should better go to Pakistan,” said Rajendra Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wont-allow-screening-of-kangana-films-in-maha-sena/articleshow/77937989.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Doctor booked over negligence charge in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: An FIR was registered on the direction of a local court against a senior officer and a doctor of a private hospital at Vibhuti Khand police station on Friday. The charges were negligence in treatment leading to death of a patient. The complainant, Akhilesh Kumar Asthana, is a special judicial magistrate in Barabanki and lives in Lucknow. He had approached court after police refused to register the complaint in February 2020. The hospital, however, denied the allegation. Asthana said that his wife Vibha was admitted to the hospital with backache on February 9 and remained under treatment till February 16. The health statistics of the patient were normal at the time of admission. However, he received a call from the hospital on February 16 that his wife’s heart has stopped and she may not survive. The caller also told him that if he wants, he can take his wife to a ‘higher medical centre’. “Then I came to know that my wife had developed sepsis during hospitalisation. However, the hospital hurriedly discharged my wife without giving treatment papers. I rushed my wife to RML Institute where doctors said that she had died about two hours back,” Asthana said in the FIR. “Documents related to the case were already submitted to the chief medical officer’s office. The FIR has not reached us and as and when it does, we will react accordingly,” said hospital director Dr Farooq Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doc-booked-over-negligence-charge/articleshow/77940534.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections to be held on Sept 25, counting to be done on Sept 26||Chandigarh: Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections for 2020-21 will be held on September 25 and counting will be done on September 26. This was decided in the meeting of the PUTA executive held on Friday. Returning officer (RO) Professor Vijay Nagpal tabled the proposal regarding PUTA elections in the backdrop of the pandemic situation, which was unanimously approved by the executive. In view of the Covid-19 situation, annual subscription fee will not be taken from existing members of PUTA for elections. However, retired members will cease to hold membership of the association. Teachers who could not enroll as members of PUTA last year will be given a chance to become members by paying a subscription amount to PUTA by a certain date to be fixed by the returning officer. Nomination papers will be sent by the candidates online directly to the returning officer on an email ID created for the purpose, by the date and time fixed by the returning officer. The returning officer has been authorised to finalise the election schedule in consultation with the president and secretary, with relative flexibility in view of the pandemic situation. The returning officer will also ensure that all precautionary measures such as sanitisation and social distancing are followed during the election process. To follow social distancing norms, polling hours have to be increased, the RO said, adding that it is not possible conduct counting on the same day. Therefore, he said, counting will be done the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/puta-elections-to-be-held-on-sept-25-counting-to-be-done-on-sept-26/articleshow/77937986.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 498 students registered for JEE entrance, 290 appeared on Friday||Ludhiana: Out of 496 students, 290 candidates appeared in both the shifts of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) test on its fourth consecutive day at TCS ION digital zone in Sherpur Chowk. The attendance figure available for the first shift is 56 %. The number of students appearing in the afternoon shift witnessed an increase and was recorded at 62%. But it is clear that a large number of students are not taking part in the ongoing exams for getting admission into top colleges and universities of the nation. In the morning shift, which lasted from 9am to 12pm, only 140 students appeared against the registered number of 248. In the afternoon shift, which started at 2pm, and ended at 5pm, 249 students registered themselves but only150 students appeared for the national entrance being conducted by the national testing agency. Safety of the students is considered to be one of the major reasons for the fall in the percentages of students who appear for the JEE test. Although, officials conducting the test insist that safety protocols are being followed strictly— every student is made to sanitise their hands and wear masks in the proper way before entering the examination halls. Students seemed happy with question papers, claiming the physics and chemistry, traditionally considered tough subjects to crack, were easy to solve. Only maths paper was a bit lengthy with several tough questions, they added. Gurbaaz Singh of Model Town, said, “I am quite excited even though maths was a bit tough. Physics and chemistry were easy and I could complete before estimated time. I am hoping to get good score in the exams.” Another student, Vimal Jain, said “Maths took a lot of time to solve as it was tricky and lengthy. But overall it was quite easy to handle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-498-students-registered-for-jee-entrance-290-appeared-on-friday/articleshow/77939519.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Three special trains for students appearing for JEE||Ludhiana: To facilitate students appearing for JEE, the northern railways has introduced three special trains that will run on the last day of the examination to help students struggling to reach the education centres due to pandemic restrictions. Officials said three examination special trains would pass through the Ludhiana railway station on Saturday after following all safety protocols and move towards Chandigarh station. The first special train will originate from Fazilka late Saturday evening and reach Chandigarh railway station early Sunday morning crossing Ferozepur, Moga, Ludhiana and Mohali. The second train will start from Pathankot railway station late Saturday evening and go to Chandigarh railway station crossing Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali and the third one will originate from Gurdaspur railway station and reach Chandigarh railway station through Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “Local railway authorities have made necessary arrangements to cater to the need of students who will appear on the last day of the entrance examination. Authorities will provide adequate sitting arrangements at railway stations after following safety protocols. Local ticket checking departments have updated all schedule charts and students can get tickets online or by visiting the local railway station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-special-trains-for-students-appearing-for-jee/articleshow/77939529.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 5, 2020||Nashik||100% paddy plantation completed in N Maha||Nashik: The recent bouts of incessant rainfall has helped in achieving over 100% paddy plantation in North Maharashtra. While the state agriculture department had projected paddy plantation on 1.06 lakh hectare in the division, the actual plantation has been carried out on 1.08 lakh hectare. However, the situation was grim in the month of July as the region had received inadequate rainfall. Only 58% plantation of paddy had been done by August 3 in North Maharashtra, but the process gathered momentum due to consistent heavy rainfall. Out of the 1.08 lakh hectare, paddy has been planted on 85,184 hectare in Nashik district, 23,056 hectaree in Nandurbar and 4,665 hectare in Dhule. A state agriculture department official said paddy plantation, which is usually over by July-end, was delayed due to inadequate rains particularly in paddy growing belt of Igatpuri, Peth and Trimbakeshwar. Moreover, of the total projected kharif sowing of 21.19 lakh hectare, sowing has been done on 20.18 lakh hectare in North Maharashtra — Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. Kharif sowing has been completed on 95% of the projected areas in North Maharashtra, including 94% in Nashik district, 98% in Dhule district, 94% in Nandurbar and 95% in Jalgaon. There have been drop in kharif sowing of bajra. Of the total projected area of 1.96 lakh hectare in North Maharashtra, bajra has been sown on 1.42 lakh hectare — 72% of the projected areas. Also, kharif jowar has been sown on 87% of total projected areas of 91,000 hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-paddy-plantation-completed-in-n-maha/articleshow/78064894.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 5, 2020||India||India, Russia take part in two-day naval war games in Bay of Bengal||NEW DELHI: After exercising with the US and Japan amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Navy kicked off a two-day war-game with its Russian counterpart in the southern Bay of Bengal on Friday. The 11the edition of the `Indra-Navy’ exercise, being held to the east of Sri Lanka, will further consolidate the long-term strategic relationship between the two armed forces. “The exercise has matured over the years with increase in scope, complexity of operations, and the level of participation,” said Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal. “Its primary aim is to further consolidate the interoperability built between the two navies over the years, as well as enhance understanding and procedures for multi-faceted maritime operations,” he added. India is being represented by guided-missile destroyer INS Ranvijay, stealth frigate INS Sahyadri and fleet tanker Shakti, along with their integral helicopters. Russia, in turn, has fielded destroyers Admiral Vinogradov and Admiral Tributs, along with fleet tanker Boris Butoma, of its Pacific Fleet based at Vladivostok. “The exercise involves surface and anti-aircraft drills, firing exercises, helicopter operations, seamanship evolutions and the like. The last edition of the exercise was conducted off Visakhapatnam in December 2018,” Madhwal said. India and Russia had conducted their first tri-service Indra exercise, with participation from the two armies, navies and air forces, at Vladivostok in October 2017. The second edition of the tri-Service exercise was held in India in December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-russia-take-part-in-two-day-naval-war-games-in-bay-of-bengal/articleshow/77941732.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Rs 1,807crore crop loan disbursed so far: Collector||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Friday informed that banks in Nashik have so far collectively disbursed crop loan worth Rs 1,807 — Rs 340 crore more than the amount distributed last year during kharif season. “The banks had distributed loans worth Rs 1,467 crore — 46% of the annual target of Rs 3,147 crore — for the year 2019. This year, the banks have achieved 54% of the Rs 3,303 annual target,” Mandhare said, expressing content over the speed of disbursement of crop loans achieved by the banks. After reviewing the performance of the banks, the collector pointed out that Rs 1,610 crore loan was presented by the 10 select banks that had the highest responsibility of providing loans. In all 63% of the loans has been disbursed by the top 10 banks with Bank of Maharashtra achieving 65% of its target. The Nashik District Central Cooperative Bank (NDCC) has also distributed Rs 336 crore to the farmers. Meanwhile, crop loan of Rs 245 crore has so far been given by the banks to the beneficiaries of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana. “In all Rs 1,075 crore of loan has been waived off by the state government under the scheme in Nashik district and farmers, who wish to take loan, are being presented fresh loan from the banks. So far, loan worth Rs 245 crore has been disbursed to the farmers,” Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-1807crore-crop-loan-disbursed-so-far-collector/articleshow/77940537.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Develop Bundelkhand as a role model for organic farming: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: During a review of projects worth Rs 50 crore or more in the Chitrakoot division, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Bundelkhand should be developed as a role model for organic farming. In a video conference with senior officials, including MPs and MLAs of the region, the CM said that they must explore the possibility of organic agriculture and promotion of zero-budget agriculture in the drought-hit area. Directing officials to complete land acquisition for development projects and fast track works like that of the Bundelkhand Expressway, the CM said that Chitrakoot was one of the six nodes of the Defence Corridor and would be converted into a gateway for development in the near future. “Only 50 hectare land is left to be acquired for Defence Corridor which should be completed by October 2021. Timelines should be set for all developmental works which should then be completed accordingly. The officers and people’s representatives should submit proposals for new schemes,” he added. The CM has directed officials to link Rajapur, the birth place of Goswami Tulsidas, and Lalpur, the place where Maharshi Valmiki is believed to have died. He said that the construction of the 300-bed divisional multi-discipline district hospital in Banda should be completed at the earliest while the Kulpahad Sprinkler Project under the Bundelkhand package should be completed latest by March 2021. To encourage more projects under MNREGA, the CM has asked officials to prepare an action plan for digging and revival of ponds through convergence under Atal Bhujal Yojana. He said that ODOP products of all districts should be kept on display in Vikas Bhawan. He has also directed officials to upgrade district hospitals at Mahoba and Hamirpur, adding that if required, the government will provide additional funds. He also instructed for a Covid hospital in Hamirpur. The CM said the there is a network of rivers and ponds in Bundelkhand which needs to be revived. He added that Bundelkhand has immense tourism potential which needs to be explored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/develop-bundelkhand-as-a-role-model-for-organic-farming-cm/articleshow/77940551.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teacher pedals through 300 villages raising Covid awareness||KHAMMAN: Hindi teacher G Suresh Kumar has travelled thousands of kilometres covering 300 villages in a span of six months on his bicycle to spread awareness about Covid-19. A teacher at a zilla parishad high school in Puravancha village of Khammam district, Kumar has been at the forefront in spreading awareness about measures that they need to take to keep Covid-19 at bay. Every weekend, the Hindi teacher pedals through villages making announcements on a mega phone attached to his bicycle. “During the weekends, I just pedal through villages around the district and make announcements asking people not to step out without masks and beware of Covid-19 symptoms. From morning till evening, I work independently during the weekend,” said Suresh Kumar, who also covers lanes and areas surrounding containment zones along with district police officials. Kumar has also covered nearby villages of Andhra Pradesh which are within 10 km radius of where he lives. The 46-year-old teacher has tied handwritten posters on his bicycle that gives detailed information in Telugu to onlookers about measures to be taken during a pandemic. This is not the first time that the teacher has stepped out to campaign for a cause. “I have been travelling on my bicycle for the last 17 years spreading awareness about HIV, pollution, effects of smoking and addiction alcohol etc. I spend all my weekends campaigning on my bicycle,” said Suresh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hindi-teacher-pedals-through-300-villages-raising-covid-awareness/articleshow/77939559.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Municipal corporation to create micro forests around Buddha Nullah||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation (MC) of Ludhiana, along with Indian Revenue Service officials and other volunteers launched a micro forest initiative around the banks of Buddha Nullah on Friday. The initiative was launched on Friday in the presence of MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, by planting of close to 450 saplings in a micro jungle near the bank of Buddha Nullah near Haibowal. Speaking about the initiative, IRS Rohit Mehra who has already undertaken several green initiatives like vertical gardens and seed ball plantation in India said, “Under this campaign, we will plant more than 300 micro forests with each one spanning an area of about 2,000 square yards. We are going to plant herbal saplings as well as water and air purifying plants like panchvati and moringa. The another first about this project is that we will use the waste leaves and cow dung from the dairies as manure. The disposal of cow dung has become a huge problem for the city and at several points it is being disposed off in the Buddha Nullah. But now, we will ask people to send cow dung for use at micro forest site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-create-micro-forests-around-4buddha-nullah/articleshow/77939573.cms||Mohit Behl
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||No janata curfew this weekend, but please don’t venture out of homes, urges mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi has announced there will be no janata curfew this weekend as proposed by him and some city MLAs. In a video released on Friday evening, Joshi said the curfew could lead to panic buying and hence its imposition was avoided. He also said that Covid cases would peak this month.However, sources in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) said Joshi could not enforce the janata curfew because municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had not issued any such order. “Guardian minister Nitin Raut was against any such lockdown for the purpose of curbing Covid cases as it hurt the livelihood of the poor,” said an official.Even if Raut wants he can’t impose a short-term lockdown on his own. In its latest unlock guidelines, Centre has made it mandatory to seek its permission for lockdowns outside containment zones. Chandrapur collector Ajay Gulhane had sent a proposal for a 10-day lockdown to central government, but could not get the green signal. Consequently, the lockdown could not be imposed.After an unprecedented contraction in gross domestic product (GDP) of the country in the first quarter of 2020-21, the Centre is wary of lockdowns.Joshi in the video appealed to the people not to venture out of their homes on Saturday and Sunday unless extremely necessary. He expressed regret that many people were not following Covid norms thinking that they would never get infected despite several warnings by government agencies.The mayor said nuisance detection squads (NDSs) of NMC had been asked to crack down hard on people not wearing mask from Friday evening. “Please wear mask and make us avoid take unpleasant action,” he added.According to NMC, NDSs had fined 226 persons in 10 zones collecting a fine of Rs45,200 for not wearing mask on Friday evening. Each person was fined Rs200.Lockdown has become a political issue in the city. When former municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had proposed a 15-day lockdown in late July, mayor Joshi and all BJP MLAs opposed it saying that would affect the livelihood of poor. Raut at that time too was against the lockdown and to prevent Mundhe from imposing it formed a committee under divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to decide on the issue. The members of the committee — all IAS and IPS officers — were not as keen as Mundhe to impose a lockdown and hence it remained on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-janata-curfew-this-weekend-but-please-dont-venture-out-of-homes-urges-mayor/articleshow/77938007.cms||Ashish Roy
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Curve flattening claim falls flat as Covid cases shoot up||Nashik: The trend of Covid-19 patients in the city in the last 10 days belies the civic administration’s claim that the pandemic curve has started showing signs of flattening.As many as 7,229 patients tested positive in just 10 days between August 24 and September 3. On an average, as many as 722 patients were testing positive for the viral infection on a daily basis during this period. On the contrary, 4,244 people tested positive between August 15 and 24, with as many as 424 suspects confirming positive for the contagion daily on an average during these 10 days. However, the silver lining is that there has been a slight dip in the number of deaths reported in the last 10 days between August 24 and September 3. The death rate has reduced from 2.17% on August 24 to 1.84% as on September 3. Previously,the death rate stood at 4.81% by the end of June and 2.92% by July.Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) argued that the number of positive cases being reported per day had increased as the civic body had ramped up testing. “We have increased the number of tests from 2,000 per day to 3,137 tests on an average during the last 10 days. The case count is increasing due to a rise in the number of tests. Moreover, we are also tracing and testing upto 35 to 40 risk contacts of each patient,” said a civic official.Many people are voluntarily conducting tests in private laboratories to make sure that they do not remain igrnorant. “Most of the patients being reported are in the age group of 20-40 years as a majority of the peopl fromthis generation are not following safety protocols,” said the official. The city had total 9,441 Covid-19 patients and 276 deaths between April 6 and July 31. The case count increased to 25,451 patients and 491 deaths by August 31. This means that 16,010 patients an 215 deaths were reported in August alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/curve-flattening-claim-falls-flat-as-covid-cases-shoot-up/articleshow/77940535.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Car knocks spotted deer dead; driver fined Rs 5,000||Coimbatore: A spotted female deer was killed after a car hit the animal on Kotagiri-Mettupalayam road on Thursday night. According to a forest officer, the incident took place when J Antony Cruz, 40, of Finger Post in Udhagamandalam, was heading to Mettupalayam, where he was constructing a house, from Kotagiri in his car on Thursday night. “Suddenly, a herd of deer crossed the road near Odanthurai forest staff quarters. The car hit the female deer that was aged about one and half years, killing it on the spot,” the officer said. Officials at the Odanthurai forest department’s check post stopped the car and held an inquiry with Antony, a building contractor. Mettupalayam forest ranger Selvaraj registered a case against Antony under the Wild Life (Protection) Act and slapped on him a fine of Rs 5,000. “There are warning boards on Mettupalayam-Kotagiri stretch instructing motorists to maintain slow speed as it is a wildlife crossing area. We have approached the state highways department to create a speed breaker near the wildlife crossing area to curb road kills,” Selvaraj said. The carcass of the spotted deer was buried inside the reserve forest after autopsy on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/car-knocks-spotted-deer-dead-driver-fined-rs-5000/articleshow/77939568.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Expect rains for next 4 days: Met dept||Ludhiana: Even as the rain lashed the city on Thursday, it failed to create much impact on its temperature on Friday. Meanwhile, met department predicts that rain will continue for the next few days. According to the met department, rainfall between 8.30am on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday was recorded at 11.8 millimetres (mm). But it did not have much impact on the day temperature as maximum was recorded at 33.4 degrees Celsius, which was normal. On Thursday, the day temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 34.7 degrees, which was two degrees more than normal. Meanwhile, minimum (night) temperature in the city on Friday was recorded on the higher side at 25.2 degree, which is a degree more than normal but 1.2 degrees less than a day before. A met department official at Chandigarh said the next four days will be “generally cloudy with possibility of thunder or lightning”. He added that whereas the day temperatures are expected to rise in the coming days, night temperature might remain slightly above the routine. The met department website meanwhile predicts rise in day temperature to 35 degrees till Monday whereas night temperature is expected to remain 25 degrees. “After pleasant weather for many days, things started to get hot and humid in Ludhiana. Such conditions are irritating as one does sweat a lot and many times perspiration leads to itching,” said Gurdeep Singh, a businessman from BRS Nagar. He added that they are taking extra care as during the monsoon, there are chances of spread of mosquito-borne diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/expect-rains-for-next-4-days-met-dept/articleshow/77939556.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Teachers write to wildlife board over likely damage by Mollem infra projects||Panaji: At least 100 teachers from across Goa, in a letter to the National Board for Wildlife (NBW), said there was no detailed plan for reparation of the social and environmental damage that the three infrastructure projects which will cut through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park are likely to cause. They said much of the damage would be irreversible and have devastating long-term effects on the environment. Students, legal professionals, doctors and architects had previously written to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change pointing out the absence of due process in passing these projects. “As teachers from Goa, we ask how we are expected to teach young people about their civic duty to protect Goa’s environment and its rich natural heritage while it is stolen from them through illegal and unscientific manners. Are we expected to teach them about deforestation, global warming, and climate change without contemplation and thought to how we can do better and how we can help change these patterns?” the teachers said. They also said they stand in solidarity with more than 700 school and college students from across Goa who had previously written to the NBW and hundreds more who have been protesting the three infrastructure projects on social media. Among other things, the letter highlighted the importance of green spaces for a child’s well-being and the threat deforestation poses to the future of young people as well as the dangers of painstakingly teaching children science and civics when their leaders pay no heed to these subjects which making such decisions. “As the world struggles to battle the severe effects of accelerated global warming and to adequately deal with the consequences of extreme climate change and biodiversity loss, to go ahead with a hasty, unscientific expansion project like this is not only extremely foolish, but lethal,” the teachers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-write-to-wildlife-board-over-likely-damage-by-mollem-infra-projects/articleshow/77940571.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jeweller attacks broker on SG Road||Ahmedabad: A landbroker from Bopal on Thursday filed a complaint with Vastrapur police alleging that he was attacked by a jeweller outside a club on SG Road over an old financial dispute. Nikhilesh Maheshwari, 45, resident of Applewood Villa in Bopal, states in his FIR with Vastrapur police that accused Nitesh Soni, owner of a jewellery showroom and sari shop in Bopal, along with seven others attacked him over a dispute which took place in 2013. Maheshwari said that Soni first asked for moneyand then he began punching him indiscriminately. His accomplices joined him. At that time, Maheshwari’s two friends rescued him from Soni and his aides and took him to a nearby private hospital from where he filed his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jeweller-attacks-broker-on-sg-road/articleshow/77941099.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||IAF chief visits College of Air Warfare||HYDERABAD: Amid heightened tension along the LAC, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria made a quick visit to the College of Air Warfare in Secunderabad on Thursday. Addressing officers from the three Services undergoing the 44th higher air command course, the air chief explained to them about the emerging contours of national security. It was a closed-door event. “It was meant to be only a talk with them,” an IAF spokesperson from Delhi told TOI. “He emphasised the unique attributes of air power that would allow its employment in likely scenarios and apprised the course officers about the progress being made in deliberations that are ongoing for creating integrated structures towards enhancing synergy in future war fighting,” the spokesperson said. The College of Air Warfare is an IAF institution of higher learning, which conducts courses on air warfare for tri-Services officers in an integrated manner. After visiting air bases in the Eastern Air Command headquarters in Shillong on September 2, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria came to Secunderabad. The air chief’s visit became known only on Friday after a note was issued by the IAF authorities. Sources said during his visit to Shillong, Bhadairia spoke to troops and reviewed the preparedness in view of the renewed border tensions between India and China. After the Galwan incident in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with China’s PLA, the air chief had visited the Leh airbase to review preparedness of IAF. “It need not be known where I have been and on which day and for what purpose,” Bhadauri had said in reply to a question from reporters at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, where he had come down after the Galwan Valley incident, to review a parade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iaf-chief-visits-college-of-air-warfare/articleshow/77939649.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||The real fight was with my own self, says cop who beat Covid||Nagpur: Covid survivor, 52-year-old head constable Anil Parmar, who was twice admitted in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with acute pneumonia and breathlessness, claims to have fought back from the jaws of death with sheer will power. During his stay in ICU at the private hospital in August, he saw seven people dying and being wheeled out.Parmar, posted with Gittikhadan police station, said he clenched both his fists and kept on egging himself on as drawing oxygen was progressively getting tougher. “Anil tu yeh kya kar raha hai,” (Anil, what are you doing?) Parmar told himself as he felt his condition sinking and breathing getting more difficult.“It is the make or break point for every Covid patient in the ICU when one needs to muster all leftover courage, energy and strength to draw some oxygen into the body when it simply won’t support you anymore. Don’t lose the battle at that point. Keep panting, puffing, do whatever, just breathe and don’t lose hope till the last breath,” said Parmar who had tested positive along with wife Mamta and son Hemant on August 4.While he had to be taken into ICU, his wife and son were in general ward as they did not have severe symptoms. “I was not feeling well since August 1. First I started feeling weak and later lost taste and hunger. Then came the fever. I took regular pills but the body was becoming loose and weak and fever was not subsiding. I went to a doctor on August 4 who advised me to go for the test,” said Parmar who attributed his recovery to the exercising and maintaining fitness as a youngster. “Panic kills many as you see people dying and you are one with similar symptoms. In corona, more than medicine one would need the spirit to fight on. I would keep telling myself in the ICU ‘yahan se nikalna hai, teen-char din mein ab’ (Need to walk out of this place in another three-four days)”, said Parmar who had joined the police force in 1991.“Twice I had fallen down. One day, I woke up at 4 am just to see my oxygen cylinder empty. I panicked and ran for the nurses. In such crisis, don’t panic but be firm,” he said.Parmar said his spirituality and love for girlfriend-turned-wife Mamta were the additional boosters that he needed to pull on after winning the first bout with breathlessness and a worsening pneumonia. “I used to think my wife must be coming to the door of the ICU from her ward to inquire about me. That made me emotionally strong as I could not bear to think of not seeing her again,” said Parmar.“My wife must have prayed a lot for me as she is a staunch devotee of Lord Shiva,” said the head constable who is set to resume duty in a couple of days.“Post corona, my diet comprises boiled eggs, dry fruits and other nutritious food,” said Parmar expressing deep gratitude for Zonal DCP Vinita Sahu and DCP Shweta Khedkar who would regularly interact with him and chief medical officer of the police hospital Dr Sandeep Shinde.“While in hospital, I suggest fall back on spirituality to bounce back as it helps to heal emotionally and makes one’s inner-self stronger. See posts related to spirituality on mobile phone. I used to chant Hanuman Chalisa after the initial breathlessness was gone and confidence was coming back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/the-real-fight-was-with-my-own-self-says-cop-who-beat-covid/articleshow/77938011.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||AP cops arrest Nutan Naidu||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam police arrested ‘Bigg Boss’ participant and film director Nutan Naidu at Udupi in connection with tonsuring of a 20-year-old Dalit youth. Naidu was taken into custody at Udupi railway station with the help of Karnataka police. The police recovered four mobile phones from Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cops-arrest-nutan-naidu/articleshow/77939588.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||23,000 from across Maharashtra to gather in Nagpur for NDA exam tomorrow||NAGPUR: Over 23,000 students from across the state will descend on various exam centres in Nagpur this Sunday for the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy entrance test. Their presence in city will coincide with hundreds of students appearing for JEE on the same day, as well as rising Covid-19 cases. Since Maharashtra has just two centres, the other being Mumbai, the high number of candidates was not completely unexpected. Ravindra Khajanchi, resident district collector, said the increase in number of candidates is also due to the biennial format of the exam. “The first edition was scheduled for April, but due to the lockdown it did not happen. Now, students from that batch may have spilled over to the September test,” said Khajanchi, who is the district-level coordinator for the exam. This huge influx of students in the city has got medical experts worried. Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, a senior medical practitioner, said this exam comes at a time when Nagpur is facing a Covid-19 crisis. “We are looking at huge number of cases and the peak is yet to come. It would have been better to have a two-day lockdown and push the exam further,” said Dr Swarnakar. “I know that all SOPs are in place but how do you watch over 20,000 kids outside the exam centre?” he said. The ongoing JEE seems better adapted to deal with this by having two exams per day, over a week. Atharva Pandit, coordinator of NDA preparatory institute Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj AFPI, feels the JEE format is worth exploring. “UPSC and armed forces have always kept pace with times and if shifting to online exam mode benefits students, then I am sure they will be open to it. Covid-19 pandemic has taught all of us to take a holistic view of every situation,” said Pandit. To deal with logistical challenges, Indian Railways and state transport buses have put in motion elaborate plans to ferry thousands of students to Nagpur. Central Railway will operate 10 trains from Mumbai, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Pune, Ballarshah, Nashik, Jalgaon, Amravati, Panvel and Akola. The same trains will return in the evening with students. However, SECR won’t be running any special trains to Nagpur. This means students coming from Gondia and Bhandara will have to travel by ST bus. At the railway station, many are expecting ‘chaos’ as trains start arriving on Sunday morning carrying thousands of students. Central Railway chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar said, “There will be no chaos as timings of these trains will be scattered, both while entering Nagpur and departing.” As per the Central Railway schedule, thousands of examinees from entire state will be covered. Even as the railway schedule has left not much scope for bus operators, MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare said, “As per the orders from headquarters, we are ready with additional 120 buses apart from regular 150 buses. These buses will be parked at Mor Bhavan for students wanting to travel to their home towns, including long distance travel. There may be many students coming from the region. We will post at least 100 supervisors at Mor Bhavan who will guide students to their destinations.” At exam centres, hand sanitization and wearing of masks will be mandatory. MS Deshpande, centre in-charge at Government Polytechnic, said, “We have also kept stock of masks, if students don’t have one. All our invigilators will be wearing gloves too so that papers are safe. Sanitizers will be placed in every classroom and seating will adhere to guidelines.” He added that separate rooms have been prepared to accommodate students showing Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23k-from-across-state-to-gather-in-city-for-nda-exam-tomorrow/articleshow/77938022.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Dr Nanjappa Road to be made one-way for regulating traffic||Coimbatore: To reduce traffic congestion on Dr Nanjappa Road from Avinashi Road flyover to Park Gate, the city traffic police plan to make the 500-metre stretch one way. They also plan to divert the vehicles from Gandhipuram to Jail Road and LIC signal.Two wheelers are always parked along the busy stretch, which has several hardware shops, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. “Goods carriers also frequent the area due to the presence of shops. Vehicles from Gandhipuram will be diverted at Park Gate to Jail Road and LIC signal. Motorists should take a right turn to reach their destinations. It will be done on a trial basis for a few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dr-nanjappa-road-to-be-made-one-way-for-regulating-traffic/articleshow/77939646.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Spelling mistake ends Dr fraud’s run||NEW DELHI: At least 75 people in south Delhi were given forged Covid-19 test reports by a doctor who promised them the convenience of not having to join a queue at a laboratory. Dr Kush Bihari Parashar, 34, who claims to have an MD degree, then got his compounder equipped with test kits similar to those used by reputed laboratories to collect samples before faking the reports on a computer. The preoccupation of the authorities with the pandemic would have probably meant the con could have gone unnoticed. However, a mistake in the spelling of a patient’s name led police to Parashar and his aides, Amit and Sonu, all of whom have been arrested. A placement agency that provides nursing staff to hospitals had asked two recruits to be tested for Covid on August 30. They approached Parashar, who, as usual, collected samples and later WhatsApped the client the forged reports purportedly from a well-known south Delhi lab. When the spelling error was detected, the lab was requested to rectify report. However, on checking the records, the lab found no tests had been conducted on anyone so named. According to Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (South), the lab lodged a complaint about the forged Covid test report at Hauz Khas police station. “An FIR was registered and investigation has been taken up,” disclosed Thakur. The cops discovered that Parashar recommended the Covid tests to his patients and volunteered to collect samples and have them tested at the designated labs. While collecting samples, Sonu would observe the patient for signs of fever, cough or any other Covid-related symptom, in which case the report would show a positive result. Otherwise, the report would be negative. The samples collected were discarded, while the reports were prepared using photo editing tools before being sent on WhatsApp. The PDF format used and the soft copy sent online meant it was difficult to differentiate between genuine and forged reports. Parashar, a Malviya Nagar resident, claimed to be the son of a medical superintendent of a government hospital in Karauli, Rajasthan. He said he was in dire need of money to look after his pregnant wife and to pay the EMI on his car, so he had hit upon the idea of duping people with Covid reports. He worked as an assistant cardiologist at a small hospital for two years before starto his own practice, while offering consultancy to labs. Police are verifying his assertion that he received his medical degree from a Russian university in 2012. The cops suspect more people were involved in this racket. "The investigation is at a preliminary stage,” said DCP Thakur. “We are making efforts to contact the victims and will record their statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spelling-mistake-ends-dr-frauds-run/articleshow/77939658.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||PU notifies 5% fee exemption for all students||Chandigarh: Panjab University, on Friday, notified fee exemption of 5% across the board for all departments for the current semester. For students who have deposited the full fee, the extra amount will be adjusted in the fee of the next semester, said dean, students’ welfare (women) Sukhbir Kaur. According to a notification issued by vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar in anticipation of approval of the Syndicate, in view of the difficulties faced by students because of the Covid-19 pandemic, 5% fee exemption will be given to all students of Panjab University, Chandigarh and its regional centres for the current semester. Also, students have been allowed to pay the fee in four equal installments instead of two. Physically challenged students will be granted 100% fee concession. As a special measure, EWS concession will be extended to students of traditional courses, the university notification said. Representatives of all student parties held a meeting with the dean, students’ welfare to discuss norms for fee concession to be given to students whose parents have lost their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic. During the meeting, students were informed that the university is finding it difficult to set a proforma for such students. Authorities faced difficulties deciding which proof should be sought for exemption or scholarship in the face of losses suffered due to Covid-19. For now, it has been decided to offer different kinds of concessions, scholarships and schemes (involving an amount of Rs 5 crore) to students. In case a student needs any other concession besides this, authorities assured that a committee can be constituted to review the individual case and take a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-notifies-5-fee-exemption-for-all-students/articleshow/77938053.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh bypolls for 27 seats clubbed with Bihar election||BHOPAL: Bypolls to 27 assembly seats in 18 districts of Madhya Pradesh will be held along with Bihar assembly elections, scheduled this year-end. Sixteen of these seats are in the Gwalior-Chambal region where the fight could be close in many constituencies. Apart from two seats, where sitting legislators passed away, the rest of the bypolls were necessitated by the resignation of Congress MLAs, which brought down the Congress government. They have since switched to BJP, along with Jyotiraditya Scindia. Congress needs to win all 27 seats to return to power, while BJP needs just nine to get simple majority. The CEO’s office has already started preparations and initial check of EVMs is over, said sources. Recently, EC had asked the state government to appoint nodal officers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in each district. Schedule for bypoll to be released soonLast week, the government appointed J Vijay Kumar, MD of MP public health corporation, as state nodal officer. Chief medical and health officers of these 18 districts have been appointed as district nodal officers, so too block medical officers of the constituencies where bypolls are due. These officials will ensure that polling booths are appropriately sanitized and help in ensuring that all Covid-19 protocols are adhered to during the bypolls, added sources. One of the major factors in clubbing bypolls and Bihar election is the relative ease of movement of central forces and police and related logistics. The poll schedule will be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-for-27-seats-clubbed-with-bihar-election/articleshow/77941723.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||India opens inland water link to boost Bangladesh ties||NEW DELHI: India operationalised the Daukandi (Bangladesh)-Sonamura (Tripura) inland waterway protocol route on Thursday and called it another milestone in bilateral ties with Bangladesh. Bangladeshi vessel MB Premier carrying cement started from Daukandi on Thursday and will reach Sonamura on Saturday, traversing 93km along the river Gumti, an external affairs ministry statement said. This will be the first ever export consignment from Bangladesh to Tripura through the inland waterway. The cargo will be received at Sonamura in the presence of Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb and India’s high commissioner to Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das. The operationalisation of this route, besides further facilitating overall bilateral trade with Bangladesh, is expected to provide an economical, faster, safer and environment-friendly mode of transport and result in substantial economic benefits to local communities on both sides. Amid reports of a Chinese outreach to Bangladesh, India has been proactively working with Dhaka to provide impetus to ties. Bangladesh was the first country foreign secretary Harsh Shringla visited since the Covid lockdown was implemented in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-opens-inland-water-link-to-boost-bangladesh-ties/articleshow/77941750.cms||---
September 5, 2020||World||India opens inland water link to boost Bangladesh ties||NEW DELHI: India operationalised the Daukandi (Bangladesh)-Sonamura (Tripura) inland waterway protocol route on Thursday and called it another milestone in bilateral ties with Bangladesh. Bangladeshi vessel MB Premier carrying cement started from Daukandi on Thursday and will reach Sonamura on Saturday, traversing 93km along the river Gumti, an external affairs ministry statement said. This will be the first ever export consignment from Bangladesh to Tripura through the inland waterway. The cargo will be received at Sonamura in the presence of Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb and India’s high commissioner to Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das. The operationalisation of this route, besides further facilitating overall bilateral trade with Bangladesh, is expected to provide an economical, faster, safer and environment-friendly mode of transport and result in substantial economic benefits to local communities on both sides. Amid reports of a Chinese outreach to Bangladesh, India has been proactively working with Dhaka to provide impetus to ties. Bangladesh was the first country foreign secretary Harsh Shringla visited since the Covid lockdown was implemented in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/india-opens-inland-water-link-to-boost-bangladesh-ties/articleshow/77941752.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Provide soft loans for tourism sector to boost economy: Report||Panaji: Providing soft loans or one-time grants to boost tourism-related activities has been suggested as part of the plan to revive the economy of local civic bodies. The report submitted by the directorate of higher education (DHE) and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) has identified adventure tourism, heritage tourism, hinterland tourism, farm tourism, aqua tourism and salt extraction as some of the key areas to make village panchayats and municipalities self-sufficient. Heritage and village walks, home-stay tourism in hinterland areas without creating big resort/hotel type structures, and involving the youth in this sector have also been pitched in the report. The report highlights development of beaches for community spaces, restriction in the number of shacks, and promoting aqua and beach sports. It also underscores on the need to conduct workshops in villages and provide information to youth on various government schemes and assistance in businesses, organise visits to industrial estates by panchayats, and provide training and information regarding information technology. Establishing youth training centres in carpentry, plumbing, electrical, masonry, mechanical skills, coconut plucking, weaving bamboo baskets, brooms, coconut palms, etc, has also been suggested. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Independence Day had stated that policy makers will adopt the 191 village panchayats and 14 municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), by October 2 to make them self-sufficient. DHE and GIPARD were tasked with surveying the panchayats and municipalities to outline a detailed economic revival plan for the state. The idea behind the survey was to analyse the potential for revival of sectors related to agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, horticulture, tourism, MSME, traditional means of livelihood and the employment potential in each individual village. Colleges were entrusted with the task of collecting data as part of the survey. During the study which was carried out over one and a half months, college teachers gathered inputs from elected representatives, self-help groups, farmers’ clubs, fishermen, taxi drivers, professionals and other stakeholders. The study was carried out under the state executive committee and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/provide-soft-loans-for-tourism-sector-to-boost-economy-report/articleshow/77940621.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Substandard masks delay govt’s free mask scheme||Coimbatore: The state government’s free mask distribution scheme is yet to be launched in the district as a whopping number of masks it received from the contractor, who won the tender, was of substandard quality. The district has rejected 5.85 lakh masks that were supplied by the contractor so far. The government plan is to distribute the free masks through ration shops to the card holders. An official with the office of district supply officer said, “We have been receiving masks in batches since August. After receiving them, they were sent to the handlooms department for quality check. The masks that did not satisfy the parameters prescribed by the state government were rejected.” The district had received around 12 lakh masks till August-end and 5.85 lakh of them were rejected during the quality check, the official, who requested anonymity, said. He said another batch of five lakh masks had arrived on Thursday and they were sent for quality check. “To implement the free mask scheme in the district, we need 62 lakh masks.” Pointing out that the state government’s plan was to distribute the free masks in the city corporation limits on top priority, the official said a minimum of 25 lakh masks were required for the same going by the number of ration card holders. Otherwise, he said, they might not be able to send masks to all the ration shops and distribute the same without any gaps. The district has only 6.15 lakh masks in stock. As per the scheme, two masks would be distributed per person in a family. According to a source with the district administration, once the masks are sent to the handloom department, one sample per 5,000 masks would be selected on random basis and sent to a private textile laboratory for quality check. Among other factors, the size of masks and length of tapes would also be looked into. A source with the South India Textile Research Association, which check the samples for quality, said, “At the laboratory, we would test the samples to identify its fabric count - one of the factors calculated to determine the thickness of the sample - and its fibre content to check whether it’s 100% cotton or not. Both the tests are done separately for the weft and warp yarn - basic components used in weaving to turn yarn into fabric - of the samples.” As per the government guidelines, the masks should be made of 100% cotton fabric and the count of both the weft and warp yarn should be 2/40. “Once the testing is completed, we would send back the samples along with the test results to the handloom department, which would then take the final call on whether to approve or reject the product,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/substandard-masks-delay-govts-free-mask-scheme/articleshow/77939668.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Northern railways: Exam special trains to facilitate students, guardians||CHANDIGARH: Northern railways will operate nine special examination trains from Punjab and Haryana to Chandigarh to facilitate candidates appearing for UPSC, National Defence Academy and Naval Academy examinations. The passenger trains, in which all Covid-19 safety norms will be implemented, will facilitate the examinees and their companions. As around 15,000 students and their guardians are expected to travel through these trains, Ambala division has decided to keep all ticket counters open. There are trains which have reserved coaches, for which candidates can buy tickets online. Hari Mohan, senior divisional commercial manager, Ambala division said it is mandatory for candidates to show their admit cards to board the special train. He also said the staff has been asked to open all ticket counters for candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/exam-special-trains-to-facilitate-students-guardians/articleshow/77938067.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||SC refuses bail to Sajjan Kumar, says no need for hospitalisation||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday rejected ex-Congress leader Sajjan Kumar's plea for bail in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, in which the Delhi High Court had in December 2018 reversed his acquittal and sentenced him to jail for the remainder of his life. Senior advocate Vikas Singh tried every possible argument, from failing health to hospitalisation and from 20 months in jail to weight loss, to seek grant of at least interim bail for the septuagenarian but a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian rejected the pleas. Singh argued that it was a case of reversal and the HC erred in relying on the statements of witnesses during depositions made after more than 20 years of the incident. The bench said merely because the statements were made after 20 years did not mean that the witnesses were lying. "This is not a small or usual case. You were released on medical grounds. Now look at the medical report which unequivocally says that you do not require hospitalisation," the bench said. Countering Singh's argument that Kumar had lost weight and required recuperation at home, the bench said the medical report said he had gained weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-refuses-bail-to-sajjan-says-no-need-for-hospitalisation/articleshow/77939682.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Cops to identify travellers from Gulf||LUCKNOW: Almost two weeks after the seizure of 15kg explosives and suicide vests at the residence of alleged ISIS operative Abdul Yusuf Khan in Beshahi village of Balrampur, the district police has chalked out a comprehensive plan to conduct a massive verification drive of those who travelled to the Gulf countries in the past 10 years. SP Balrampur Dev Ranjan Verma told TOI that several teams have been formed, comprising beat in charges, personnel of local intelligence unit (LIU) and sub-inspectors, to conduct the drive as per law. “In coordination with LIU, Balrampur people who travelled to the Gulf countries in the last 10 years would be identified. Later, the teams will visit each of these individuals and interact with their families,” the SP said. “People from Balrampur usually visit the Gulf countries for jobs and rarely visit Canada, the US, Europe or Australia. Hence, we have specifically mentioned Gulf,” he said. Strict instructions have been given to all the teams not to harass any individual or family members if they don’t cooperate, Verma said. He said a list of such persons would be made and a probe would be done under the supervision of a gazetted-rank officer. “All the details will be shared with specific departments for a scrutiny. Those whose documents fail the scrutinty will be served a notice,” he said. Explaining the process, he said these details would also be shared with revenue officials, who would also check land and other properties bought by these individuals in the last 10 years and also their money flow. Verma said verification of those selling chemicals in the district has also been conducted. On August 22, the special cell of the Delhi Police arrested Khan of Utraula police station area in Balrampur on charges of being a part of an alleged ISIS-inspired module planning blasts in the national capital. A day later, a cashe of explosives were recovered from his house. On August 27, five policemen, including an inspector, a sub-inspector, two constables of a local police outpost and a local intelligence unit officer, were suspended for being clueless about the concealment of arms and ammunition at Khan’s residence. More policemen were later found to be knowing about Khan, but it could not be ascertained, senior officials said. Sources in the Balrampur LIU said Khan usually remained isolated in the village because he belonged to the ‘Deobandi’ sect, while his other neighbours were usually ‘Barelvi’ and maintained a distance. “Neither Khan nor his family members interacted with anybody in the village, hence he was able to indulge in terror acts without being noticed,” LIU sources said. Special cell of the Delhi police is still investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-to-identify-travellers-from-gulf/articleshow/77940584.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Supply of 156 ICVs to begin next year||Hyderabad: Amid the surcharged atmosphere along the border, the Indian Army is looking forward to the infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) manufactured at the Ordnance Factory Medak (OFM) in Telangana. The OFM will start supplying 156 upgraded ICVs to the Army from next financial year with work at the factory going on at a frenetic pace. While the first lot of the ICVs will be delivered next year, other ICVs will be supplied subsequently. An indent for Rs 1,094 crore worth Boyevaya Mashina Pekhoty (BMP) 2/2K ICVs was placed in June this year. “We are absolutely charged up and geared up to meet any additional requirement for the Indian Army due to enhanced threat at our borders,” said OFM general manager Alok Prasad. While the Indian Army is in possession of Sarath ICV, which is a BMP-II vehicle with technology transferred from the erstwhile USSR, the OFM has come up with other variants also. Prasad said so much more is happening in terms of giving upgraded features to Sarath. New features will enable the ICV to navigate better in the war field and also have better communication. “There will be an advanced navigation system, radio sets and digital cable harness,” Prasad said. OFM has also taken up another project for night-enablement for BMPs. Trials are going on. Previously, BMPs were not night-enabled. “But, if missiles have to be fired in the night, the ICV has to be made night-active. This is being done with the help of Bharat Electronics Limited,” sources said. The integrated fire control system will also give Sarath power to fire guns and missiles accurately even in night. “This upgradation is being made available for earlier produced ICVs also,” Prasad said. At a time when the Centre is keen on indigenous products under Make in India and also Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives, the ICVs manufactured at OFM are 98% indigenous, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/supply-of-156-icvs-to-begin-next-year/articleshow/77939695.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 5, 2020||Surat||‘Negligence in release from Narmada dam eroded soil’||Surat/Bharuch: Farmers of both Bharuch and Narmada districts who witnessed extraordinary discharge of water from the Sardar Sarovar Dam last week have started complaining that their fertile land has been damaged due to sudden release of water from the dam. “We have rarely seen such a huge release of more than 10 lakh cusec of water in downstream within 24 to 36 hours. This shows the negligence of dam administrators,” said Jayesh Patel, a leading farmer and trustee of Narmada Pradushan Nivaran Samiti. “It seems that proper reservoir operating procedures were not adopted. This mismanagement resulted in release of such a huge quantity of water from midnight of August 29 to September 2. The discharge of 8-11 lakh cusec water put lives of many people at risk. The state government needs to set up an inquiry into this,” he said. Shree Garudeshwar Datt Sansthan Trust has also written a letter to Narmada collector expressing concern over the huge discharge of water that has affected historical properties of the trust. “In the past too we made representation on erosion on the bank of the river but now the situation has worsened,” said Patel. P C Vyas, director of Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) however refuted the allegations. “We have followed set procedures and routed flood in the most effective way by releasing less water compared to inflow in dam,” said Vyas. “It is only with prior intimation to the respective district authorities that water is released in the downstream of the river. The inflow of water was much greater than the release. If we would have released more water, it could have resulted into a major flood in downstream. We have efficiently controlled flood and managed the dam reservoir operations,” he said. “An independent analysis by a team of four experts has shown how the systematic operation of SardarDam averted severe flood in Bharuch,” he said, adding that SSNNL has worked in close coordination with Narmada Control Authority, and authorities of dams in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/negligence-in-release-from-narmada-dam-eroded-soil/articleshow/77936994.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Surat||Five killed in accident near Valsad||Surat: A family of five died when the motorcycle which they were riding rammed into a parked trailer truck on National Highway 48 near Valsad on Friday evening. All the deceased were resident of Gandevi in Navsari. The accident took place when the family was going towards Atul. The deceased were identified as Ajay Solanki (28), his wife Rekha (25), daughters Nancy (5) and Dhruvi (4) and nine-month-old son Jenish. Police have booked Rahul Yadav, driver of the trailer for negligence. According to police, Ajay lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the parked trailer from behind. The accident took place near Sugar Factory, Valsad, on Surat-Mumbai stretch. “It seems that the motorcycle was moving at high speed and the driver realised that a trailer was stationary only after coming too close,” said a police officer in Valsad. Police said that Ajay, Rekha, Nancy and Dhruvi died on the spot while the toddler Jenish died during treatment. Police have detained the trailer driver and he will be arrested after Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-killed-in-accident-near-valsad/articleshow/77938091.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Compartment exams for CBSE Classes X, XII from September 22||NEW DELHI: The compartment exams of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for classes X and XII will begin from September 22, the board announced on Friday. While the Class XII exams will end on September 29, the Class X exams will end on September 28. Several categories of students can appear in the exams. The first are the regular school students who have received compartments in their Class X or XII board exam. If a student fails in more than two subjects, they get a compartment. The second set of students is the candidates of Class XII who had applied for improvement of performance for subjects whose exams took place from July 1 to 15 and their result was declared as ‘NC’. The third such students are those of Class XII who have appeared as regular candidates in six subjects in February/March 2020 and were declared pass, but could not clear one subject. They can appear under improvement of performance category. And the last set of students are of classes X and XII who have been punished under category 1 of unfair means case, wherein their current examination of the subject has been cancelled and they have been allowed to appear in the compartment examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/compartment-exams-for-cbse-classes-x-xii-from-sept-22/articleshow/77939696.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Covid tally crosses 70,000, over 1,600 test +ve for second day||BHOPAL: Covid-19 infections in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 1,600 mark for the second consecutive day on Friday with 1,658 people testing positive for the viral disease. With this, the Covid-19 tally of positive cases in state rose to 70,244 mark. This is also the sixth consecutive day when the daily positive cases have remained above 1,400. Earlier on Thursday, the state’s single highest daily spike in Covid-19 cases of 1,672 was reported. It was also the sixteenth day when more than 1,000 cases were reported in the state. In the past 16 days, a total of 21,895 people tested positive which is about 31% of the total cases reported in the state since March 20, when the first positive patient was found in the state. The alarming trend is that 9,369 new cases have been found in the state so far this week only. This is 13% of the total positive cases reported so far. Apart from these fresh cases, 30 deaths were also reported from across the state. Of these, half of the deaths were reported from four districts namely Indore (5), Bhopal (4), Jabalpur (3) and Gwalior (3) districts only. On the brighter side, 1,042 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these the total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far reached stands at 53,257. This is 75.8% of people who have been tested positive in state. On Friday when 1658 people tested positive, samples of 25,982 were tested and thus 6.4% of total who were tested were found positive. This 6.4% is above the state average of around 4.7% as on September 4. There are presently 15,474 active patients in state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-covid-tally-crosses-70k-over-1-6k-test-ve-for-2nd-day/articleshow/77938086.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Dug up for underground drainage work, city corporation yet to relay many roads||Coimbatore: Two months ago, the city corporation had dug up Perks Arch Road at Uppilipalayam to lay pipelines for underground drainage (UGD) project. After completion of the work, the corporation failed to re-lay the road. With the heavy rainfall in the past two days, the road has turned sludgy and slippery. For Pasupathy, 72, a resident of Perks Arch Road, a walk on the road is a nightmare. “In the past two months ever since the work started, labourers were found working only for a couple of weeks with a frequent interval in between every few days. Once they had laid the pipelines, they didn’t close the dug-up road properly. The labourers were nowhere to be seen in the last 15 to 20 days,” Pasupathy said. “Following heavy rain for the past two days, the road had turned sludgy, causing inconvenience to commuters. I purchased close to two units of debris and levelled the portion in front of my apartment,” he added. However, the city corporation started levelling the road on Friday evening. M Devendran, secretary of Coimbatore district road safety association, said, “It is not just the city corporation, but the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage board and telecom operators also dig up roads to lay pipelines for drinking water schemes and to lay cables. They neither complete the work quickly nor restore the roads immediately after the work is completed. As a result, many of the roads owned both by the highways and corporation remain damaged.” The association has submitted a petition to the district collector seeking his intervention in resolving the issue. For instance, the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage board had dug up the road from GN mills bus stop to Vellakinaru pirivu about six months ago to lay drinking water pipeline and the road is yet to be restored, he said. It would increase chances of accidents in the city. Former councillor Velmurugan said, “The main reason for the damaged roads is that all the projects are implemented simultaneously at multiple places and slow implementation of the works. For example, if it is underground drainage project, multiple roads are cut at a time to lay pipelines and the work would drag on for months together. Instead, if a project is implemented at one place after the other, it would at least reduce the inconvenience caused to the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dug-up-for-underground-drainage-work-city-corporation-yet-to-relay-many-roads/articleshow/77939684.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Cops do a ‘munadi’ outside banished gangsters’ homes in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Police resorted to the medieval practice of ‘munadi’ — beating drums to make a public announcement — outside homes of gangsters banished from the city to make residents aware about their externment and directing them to inform police or dial UP-112 if they spotted the goons. The exercise was undertaken at Krishnanagar, Madiaon and Talkatora on Friday. Residents of Sambhar Kheda in Krishnanagar were taken aback when a group of drum-beating cops arrived and read out names of criminals, Krishna Rajput, Ankaj Verma, Amit Lodhi and Jitendra Rawat. SHO, Krishnanagar, D K Upadhaya said, the four were booked under the Gangster’s Act for unleashing terror in the city. DCP, East, Somen Barma said, if any of the four are spotted in Lucknow in the next six months, legal action would be taken against them. He also said, ‘munadi’ also helped tell people they should not live in fear. In Madiaon, a similar exercise was undertaken outside residences of Ali Hasan, Zubair and Shaan, who were also booked under Gangster’s Act. Similarly, in Talkatora, drum-beating cops conducted the ritual outside the residence of Brijesh Sonkar, also booked under the stringent law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-do-a-munadi-outside-banished-gangsters-homes/articleshow/77940603.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 595 Covid-19 cases, four deaths||Coimbatore: With the single-day high of 595 cases, the number of Covid-19 cases rose to 17,865 and active cases to 4,551 in the Coimbatore district on Friday. Most number of cases were reported from corporation limits. Cases were reported from Ramanathapuram, Thudiyalur, Ganapathy, Gandhipuram, Peelamedu, Uppilipalayam, Pollachi and Mettupalayam, among other areas, in the district as well. On Friday, the state media bulletin included four deaths that took place in the past two days in the district, taking the toll to 322. According to the bulletin, a 49-year-old man admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on August 29, and a 58-year-old woman admitted to CMCH on Tuesday died due to bilateral bronchopneumonia on Thursday. A 64-year-old man who was admitted to a private hospital on August 29 with the complaints of breathing difficulties, died on Thursday due to Covid-19 pneumonia. A 50-year-old man admitted to CMCH on August 28 died on Wednesday due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, systemic hypertension, coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Meanwhile, corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian inspected the containment areas and fever camps conducted in the east zone. He requested the public to make use of the fever camps being conducted in their areas and not to step out of their houses till their area is declared as a non-containment zone. He directed officials to take necessary steps to disinfectant the area twice a day and ensure that the essential commodities reach the residents without any difficulties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-595-covid-19-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/77939691.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||From ZERO to ZOOM!||No one had even imagined a day when physical classrooms would remain locked and learning would go online. Covid-19 changed this all. On Teachers’ Day we salute the spirit of educators who embraced technology to enable students to learn… Khushnuma Solai, Educator, H B Kapadia School Her comfort zone was confined to classroom teaching and the laptop at home was largely for screening movies for the family. Covid and life threw her a new challenge, and the chalk and duster were replaced by laptops and wifi. That technology makes things easier seemed to be refuted at first. When Solai got down to making a presentation for the first time she had to lock herself into a room for recording, which her five-year-old daughter couldn’t understand. Solai says, “On the first day she cried so much and kept banging on the door. Then I had to record only after she had gone to sleep at night. I had to do several retakes to get the perfect one. “From chalk, I went to gadgets to make presentations. Jagdish Khatri, Educator, Naginpura Primary School, Jotana (Mehsana) With the need to stay indoors to remain safe due to Covid-19, Jagdish Khatri embraced technology for the sake of his students. At 51, it was difficult to leave behind 32 years of a particular style of teaching and embrace a new path. Challenges did not deter him. Khatri says, “The PDF files formula was not working and during a discussion with a friend, I learned about this Zoom class. I googled for information and got help from other educators. With practice, now I can take classes on Zoom.” Khatri, who has a class of 60 students, feels that embracing technology made teaching fun. Renu Sharma, Art teacher, SGVP School In 15 years, Renu Sharma never felt the need to embrace technology for her art classes. She felt technology had no role in the world of imagination and creativity. The pandemic changed her views. She not only got training from her school but also enlisted family and friends to run her online classes smoothly. From being someone who could not connect a mobile to a laptop, she is now teaching art online. Renu says, “It is fun to connect with all students at one go, but the sad part is it is tough to explain detailed steps in limited time.” She adds, “I have adapted to the change, but this scenario cannot continue for ever.” Anita Patel, Educator, Rajpur Primary School, Gandhinagar “Challenge accepted,” was the motto for 54-year-old Anita Patel to embrace technology to keep the education of her students going during this pandemic. Nobody in her school was tech-savvy and everyone was confused about how to how to go about it, but Anita got external help and learned all that was needed to take classes. Teaching students of Classes VI to VIII Sanskrit, Hindi, and Gujarati, Anita in five months has become comfortable with online classes. She says, “Students are active and prompt in learning and are loving the new method.” But then, all do not have mobiles, so she also teaches one-on-one, with safety in mind. Hasti Chandwani, Educator, Zebar School For Children The human race is born to adapt and this was what Hasti Chandwani did during the pandemic. The transition from chalk and blackboard to virtual classroom made her realize that we can create the same learning environment online. Her research helped her take the students on virtual field trips with PowerPoints, she included personalized Bitmoji’s in her teaching to build rapport with the students and it worked like magic. She says, “Thinking out of the box, I started using various apps for debates, discussions, and teaching and assessed students with auto-graded forms.” She adds, “Storytelling, which is an integral part of educating students, became more exciting with apps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-zero-to-zoom/articleshow/77939688.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||STF nabs Ambala man with counterfeit currency worth Rs 26K||Jaskaran Singh Ambala: In yet another case of recovery of illicit currency, the special task force (STF) of Haryana Police arrested a person with counterfeit currency worth Rs 26,000 in Ambala on Thursday. Police said the accused, Ajit Singh alias Sonu of Kamal Vihar, Ambala City, was produced in the Ambala court on Friday, which remanded him in two-day police custody. A case has been registered against Ajit under Section 420 (cheating), 489-A (counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes), 489-B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency), and 489-C (possession of forged or counterfeit currency) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Ambala City police station on Thursday. Sources said the STF, on Thursday, received a tip-off that Ajit is supplying counterfeit currency in Ambala. “It was informed that Ajit would be coming towards Ambala after getting the currency prepared from somebody in Patiala, Punjab. A checkpost was set up. The accused was apprehended and 12 illicit currency notes of Rs 2,000 and four of Rs 500, i.e. having a face value of Rs 26,000 was recovered from him,” the complainant told the police. An STF officer said, “On Friday, the accused was presented in a local court, which granted his two-day police remand for further investigation.” On July 30, this year, STF Ambala arrested two persons identified as Pankaj ‘Pinky’ of Rambagh Road, Ambala Cantt and Sagar of Teli Mandi, Ambala Cantt, after recovering illicit currency worth about Rs 3.5 lakh from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stf-nabs-ambala-man-with-counterfeit-currency-worth-rs-26k/articleshow/77938075.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Patiala senior dy mayor accuses wife, male friend of theft||Times News Network Patiala: Senior deputy mayor Yogendra Singh Yogi has filed a case against his wife and her male friend, accusing them of stealing gold and cash from his house. According to the FIR registered by the Kotwali police, the senior deputy mayor produced a list of articles that his wife Jaspreet Kaur, 40 and her male friend Manav Sharma, 24 allegedly stole. It contains 220 grams of gold and Rs 1.5 lakh cash. Police said they have registered a case under relevant sections of the law, including Sections 451 (house trespass), 323 (punishment for causing injuries voluntarily), 379 (theft), 498 (Enticing or taking away with criminal intent a married woman) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Jaspreet Kaur and Manav Sharma. Confirming the development, station house officer, Kotwali police Rahul Kaushal said it has been alleged that Manav Sharma, who knew Yogesh’s wife, barged into the house and stole the gold ornaments and cash even as his son tried to stop him. The senior deputy mayor was not present at home at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/patiala-senior-dy-mayor-accuses-wife-male-friend-of-theft/articleshow/77938094.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Businessman dead, another hurt in vehicle pile-up at Kukatpally, car driver held||HYDERABAD: A motorcyclist died and another sustained injuries after a rashly driven car wreaked havoc on Bhagyanagar main road in Kukatpally, hitting bikes and ramming into another car, on Friday afternoon. The deceased was identified as K Ashok, a businessman from the KPHB Colony. He was on his bike travelling towards the city when the car hit him from behind. Ashok sustained a severe head injury and died on the spot. The other injured person was rushed to a nearby hospital. The accused (in inset), drove the car in a rash manner, hitting two motorcyclists first, and then ramming into another car on the Bhagyanagar RoadThe accused, Srinivas, who was driving a Maruti Brezza with it’s owner sitting inside, was over-speeding. Soon after the incident, the car owner fled from the spot. Srinivas first hit two bikes, and then a car and an auto — all going in the same direction — before coming to a screeching halt on the main road near the KPHB Metro station. According to the police, around 2.30pm, Srinivas came speeding from Miyapur side. He did not stop even after hitting the two bikes. He moved about 50 metres before hitting a sedan, which in turn hit an auto, near a shopping mall. “The car driven by the accused got stuck after hitting another car due to the impact. It was then the locals caught the driver and handed him over to the police,” said Laxminarayana Reddy, Kukatpally inspector. A case was registered under IPC Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-dead-another-hurt-in-vehicle-pile-up-at-kukatpally-car-driver-held/articleshow/77939704.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Airports told to ensure call recording to curb hoax calls||LUCKNOW: The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has directed installation of call recording facility on telephones operated by airports and airlines across the country, according to a classified order issued on September 2. The step will help authorities in case of a bomb threat call to accurately identify its authenticity through an analysis of dialect, tone and the profile of the caller. The order, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, was issued after a review meeting on safety and security of airports across India with focus on hoax calls. The order was issued by joint director (operations & policy) of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, Mukund Mohan. Under the bomb threat contingency plan (BTCP), it is required that all airlines and airport operators install call recording and caller ID system to help authorities identify the callers. The bomb threat review committee of BTCP, comprising airport director, CISF head, airline representative, state police and others, will review installation and working of call recording on telephones at airlines and airports. According to sources, airports and airlines operating in big metropolitan cities receive maximum bomb threat calls, mostly the handiwork of mischievous elements. “Once a bomb threat call is made, the entire machinery of the airport gets activated and the call is reviewed by a committee to decide if the threat is genuine or a hoax. The decision is made after analyzing several aspects like if the call was specific or non-specific, threat perception and suspicious activities. Most importantly, the committee looks into the caller’s dialect, tone and profile, if identified,” an official, who did not wish to be named, said. After the order was issued, authorities at Chaudhary Charan Singh airport (Amausi) in Lucknow have asked four domestic operators – Vistara, GoAir, Air India and Indigo – and seven international airlines including Oman Air, Saudi Arabian Airlines, Fly Dubai, Flynas, Thai Smile, Air India and Indigo, to install call recording facilities in their telephones. The Lucknow airport already has at least four systems in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/airports-told-to-ensure-call-recording-to-curb-hoax-calls/articleshow/77940634.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||DPT tops cargo chart||Rajkot: Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) formally known as Kandla port tops in cargo handling in August. In a press statement, DPT claimed that Paradip port which was earlier in number one position has been pushed to second rank. The DPT handled 43.665 MMT cargo in August while Paradip port handled 42.751 MMT. The major cargo handled by DPT’s Vadinar units including salt, finished fertilizers, sugar and coal. S K Mehta, chairman of KTP said, “It is envisaged that DPT will be able to achieve the targets set for the fiscal taking into account the modernizing projects.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dpt-tops-cargo-chart/articleshow/77938127.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Cheap e-passes for Bhopal buses cheer commuters||BHOPAL: Resumption of city buses on two routes — SR 1 (Bairagarh to Chirayu hospital via New market) and SR 2 (Bairagarh Chichili to Chirayu hospital via Vallabh Bhavan) — has gone down well with passengers, who travel long distances to get to work. Commuters, who had to use private vehicles or cabs, are very happy with the online passes issued by Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) that has brought down the fares significantly and given an option of cashless transaction to passengers. A few passengers who commuted by the bus on the first two days — Thursday and Friday — have given positive reviews. Anita Bhavsar, a cook who works in the residential quarters near Chirayu hospital, said she had been waiting for the bus service to resume soon as it was getting very difficult for her to commute to and from work every day. Nabeel Khan, who travels from New Market to Bairagarh, said he liked the e-pass system that BCLL has started. “The e-pass allows cashless transaction and is pretty economical. I got the e-pass worth Rs 100. It will allow me to commute to work and back home for 10 days. This way, I will be spending only Rs 300 per month on commute, cutting the cost of travel to a minimum,” said Khan. PRO of BCLL, Sanjay Soni, said that there were 80 passengers on first day and around 130 passengers on second day. “It will take another 10-15 days to start normal flow of passengers in city uses. We are also planning to start buses on other routes to improve connectivity to other areas. We have provided the bus conductor and driver with hand washes and instructed them to keep washing their hands with soap and water after every one-two hours. Passengers are requested to keep their masks on all times. Once passengers start commuting in buses in large numbers, we will also figure out rules to maintain social distancing. At present, not more than 10 passengers are travelling in the bus at a given time,” said Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cheap-e-passes-for-city-buses-cheer-commuters/articleshow/77938112.cms||Shuchita Jha
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Baby dies after swallowing battery cell||Mysuru: A baby boy, who accidentally swallowed a battery cell on August 31, died on Friday. One-and-a-half-year old Hemanth Skandamani, while playing at his house in Ittegudu, had removed the battery cell and swallowed it. It led to health complications and his parents took him to KR Hospital. Hemanth battled for life for three days in the hospital but died early on Friday. Following the tragic incident, Nazarabad cops have advised people to keep harmful things and tiny materials away from children as it could prove hazardous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/baby-dies-after-swallowing-battery-cell/articleshow/77937892.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mysuru||Villagers oppose use of poisonous substance by forest dept||Shivamogga: The forest department’s using a poisonous substance in bamboo plantations here has come in for flak from villagers. Agumbe forest division has experimented with the use of a poisonous chemical called Thimet in bamboo plantations at Karekumbri, close to Agumbe. According to the forest department, the basic idea of this experiment was to keep wild animals away from the plantations, but local residents learnt about it and took objection to it. The villagers said that lack of knowledge among the department officials has been leading to unwise experiments in the rain forest in Agumbe. The chemical sachets that they were using to keep wild animals away have now resulted in the death of cattle, and villagers are up in arms against the forest department due to this. Ajay Sharma, a wildlife conservationist and environmentalist, has come down heavily on the forest department for being “reckless”, and has accused the forest officials for using Thimet, which has been banned in many countries. Karekumbri plantation is situated very close to the Malathi River. . This part of the country witnesses heavy rainfall and there is a high chance of these chemicals getting washed away, and which might result in the death of various flora and fauna, and in case it enters the river, then it might also affect fishes. Assistant conservator of forests Satish Chandra said the range forest officer used the substance on a trial basis in a restricted area. “The powder was wrapped in cloth and plastic and tied to plants, to keep herbivores away. Animals get the smell of the substance and stay away from plants. It was a botched experiment and we removed it immediately last week. Making fresh allegations on an old issue by villagers has no meaning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/villagers-oppose-use-of-poisonous-substance-by-forest-dept/articleshow/77937920.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris adds 95 new cases of Covid-19||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district added 95 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, pushing its case tally to 1,810. With 52 Covid patients discharged from hospitals on the day, so far 1,425 patients have recovered in the district. As many as 372 active cases are being treated at hospitals and Covid-care centres.The district toll rose to 13 with one death being recorded on Friday. Of the newly-contracted cases, two women working in Ooty government hospital as nurses tested positive, while a cook in the SP’s office tested positive. A 36-year-old bank manager in Coonoor also tested positive. Among the new cases, at least 12 people, including three women, who travelled to other districts tested positive. Most cases were reported from villages in Ooty and Coonoor blocks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-adds-95-new-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/77939721.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||HC acquits two of killing lecturer in Beed||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday acquitted two agriculturists from Patoda taluka of Beed district, while giving them benefit of doubt in the murder of a college lecturer for having illicit relationship with the wife of one of the accused in May 2013. The two agriculturists, Laxman Shinde (36) of Sautada village and Bibishan Yeole (32) of Wadachiwadi village, both in Patoda taluka, were arrested in May 2013 for the murder of Ramkisan, a resident of Matkuli village in neighbouring Ashti taluka. A day before the murder, Shinde had a spat with Ramkisan at a cattle camp. Ramkisan had accordingly lodged the compliant with the Ashti police. The next night, Ramkisan called his wife’s cousin Yeole and left the house around 3am stating that he would come back soon. However, his body was found at the bank of the river in a battered shape. The post mortem report had stated the cause of death was due to poisoning and fracture of cervical spine. The chargesheet was filed and the Beed sessions judge handed the two life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1,000. They challenged the verdict in the high court through senior counsel Rajendra Deshmukh and lawyer Govind Kulkarni. While allowing the criminal appeal, the HC bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and Mangesh S Patil observed “a careful perusal of the impugned judgment reveals that the learned Sessions Judge was conspicuously alive to the fact that all the four phone calls were initiated by Ramkisan and none was initiated by the appellant No.1 (Shinde) but has over looked this circumstance, which according to us is an important aspect of the matter.’’ “Mere suspicion, howsoever strong, cannot take the place of proof. A fact has to be established as a conclusive proof in order to hold a person guilty of the crime,” the bench observed and added “though there was a strong motive for both of them, the motive itself cannot take the place of proof howsoever strong it might be.” While quashing and setting aside the sessions court order, the bench observed “the circumstances sought to be relied upon by the prosecution in our considered view though have been duly established by cogent evidence, those do not make a complete chain so as to reach a conclusion about guilt of the appellants, who therefore are entitled to a benefit of doubt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-acquits-two-of-killing-lecturer-in-beed/articleshow/77940656.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 5, 2020||Lucknow||Precariously perched, vultures to get a lifeline with GIS mapping||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Biodiversity Board is planning to collect the GIS (Geographical Information System) data from all districts of the state to step up efforts for conservation of vultures — natural scavengers precariously perched on the verge of extinction. The GIS mapping of roosting, breeding, nesting and feeding sites of vultures will be conducted by UP Biodiversity Board in association with the Institute of Wildlife Sciences at Lucknow University (LU). The university is also organising an international symposium on vulture conservation to mark Vulture Awareness Day on Saturday (September 5). The inputs collected from vulture conservationists from across the world will help in the first-ever exercise in the state to collect GIS data on vultures. In UP, vultures have traditionally existed in Bundelkhand region and Terai belt. In the first-ever census of vultures in 2014, the state forest department had counted about 900 vultures in 13 districts. Mainpuri had 193 vultures followed by Pilibhit (125) and north and south Kheri, which collectively had 100. Though the state has conducted surveys on vulture population from time to time in different pockets, the data is not sufficient to make an assessment of the behaviour and breeding of vultures. This will be the first scientific data on vultures. The training of field staff will start this month and the first field exercise will be carried out in December. “October is the breeding season. By December, we will find a pair and an egg together at one nesting site,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator of Institute of Wildlife Sciences, LU. Another survey may also be conducted in March when the chickens grow in size. This will help in assessing the number of young ones who manage to survive. The survival rate for vultures is very low. A pair lays one egg in a year and incubates in 45 days. Most of the nests and eggs are destroyed in rain and inclement weather during winters. “Once we surveyed Katarniaghat forest and found 35 eggs. Later, we could find only one young bird,” said Prof Kannaujia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/precariously-perched-vultures-to-get-a-lifeline-with-gis-mapping/articleshow/77940661.cms||Neha Shukla
September 5, 2020||Salem||Salem: Two children among five of family charred to death||SALEM: Five members of a family, including two children, were charred to death after their house caught fire in Salem on Thursday night. The large house where 11 people were living as a joint family went up in flames due to a suspected short circuit. Six others from the family managed to escape. The deceased were identified as B Karthik, 40, his wife Maheswari, 35, their sons Sarvesh, 12, Mukesh, 10 and his sister-in-law Pushpa, 40. According to police, Karthik and his brother Anbalagan were running a saw mill and both their families were living together near Kuranguchavadi. On Thursday night, Karthik, Maheswari and their sons were sleeping in one of the rooms on the ground floor. While Anbalagan was sleeping on the first floor, his wife Pushpa and their two children Jayakumar and Soymya were asleep in another room. In the third room, Karthik’s parents Balan and Amutha and one of their relatives Mallika were resting. Around midnight, neighbours heard a loud noise from their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/five-of-family-including-two-children-charred-to-death/articleshow/77939738.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM announces tax relief for bus operators||BHOPAL: In a major relief to bus operators in the state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced waiver of monthly vehicle tax payable on passenger buses for the period April 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020. A rebate of 50% has also been announced on the tax for September. Sources said that Indore-Bhopal buses are likely to start from Saturday and around 10% interdistrict buses will also start. Likewise, the date of submission of vehicle tax has been extended till September 30, 2020. CM Chouhan said that with this decision taken in the interest of bus operators and the people of the state, now buses will operate again with full capacity in the state. In the order, instructions have been given to decide on the issue of passenger fare by assigning responsibility to the fare determination committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-announces-tax-relief-for-bus-operators/articleshow/77941754.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Onion fetches Rs 2,000 per quintal at Lasalgaon amid short supply||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, has shot up by 25% in the last one week due to a drop in supply. The average price was recorded at Rs 2,000 per quintal on Friday as against Rs 1,600 on August 29. According to APMC officials, the average wholesale onion price has increased due to the rise in demand as compared to supply. The arrival of onion has reduced at the Lasalgaon APMC due to the rain. Besides, over 30% of the stock of onion stored by farmers was destroyed so far due to the current weather conditions and periodical losses. Moreover, the onion crop in south India has been badly damaged due to the incessant rainfall for the last few days. As a result, the demand from onions from Nashik has increased to a great extent. This has led to rise in the average wholesale onion price over the last few days, said APMC officials. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon was recorded at Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,411 per quintal respectively. Around 14,000 quintal of onion was auctioned at Lasalgaon on Friday. APMC officials said that summer onion which was harvested in Matrch and April has now arrived in the mandis. These onions have shelf life of around six months. Hence, farmers prefer storing summer onions hoping to fetch better price. There is no fresh onion crop for five-and-a-half months between May and mid-October. The summer onions stored by farmers cater to the market until arrival of fresh kharif onions by mid-October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-fetches-rs-2k/quintal-at-lasalgaon-amid-short-supply/articleshow/77940677.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Supply crisis loom as veggie arrival drops on strike day 2||BHOPAL: On the second day of mandi strike on Friday, there was a drop in the arrival of vegetable and fruits into the sitting — affecting the supply chain. Experts believe this will lead to a shortage over the next two days. “The quantity of vegetables arriving at Karond Mandi went down because of the strike. Those involved in auction of vegetables and fruits have also extended their support to the mandi employees, which may deepen the crisis on the weekend. In addition, the grain mandi was also completely shut down,” said an expert, adding that even the farmers are apprehensive about the strike. . The mandi incurred revenue loss in the form of mandi tax, as the tax could not be deducted because of the strike. “There wasn’t much difference in the price as the vegetable rates were on the higher side for the last week or so because of heavy rainfall,” said a vegetable retailer in New Market, Radheshyam Kushwah. Another vendor Shamim Khan said, “Today I bought only half the quantity of vegetables due to the drop in arrival. Prices are also going up due to the rates of diesel and rainfall.” Over 35,000 mandi employees are on strike in protest against the ordinance brought by the government to change the mandi Act. In May this year, Shivraj Singh Chouhan government amended the existing mandi Act “to provide the farmers with the maximum value of their crops.” “With its implementation, farmers will be able to sell their crops to private traders from home, they will not have to go to the market,” the government had said. Besides, the farmers will continue to have the option of going to the mandi to sell their produce and sell their crop at support price. “Income of the mandi employees is linked with that of the mandis and the amendments will affect our future”, said a spokesperson of the agitating employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/supply-crisis-loom-as-veggie-arrival-drops-on-strike-day-2/articleshow/77938160.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Prisoners release amid pandemic: HC asks jail authorities to ensure transparency||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently directed the prison authorities to see that the applications of the prisoners seeking emergency parole are decided within 15 days from the date of receipt of this order. The bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and Mangesh S Patil observed “this Court hopes that the respondents in future take such steps so that the transparency is achieved and allegations of corruption are avoided.” Thirteen petitioners, including close relatives of some prisoners from across the region, had separately approached the HC through lawyers Sharda P Chate and R A Jaiswal, seeking directions to the authorities concerned for their release. In their application, they stated that “they are eligible for consideration of granting emergency parole. That they have given applications for releasing them and that under notification dated 8/5/2020 of the state government, they are entitled to such parole but their applications are not yet decided.” While ordering the prison and other authorities concerned on August 25 to decide on the application, the bench observed “it is the policy of the government to consider and release prisoners as per guidelines of the committee constituted for granting emergency parole under aforesaid notification. Unnecessarily, many matters are being filed for setting aside either the order of rejection of parole applications or for taking directions from this Court that the applications filed by the prisoners are decided expeditiously.” The court further remarked “If it is the policy of the government to take out the eligible prisoners from the prison to avoid spreading of Covid-19 virus and saving the lives of such prisoners, then in such circumstances, it is always desirable for the respondents to consider all the eligible prisoners and pass order for giving them option to come out of jail on emergency parole. If they avail emergency parole then it can be presumed that their sentence has been suspended. That will save the time of everybody and will also show that there is uniformity and transparency. This Court hopes that the respondents in future take such steps so that the transparency is achieved and allegations of corruption are avoided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prisoners-release-amid-pandemic-hc-asks-jail-authorities-to-ensure-transparency/articleshow/77940675.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 5, 2020||India||Government makes parole rules stringent||NEW DELHI: Seeking a fine balance between the rights of prison inmates and protecting the society from further harm, the home ministry has issued fresh guidelines for states on grant of parole and furlough to prisoners, proposing that these concessions be strictly restricted in cases of offenders whose release may adversely impact security of the state or safety of individuals. It has suggested that state/UT prison administrations refrain from granting parole and furlough as a matter of routine and leave it to a committee of officers and behavioural experts to assess requests, especially from inmates sentenced for sexual offences, murder, child abduction and violence. The fresh provisions in the MHA guidelines on parole, furlough and premature release, which form part of the Model Prison Manual 2016, ask the states/UTs to revisit their parole rules, including the criteria, duration and frequency, after assessing their experience regarding the benefits and detriments of such parole. The new guidelines also seek to include experts —psychologist/criminologist/correctional administration expert— as a member of the sentence-review board and in the committee that decides grant of parole and furlough to inmates, and obtain their opinion before such temporary release. With ‘prisons’ and “persons detained therein” being a ‘state’ subject, the home ministry has only framed the Model Prison Manual 2016 for the states, which provides guidelines on parole, furlough, premature release, remission and ‘contact with the outside world’. Stating that concerns have been expressed regarding recidivism, with prison inmates on temporary or premature release having re-offended or indulged in criminal activities, the home ministry in an advisory to the states and UTs sent on Thursday stated that this underlined the need to carefully regulate the grant of these concessions. It also asked the states to evolve and implement suitable therapy and counselling programmes for inmates by involving psychologists to bring in the desired behavioural changes. The Centre also sought an action taken report from states. Existing guidelines state that certain categories of inmates may not be eligible for parole or furlough, like ones whose immediate presence in society is considered dangerous and prejudicial to public peace; those who have been involved in serious prison violence or escape; and prisoners convicted for heinous offences such as terrorist crimes, kidnapping for ransom and narcotics smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-makes-parole-rules-stringent/articleshow/77941758.cms||Bharti Jain
September 5, 2020||Indore||Covid cases among kids triple in Indore in 40 days||INDORE: In a chilling new trend in Indore, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid hotspot, the number of children under 12 infected by the virus has tripled in just under six weeks — from 398 on July 20 to 1,158 on September 1. What’s more, children under 12 made up around 6.7% of Indore’s Covid tally on July 20, which has now risen to 8.6%. While Indore’s total count doubled during this 40-day period, the number of Covid-infected kids has shot up by nearly 300%. Interestingly, while more boys were infected in the lockdown stage, in unlocking, girls outnumber boys in Covid count. It’s a bizarre trend, considering that there are more male Covid patients in all age groups. Till July 20, according to medical records, 13% more boys were infected by Covid. But since then, 17% more girls have been infected (626 to 532). Doctors believe most of the children caught the virus from close family members, and that lowering of guard during unlocking is to blame. Dr Salil Sakalle, HoDcommunity medicine at MGM Medical College, said, “The increase in number of Covid cases among children could be attributed to the relaxation in lockdown in the last week of July, increase in movement and spare time because there is practically no school.” Asked why more girls tested positive in the last 40 days, Dr Sakalle said it could be a fluke. “It might be a coincidence. There isn’t any scientific basis to this reversal of trend,” he remarked. CMHO in-charge Dr Purnima Gadoriya said, “This reversal in trend might either be because of lower immunity among girls or due to more testing of girls.” ‘Family infection might be increasing’Asked if it meant more girls are malnourished than boys, leading to lower immunity, she said, “Malnutrition and lower immunity are two different things. Lower immunity could be a reason for more Covid cases among girls.” Dr Rahul Rokade, an epidemiologist at MGM Medical College, agreed that it could be a coincidence. “It might be an incidental finding because there is no way to believe that in this age group, one has more community interaction then others. Besides, there might be more girls in families with infected cases,” he said. On the rise in child Covid patients, Rokade said: “Increase in movement after lockdown is leading to a rise in Covid cases. The tripling of cases (among kids) shows that family infection is increasing because they aren’t following precautionary measures.” There couldn’t be any other reason because schools, and other physical activities are shut or restricted due to the pandemic, he pointed out. Dr Sakalle said: “Schools are holding online classes for two or three hours a day, so children have more spare time in their hands. They are stepping out of the house and coming in contact with others at a time when Covid numbers are still rising.” During lockdown, it was easy to ask them to remain inside the house but after relaxation, when everybody is going outside, children too are stepping out, he pointed out. “Also, children of a tender age will find it difficult to follow Covid precautions,” said Sakalle. Most children are contracting the infection from family, friends and neighbours, he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-cases-among-kids-triple-in-indore-in-40-days/articleshow/77941727.cms||Antriksh Singh
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt bus driver arrested with 2,154kg PDS rice||Coimbatore: A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Limited (TNSTC) bus driver with Annur depot was arrested on Friday evening for smuggling 2,154kg rice that was meant for public distribution system (PDS) at Sirumugai. The Sirumugai police identified the accused as D Thangaraj, 34, of Annur. An official source said Thangaraj was caught by Sirumugai police sub-inspector Munusamy, special branch head constable Raj and team during a vehicle check on Sirumugai four road while he was smuggling the PDS rice in a goods autorickshaw. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Thangaraj had procured the rice from residents of Sirumugai and neighbouring areas by paying them Rs 4 per kg. “His plan was to sell the rice in Tirupur and Eride districts,” the source said. Police arrested Thangaraj and seized the goods autorickshaw. Later, he was handed over to the Civil Supplies CID police. Further investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-bus-driver-arrested-with-2154kg-pds-rice/articleshow/77939792.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Bardez wants circular on tenders revoked||Saligao: Sarpanches and panchayat members from Bardez taluka have demanded the government revoke the circular stating that all files of works to be taken up in the villages should be sent to the directorate of panchayats for approval, which is presently being done by the block development officer. At the meeting, Verla-Canca sarpanch Milton Marques said,“This circular is a threat on the grassroots level of democracy as the government wants to control our panchayat works and finances.” Siolim-Sodiem sarpanch Nilesh Vaigankar said, “We utilise the income from taxes to undertake works. Also, works done with central funds have to be completed within a stipulated period, so if there is a delay the money will be returned to the Centre.” It was decided at the meeting decision that every panchayat should pass a resolution objecting to the circular issued by the directorate of panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bardez-wants-circular-on-tenders-revoked/articleshow/77940713.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||One held with ‘desi’ revolver||Rajkot: One person was arrested with a country-made revolver from Navagam village in Lalpur taluka of Jamnagar on Friday. The accused identified as Nilesh Modhwadiya (27) revealed a man from Uttar Pradesh had sold him the weapon. Police said three days ago they had arrested another person from Navagam, one Viram Modhwadiya (25), who too was carrying a country-made revolver and two live cartridges. During questioning, he revealed the names of Nilesh and one Rajesh Modhwadiya. Rajesh was arrested on Thursday by Meghpar police along with one revolver and two cartridges. Viram had told the police they all had bought the weapons the same man who had come with about a dozen weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-held-with-desi-revolver/articleshow/77938202.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bhopal||VD Sharma, Narendra Singh Tomar address workers in Guna, Scindia in Gwalior||BHOPAL: Top BJP leaders including state president VD Sharma and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar convened workers meeting in Guna and called upon to get the state rid of Congress leaders Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath. Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia also toured Gwalior to address workers on Friday. "The by-polls are crucial for BJP as the state will be rid of Digvijaya Singh, Kamal Nath apart from the entire Congress. Congress rule from 1993 to 2003 had turned MP into a laggard state. It was BJP who turned it into a developed state. During the15-month rule of Congress, the state again suffered badly on development front. We have to strengthen the BJP government for state’s future," said Sharma. The two leaders addressed workers from Guna, Bamori, Mungaoli and Ashoknagar assembly segment areas. BJP has hinted to field all 22 candidates in Gwalior-Chambal region who had resigned from the Congress and joined the saffron party under the leadership of Scindia. Addressing the gathering, Union minister Tomar said, "The by-polls this time would be different from those in the past. This is a chance to strengthen the pro-people BJP government and shun the fake, false and misleading propaganda of Congress," he said. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member Scindia who was in Gwalior on Friday reached BJP district office to meet the workers. He said that the public has suffered a lot during the 15-month rule of Congress. On former CM Kamal Nath's upcoming tour to Gwalior-Chambal region, Scindia said the public has already witnessed Congress' road show during its previous regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vd-tomar-address-workers-in-guna-scindia-in-gwalior/articleshow/77938189.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Ahmednagar cops return passport, visas of foreign TJ members||Aurangabad: Ahmednagar police who had impounded the passports and visas of 29 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat a day after releasing them, returned their documents paving way for their return to respective countries. After getting their passports back, the Tablighi Jamaat members started their journey back home on Friday. Some of them have already reached their respective embassies who are independently making arrangements for flying back to their nation. “Indonesia’s embassy is arranging an independent flight to fly back their citizens,” said a member of the group. Lawyer representing Tablighi Jamaat members said that the police approached them and handed over the passports citing that they no more required these documents. Police reiterated its claim that they have already moved to the sessions court while seeking stay on the lower court’s order granting release of passports and visas of these foreign nationals. When contacted, Ahmednagar superintendent of police Akhilesh Kumar Singh gave a crisp reply and said, “Legal process is being followed.” He refused to elaborate further on the matter. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on August 21 quashed the FIR registered by Ahmedbagar police against members of Tablighi Jamaat. While passing scathing strictures against the police, HC comprising justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar observed that “Tablighi Jamat members were chosen to be made scapegoat”. Following the HC verdict, an application was moved before the JMFC (Judicial Magistrate First Class) court in Ahmednagar which ordered police to release the passports and visas of 29 foreign nationals who were charged in of the case. The same were released on August 28. However, the local crime branch impounded the passports and visas the following day. Sources in the police said that they were mooting to move to supreme court for challenging the HC order. An opinion from the law and judiciary department has been sought in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ahmednagar-cops-return-passport-visas-of-foreign-tj-members/articleshow/77940694.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||8-yr-old boy falls off truck in sleep, comes under wheels||Coimbatore: An eight-year-old boy was killed after he fell off a moving truck, which also ran over him, in his sleep near Dharapuram in Tirupur district in the early hours of Friday. The incident took place when he was returning from his grandparents’ house in Madurai to be with his mother and other siblings at Thadagam, where they are residing at the quarters of a brick kiln unit. His father and younger brother, who were travelling with him, were fast asleep when the incident occurred. The Moolanur police in Tirupur identified the deceased as Shankar alias Ganeshan, son of Sathish, 29, of Vadipatti in Madurai district. An investigation officer said Sathish, who has four sons, was working in a brick kiln unit at Thadagam, on the outskirts of the city, where he was residing with his family at the unit’s quarters. “Two of his sons - Shankar and Ponnar, 7 - had gone to his parents’ house in Madurai 15 days ago. He went to bring them back. As bus service is not available, Sathish arranged a truck from a brick kiln unit at Vadipatti to travel to Thadagam. V Paraman, 65, was at the wheel of the truck,” the officer said. Sathish and his sons, the officer said, sat on the front seat of truck driver’s cabin. “Shankar was sitting near the door of the driver’s cabin and fell asleep. When they reached Koneripatti near Dharapuram in Tirupur around 2am, he fell off the truck, which then ran over him. Not even the truck driver noticed Shankar falling down.” When they reached near Sulur, Sathish woke up and found his son was missing from the truck. After alerting the Sulur police, he went in search of his son in the same truck. “Upon seeing an ambulance that was surrounded by a crowd at Koneripatti, he got down from the truck. He then stopped the ambulance only to find his son’s body, which was taken to Dharapuram government hospital for postmortem,” the officer said. The Moolanur police have registered a case against the truck driver under Sections 279 and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/8-yr-old-boy-falls-off-truck-in-sleep-comes-under-wheels/articleshow/77939782.cms||A Subburaj
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Common dining at hospitals led to surge in Covid cases: Doctors||HYDERABAD: After the Union health ministry’s data revealed that the health care workers in Telangana are among the worst affected due to Covid-19, frontline workers at government hospitals in the city have blamed common dining area for doctors in the hospitals for the increase in infections among the healthcare staff. “Situation is same in some places where the donning and doffing rooms of PPE kits are common. These might look like small issues but can lead to serious consequences as the infection continues to spread among the staff,” said Lohith Reddy, junior doctor from Gandhi Hospital. Doctors also stressed on poor quality PPE kits and other safety gear provided. While the minimum standard of PPEs for hospital staff, as per health officials, should be of 90 gsm quality, doctors treating Covid-19 patients in hospitals said that they have PPEs that are only 60-70 gsm. “Providing PPE kits to healthcare staff has been more of a formality than a measure to ensure protection right from the beginning. There was also a shortage of sterile surgical gloves a few days back,” said a doctor at Gandhi Hospital. However, officials from the health department denied allegations of supplying poor quality PPE kits to frontline workers. “Frontline staff are getting standard PPE kits. We will look into the issue of common dining area,” said a senior doctor and health official, speaking on condition of anonymity.  Telangana has recorded 18% Covid-19 positivity rate among healthcare workers, making it the state with the highest number of coronavirus hit healthcare professionals .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/common-dining-at-hosps-led-to-surge-in-cases-docs/articleshow/77939799.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist reports 446 cases||Aurangabad: The district has reported 466 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 158 from the rural parts, 148 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation area and 76 traced at the city’s entry points, taking the total number of active cases to 4,826. A total of 725 deaths due to the infection have been reported in the district so far, including 11 casualties in the last 24 hours ending in the early hours of Friday.  As many as 18,929 patients have recovered so far in the district. Nine deaths were reported at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) and two deaths were reported at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-446-cases/articleshow/77940685.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Housing societies rue delay in Covid-19 testing camps||Pune: Coordinators among “mohalla” committees and National Society for Clean Cities (NSCC) on Friday complained about delays in setting up of Covid-19 testing camps in housing societies by the civic body. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had earlier roped in NSCC, along with other residents’ welfare groups, for the initiative. The exercise aimed at selecting people aged bove 60 years as well as residents with comorbidities in housing societies for Covid-19 antigen tests and prevent further spread of the infection.R Subramanyam, executive committee member of the NIBM Road Residents’ Forum, said, “We had five societies ready to have their residents tested. Despite constant follow-ups with the PMC ward officers to set up camps, there has been no development. We put in a lot of efforts to convince societies to have these camps, despite their initial reluctance. When they were ready, we couldn’t convince the PMC to conduct a camp.”The NIBM Road Residents’ Forum has 60 housing societies under its wing and Subramanyam is coordinating with them. “When I contacted the PMC officials about the initiative, I was told that the civic body is now only concentrating on conducting testing camps in areas where more positive cases have been reported.” Seema Tanwar, president of womensclubkharadi, an organisation helping the PMC rope in societies for the tests in Kharadi, said, “The last camp we did was 10 days ago. Since then, I have been trying to ask the PMC to conduct these camps for four other societies in Kharadi that had finally agreed for the tests. But due to the delay caused in scheduling the camps, some residents of these societies ended up doing the tests in private labs, while others backed out.”Urvashi Srivastav, secretary of the Kalyaninagar Residents Association, said, “The PMC team initially approached us for the camp, but they wanted to do it immediately. But I needed some time to convince the society authorities for it. When I called them again a week later, they said they could not hold the camp.”A senior PMC official told TOI, “We are first concentrating on testing only in containment zones and where the patient load is high, as per state and Union government guidelines. We have been getting calls from the housing societies and have communicated this to them. We told them that we cannot skip testing in high-infection areas to set up camps in housing societies. We also spoke to the higher authorities (in PMC) on Friday. They too were of the view that pockets with more number of patients should be first picked for antigen testing.”A National Society for Clean Cities official told TOI, “There is no uniformity in conducting these camps as and when the mohalla committees request PMC for the same. In some areas, the camps are happening, while in others, they are not. Around 10-15 societies in a locality are interested in these tests and want a team to come for the same, but we are not getting a definitive answer or schedule from the PMC.”He said one of the reasons for this could be a change in the state guidelines that mandated the civic bodies to test only those people for whom it was an absolute necessity to undergo the Covid-19 antigen tests to save resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-rue-delay-in-covid-19-testing-camps/articleshow/77939823.cms||Neha Madaan
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon admin warns hosps treating Covid-19 patients without permit||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut has issued a notice asking all private hospitals, which have not been designated as dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) and yet treating Covid-19 patients, to immediately stop the practice. According to a senior officer from the district administration, there was a complaint against a private hospital, which did not have the permission to treat Covid-19 patients, of treating such patients and hence an enquiry was called forth. “It was found that the hospital was treating the patient for some other disease and had conducted the antigen test, which turned out positive. After some initial treatment, the patient was shifted to a Covid hospital,” said another senior officer. The administration has also noted that some private laboratories carrying out RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 patients failed to inform the respective authorities the details about the positive patients.This was another issue that cropped in the last few days. Covid-19 patients were detected but containment zones could not be drawn because of miscommunication between the laboratories and the local authorities. “We have asked the laboratories to put up the information with the ‘facility application’ and ICMR portal on real-time basis, which currently is not happening in some cases,” said the officer. Since the data was not updated on real-time basis nor communicated to the government authority, chances were high of delay in earmarking the containment zones, which could further lead to the spread of Covid-19. “The administration has also asked the labs and the hospitals to refer even the asymptomatic cases to the nearest Covid care centre if they were willing to go for home-isolation instead of directly asking them to go for home isolation as it defeats the purpose of containment action,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-admin-warns-hosps-treating-covid-19-patients-without-permit/articleshow/77940704.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid tests for MLAs, staff before session||HYDERABAD: Ahead of legislative and assembly sessions, all the MLAs and MLCs, officers, assembly staff and mediapersons will have to undergo Covid-19 tests. Only those who test negative will be allowed to attend the session. Assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and legislative council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy held a meeting with government departments’ heads and police officers on Friday. Srinivas Reddy said some restrictions would be imposed for the safety of members and other staff. “Two special diagnostic centres are being set up and two ambulances will be kept ready. The members and others will have to wear masks,” the speaker said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-tests-for-mlas-staff-before-session/articleshow/77939821.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Police crack down on rogues beneath flyover at Baina||VASCO: Nine persons were arrested on Friday for creating nuisance beneath the flyover next to Baina beach in Vasco. The police action comes after TOI highlighted the issue on August 31. The report stated that the area under the flyover was a meeting point of drunkards, substance abusers and gangs of anti-social elements who disturbed the residents in the vicinity every night. A Vasco police official said that they have intensified patrolling in the area, especially post 6pm. “Nine men have been arrested and were later released on bail. These miscreants were found drinking liquor beneath the flyover,” the official said. Rahim Saudagar, a senior citizen residing in the vicinity of the flyover, said, “Our entire locality is very happy with the action being taken by Vasco police. We thank TOI for highlighting the issue. The gatherings of anti-social elements beneath the flyover has dropped in these days. We are at peace and a sense of safety prevails here.” The police have also alerted its outpost at Baina, which is around 100mt away from the beach, to keep a close watch on the movement of trouble makers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-crack-down-on-rogues-beneath-flyover-at-baina/articleshow/77940707.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||20% of Dakshina Kannada’s fatalities were from other districts||Mangaluru: About 20% of Covid-19 related deaths in Dakshina Kannada district were people who had come from other districts, an analysis of data released by Dakshina Kannada District Surveillance Unit shows. Of the 318 fatalities in the district till September 2, more than half — 218 (57.2%) — were reported in Mangaluru taluk. Of the total fatalities, 79 patients were from neighbouring districts admitted to various hospitals in DK. Data shows hospitals in DK had admitted 821 infected people from other districts. DK reported 8,988 cases till September 2 and has a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.8%. Puttur taluk tops the chart with a CFR of 6.4% with 23 of 358 patients dying during the period. Sullia taluk with 684 positive cases has reported only four deaths (0.6% CFR). The first novel coronavirus positive case in DK district was reported on March 22 and the first death was recorded on April 20. An overwhelming majority — 364 patients (95.5%) —who died had comorbidities and 72% were male. As per the data, 49.3% of the deaths were in the age group 60 to 80 years. Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health and family welfare officer, said the department plans to focus on testing and tracing besides other strategies to reduce fatalities. “We plan extensive contact tracing and an active search for cases in containment zones,” Dr Bairy said. “Testing all suspect cases and high-risk contacts, isolating all suspect/confirmed cases and providing medical care, quarantining contacts, implementing social distancing measures and intensive risk communication are some of the strategies. Setting up infrastructure to treat patients and recruiting enough manpower also can reduce the mortality rate. Similarly, technologies like data base management system (DBMS), geographical information system (GIS) are also useful in reducing death the rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/20-of-dakshina-kannadas-fatalities-were-from-other-districts/articleshow/77937101.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris: Virus more active in villages than towns||Udhagamandalam: Covid-19 cases appear to be concentrated more in rural areas of the Nilgiris district than in municipal areas, data shows. Officials said the spread of the virus is ten times more in villages than in the Ooty municipal area, and that people in villages need to be “more serious about the pandemic.” The quick spread of the virus in villages is being attributed to the close-knit lifestyle of the hill people. In Ooty block, of the 424 habitats, Badaga villages account for at least 220 cases. At least 70% of the villages have reported Covid-19 cases. Presently, of the 372 active cases in the district, at least 250 are from villages in Ooty block, while active cases reported in the Ooty municipality area stands at 27. According to reports available with the health department, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur blocks have reported more cases than their respective municipalities. While Kotagiri block and Kotagiri town panchayat account for around 40 and 75 active cases respectively, there are only 3 to 4 cases in Gudalur municipality. Officials said that at least five deaths that took place in different villages of Ooty and Kotagiri blocks in the last two months paved the way for clusters in several other villages after people from nearby villages attended funerals. To rein in the virus spread, a community vigil programme was launched in July by the administration in Coonoor, Kotagiri, Gudalur and Ooty panchayat blocks. “It is a new and one-of-its-kind effort in the state. Local village leaders in a panchayat monitor movement of outsiders into the villages, and maintain a register to inform the control room in the collectorate,” said collector J Innocent Divya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-virus-more-active-in-villages-than-towns/articleshow/77939820.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||16 ventilators donated to CPR Hospital lying unused||Kolhapur: The CPR hospital authorities have not been able to put to use 16 ventilators donated to them due to lack of appropriate fitting. The hospital, which was treating all Covid-19 patients until recently, is now only treating serious patients. Over 400 Covid-19 patients in severe conditions are undergoing treatment at the hospital but the number of ventilators at the medical facility is inadequate. After IGM Ichalkaranji, the highest number of deaths is being reported from the CPR Hospital. Several doctors and nursing staff here have been infected and the private doctors are assigned the duty to treat Covid-19 patients. It has been found that out of 24 ventilators donated by various organisations and associations, only eight have been activated so far and the remaining 16 are lying unused. Overall, there are 81 ventilators in the hospital. Rahul Bade, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “Currently, there are 90 ICU beds and each patient there is provided with a ventilator. The ventilators are used only in case of urgency. The ventilators are also provided to those patients, who are not in ICU. We have 16 donated ventilators, which will be made operational in a couple of days.” The officials claimed that due to technical issues related to fittings, the donated ventilators are lying unused. Health officials said that most critical patients are those who arrive when the oxygen saturation in their body drops below the critical level. At such time, all efforts are put to ensure recovery but it becomes more difficult to treat. With the rise in the number of cases, the demand for oxygen in the hospital is increasing. Recently, the tank of 20,000 litres capacity has been made operational and the private firms have been told to supply oxygen uninterruptedly. District collector Daulat Desai has asked hospital authorities to ensure that the oxygen is used wisely to save it for emergency purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/16-ventilators-donated-to-cpr-hospital-lying-unused/articleshow/77940717.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||Spl train for NDA exam||Rajkot: Western railway will run a special train on Saturday from Somnath to Ahmedabad for the candidates of National Defence Academy and Naval Academy exams. Train will start from Somnath at 9.25 pm and reach Ahmedabad at 5am on Sunday travelling through Junagadh, Bhaktinagar, Rajkot and Surendranagar. The train, which is fully reserved for the candidates, will return to Somnath from Ahmedabad at 10pm on Sunday. Candidates will have to show call letter at boarding and also reach station much ahead of departure. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/spl-train-for-nda-exam/articleshow/77938271.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Bid to boost jumbo hospital infra, Sharad Pawar reviews situation||PUNE: Efforts are on to improve the infrastructure and facilities at the 800-bed makeshift hospital on the CoEP grounds in the wake of the death of three persons, including that of a journalist on Wednesday, and shifting of at least 20 patients within a week in the absence of adequate support, oxygen supply and manpower. The civic and district administration on Friday appointed three officers to ensure round-the-clock patient management coordination and added 50 doctors and 120 paramedical staffers to the facility. The private agency appointed to operate the jumbo facility also increased its staff strength. “Taking care of the patients is our first priority. Adequate staffers are being provided for proper medical care. Doctors and other manpower have been put in place,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “A waiting lounge has been created for the patients’ relatives at the jumbo facility. It can accommodate over 50 people at a time. Plans are also afoot to ensure regular updates on the patients’ medical condition to the relatives,” Agarwal said. NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday held a review meeting with the officials and his party announced to provide cardiac ambulances and medicines at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), facility. Congress. on the other hand, demanded a “high-level” inquiry into the complaints about lapses and mismanagement at the hospital. Senior NCP leader Ankush Kakde said Pawar has told party workers to set up Covid “help cells” in areas spread across eight assembly constituencies of the city. “We will ensure eight cardiac ambulances and adequate medicines,” he said. NCP city chief Chetan Tupe said, “Medicines such as Ramdesivir will be provided for the serious patients’ treatment.” State Congress spokesperson Gopal Tiwari said, “The chief minister should order a high-level inquiry by a retired IAS officer or a retired judge into the lapses at the hospital.” Inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, the facility was still not functioning to its total capacity. Many patients and their relatives have complained about problems such as delay in getting admission, absence of expert medical staffers, poor food facilities and inadequate information about the health updates of people recuperating in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bid-to-boost-jumbo-hospital-infra-pawar-reviews-situation/articleshow/77939827.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Novartis seeks regulatory approval to initiate trials for Covid drug Ruxolitinib||Swiss major Novartis has sought regulatory approval in India to initiate Phase III clinical trials for its drug, Ruxolitinib, for Covid-19. These trials will be part of a global study that the company started in May to evaluate the use of Ruxolitinib (sold as Jakavi) for treatment of a severe immune overreaction — cytokine storm — that can lead to life-threatening respiratory complications in patients with Covid-19, a Novartis official confirmed to TOI. Companies across the world are fast-tracking novel treatments or repurposing existing drugs to find ways to treat and prevent Covid-19. Recently, UK drug firm GlaxoSmithKline along with its partner Vir Biotechnology started testing their experimental antibody on early-stage Covid-19 patients, entering the race to find a winner in a promising class of antiviral drugs to fight the pandemic. At present, Ruxolitinib is used for the treatment of Myelofibrosis and Polycythemia, a type of blood cancer. The maximum retail price of Jakavi 5mg (14 tablet pack) is Rs 30,084.The trials will be on moderately-ill Covid-19 patients who require hospitalisation but not ICU admission. The drug will be given for 14 days at a dose of 5 mg, twice a day. In case there is no improvement in the patient at the end of 14 days, the treatment will be continued for another 14 days as assessed by the treating investigator, the official said. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate whether treatment with Ruxolitinib can reduce the number of patients with Covid-19 from further deterioration, thus keeping CovidCovid patients out of the ICU and reducing fatalities. “We plan to recruit around 112 subjects in India within the study timeline. This number could change on the basis of several factors that impact global studies including speed, targets reached etc,” the official added. A government panel, the subject expert committee under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, sought certain clarifications on treatment protocol, while evaluating the company’s proposal in August. Global trials to evaluate the use of Jakavi in collaboration with Incyte for treatment of respiratory complications in patients with Covid-19, kicked off earlier this year, in April-May. The decision is based on pre-clinical evidence and preliminary reports from independent studies, and is supported by extensive data on the safety and efficacy of Jakavi in conditions like acute graft versus host disease and myeloproliferative neoplasms, a company statement earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/novartis-seeks-regulatory-approval-to-initiate-trials-for-covid-drug-ruxolitinib/articleshow/77940721.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 5, 2020||Goa||Food bank initiative moves online||Panaji: The monsoon food bank, a biannual initiative of the Communicare Trust, has moved online. This year, donations of food and utility items can be sent through Amazon and Swiggy. As part of the food bank drive, twice a year, volunteers go to various supermarkets across the state, urging buyers to donate a part of their grocery shopping for orphanages and women’s homes. The Communicare Trust team has curated three lists on Amazon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/food-bank-initiative-moves-online/articleshow/77940719.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Five Hyderabad youngsters on trip to Nagarjuna Sagar die in accident||HYDERABAD: Five friends on their way to Nagarjuna Sagar from Hyderabad died when their car crashed into an HMWSSB pipeline near Chinthapally mandal in Nalgonda in the early hours of Friday. Police identified the victims as S Nagendra, Bhaskar, V Bharath, Srinu and Srikanth Reddy all between the ages of 23 and 25 years and residents of Malakpet, Balapur and LB Nagar. “They were speeding and driving rashly. Nagendra who was behind the wheels lost control of the vehicle and ramed into an HMWSSB pipeline,” said Madgul inspector P Saidulu. The accident occurred around 6.30 am. “All victims died on the spot. Car they were travelling in was completely damaged. Due to the impact on the front portion of the car, the bodies were stuck inside and it took hours to retrieve them,” said the officer. According to the officer, except for Nagendra who was driving the car, none were wearing seat belt.  A case was filed under IPC Section 304 -A (causing death by negligence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-city-youngsters-on-trip-to-nagarjuna-sagar-die-in-accident/articleshow/77939829.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Balrath drivers paid only for 10 months, says education dept||PANAJI: Balrath drivers and attendants receive salaries during the academic months of the year and not during the summer vacation, the directorate of education has stated. “The academic year of the schools starts from June onwards and they are getting their salary for ten months as students’ exams get over by March or April,” director of education Santosh Amonkar stated. He was responding to a notice by the Goa Human Rights Commission (GHRC). The commission had taken suo motu cognisance of a news report on Ponda Balrath employees demanding one year’s salary instead of ten months’ from the chief minister. The education director stated that Balrath drivers and attendants are appointed by the institution concerned on renewable contract basis. Their fixed honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month and attendants/cleaners’ Rs 5,000 per month sanctioned by the directorate of education, has been increased by 10%. The existing monthly honorarium is now Rs 11,000 for drivers and Rs 5,500 for attendants. The decision was taken at the XIIth cabinet meeting of council of ministers in July 2017. The driver must have a valid driving licence and badge issued by a competent authority and they should be less than 60 years of age at the time of appointment. Their appointment is on a renewable basis by the management of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/balrath-drivers-paid-only-for-10-months-says-edu-dept/articleshow/77940729.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to launch health survey for all 2.2 crore families||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the state will launch a ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign in which a door-todoor survey for influenza-like illnesses (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and other comorbidities covering all 2.2 crore families. Phase I will be from September 15-October 10 and phase II from October 12-24. It will be conducted with help from NGOs , ground-level medical staff and elected representatives. Volunteers will go doorto-door and test temperature and oxygen levels of people, and provide health education. Besides screening suspected Covid patients they will help with referral services for treatment of diabetes, heart disease, kidney-related ailments and obesity. It includes finding and treating people with referral services. Volunteers will visit each family twice a month, Thackeray said. The teams will find out how positive patients were isolating at homes, and if they were adhering to safety measures. “Education material will be widely distributed as late arrival to hospitals remains a major issue,” an official said. One doctor for every five teams will be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-to-launch-health-survey-for-all-2-2cr-families/articleshow/77939532.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan mulls reserving government jobs for locals||JAIPUR: The state government is contemplating reserving all state government jobs to bona fide residents of the state. Recently, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh had announced a similar decision. The personnel department has been asked to prepare a proposal to this effect and present it before the cabinet for consideration. Following the directions from chief minister Ashok Gehlot, a meeting was held in the Secretariat on Friday under the chairmanship of the chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup in which Roli Singh, principal secretary, department of personnel, Ashwini Bhagat, principal secretary, administrative reforms and officers of law department were present. The chief secretary asked DoP to gather data from other states on how they had implemented this provision without inviting legal hurdles before the next meeting to finalise the proposal. There are about 20 to 22 states in the country, including Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, where the local youth are being given priority in state government jobs in different ways. While some states like Haryana had given 10% bonus marks in competitive exams for local youth, some southern states have given preference to the local youth by making knowledge of local language mandatory for a government job. When asked about the development, a senior official in the DoP said, the proposal is in the initial stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-mulls-reserving-govt-jobs-for-locals/articleshow/77939830.cms||---
September 5, 2020||India||Dalit sub-division: Social justice ministry seeks legal opinion||NEW DELHI: With a Supreme Court bench last week declaring that the Scheduled Castes list can be sub-categorised, Union social justice ministry has sought the opinion of the law ministry to check if the ruling requires any immediate action. The five-judge judgment declaring sub-categorisation of SCs as legally permissible clashed with a 2004 five-judge order which had termed the carving of “quota within quota” among Dalits as unconstitutional. The latest ruling also noted that since the two orders were delivered by bench of matching strength, the issue be examined by a seven-judge bench — indicating that constitutionality of sub-categorisation of SCs is still to be settled. But the renewed debate on the polarising subject seems to have put the government on alert. R Subrahmanyam, secretary, social justice and empowerment, told TOI, “We have asked the law ministry for advice if any action is required. The Supreme Court order has said a lot but it does not appear to be an implementation matter at this moment. However, law ministry is in a good position to advise.” Sources said the government does not see much scope of intervention at this stage. But they said since the ruling has gone beyond sub-classification and has made a case for another ticklish topic — introduction of “creamy layer” among SCs, it needs to be studied and opined upon by experts. The vexed demand of sub-categorisation has long roiled the Dalit community because of the complaint of some sub-castes that reservation benefits are cornered by some “advanced” communities in the SC list at the cost of weaker ones. While many states starting with Punjab had created “quota within quota” — by dividing SCs into sub-groups and apportioning reservation quantum among them in proportion to their population, the apex court in 2004 declared sub-categorisation as unconstitutional in the E V Chinnaiah case. It brought all the state laws on the subject to a naught. What makes sub-division controversial is the view that it is a ploy to fragment the Dalit community by pitting them as competitive sub-groups and entrenching their interests as mutually exclusive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dalit-sub-division-social-justice-ministry-seeks-legal-opinion/articleshow/77941761.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||1,093 fresh cases in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The district reported 1,093 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 27,437 by 8pm. 24 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours. District guardian minister Satej Patil in a meeting directed the district authorities to increase contact tracing to contain the spread of Covid. Meanwhile, minister Hasan Mushrif on Friday declared imposition of ‘janata curfew’ in Kagal town for ten days from Sunday till September 15. Satara district registered 828 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths since late night on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases increased to 16,788, of which, 73,24 are active. Meanwhile, Solapur city reported 70 cases ad two casualties. At present, the city has registered 6,885 positive cases with 619 active ones. Solapur rural, on the other hand, reported 340 new cases and 13 deaths. Sangli district reported 31 deaths and 1,037 fresh Covd cases on Friday. The total number of cases has reached to 15,650 while 597 patients have succumbed to infection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1093-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77940736.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Awareness drives a bad idea: GFP||Margao: Goa Forward Party (GFP) has taken exception to the organisation of awareness campaigns on Covid-19 by the South Goa district administration on the grounds that large gatherings will expose a large section of the population to the risk of Covid-19 infection. GFP spokesperson Prashant Naik on Friday, pointed to an order issued by Quepem mamlatdar Laxmikant Dessai appointing teachers of higher secondary schools, colleges and polytechnic as master trainers to conduct the awareness campaign in various villages of Quepem taluka between September 7 and 11. The objective of the campaign is to educate people about the novel coronavirus and its preventive measures. Pointing out there are 400 to 500 people in a ward, Naik said holding such campaigns for people of 4 to 5 wards together could turn out to be disastrous. Naik said it would be sensible for the district administration to use social media or print media to educate people. “This isn’t the time to educate people holding big gatherings,” Naik warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awareness-drives-a-bad-idea-gfp/articleshow/77940762.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro gears up for resumption of services||JAIPUR: As the government has decided to resume services of Jaipur Metro by the third week of September, preparations are on to make the journey of passengers safe during pandemic. Metro authorities have chalked out a plan in which they have decided to sanitize the entire train every day and have drawn markings on station floor to maintain social distancing. The central government has allowed states to open metro by September 7, but Jaipur Metro will be opening up by third week. “It is government’s decision to open metro a little late. Delhi Metro will start functioning by September 7 and by the time we can also learn from their experience and try to implement some changes needed here,” said one metro official on condition of anonymity. Thermal screening on entry of every person has been made compulsory. Paddle sanitizing machines have been purchased and installed on every station that would be there for commuters. One motor operated spray machine has been purchased for every station. Train will be sanitized before starting of day but in continues touch areas – lift, escalators, stairs, hand holding railing inside the train will be sanitized in every two hours. One official informed, “In most of the stations there are two entry point on both sides of the road. We have decided to keep only one side of entry and exit open. We have to sanitize stairs and monitor social distancing of people. One entry will help us to monitor well. Moreover, any person found not wearing masks will be fined with Rs 200.” Metro authorities have purchased sanitizers from Ganganagar Sugar mills in advance. On station entry gates, in lifts and besides stairs, posters spreading awareness about coronavirus will be installed. In Delhi, government has decided to start in two shift – morning and evening. In both the shifts, metro will function four hours each. In Jaipur however, government has decided to function as usual – 6.25am to 9.30pm as we do not have such heavy passenger load as compared to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/metro-gears-up-for-resumption-of-services/articleshow/77939852.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||‘Religious places will be shut for violating Covid norms’||JAIPUR: With the religious places reopening on September 7, district Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Friday instructed the sub-division officers (SDOs) to issue challans to those who do not follow Covid norms despite asking them to wear masks, maintain social distancing and follow other rules. He also said, violation of the norms will lead to closing down of the shrine for public. He asked the SDMs to visit the religious places along with medical and police officers to inform the management about Covid norms. “The district administration and police will examine the arrangements made by them. If they are not satisfied with the arrangements or find violation of the order, the religious place shall be closed down,” he said. He also said challans should be issued to individuals and shopkeepers who do not wear masks and maintain social distancing. Nehra directed that incident commanders along with medical and police officers should determine small containment zones, which should not be more than 50 to 100-meter area. “For determining containment zones in large areas, the district collector and superintendent of police must be taken into confidence.” He also instructed SDO Sanganer to set up a help desk on behalf of the district administration at RUHS. SP (rural) Shankar Dutt Sharma asked officials to vacate the the slip lane on Delhi road by removing the trucks and other vehicles parked there in order to prevent spread of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/religious-places-will-be-shut-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/77939876.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan ranks fourth with over 28,000 killed in accidents||JAIPUR: Rajasthan stood fourth in terms of number of deaths in all forms of accidents, including road accidents in 2019. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report said that the state’s share in deaths was 6.8%, while its share in the country’s population is 5.9%. In terms of absolute numbers, the state has recorded 28,697 deaths. It has literally made no progress in the number of casualties as compared to 2018. State’s share in the country’s death was 6.9%, while the number was 28,261 in 2018 which was almost same in 2019. It raises questions on inter-departmental efforts by health, transport, home, NDRF which has initiated several measures to minimize the toll. State sources say that almost 50% of the road accidents are taking place on the national highways which constitute about 3-4% of the total roads in the state. Interestingly, all divisional headquarter districts like Ajmer, Jaipur, Bikaner, Kota, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bharatpur are much ahead in the accidents than other districts. Experts say that the state has made significant progress but has failed to address emergency response to accidents, human behavioural system and engineering faults. “The emergency response mechanism plays a vital role in minimizing casualties. The IIT-Chennai model of placing ambulances on the high-risk zones at a distance of 20 kms, speed indicators, road signages, proper designing of junctions, proper space for non-motorised vehicles and two vehicles has done wonders in several states. It needs to be followed here in its true spirit. The state has a complex web of highways considering its size makes it an urgent need to implement all the required measures raised in the audit reports,” said Neha Khullar, director (projects), Muskaan NGO working for road safety. The Human behaviour is another factor contributing the accidents. An approach dealing with human psychology is also required as part of the collaborative approach. Prerna Puri, professor of Psychology, Rajasthan University adds, “A new road or a highway is always projected as a symbol of development. It has been projected with a faulty notion of speed which leads to development. In the case of Rajasthan, the comparatively less traffic on highways tempts the driver to exercise the power of his/her vehicle to the fullest presuming it is meant for speed often ends in disaster. Here it is important to redesign or replace the idea of the highway a source of calmness, solitude, social musings, reliving self and simply experiencing the countryside to change the notion of speed.” Lastly, the engineering faults contribute majorly to the casualties. BL Soni, professor at Civil Engineering, department MNIT who is part of a committee evaluation of safety auditors under the ministry of Road Transport and Highways has suggested that speed calming measures need to be used extensively on highways. “The highways don’t connect point A to B but it provides a gateway to small towns, villages and even hamlets to connect with it. The markings of yellow lines of at least 2.5mm are required at all such formal and informal gateways connecting villages or hamlets,” said Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-ranks-fourth-with-over-28000-killed-in-accidents/articleshow/77939877.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Mega project to make testing reagents, kits launched in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A project to indigenously manufacture — in bulk and at much lower cost — all reagents needed for RT-PCR-based and other molecular methods of diagnostics of Covid-19 has been launched in Bengaluru. The project will be executed by the Bangalore Life Science Cluster (BLiSC). “This would improve access to Covid-19 diagnostics across the country,” said the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP), which is anchoring the project. The project comes when India is scaling to test rapidly and widely across its large population. The Indigenisation of Diagnostics (InDx) aims to build a robust supply-chain network of Indian MSMEs capable of producing reagents that go into a testing kit as well as manufacturing testing kits. The project will identify bottlenecks in the supply-chain network, shortfalls in quality levels and gaps in the ability of these MSMEs to scale up. The project will handhold MSMEs in meeting both quality and quantity so that the network can put together 1 million indigenous kits a day. “The project employs a digital supply-chain platform developed pro bono by Tata Consultancy Services. The project envisages providing support to maintain a sustainable business plan for the consortium with the help of experts,” C-CAMP said. Prof K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to government of India, said the project is a multipurpose project addressing not only the Covid-19 crisis, but helps MSMEs expand their business opportunities and improve the overall healthcare system by developing more high quality, but low cost molecular diagnostics. “Important collaboration with The Rockefeller Foundation will enable our MSMEs to meet global standards,” he said. Taslimarif Saiyed, CEO, C-CAMP, who heads the project at BLiSC, said the enthusiastic response by MSMEs to participate in the proposed supply-chain network has given them confidence to meet the target of 1 million kits per day within the next few months. Prof Satyajit Mayor, director, National Centre For Biological Sciences (NCBS) and project adviser said: “This may help innovations in our ability to meet global quality and thereby our MSMEs may not only be able to serve the Indian market but also be able to export to the other needy countries at very competitive prices. We hope to expand the project to include other new molecular diagnostic methods such as Lateral Flow Assays or LAMP-based assays for COVID19 testing, newly developed saliva-based sampling tests, which are point of care tests and also scalable to test at scale.” Strengthening India's ability to develop fully indigenous diagnostic kits is expected to improve the entire healthcare system as affordable molecular diagnostics may soon be available for other diseases, particularly cancer and rare tropical diseases, said Prof LS Shashidhara, dean (research), Ashoka University, who is also a project adviser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mega-project-to-make-testing-reagents-kits-launched-in-bluru/articleshow/77937160.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Scheme to end Salt Lake’s water woes ready for take-off||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is waiting for Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) to inaugurate its Rs 120-crore water supply scheme, in which Salt Lake and Rajarhat will receive an additional 8 million gallon of water per day from the New Town water treatment plant, which has a 100-million-gallon capacity. The scheme is expected to be inaugurated ahead of Durga Puja. “The scheme is ready and trial runs are being conducted at present. A date will be sought from the urban development minister to inaugurate the scheme,” said a KMDA official. The Bidhannagar civic body area, including Salt Lake and Rajarhat, presently receives around 7 million gallon of filtered water per day from Tallah and the rest of the water is pulled from underground reserves. Every year, residents face a shortage of water, especially during the peak summer months. With this scheme slated to start functioning soon, water crisis in the township will become a thing of the past. As per the scheme, two underground water reservoirs have been set up — one near tank number 5 and the other near tank number 13 in Salt Lake, which have a storage capacity of 3 and 4 million gallons, respectively. Besides, two new overhead water tanks have been set up in Ward 26 in Rajarhat. The tanks will receive water from the New Town water treatment plant. Officials said the scheme that will bring filtered water to Salt Lake, Rajarhat, South Dum Dum and the adjoining areas to meet the daily water demand was almost completed and ready to start functioning from March this year. It was scheduled to be inaugurated by mid-April but got delayed due to the Covid lockdown. Presently, water from the Hooghly is flown into the New Town water treatment plant through a 11-km-long pipeline — crossing Cossipore, Bagbazar, Kolkata Station Road and Ultadanga — that has been set up parallel to Kestopur canal before entering New Town. With demand of water from the neighbouring panchayat areas of New Town increasing this year, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) set up a water spout from its overhead tanks, which is linked with the 100-million gallon treatment plant to supply water to these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/scheme-to-end-salt-lakes-water-woes-ready-for-take-off/articleshow/77938258.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Central co-op banks to disburse Rs 6,000 crore loan for Rabi season||JAIPUR: Cooperative minister Udaialal Anjana said that the process of distributing interest-free crop loans for Rabi to the farmers in state has been launched from September 1. He said that by March 31, 2021, a target of Rs 6,000 crore interest-free crop loan has been set for the upcoming Rabi season. Anjana said that in 2020-21, a target of short-term crop loan of Rs 16,000 crore has been set for the farmers of the state and more than 25 lakh farmers are expected to benefit from it. For the Rabi season, the district-wise loan amount distribution target has been fixed. He informed that the Central Cooperative Bank, Jaipur, will distribute the maximum crop loan of Rs 430 crore for Rabi crops. The cooperative minister informed that Central Cooperative Banks of Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Sikar and Sriganganagar will disburse loans worth Rs 300 crore each. Similarly, Rs 290 crore loan will be disbursed in Jodhpur, Rs 260 crore in Hanumangarh district, Rs 250 crore in Jhunjhunu, Jalore and Barmer each and Rs 240 crore by central cooperative bank of Jhalawar and Nagaur each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/central-co-op-banks-to-disburse-rs-6000cr-loan-for-rabi-season/articleshow/77943428.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Experts for retaining corona treatment unit at YCM hospital||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Medical experts came out in support of the Covid-19 treatment unit at the PCMC-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital on Friday, a day after reports suggested that the civic body was contemplating turning the hospital into a non-Covid facility. The hospital has treated over 7,000 Covid-19 cases till August 31 and recorded a 87% recovery, which is substantial to show the hospital’s merit in treating the patients, Kaustubh Kahane, ENT specialist at YCM hospital, said. He said since the jumbo facility and other makeshift facilities have been set up recently, it would not be wise to shift all the caseload to them from the YCM hospital. “We have a staff of around 250 medical professionals. Though it has been a week since the jumbo facility has been set up, the number of patients at the YCM hospital has not gone down,” Kahane said. Social activist Maruti Bhapkar said the administration should take a call in this regard after drastic decline in cases. “ The administration should focus on the treatment of the non-Covid patients in private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-for-retaining-corona-treatment-unit-at-ycm-hosp/articleshow/77939855.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 5, 2020||Goa||Bastora may soon have mini mkt complex||Saligao: With vendors selling their wares by the roadside near the Bastora-Moira junction, the local panchayat has proposed a mini market complex and has requested local MLA Glenn Ticlo’s support for the same. As the vendors occupy the roadsidesm this leads to crowding among buyers, with no social distancing maintained, as well as traffic congestion. Bastora sarpanch Ranjit Usgaonkar told reporters that the panchayat is in the process of acquiring land where a mini market could be set up. “There is land adjacent to the junction where a vegetable market, fish market and a few shops can also be set up so that people of Bastora will not have to travel to Mapusa for shopping,” Usgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bastora-may-soon-have-mini-mkt-complex/articleshow/77940754.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Central co-op banks to disburse Rs 6,000 crore loan for Rabi season||JAIPUR: Cooperative minister Udaialal Anjana said that the process of distributing interest-free crop loans for Rabi to the farmers in state has been launched from September 1. He said that by March 31, 2021, a target of Rs 6,000 crore interest-free crop loan has been set for the upcoming Rabi season. Anjana said that in 2020-21, a target of short-term crop loan of Rs 16,000 crore has been set for the farmers of the state and more than 25 lakh farmers are expected to benefit from it. For the Rabi season, the district-wise loan amount distribution target has been fixed. He informed that the Central Cooperative Bank, Jaipur, will distribute the maximum crop loan of Rs 430 crore for Rabi crops. The cooperative minister informed that Central Cooperative Banks of Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Sikar and Sriganganagar will disburse loans worth Rs 300 crore each. Similarly, Rs 290 crore loan will be disbursed in Jodhpur, Rs 260 crore in Hanumangarh district, Rs 250 crore in Jhunjhunu, Jalore and Barmer each and Rs 240 crore by central cooperative bank of Jhalawar and Nagaur each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-co-op-banks-to-disburse-rs-6000cr-loan-for-rabi-season/articleshow/77939847.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||HC judge recuses self from hearing ex-DGP Saini’s bail plea||Chandigarh: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini failed to get any relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday, as the judge hearing his plea for anticipatory bail recused himself from the case. Now, his plea would be placed before another bench after obtaining order from the chief justice of the HC. “To be placed before some other bench after obtaining appropriate orders from the Chief Justice,” observed Justice Suvir Sehgal on Friday while recusing himself from hearing Saini’s plea. His petition is now expected to come up for hearing next week. Saini has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking anticipatory bail in relation to disappearance and murder of former junior engineer of UT Chandigarh, Balwant Singh Multani. The former Punjab Police chief moved the HC after a lower court in Mohali recently declined his plea for anticipatory bail. In his plea for anticipatory bail, Saini has submitted that Mohali additional sessions judge Monika Goyal initially granted him bail. Even four other police officials were also granted bail and the nature of allegations were considered in both the orders. “However, another Mohali additional sessions judge Rajnish Garg, while deciding the application for bail after addition of murder offence under Section 302 of the IPC reviewed the finding as well as the observations recorded by judge Monika Goyal in her earlier order dated May 11 on every count. This is not permissible in law. The only reason given by the Mohali court was that the present bail application has been filed after addition of offence under 302 of the IPC as certain more evidence has been collected by the investigating agency,” Saini has submitted in his bail plea. The ex-DGP and six others were booked on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them in May this year under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Later, section 302 (murder) was included in FIR registered against him and others at Mataur police station Mohali on August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-judge-recuses-self-from-hearing-ex-dgp-sainis-bail-plea/articleshow/77939874.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Doubling rate of Covid cases increases||Kolhapur: With coronavirus patients increasing rapidly in Kolhapur city, the doubling rate of cases has reduced to half. Eight days ago, the total number of cases in the city stood at 4,178. However, it has now swelled to 8,389 by September 3. On August 10, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city were 2,090. Similarly, the number of deaths in city have doubled in the last two weeks from 109 to 212. At present, the Covid-related casualty rate in the city is 2.52. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have adopted chase the virus campaign at war footing basis. Community spread is the main reason for the increasing number of cases in some places. So far, we have managed to keep the spread away from congested and slum localities to a large extent. We have sought help of volunteers for screening of Covid suspects and conducting surveys. Our focus currently is to get the patients for treatment to reduce death rate.” The rise in Covid cases is mainly attributed to the negligence on part of citizens, health officials have said. The officials claim that most of the spread is due to large gatherings at functions, market places and workplaces. On the other hand, the Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) is facing shortage of doctors and nurses. Several covid care centres have been opened, however, the lack of medical staff has resulted in the centres being deserted by patients. The KMC on Friday appealed to private doctors and paramedical staff to join the civic body’s efforts in containing the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doubling-rate-of-covid-cases-increases/articleshow/77940759.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nashik||3 talukas make up for 53% of total cases in rural district||Nashik: The district health department of Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) is now taking ample efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Nashik, Sinnar and Niphad talukas which currently have the maximum active Covid-19 cases. Senior officials of the health department said there are currently 2,487 active cases in the rural areas of the district, of which 1,317 cases (approximately 53%) were from these three talukas.According to the record of active Covid-19 cases as on the evening of September 3, there are 458 active cases in Niphad, 445 in Sinnar and 414 in Nashik taluka. Health officer of Nashik ZP Kapil Aher said they were currently focussing on elderly citizens and those with comorbidities. “Awareness is also being spread among people about the importance of social distancing, wearing masks, etc.”“We would be getting 5,000 antigen test kits. With cases increasing in Sinnar, Nashik and Niphad talukas, more tests will be conducted these three talukas,” said Aher adding that 10,000 more antigen test kits have been sought by the district health department.Given its proximity to Nashik city, Nashik taluka stands at a higher risk of Covid-19 spread. Being a major industrial area, Sinnar too has a higher risk of the infection spread as there is continuous movement of people in the taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-talukas-make-up-for-53-of-total-cases-in-rural-district/articleshow/77940745.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 5, 2020||Pune||Deepak Mhaisekar now adviser to Maharashtra CM||PUNE: Former Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar has been appointed as adviser to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on honorary basis to help during the Covid-19 pandemic as per an order issued on Friday. Thackeray was keen to have Mhaisekar as an adviser as he has prior experience of working for Pune division, stated sources from the CM’s office. Mhaisekar will be appointed as adviser CMO under principal adviser Ajoy Mehta. — Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mhaisekar-now-adviser-to-cm/articleshow/77939875.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 5, 2020||Indore||Indore: No Sunday lockdown & night curfew, ibuses back on road||INDORE: After being off the road for over five months, AICTSL will resume ibus service on BRTS corridor from Saturday. Easing more restrictions, collector Manish Singh on Friday announced that there will be no Sunday lockdown and night-curfew. Besides, restaurants/bars have been given permission to start operations with 50 per cent capacity while hotels with a stay facility can now start operating with 100 per cent capacity. After a meeting with Bus Owners Association and AICTSL officials, Singh said, “For Indore, starting operation of buses is very important as all the markets have been opened and commercial activities have been started. Free movement is needed to give the economy a required push”. He said that the administration has been in contact with members of divisional bus owners’ association while their demands had been forwarded to senior officials. “One of their main demands of waiving off permit tax between April and August has been considered while only half of permit tax for September will be levied,” the collector said. Singh said that a committee will soon finalize the fare list of the buses. According to AICTSL CEO Sandeep Soni, they will start operation of ibuses from Saturday along with operation of Chartered Buses and that under Sutra-Sewa Scheme on Indore-Bhopal and other routes. The operation of city buses will be started later. “We have not increased any fare. The inter-city buses will run with full capacity while passengers more than sitting capacity in ibuses will not be allowed,” Soni told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-sunday-lockdown-night-curfew-ibuses-back-on-road/articleshow/77941766.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Every house under PMAY-G should have a toilet, districts told||JAIPUR: The rural development department ACS (additional chief secretary) Rohit Kumar Singh has directed the collectors to ensure that every house built under PMAY-G should have a toilet, built under Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), and not a single eligible family should be left behind. Currently, according the department data, around 2 lakh eligible families/households are yet get toilets. The CAG report had found several deficiencies in the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) in the state. Among the sample completed houses, 31.02% houses remain vacant or are being used for non-residential purposes while 49.15% houses have no toilets despite the state being declared open defecation free (ODF), said the report. “When the CAG report was prepared, around 12.79 lakh families were without toilets in Rajasthan even as they were eligible for it under Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). In the last one-and-a-half year, of the total 12.79 lakh families, toilets have been built for over 10.7 lakh families. Now, only 2 lakh families are left behind,” said rural development special secretary P C Kishan. “The concept of LOB (left out of baseline) and NOLB (no one left behind) was also not there during that time. We could not build their toilets/give them incentives during that time as they were not categorized in the baseline. It was introduced later,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/every-house-under-pmay-g-should-have-a-toilet-dists-told/articleshow/77939903.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab, Mansa police on torture plea||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued a notice to Punjab government, state DGP and Mansa SSP on a plea filed by a woman whose husband was allegedly tortured by the excise staff, leading to brain haemorrhage and paralysis. The court has also asked the Mansa SSP to look into the matter personally and submit a status report himself within two weeks. Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri of the HC passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Kanta Rani of Mansa. The petitioner had alleged that her husband Pawan Kumar was picked up by officials of the excise department on June 18 from her residence. Although no criminal case was registered against him, he was taken to the office of the excise department, where he was brutally tortured, she had further claimed. The petitioner had submitted a representation to the SSP, SHO police station City-2 Mansa and higher authorities, seeking registration of a case against the excise staff, including inspector Manjit Singh, ASI Punjab Police Sunil Kumar, excise inspectors Ravinder Kumar and Mahesh Kumar, who were accompanied by certain men of liquor contractors. But despite the lapse of two-and-a-half months, the Mansa police did not register any case against the officials even as Pawan Kumar was crippled for the remaining life, she had claimed. The matter will now come up for hearing on September 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-punjab-mansa-police-on-torture-plea/articleshow/77939900.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||MP Diya Kumari slams Congress over question hour||JAIPUR: Taking on the Opposition for raising the issue of no question hour in Parliament, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari on Friday said that the Monsoon Session is being hosted in extraordinary circumstances. "The Centre has taken this decision with the consent of many opposition parties in the past as well," said Kumari on Friday. "It is reprehensible to make baseless allegations on the intentions of convening Parliament session. The Opposition should be a part of the solution, not the problem, which will be for the good of the nation," she added. She reminded the Opposition that question hour was called off in the past too. In 1962, 1975, 1976, 1976, 2004 and 2009 for several reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mp-diya-kumari-slams-cong-over-question-hour/articleshow/77939890.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rain causes heavy damage to crop and property in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Due to heavy rain in Jaisalmer, 300 ponds are overflowing causing heavy damage to crops and swamping temporary huts. The rain that started on Thursday evening in many parts of the district continued intermittently till Friday evening. In Jaisalmer, the downpour continued throughout the night as well as in the evening. In Pokhran too, it rained for 1.5 hours in the evening. This time, rainfall has broken the record of 2006. Jaisalmer tops the entire state in regard to the average rainfall. Till 9am on Friday, Jaisalmer had recorded 249.33mm rain which is 73% more than the average of 165mm. Till Friday evening, Jaisalmer tehsil recorded 24mm rain, Ramgarh 35mm, Pokhran 26mm and Nokh received 90mm rainfall. The meteorology department of Jaisalmer recorded 31.6mm rain in last 24 hours. There was heavy rain in Pokhran, Ramgarh, Nokh, Chandhan, Lathi, Mohangarh, Dhanua, Sam, Rajmathai, Dhedha, Beeda, Sultana, Ramdeora, Devikot and many other villages and hamlets in the district. Many rain-fed rivers in the district are overflowing. More than 300 water ponds have breached their limits and water has entered the fields and damaged crops. After heavy rain on Friday, the water of Gogadi River in Chandhan has entered the railway quarters and many other nearby villages. Many temporary huts have collapsed. There is 3-4ft water in the fields and crops have suffered heavy damage. Anicuts have broken at Bhu Bhopa and Narsingo ki Dhani and the water flowing from these ponds further broke other ponds on the way. Villagers who had sown moong and groundnut have suffered heavy damage. A villager said that during NREGA works many small water ponds were made which were to be used for irrigation but due to heavy rain, they have broken. Meanwhile, heavy rain also lashed many areas in Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-causes-heavy-damage-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77939901.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||Majority of shack owners in Calangute, Candolim likely to give season a miss||CALANGUTE: A large number of beach shack owners along the Calangute-Candolim beach-belt are unlikely to set up shacks for the 2020-21 tourism season. “Around 70-80% of the shack owners don’t want to start their shacks on account of the Covid-19 situation. It’s a risk,” said John Lobo, general secretary of the shack owners welfare society (SOWS). Candolim-based shack owner Seby D'Souza, vice-president, SOWS, said that “many people don’t want to set up their shacks because they suffered losses in the last season”. “You need Rs 3-4 lakh to set up and start a shack, and there’s no guarantee that they will recover their money in this season because they are unsure of the arrival of tourists,” he said. Shack owners recently met the director of tourism, Menino D’Souza to request for a relaxation in the rules of the beach shack policy which state that any shack owner who does not set up his shack within 30 days of receiving the licence will have the licence revoked and the licence will then be given to those on the waiting list. These shack owners then get removed from the list of “experienced” shack owners and have to apply in the newcomers category for the next season for a fresh licence. “The tourism director has agreed to this proposal, but it is yet to be approved by the government. The last season was bad and this season also there is no guarantee of foreign charter tourists. My shack is in Baga and 99% of my customers are domestic tourists. But there are some shacks in parts of Candolim and Calangute which are completely dependent on foreign charter tourists. If there are no foreign charter tourists, then they will suffer,” Lobo said. While stating that “it’s a wait-and-watch situation”, Lobo said that they have told the tourism director not to cancel the licences of those not putting up the shacks within the stipulated time, as some may start late if foreign tourists start coming in by November or December. “But some shacks may not start at all because the Covid-19 cases are still on the rise. Tourists are now being allowed to enter the state without a test. All waiters come in contact with the tourists, who then come in contact with the kitchen staff and the owner while handing over the bill amount. So if one waiter gets the virus, it will then spread like wildfire,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/majority-of-shack-owners-in-calangute-candolim-likely-to-give-season-a-miss/articleshow/77940771.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
September 5, 2020||Nashik||65% of 1.14L tests in Nashik conducted in last 33 days||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has conducted 65% of the total 1.14 lakh tests in the past 33 days between August 1 and September 3, including antigen tests and RT-PCR tests.The civic body had conducted a total of 40,000 tests in four months between April 1and July 31, of which 9,441 tested positive. The Covid positive rate was 23.6% per 100 tests.The number of tests being conducted was increased in August for early detection of cases and to contain the spread of Covid in the city.Between August 1 and September 3, as many as 74,000 tests were conducted out of which 18,186 tested positive. The Covid positive rate increased to 24.57% per 100 testsOver 60,000 antigen tests have been conducted in the last 43 days, as NMC began antigen testing from the second half of July. Over 7,500 have tested positive through antigen testing. NMC official said, “We are conducting antigen tests in the city where there is an increase in Covid cases. This is helping us in detecting Covid patients early and to provide them with immediate treatment. This is the reason the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients have improved up to 83% and the death rate has reduced to 1.84% so far.” Of the 80,000 antigen kits bought by the NMC in three phases, around 20,000 kits are in stockNMC had launched Nashik mission zero with the help of an NGO around a month ago. The NGO hass provided 20 mobile clinics to find suspected patients of Covid and conduct antigen testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/65-of-1-14l-tests-in-nashik-conducted-in-last-33-days/articleshow/77940769.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Victim’s brother too committed suicide||Incidentally, Saifuddin Dudhiyawala’s brother Aliasgar too had ended his life a couple of years back. In-charge Dahod police inspector H P Karen confirmed this, but said that he was not aware about the reasons. He added that the family was in a shock and their statements could not be recorded. “Once we hand them the bodies and the last rites are performed, we will try to speak to them,” Karen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/victims-brother-too-committed-suicide/articleshow/77938315.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nashik||CNP, ISP in Nashik resume operations after 4-day break||Nashik: The Currency Note Press (CNP) and India Security Press (ISP) in Nashik resumed operations after a gap of four days on Friday after around 40 staff members tested positive for Covid-19 in the last fortnight. The decision to shut down the operations at CNP and ISP was taken on Monday. However, in order to recover the production losses the press will remain open on Sunday as well. The CNP prints currency notes of various denominations while the ISP prints revenue stamps, stamp papers, passports and visas daily. The former has around 2,300 permanent employees, while the latter has around 1,700. “Both the press resumed operations from Friday with the full capacity by maintaining all the safety protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We have decided to conduct antigen tests of all our 4,000 employees. We have already approached the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the site for carrying out the test has been identified,” an official from CNP said. “The NMC has agreed to conduct 500 antigen tests each at both the press per day and all the workers will be tested within four days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cnp-isp-in-nashik-resume-operations-after-4-day-break/articleshow/77940784.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 5, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR adds over 3,000 patients for fourth consecutive day||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) continued to add over 3,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, taking its tally above 1.84 lakh. Besides, 83 more patients succumbed to the infection in the region, pushing the total casualty count in PMR to 4,416. Among the 3,447 cases recorded in the PMR on Friday, the PMC areas added 1,617, while the PCMC limits recorded 1,005 and the rural as well as Cantonment parts reported 825. As for recoveries, as many as 3,113 patients were discharged in PMR in the last 24 hours, including 1,830 from the PMC areas and 891 from the PCMC limits. District health office report revealed that sample testing had surged above 8 lakh, with 13,095 tests being conducted in the last 24 hours. The PMC so far has conducted over 4.77 lakh tests, while PCMC has tested 2.25 lakh people. Over 1.09 lakh samples have been tested in the rural and Cantonment areas. PMC officials said the administration had been conducting more than 6,000 tests every day. On Friday, as many as 6,723 tests were conducted in the PMC limits, the officials said. According to a PMC report, the tally of critical patients stood at 891 on Friday, of whom 529 patients were on ventilator support at various hospitals. As many as 362 patients were in ICU, while 3,233 patients were on oxygen support. As for testing per million population, Pune district has been conducting an average of 77,612 tests as against the national average of 33,414 tests in the state and 33,492 tests in the country, the district health office report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-adds-over-3k-patients-for-fourth-consecutive-day/articleshow/77939908.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Groups of 5 to be allowed for door-to-door campaigning||JAIPUR: The state election commission (SEC) has issued guidelines for conducting polls to the remaining panchayati raj bodies in the state in view of Covid. As per the guidelines, employees above 55 years of age (as far as possible), those with co-morbid conditions, pregnant women and lactating mothers should not be appointed as election officials. It also stated that a group of five people will be allowed for door-to-door campaigning by the candidates. The elections to the remaining panchayat 3,849 bodies are scheduled to be held in October. The guidelines issued by chief electoral officer and secretary Shyam Singh Rajpurohit stated, “If need, people above 55 years of age can be kept in the reserved teams. A nodal health officer will be appointed at the panachayat samiti level. The block health official will be appointed for the same. He will ensure Covid norms compliance at the block level during the elections.” “If any polling official is found to be having symptoms of Covid, he/she will be isolated immediately. The person will be tested for Covid as per directions of the nodal officer. The district election officer should be informed about the test results,” it stated. The guidelines also stated, “Soap and sanitizers must be kept for the candidates/others before they enter the returning officer’s room for the filing of nomination papers. They won’t be allowed to enter the room without masks. Only two persons, including the candidate, will be allowed inside the room. The candidates can download the nomination papers from the SEC website. Only one person will be allowed during withdrawal of nominations.” “Adequate masks, gloves and 1 litre sanitizer bottle should be provided to the polling teams. For their stay, the district election officers must ensure that social distancing is maintained and their accommodation is clean and hygienic,” it added. On polling day, it will be mandatory for voters to wear masks. Their hands should be sanitized before entering polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/groups-of-5-to-be-allowed-for-door-to-door-campaigning/articleshow/77939910.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Udupi woman in labour turned away by 5 hosps, delivers baby girl||MANGALURU: Five hospitals in Udupi refused to admit a woman in labour and she was forced to travel all the way to Mangaluru about 55km away past midnight on Thursday for delivery. She was in critical condition when she approached the five hospitals. Timely help rendered by Mohammed Asif, a social worker who runs a charitable organisation, ensured the woman reached Wenlock District Hospital in the wee hours where she delivered a healthy baby girl. Asif, who drove the woman in his ambulance from Udupi to Mangaluru, said both mother and baby are fine. “The 22 year-old woman from Yermal village, Udupi district, had come to the District Government Hospital in Ajjarakadu, Udupi, for delivery on Wednesday evening,” Asif said. “She tested positive for Covid-19 so the family shifted her to the Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital in the city. The hospital authorities there asked the family to take her to a designated Covid hospital. At this, family members panicked and they took her to three other private hospitals, none of which were willing to admit her.” Asif said it was past midnight by then and the woman was bleeding heavily. “I immediately contacted authorities and brought her to Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru. But authorities at Goschen too were reluctant to admit her. Finally we took her to Wenlock Hospital where she gave birth to a baby girl at 6am on Thursday,” Asif said adding that the woman’s husband is an auto rickshaw driver in Udupi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/udupi-woman-in-labour-turned-away-by-5-hosps-delivers-baby-girl/articleshow/77937210.cms||Vinobha K T
September 5, 2020||Jodhpur||410 Pak Hindu refugees can now return to India||JODHPUR: In a major relief to 410 Pak Hindu refugees, who had been staying in India on Long Term Visa (LTV) and had gone to Pakistan for a short trip before the lockdown on NORI (No Objection for Return to India) visa, the Ministry of Home Affairs has decided to bring them back by extending their visa. This extension of visa will be valid for 15 days from the date of lifting of travel restrictions, a period within which these stranded immigrants would be intimated so that they could register themselves with the High Commission of India (HCI) in Islamabad with all supporting documents in order to enable the MHA to take up the matter with the security agencies. Due extension of return visa of these stranded LTV holder Pak nationals will be made on their passports at Attari border on their arrival, where they will be tested for corona after entering India. This submission was made before the high court on Friday during the hearing of a petition pertaining to issues and problems of Pak minority refugees. During the previous hearing on August 19, the court was apprised to stranded NORI visa holders in Pakistan and had sought reply from the Centre about bringing these stranded immigrants back. MHA, in its reply to the court through its counsel, stated, “It has been decided that return visa in respect of such LTV holders who had gone to Pakistan on return visa before the lockdown and were stranded there due to travel restrictions may be treated as deemed extended for a period up to 15 days from the date on which travel restrictions for travel from Pakistan to India are lifted by the GoI.” With the initiation of the process, the HCI, Islamabad, will have to intimate MHA, the names and particulars of all such Pak nationals, who registered with them for return visa extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/410-pak-hindu-refugees-can-now-return-to-india/articleshow/77939904.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Emphasis on continuing with RT-PCR process||PUNE: Medical experts want the states to largely stick to RT-PCR tests, as the antigen-based check has high false negativity rate despite its easier coverage of a larger population. Head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Samiran Panda said though the states could not ignore the false negatives in the antigen tests “Those testing positive in the antigen test should follow it with RT-PCR process. Those with symptoms and testing negative in the antigen test should also go for the RT-PCR test,” he said. Professor LS Shashidhara of Ashoka University said the low accuracy, speficity and sensitivity in the antigen tests “often lead to false negatives”, unlike the RT-PCR process. Giridhara Babu, a member of the group of surveillance and research and work group of the ICMR’s task force, said the sensitivity of antigen test to pick up the infectious state “is very low in the absence of the viral load usually associated with the symptomatic phase”. Epidemiologist R Jotkar said, “Senior citizens and people with oxygen saturation less than 94% and some Covid-19 symptoms must need a constant supervision. The stakeholders should be concerned about the Covid toll, and not only the rising cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/emphasis-on-continuing-with-rt-pcr-process/articleshow/77939913.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Son, caretaker of woman found with maggots on roadside booked||Bathinda: A day after the Muktsar deputy commissioner wrote to the senior superintendent of police (SSP) for taking action over the death of an 82-year-old woman, who spent her last days in a small brick shelter on the roadside, her son and her caretaker were booked on Friday. A case under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered at the Muktsar City police station against the deceased woman’s son Balwinder Singh and caretaker Rajesh Kumar Dabra. The action follows a detailed report over the matter by Muktsar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Veerpal Kaur. Deceased Mahinder Kaur was found near Dabra’s residence in a semi-naked state and with maggots crawling in her head on August 14. Police shifted her to Muktsar civil hospital, from where she was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot. But, Balwinder, a junior assistant in the state excise department, took her away instead of getting her admitted and she died in the wee hours of August 17. On the directions of the Punjab State Commission for Women, Muktsar DC M K Aravind Kumar asked the SDM to probe the case. The SDM reported that Mahinder Kaur had four daughters and two sons but was living with Balwinder, whose wife was also unwell. Nearly five months ago, Balwinder had engaged Dabra as a caretaker for Rs 4,000 per month. When Mahinder was taken to the medical college, junior resident Dr Harpreet Kaur checked her and the attendant was asked to get the woman admitted. But, Balwinder took his mother home, where she died. The police were also not informed, due to which a post-mortem to establish the cause of death could not be done and cremation was done, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/son-caretaker-of-woman-found-with-maggots-on-roadside-booked/articleshow/77939909.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Gupta takes charge as CP, Mallikarjun is now Aurangabad range IGP||Aurangabad: Nikhil Gupta, 1996 batch IPS officer, took charge as Aurangabad commissioner of police from the outgoing officer Chiranjeev Prasad on Friday. Prasad has been transferred as Nagpur range as special inspector general of police (IGP). Impressed by the works undertaken by city police under its ‘community policing,’ Gupta assured to carry forward the legacy of selflessly helping people in the best way possible. Prasad’s series of initiatives under the community policing, especially making people employable, roping in NGOs and catering food and medicines to needy, has brought him laurels. Prasad had taken charge within days of the city witnessing communal riots, caste-based violence and garbage-related serious law and order issue. During his maiden interaction with the journalists, Gupta assured of remaining available round-the-clock service for commoners as well as needy people. He said, “We want the citizens to come forward with not only their complaints, but also their suggestions in addressing the issues concerning the city.” Aurangabad range special IGP Ravinder Kumar Singal, an officer of 1996 batch, has been transferred and posted as controller of Legal Metrology Organisation at Mumbai. Apart from introducing a series of pro-people initiatives while heading Aurangabad range, the officer is also known for successfully completing national and international marathons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gupta-takes-charge-as-cp-mallikarjun-is-now-aurangabad-range-igp/articleshow/77940780.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||12-year-old boy swept away in river in Kota||KOTA: A 12-year-old boy was swept away in Nangli river in Khajuri village under Sangod police station of Kota on Friday morning. A rescue operation was started immediately but the boy could not be traced till evening. The boy, identified as Govind Gurjar, son of Mahendra, resident of Khajuri village, was bathing on the overflowing bridge with his friends. He slipped from the overbridge into Nangli river, police said. His family members took him back twice but he returned to the overbridge and was swept away, he added. The rescue operation by SDRF and police was started immediately after the incident. However, the boy could not be traced till Friday evening, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-year-old-boy-swept-away-in-river-in-kota/articleshow/77939911.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Labourers stranded for 20 hours rescued||KOTA: At least 19 labourers, including 14 women — who had on Thursday gone to work in an agriculture field surrounded by Kalisindh river from both sides around 7-8km from Anta town of Baran district — were left stranded amid the flooding river in the evening, while they were on their way back home. Having spent a sleepless night amid thundering waters, the labourers, after around 20 hours, were rescued safely on Friday. Heavy rains in the adjoining Madhya Pradesh have swelled the rivers in the Hadauti region, with majority of rivers in Jhalawar, Baran, Kota, Bundi districts overflowing. SHO at Anta police station Umesh Meharia said, the rescue operation could not be kicked off on Thursday late evening because it had gotten dark. However, the NDRF and police in a joint operation, rescued the stranded labourers around 11am on Friday, he said, adding that all the labourers are safe and in sound health. According to the engineer at Kalisindh dam Prateek Baswal, inflow of 10,428 cusec of water was recorded in Kalisindh dam till 5pm on Friday and 8,682 cusec of water was released through the 2.0 metre opening of two gates of the dam. On Thursday evening, inflow of 53,015 cusec of water was recorded in Kalisindh dam and 63,492 cusec of water was released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-remain-stranded-for-20-hrs-amid-flooded-river-rescued/articleshow/77939916.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Land prices near Pharma City go into stratosphere||HYDERABAD: A 30-km stretch along the Srisailam Highway — 45 minutes from Gachibowli — is the city’s new realty hotspot. Reason: the Hyderabad Pharma City (HPC). While this big-ticket venture has been in the pipeline for some time, it’s finally being rolled out around Dasara, government officials confirmed. This has led to tremendous activity along the highway, roughly 30 km from the project site in Muncherla. With land prices witnessing a significant jump — from Rs 70 lakh (approx) per acre in 2012-13 to Rs 5 crore now — the cost of built up space too has touched anywhere between Rs 3,800 and Rs 4,200 per square feet. Until a few years ago, this was around Rs 3,000 per sft. Cashing in on this demand are both small and mid-sized real estate firms and major players. Ramky Estates, for instance, is planning to expand its footprint in the region that it entered earlier this decade. “We have already developed 228 villas and are now working on an apartment and villa project. Both will be ready by mid-2021,” said Nanda Kishore M, managing director of the firm. He is also likely to announce fresh projects in the next two-three months. “Though we always witnessed a steady flow of buyers — from the IT, defence and other sectors — the HPC will certainly give the market a fillip. The growing social infrastructure of the belt is also an advantage,” he added. With HPC expected to throw up more jobs, the area will be a force to reckon with in the realty industry, added A Murli Krishna Reddy, chairman of Mak Projects that’s expanded its base from 75 acres to 200 acres. Now, Reddy plans to move closer to the HPC. “At present, our projects are about 25 to 30 minutes away. With our new ventures, we want to reduce this gap,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-prices-near-pharma-city-go-into-stratosphere/articleshow/77939915.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 5, 2020||Goa||50% Covid patients came late, died within 24 hrs: Dean||Panaji: More than half the Covid patients who died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital did so within 24 hours of being admitted, dean Dr S Bandekar said. Of the 88 deaths of positive patients, 43 died within 24 hours of being brought in and another four were brought dead. 79 out of the 88 had comorbid conditions. “Even the best centres in the world be it USA, Spain, etc, nobody can save patients. Those who died within 24 hours means they have come in such an advanced stage when saving them becomes difficult. But these patients have also received everything - Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, high nasal oxygen, ventilation, etc, and yet they have died. 50% have come in late and died within 24 hours. Of these patients, 18 received plasma,” he said. At the ESI hospital, out of the 115 deaths, 102 patients had comorbid conditions. 14 out of 115 patients died within 24 hours of being admitted there. “Most patients who came to ESI already spent a week at home and they got very severe lung disease and landed up in hospital. We have treated them for 10 to 12 days, and despite that we lost them because at times when there is a cytokine storm nobody can do anything with these patients,” he said. Majority of the patients who succumbed had chronic renal failure, hypertension or Ischemic heart disease and died because they had comorbidities, Bandekar said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane appealed to people not to hide the disease, saying several such cases have been brought in late. “A lot of people come in with breathlessness after five to ten days. At the last stage, it is difficult to administer treatment. We are unable to save their lives. Patients in home isolation shouldn’t hide it from anybody. You need to approach the health officer/doctor if you have any symptoms We find aged persons also being brought in at a late stage,” Rane said The issue of shortage of beds arises because most patients who are symptomatic or moderately symptomatic have to be admitted for at least 15 days. “We can’t send them home. We have incidents of patients who have gone home and got into complications. Doctors are also taking care of patients comorbidities, he said. “There was a feeling that comorbid conditions are not being taken care of. This is not true. Many times we have to stop a diabetic’s tabletsand start them on insulin instead, but the patient feels that we are not giving them the tablets. We sometimes have to alter the dosage of tablets,” Bandekar said. “It’s not that we’re not treating them. We’re also treating patients with HIV, cancer, kidney disease, liver disease, alcoholism. We have expert teams working with patients very closely,” he said. Bandekar while comparing last year’s death statistics said the death rate has not risen because of Covid, rather deaths have occurred due to severity of comorbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-covid-patients-came-late-died-within-24-hrs-dean/articleshow/77940783.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Goa||25 deaths in four days, average of six each day this month||Panaji: With 25 deaths reported in the first four days in September, the state has begun witnessing an average of six deaths a day. Eight deaths over the past 24 hours has taken the Covid death toll to 220. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said a spike in Covid cases is expected over the next couple of days. After three consecutive days of new Covid positive highs, the state’s new positive cases dropped from 713 to 508 on Friday. “We suddenly went up to 713 cases yesterday. Today with the same testing the number has come down to 518. The spike is happening. We’re making all arrangements and have started another ward 122 at GMC. We are trying to differentiate between the milder cases and those that require critical care. Dean of Goa Medical College has been given discretion to decide on patients that need to be admitted to GMC,” Rane said. Patients continue to be brought dead to hospital just as Rane cautioned people not to hide the disease and seek help from health workers should one experience symptoms. Two women aged 54 and 60 from Davorlim were brought dead to the South Goa district hospital on Thursday and Friday and found to be positive post mortem. Four patients in their 70s from Ribandar, Benaulim, Aldona and Vasco undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College also succumbed to Covid. A 65-year-old woman from Betki and an unidentified 48-year-old admitted to ESI hospital also died. Rane said the government is working on bringing down the deaths and bringing the situation under control and stated that comorbidities are also being taken care of. “We are ensuring that comorbidities are properly dealt with. When we treat a patient for Covid if the patient has comorbidities – diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease we have to manage these in a particular manner hence their medication may change,” he said, referring to patients who feel that they’re not being treated for their comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/25-deaths-in-four-days-average-of-six-each-day-this-month/articleshow/77940778.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Lonavla police, highway safety patrol personnel prepare for weekend rush||PUNE: The Lonavla city police have deployed three squads in the tourist town to ensure visitors follow safety protocols of using masks and maintaining social distance. The squads have been set up after the Union and state governments withdrew the e-pass requirement and permitted 100% occupancy at hotels and lodges. Inspector Manoj Yadav of Lonavla city police station said the squads have taken action against hundreds of people found flouting social distancing norms or not wearing masks in the three days since the e-pass rule was withdrawn. TimesViewPeople need to exercise restraint and behave in a responsible manner while visiting tourist spots. One can understand the desire for leisure travel after being housebound since March-end but the danger of Covid-19 has not passed. Carelessness on the part of a few can spread the virus rapidly to areas that have had relatively few cases. Considering the extreme strain on doctors, medical staff, health infrastructure and the police, it is the duty of every person, who steps out, to ensure that s/he does not become a source of nuisance. Wearing masks, following social distancing norms and using a sanitizer are an absolute must“The squads, comprising three officers and 15 personnel, have fined over 830 people to the tune of Rs1.75 lakh, for not wearing masks or violating social distancing protocols in various parts of Lonavla. The crowd has increased in the market area as people book stays at hotels and rental villas,” he said. Yadav has also cautioned tourists against crowding as the town has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases since the curbs were lifted. Currently, all tourist spots, like Bhushi dam, remain closed as per orders of the district collector. “We have also ensured regular patrolling at spots along the way to Rajmachi point, Sunset point, Amrutanjan point, where people often stop to enjoy the waterfalls. People must avoid crowding at any spot or at the markets,” Yadav said. Police inspector Sudam Pachorkar of Highway Safety Patrol (HSP), Panvel, said the Pune-Mumbai expressway has already witnessed a significant rise in movement of small vehicles since the e-pass rule was withdrawn. “We are not expecting any major congestion along the Borghat section due to the demolition of Amrutanjan Bridge, which was a chronic congestion spot along the expressway. Squads have already been deployed to take action against vehicles illegally parked on the expressway,” he said. Pachorkar said that HSP is set to monitor traffic along the expressway for two weekends to prevent congestion. “If we find congestion on the expressway during this weekend and the next, we will stop heavy vehicles at the toll plazas at Urse and Khalapur to make way for smaller vehicles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lonavla-police-highway-safety-patrol-personnel-prepare-for-weekend-rush/articleshow/77939925.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Teen arrested for rape and cheating||HYDERABAD: Balapur police on Friday arrested a 19-year-old for sexually exploiting a 34-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused was booked for rape and cheating. The teen, from Bandlgauda, has been running a garment shop and met the victim, from Balapur, about three years back. Promising to marry the woman, the accused entered into a relationship with her. According to police, he rented a room at Shaheen Nagar about six months back and used to meet the victim there. However, when the victim asked him to marry her, he refused and even threatened her. Upset by the turn of events, the woman approached the police on Wednesday. “We have nabbed the accused from his house and booked him for rape and cheating. He’ll be sent to judicial remand,” said Balapur inspector, B Bhaskar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-arrested-for-rape-and-cheating/articleshow/77939920.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Pune||Second Pune firm gets approval to make Covid-19 test kits||PUNE: Yet another Pune-based company has received approvals to make RT-PCR kits. After MyLabs' -- Patholab, GenePath Diagnostics' has indigenously developed Covid-19 RT-PCR test kit -- Covidex One and received approval for manufacture and sale in India from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on August 31, 2020. "The kit was validated by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research's Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB) in Hyderabad and approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) earlier in the year. The CDSCO has given approval to Bengaluru based Achira Labs, GenePath’s manufacturing partner, to manufacture the kit," the company said. GenePath said while it has designed and developed the kit, it has contracted with Achira to manufacture the kits on its behalf. The company said that it has been able to keep the cost low at Rs 1, 500 per test, even lower than the cap fixed by the government owing to the use of over 99% of local content. "Only the probes and primers we use come from a partner laboratory in Florida with whom we have been closely associated for several years now," the company said. While more players are coming up with RT-PCR kits, the domestic demand for the same is quite less despite increased clamor for testing. In a conference recently, Serum Institute of India's CEO, Adar Poonawalla said that the government must not only allow for more tests but also allow local manufacturers to export kits in the spirit of make local, go global. Poonawalla has invested over Rs 100 crore in Mylabs. Genepath, which has also invested Rs 50 crore in the effort said even it has global aspirations. "We are building a portfolio of high quality molecular diagnostic and genomic testing kits, panels and platforms in the areas of infectious diseases, oncology and inherited genetic disorders. Our decision to enter this space is part of a larger global strategy in the areas that we operate. We have parallel manufacturing capacity in the United States and are preparing the same in Europe, so we will have the ability to reach a wider global market," Genepath said. "In addition to being a kit manufacturer, we also run a clinical lab that has processed more than 20,000 Covid-19 tests for patients in Pune," said Nickhil Jakatdar, CEO, GenePath Diagnostics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2nd-pune-firm-gets-approval-to-make-kits/articleshow/77939919.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 5, 2020||Goa||Goa has 404 vacant beds in Covid care centres||PANAJI: After many weeks, the government finally revealed the available capacity at Covid care centres on Friday. There are currently 158 vacant beds in Covid care centres in North Goa and 246 vacant beds in centres in South Goa. North Goa has a total capacity of 505 and South Goa 1,006. The expert committee on Covid also took a decision to treat critical patients at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital and mildly symptomatic patients at the Ponda sub-district hospital. “We are evaluating the situation to see how best we can treat critical patients at GMC. We are in the process of providing the best facilities to patients,” health minister Vishwajit Rane said. The expert committee also decided to recruit 30 new nurses for deployment at GMC, Rane said. The purchase committee also decided to procure more equipment for Covid hospitals. Considering that the number of Covid deaths have crossed the 200-mark, Rane said the committee has taken a decision to disclose the cormorbid condition of the deceased without disclosing their identity, according to guidelines specified by WHO. Currently, the daily medical bulletin is silent on the cause of patients’ deaths and comorbidities. The expert committee meets every Friday to review the Covid situation in the state, Rane said, adding that every specialist in GMC and directorate of health services is being roped in to treat patients. He added that it is a challenge to treat patients who come in after five and 10 days of contracting Covid. “A lot of people come in breathless and at the last stage when it is difficult to administer treatment,” he said, urging even those in home isolation not to hide their condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-has-404-vacant-beds-in-covid-care-centres/articleshow/77940786.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Siliguri-born director set to bring first film on NRC to silver screen||KOLKATA: A Hindi film by a Siliguri-born director on National Register of Citizens (NRC) is in the making. Titled ‘Noise of Silence’, the film is inspired by real-life events in Assam and has been shot completely in Tripura. The director will be applying for screening at the International Festival of India (IFFI). According to director Saif Baidya, this could be India’s first Hindi feature film on NRC. “In 2017, I met a friend who recounted to me the ordeal of his family in Assam after NRC was released in 2015. While his father’s name was on the list, his mother and his name did not find any mention. His father is in Indian Army,” said Baidya, who has earlier directed a short film titled ‘Chaar Pandrah’ and a feature film titled ‘NCR: Chapter One’. Stories of the rejection slips of people prompted him to start writing a plot. “Prior to this, I was toying with the idea of making a film on the Rohingya crisis. However, that finally didn’t get made because of production issues. When I heard this tale about my friend in Assam, I decided to start work afresh. I adapted his story for my film,” he said. Work on ‘Noise of Silence’ began in November last year. Though he was initially keen on shooting in Assam, Baidya later decided to shift the shooting location to Tripura. Starring Puja Jha and Firdaus Hassan, the shooting got over in February this year. Kolkata-based Satadeep Saha, who is co-producing the film, said: “The script depicts the insecurities of people whose names were not there on the list.” Not just the story of Baidya’s friend, the film also has reference to the news of an alleged suicide linked to exclusion from the NRC list. “There was also a news about a school teacher who had allegedly committed suicide when his name had been excluded from the NRC process. I have kept this in my film too,” Baidya added. While one plot is about NRC, there is another parallel track revolving a Rohingya refugee girl. “She comes in search of her mother. My film is about the insecurity and the pain of people regarding citizenship,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/siliguri-born-director-set-to-bring-first-film-on-nrc-to-silver-screen/articleshow/77938325.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 5, 2020||Goa||Twitter erupts over Goa CM’s work from home photo||PANAJI: Social media was all atwitter after a photo of chief minister Pramod Sawant working from home made the rounds in cyber space. The opposition was quick to tear into the post. State Congress president Girish Chodankar tweeted, “While doing photo op for @goacm tweet claiming that CM is working despite testing COVID +Ve @DrPramodPSawant is spreading d virus further through d files, which is handles without using gloves. No wonder, if Govt officers & staff using these files gets infected with virus.” The state government then issued a clarification. “Public in general and the personnel of the Govt of Goa are informed that the routine files being cleared by CM are by way of scanning the pertinent portion and putting up for his signature,” official statement issued through the department of information and publicity said. “Most urgent files are sanitised and cleared. The Government is responsible and sensitive towards the people of Goa, hence this clarification,” it said attributing the statement to CMO. Hitting out at the state Congress president, BJP spokesperson Dattaprasad Naik said, “Bhivpachi Garaz Naa Girish Chodankar. All files are sanitised before and after,” adding, “The Naatak of morcha and agitations by your team is more dangerous and is likely to spread the virus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/twitter-erupts-over-cms-wfh-photo/articleshow/77940791.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Adgaon Medical college takes over testing of throat swabs from Malegaon civic body||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare said the testing of throat swab samples will be carried out at Adgaon Medical College after citizens complained that the results of swab samples given to Malegaon Municipal Corporation are being delayedThe Malegaon Municipal Corporation had tied up with a private laboratory in Mumbai for testing of throat swabs. Now that the contract has expired, the corporation is looking for laboratories where it can get the samples tested and till the arrangement is done, it has reduced the number of samples to be collected. “The number of patients is increasing across the district, so now we have two swab testing laboratories, one at Nashik Civil Hospital and the other at Adgaon Medical College. We have also tied up with several laboratories in Pune and Mumbai to conduct the throat swab testing,” Mandhare said.Malegaon Municipal Corporation area, which was once a Covid hotspot, but then the active cases decreased to 85. Following the relaxations in place, now there are 570 active cases and the areas that are now in focus is mostly the western Malegaon.Malegaon health official said, “We have people coming from the rural areas and the western part of the Malegaon where the infection is now spreading rapidly.” The collector said a very strong contact tracing program is being conducted. In Malegaon, about 18,000 throat swab samples have been tested of which above 15,000 are negative, that means only 18% tested positive, added Mandhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/adgaon-medical-college-takes-over-testing-of-throat-swabs-from-malegaon-civic-body/articleshow/77940793.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack: Agri dept finds pest larvae from near cotton ginning unit||Bathinda: The agriculture department has found larvae of pink bollworm in the empty bolls discarded and buried in the ground by a cotton ginning factory. The department officials during a visit on Wednesday collected the larvae and provided insecticides to farmers to stop further spread of pink bollworm infestation on cotton crop at Jodhpur Romana village in Bathinda. The department has recommended action against the factory owners for the infestation of pink bollworm from the larvae left in the bolls. The agriculture department will write to secretary mandi board for action. The team also visited some other cotton factories but did not find any trace of larvae. Pink bollworm attack has been detected on cotton crop in Punjab after several years. After 2002 when BT varieties were introduced in the state, pink bollworm never reoccurred. In India, the bollworm attack was detected in Maharashtra last year. The farmers in the last one week had detected pests on the crop and informed the agriculture department officials who had suspected its origin from the cotton ginning factory where cotton crop from Haryana and Rajasthan was being brought for ginning. A team of the Punjab agriculture department led by joint director (plant protection) Sukhdev Singh and comprising PAU regional research station director Paramjit Singh visited the fields in Jodhpur Romana where pink bollworm had attacked the cotton crop and observed 54% infestation of pink bollworm mainly in the fields adjoining Shree Krishna Cotton Mills. Thereafter, the team visited the cotton ginning factory and its surrounding area. The team dug up a stretch outside the mill and collected the larvae of pink bollworm from the bolls emptied and buried after removing cotton fibre. The team also found the larvae at other places around the factory. “The larvae of pink bollworm seem to have originated from empty bolls exhausted by the ginning factory. The larvae in bolls is a cause of concern which necessitated sprays to stop further spread of the infestation. Recommendation has been made for action against factory owners for the spread of pest infestation,” joint director, agriculture department, Sukhdev Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pink-bollworm-attack-agri-dept-finds-pest-larvae-from-near-cotton-ginning-unit/articleshow/77939918.cms||Neel Kamal
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt appoints Nayar as special secretary for agriculture||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has appointed the 2009-batch IAS officer Harish Nayar as new special secretary of the agriculture department. The state government had earlier on September 2 appointed 2006-batch IAS officer Abhinav as special secretary of the agriculture department after Kahan Singh Pannu had superannuated from the post on August 31. Nayar has also been handed over the additional charge of the post of managing director of the Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals Limited. Abhinav has now been posted as director of the treasury and accounts and in addition special secretary of the department of expenditure. The 1996-batch IAS officer Ajoy Kumar Sinha, who has come back from deputation in the Chandigarh administration, has now been posted as secretary in the local government department. Sinha was serving as finance secretary in the Chandigarh administration since August 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-govt-appoints-nayar-as-special-secretary-for-agriculture/articleshow/77939927.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bareilly||3-year-old found dead in UP village had been raped before she was killed||Bareilly: On Wednesday, a three-year-old girl went missing. A day later, she was found murdered in a sugarcane field at Mathiya village in Lakhimpur Kheri. And on Friday, the autopsy report showed the child had been raped and then strangled to death. The accused was held later in the day, shot in the leg in retaliatory firing.It’s the third such case in Kheri in 20 days, stirring the otherwise placid flow of life. “Parents are not letting their children step out,” said a local at Mathiya. The three-year-old, elder of two children, had been playing outside her house when her parents last saw her. When she didn’t come home, they filed a missing report and posted her photo on social media. The next morning, farmers tending to sugarcane fields were shocked to find a body dumped in the foliage — it was hers, injured all over, brutalised. The police and family did not find any visible injuries to her private parts. “The autopsy confirmed internal tears and that the cause of death was strangulation,” Kheri SSP Satyendra Kumar said.The family, meanwhile, had named a suspect in the FIR, 35-year-old Lekhraj Gautam. The girl’s uncle had killed his wife six years ago and had just been released on bail. Lekhraj, the girl’s family alleged, was seething with a need for vengeance. “Lekhram had threatened the family that he would avenge his wife’s death,” station house officer Pradeep Kumar had told TOI on Thursday.Lekhraj was not to be found in the village. Police kept combing the area, believing that he must not have made it too far. “We had deployed four teams to look for him. Then, we received a tip-off that the accused is heading towards his in-laws’ place at Nighasan. We rushed there and intercepted him at Bahmanpur village,” said SSP Kumar. “We asked him to surrender but he opened fire with a country-made pistol he had on him. We had to fire back. In this exchange, he was shot in the right leg.” He was arrested. The outrage spilled over on social media as well. “The competition of the lowest low is still on,” Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu tweeted with a screenshot of the news. Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav tweeted that rising crimes against women in the state under BJP had “tarnished the image of the state.” An 18-year-old Dalit girl had been raped and killed by a youth in Neemgaon on August 25. About 10 days before that, a 13-year-old Dalit girl was gang-raped and killed in Isanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-year-old-found-dead-in-up-village-had-been-raped-before-she-was-killed/articleshow/77937238.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 5, 2020||Patna||Govt job soon to kin of any SC/ST person killed in Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: The state government is to frame rules to give a government job to the next of kin of any SC/ST person killed in Bihar. CM Nitish Kumar on Friday directed scheduled caste and scheduled tribe (SC/ST) welfare secretary Prem Kumar Meena to get the rules framed at the earliest. The CM, while reviewing the steps taken for the welfare and uplift of the SC/ST people, also asked the secretary to complete the probe into all pending cases lodged under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1995, as amended from time to time, by September 20. He said the departments concerned should facilitate necessary assistance to help the speedy disposal of such cases. Nitish also asked the law department to fill the posts of special public prosecutors so as to pursue the timely disposal of the pending cases at the special courts. He asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to review the implementation of the schemes meant to bring the Mahadalit, Dalit and ST people into the mainstream. He also said the victims of atrocities should be provided relief in time, coupling it by making the advance payment to them. He said the districts should be provided with sufficient money in this regard. Earlier, SC/ST welfare secretary, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and others concerned made a detailed presentation of the works done under the 1995 Act, as well as the implementation of various schemes meant for them, including delivery of ration cards and provision of homestead land to the homeless families among the SC/ST sections. The review meeting was conducted through videoconferencing. The participants included deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, SC/ST welfare minister Ramesh Rishideo, MPs Vijay Manjhi, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj and Alok Kumar Suman, as well as MLAs Lalan Paswan, Sunil Kumar, Bhagirathi Devi, Prema Choudhary, Prabhunath Prasad, Ratnesh Sada, Baby Kumari and Poonam Kumari. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-govt-job-soon-to-kin-of-any-sc/st-person-killed-in-state/articleshow/77938388.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Obsessive-compulsive disorder on the rise, say Hubballi physicians||HUBBALLI: Several psychiatrists and physicians in the twin cities say they are seeing a surge in cases of people with obsessive-compulsive disorder, what with the pandemic demanding people wash their hands regularly. Washing hands is an obsession many patients with the condition have. Psychiatrists say they used to see three or four OCD patients in a week, but now are seeing at least one a day. Interestingly, general physicians too have noticed the trend. One physician who practises in Hubballi said he treated a patient who checked his blood saturation level every 10-15 minutes. The patient dreaded catching Covid-19 and had not slept for many days. “Another patient washed his hand so many times that his skin was peeling off,” the physician said. “It is anxiety of catching the infection that is driving people to be obsessive about cleanliness.” Dharwad-based veteran psychiatrist Dr Anand Pandurangi said due to the pandemic, stress levels have increased. “More stress leads to more anxiety and more anxiety leads to more obsessiveness,” he said. He advised people not to panic, but rather follow precautions like wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands. He said people should follow a healthy routine, exercise regularly, eat a balanced diet and get adequate amount of sleep. However, Dr Mahesh Mahadevaiah, chief of deaddiction, Dharwad Institute of Mental Health Sciences (Dimhans), said it is difficult to say if OCD cases or on the rise since Dimhans treats such cases regularly. “Of course, the pandemic is creating havoc in lives of people and psychiatrists practising in private establishments might have noticed more cases of OCD,” he said. Dr Mahesh said OCD is a treatable disorder and can be cured completely with mild medication||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thanks-to-covid-ocd-on-the-rise-say-psychiatrists-physicians/articleshow/77937300.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 5, 2020||Goa||Road safety week unlikely this year||PANAJI: Come September, officials from the transport department and traffic cell visit schools and colleges to spread awareness on road safety for the annual road safety. But this year, owing to the pandemic, as a result of which educational institutions have restricted themselves to online education, the awareness campaign has been suspended. “While we still propagate road safety, the awareness programmes for students will not take place at schools and colleges,” a transport official said. Last year, the road safety week was observed from September 16 to 22. Traffic officials, road safety activists and volunteers visited every taluka in the state and distributed literature among the students to read and understand the concept. They were also made aware of the various traffic violations and its penalties. With Unlock 4.0 allowing significant relaxations, one of which allows students from classes 9 to 12 from schools outside containment zones to visit their faculty to clear doubts on a voluntary basis from September 21, all eyes are on the state government’s decision on whether or not to implement the relaxation. “It therefore depends on the situation. If the schools start, we can have the awareness programmes but if there are no students, we cannot hold them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-safety-week-unlikely-this-year/articleshow/77940796.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,400 new Covid-19 infections||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 2,478 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, with data showing more women are falling prey to the virus.On August 3, the percentage of women infected stood at 35%, up by 1% exactly a month ago, while the percentage of infected males reduced by 1% to 65% in the same period. According to the bulletin released by the Telangana health department, the caseload on Thursday reached 1,35,884 cases, with GHMC reporting 267 cases, one of the lowest in recent times. The percentage of women patients are highest in the 20-29 age group (8%), followed by women in the age group of 31- 40 (7%), and women in the age group of 41- 50 (6%). The infection percentage is low among the women in the age group of 60- 70 years, hovering around 1%. While the death toll went up to 866, Telangana’s active patient load stood at 32,994 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-2400-new-infections/articleshow/77939929.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Stormy session likely as opposition set to corner govt on Covid||HYDERABAD: The assembly session, which is scheduled to begin on September 7, is likely to be stormy with the opposition parties gearing up to corner the TRS government on Covid-19 and other issues. The ruling party has decided to depute a couple of ministers and MLAs apart from health minister Eatala Rajender to counter the opposition on the pandemic. Sources said Congress and BJP have started collecting data on Covid-19 cases and how other states like Delhi and BJP-ruled states are handling the issue. BJP is collecting the data from the Centre and likely to focus on low tests being done in the state. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka is on a tour visiting various government hospitals in the state. Apart from exposing poor infrastructure in the hospitals, Congress is planning to corner the government on the low testing. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a meeting with ministers and whips in the assembly and legislative council, is believed to have told the ministers that they should be ready to counter their propaganda. “We have to highlight when the entire country was not aware of the containment zones, our government had implemented them in Karimnagar and alerted the Centre on the Delhi Markaz meeting,” the CM told the ministers. Rajender has already instructed his department to collect all the information on the tests, positivity and mortality rates comparing them with other states. Government whip in the assembly and MLA Guvvala Balaraju told TOI that the government is ready to provide information and debate on all the issues. “Our CM has clearly said the government is ready to convene the session for any number of days they want to debate or discuss in public interest,” Balaraju said. Apart from Covid-19, the government is expecting fire from opposition on Srisailam power plant inferno and Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project by AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stormy-session-likely-as-oppn-set-to-corner-govt-on-covid/articleshow/77939950.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Manchar traders decide to shut shops for a week||PUNE: Traders and shopkeepers of Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil on the Nashik highway — a major marketplace about 65km from the city — have decided to voluntarily close their establishments from September 5 to 12 in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks. Representatives of trade associations and Manchar gram panchayat members held a meeting in this connection on Thursday and resolved to opt for voluntary closure. “We have decided to shut our business for a week in view of the prevailing situation as many of our members are scared and have already closed their establishments as a precaution,” said Sagar Kajale, president of Jewellers Association in Manchar. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “If a gram panchayat or its representative appeals the local populace for a closure as a strategy and they are supportive of the idea, the same can’t be seen as defying the government’s unlock orders. But, if we get any complaint about forced closure of shops then we will act against the concerned individual/organization.” Manchar gram panchayat sarpanch Datta Ganjale said, “We have appealed to traders and shopkeepers to close their establishments. On an average, we are recording 30 nCoV positive cases every day. Traders and shopkeepers have agreed to observe a closure voluntarily. There is no official resolution on the part of the gram panchayat to the effect of calling for a closure as this is a voluntary initiative.” Somnath Khude, who heads the grocery shop owner’s association, said, “Movement of people between Manchar and urban centres like Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, has increased in the last few weeks and so have the cases. Hence, we have favoured closing our shops for a while.” Ashish Pungalia, president of electronic shops association in Manchar, said, “Some of our members have tested positive for Covid-19 and others are afraid of getting infected. People from about 100 villages come to Manchar to shop every day. Continuing with business has become a huge risk for many of us.” Manchar has an Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), food and grain market and ranks among the biggest gram panchayats with a population of 60,000. It has so far recorded 460 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of these, 199 patients have been discharged after recovery, 11 have succumbed to the virus and 250 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/manchar-traders-choose-to-shut-establishments-for-a-week/articleshow/77939930.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 5, 2020||Meerut||10 jail staff, police booked for negligence after 4 undertrials flee from temporary jail||Bijnor: A case of negligence was filed against 10 jail staff and police personnel deployed at Indira Baal Bhavan temporary jail in Bijnor city after four undertrials escaped from there on Thursday. Lakshmi Nivas Mishra, Bijnor city superintendent of police, said two of the absconders, Sanju and Akshay, were arrested on Thursday from Nagina. Four teams were formed to arrest the other two absconders, Farman and Kulveer Singh. Police have arrested one of the absconders from Najibabad area after an encounter on Friday," A countrymade pistol and two cartridges were seized from him.The SP said 10 jail staff and police personnel deployed at the temporary jail were booked under IPC section 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension). A probe is on," Mishra added.One undertrial is still at large. The four undertrials were lodged at the temporary jail since August 26. As a precautionary measure to prevent Covid-19 infection from spreading, new prisoners are lodged in a temporary jail to ensure they are free of the virus before being shifted to the main prison. Police had earlier announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on each of the two abscondersThe four undertrials were identified as Farman from Raza colony, Sanju from Daultabad village under under Kotwali Dehat police station area, Kulveer Singh from Jamalpur Dhikala village and Akshay Kumar from Sujapur Tanda Maidas village under Barhapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/10-jail-staff-police-booked-for-negligence-after-4-undertrials-flee-from-temporary-jail/articleshow/77937228.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 5, 2020||India||Don’t fall into ‘Singham’ trap, PM Modi cautions IPS recruits||NEW DELHI: The task of police is to inspire trust rather than instil fear in the public as some young recruits to the police may consider under the influence of seeing films like ‘Singham’, PM Narendra Modi told the 2018 batch of IPS officers over a video-conference on Friday. Modi asked the young IPS officers to ensure that the “police uniform is not associated with authority and awe but inspires pride” and said they should avoid adverse external influences and lead a clean life. “Some policemen, when they join the service, want to instil fear in public and think that anti-social elements should shudder at their name. This feeling clouds the minds of people who grow up watching movies like ‘Singham’. You have to decide if you want to create fear or lasting compassion in the minds of people,” he said. The PM also said the public outreach by police forces during the Covid-19 pandemic has made a collective and lasting impact in society regarding their humanitarian face and exhorted young officers to sustain this “treasure”. Modi said a hand-written record of services rendered by the men in ‘khaki’ should be prepared by schools and presented to the local police station. “This note will become a legacy and can be disseminated through online forums.” The PM stressed on the importance of a constructive partnership with civil society to ensure that policing involves “minimum effort and maximum result”. “Making citizens and civil society part of governance and policing efforts acts as a force multiplier,” he told the officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-fall-into-singham-trap-pm-modi-cautions-ips-recruits/articleshow/77941782.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chennai||7 killed in blast at Tamil Nadu fireworks unit, two critical||CUDDALORE: Seven women died and and two others were grievously injured in an explosion at a fireworks manufacturing unit at Kurugudi village in Kattumannarkoil block in Cuddalore district on Friday. While five of the victims died on the spot, two others succumbed to injuries at Kattumannarkoil general hospital. Two other injured being treated at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) in Puducherry are said to be critical. Police are probing the cause of the blast. Police said C Gandhimathi, proprietor, and eight women workers came early on Friday to restart production for Diwali sales at the unit that was closed down due to the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown. Firecrackers manufactured earlier were stocked at the unit. They reportedly performed a pooja before resuming operation when an accidental explosion brought down the entire building killing five women including Gandhimathi on the spot and injuring four others. The unit, functioning since 1977, will be bustling with activity ahead of Diwali, festival, and marriage seasons. Gandhimathi’s husband Chinnadurai, the licence holder of the unit, had passed away a few years ago. The licence had expired on March 31 this year and Gandhimathi had applied for renewal. Police are probing the cause of the explosion. “We have registered a criminal case. A forensic team has collected samples. The exact cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained,” said Cuddalore superintendent of police M Sree Abhinav. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK chief M K Stalin and TNCC president K S Alagiri and other leaders expressed grief over the incident. The CM has announced a solatium of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the victims. deceased women from the chief minister’s relief fund. He directed the industries minister M C Sampath and Cuddalore district collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri to visit the grieving family members of the deceased women and console them. Purohit said he was shocked and grieved to hear about the explosion killing seven people and injuring others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/7-killed-in-blast-at-tn-fireworks-unit-two-critical/articleshow/77939951.cms||Bosco Dominique
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Central Railway to run special trains for NDA, NA aspirants||NASHIK: The Central Railway (CR) on Friday announced special trains for candidates appearing for the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) entrance exams on Saturday and Sunday from various destinations. The trains will originate from Solapur, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Bhusawal, Kolhapur and proceed to Mumbai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad, ensuring that the candidates appearing for the exams at the centres in these cities can travel comfortably and reach on time. The trains will start from their destinations on September 5. The return journey has been scheduled for September 6, said a railway official on Friday. “Only candidates with reserved seats will be allowed to board the trains. They will have produce their hall tickets to the railway staff during the journey. The railways will sanitise the coaches and also undertake other measures in view of Covid-19,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cr-to-run-special-trains-for-nda-na-aspirants/articleshow/77940827.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 5, 2020||Meerut||Unable to pay Rs 70k fee for wife'sB.Ed course, UP labourer 'kills self'||Muzaffarnagar: Sandeep Dhiman, a resident of Chhachhrauli village in UP's Muzaffarnagar district, was reportedly suffering from severe depression and killed himself after being unable to pay Rs 70,000 fee for his wife's bachelor's degree course at a private college.The 32-year-old man, who used to work as a labourer, went "missing" for several days and his body was later found hanging from a tree in a forest area under Bhopa police station limits on Friday.Sources said that the private college had allegedly sent a letter on August 23 and warned that a case will be filed with the police, if the fee was not paid on time. Dhiman's wife, 28, had failed to pay tuition fees for her B.Ed course for the past two years.It is believed that after receiving the "warning letter", Dhiman went into a depression and left home on August 28. Dhiman's family then filed a "missing" complaint at Bhopa police station. On Friday, his body was spotted by a passerby. Police later reached the place and started an investigation. The body has been sent for postmortem.Sanjay Ravi, a friend of the deceased, alleged, "The college had sent a notice for pending fees and put pressure on him. So, he went into a severe depression, and killed himself."SP (rural) Nepal Singh said, "A probe is on and action will be taken accordingly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unable-to-pay-rs-70k-fee-for-wifesb-ed-course-up-labourer-kills-self/articleshow/77937259.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 5, 2020||Vadodara||Pre-planned suicide?||The Dudhiyawala family may have planned their suicide in advance and wanted to ensure that the parents were not at home at that time. Deceased Saifuddin had asked his parents to visit his sister’s house and also spend the night there. On returning home the next morning, the parents were shocked to see the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pre-planned-suicide/articleshow/77938434.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||80-year-old man found dead at Covid centre in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: An 80-year-old Covid-19 patient was found dead in the bathroom of a Covid Centre in Jaisalmer on Friday morning. His relatives, who too are staying in the same centre, complained about negligence of the staff of the centre. Family members said that the man’s grandson spotted him lying on the ground in the bathroom in the morning. He informed seven other relatives who too are admitted at the same centre for treatment. “It appears that my grandfather went to attend nature’s call during midnight when he slipped in the bathroom. The night duty staff did not attend him,” said the grandson. Taking cognizance of the incident, Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi has ordered for a high-level investigation into the matter and has also set up an emergency helpline at the Covid Centre. Patients at the Covid Centre have been complaining about poor and untimely delivery of food and other arrangements for last many days. The victim’s son said that total 8 members of their family including his father were found Covid-19 positive on August 29 and were admitted at the Covid Centre. “In the morning, my father was found dead at 6.30am as told by my son who is also admitted in the centre. Our family members tried to call the paramedical staff and others who did not respond. After some time, a compounder and a team of doctors came and my father was declared dead,” said son of the deceased. He alleged that if his father had been attended to on time his life could have been saved. Anurag Bhargava, who is investigating the case, said the loopholes in the arrangements will be improved and action will be taken against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/80-yr-old-man-found-dead-at-covid-centre-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77939953.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Jaipur||Fixing treatment cost at private hospitals to help public: Rajasthan minister||JAIPUR: Using the special powers of Rajasthan Pandemic Ordinance, the health department has capped all the Covid-10 expenses at private hospitals. Taking cognizance of the over-charging and fleecing by the private hospitals, everything has been categorized for the benefit of patients and their relatives. Private hospitals and patients have welcomed the step and said this has put everything in black and white and the government also asserted that if any hospital would be found guilty of not following these rules, strict action would be taken. “We have fixed the rates for the Covid-19 treatment in the private hospitals across the state and have categorized everything. Now, private hospitals will have to apply these rates and if any hospital is found not following the orders, action would be taken,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. He added that it is a big relief to the people in the state. “We are aiming at providing better medical facilities at the Covid care centres and Covid dedicated hospitals in the state. This arrangement has been introduced to ensure there should not be any confusion in the minds of relatives of the patients and also in the mind of private hospital. Everything from ICU charges, bed charges, medicine charges and other expenses have been categorized as per the need of the patients having mild symptoms and severe symptoms,” he added. Senior authorities of the health department stated that with the implementation of these charges patients and their relatives won’t be having any confusion about the fees charged during the treatment and it will also stop uncontrolled collection by the private hospitals. Earlier on June, 20 state government had fixed the treatment rates of Covid-19 in private hospitals, but it was not clear as to what all investigations, medicines and various other expenses are included in Covid treatment. “These rates have been decided after discussions with all collectors, all principals of government medical colleges, senior doctors and representatives of private hospitals,” said a senior officer of health department. Meanwhile private hospitals too have welcomed the step. “It is good now we won’t be blamed for overcharging. Everything is now clear in the minds of patients and us,” said a representative of EHCC hospital. Similar voices were echoed by Mahatma Gandhi hospital, CK Birla Hospital and other private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fixing-treatment-cost-at-pvt-hosps-to-help-public-min/articleshow/77939944.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bareilly||Cop shoots at SSI & then self inside UP policestation over 'sanctioning of leaves', both critical||BAREILLY: In a dispute over "sanctioning of leaves", a UP police constable first shot twice at his senior sub-inspector (SSI) and then turned the gun on himself inside a police station in Budaun on Friday. Both have been admitted to a Bareilly hospital and are said to be critical. It all started when constable Lalit Kumar was seeking holidays for 10 days, but SSI Ram Avtaar sanctioned it for four days. Both of them got into a heated argument and then Kumar took the extreme step, the police sources said. The constable fired nine bullets in the presence of SHO Omkar Singh and other staff. Others had a lucky escape. Bareilly DIG Rajesh Pandey later visited the police station. He told TOI, “This is an unexpected incident as there were no issues regarding leaves at Ujhani police station. Since SHO Omkar Singh was tested positive for Covid-19 and was under treatment and Ram Avtaar was the acting in-charge of the police station, everyone’s leaves were postponed until Muharram." Pandey added, "Today, Omkar joined work after his recovery. When Lalit asked for his leave application, Ram Avtaar made some remarks. Lalit suddenly lost his cool. He went out and fired in the air, then came inside and shot at Ram Avtaar. And later shot himself.” When asked if there was any personal enmity among the two, Pandey said, “I have spoken to everyone on duty, but no one was ready to share much information. This incident took place probably because only three leaves were sanctioned.” Meanwhile, senior cops in Bareilly are in regular touch with the doctors. Family members of both the cops have refused to give any statement so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cop-shoots-at-ssi-then-self-inside-up-policestation-over-sanctioning-of-leaves-both-critical/articleshow/77937292.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||831 fresh cases push Covid-19 beyond 23k in U’khand||Dehradun: With 831 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, the state’s case tally reached 23,011. Among those found infected included Naveen Dumka, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Nainital, and 24 Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans deployed in Srinagar town of Pauri Garhwal district. Before Dumka, former Doon mayor and Dharampur BJP MLA Vinod Chamoli as well as state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat have also tested positive for the virus. Also, Sumit Hridayesh, son of the state's leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, has also tested positive. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 205 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 163 from Haridwar, 131 from Nainital, 85 from Pauri (including 57 from Srinagar alone), 76 from Tehri Garhwal, 63 from Udham Singh Nagar, 34 from Almora, 24 from Champawat, 13 each from Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag, 11 from Uttarkashi, 10 from Bageshwar, and three from Chamoli. According to the health department, 12 deaths of patients suffering from Covid-19 infection were also reported on Friday, taking the toll of coronavirus in the state to 312. Among the deaths reported on the day, seven were recorded from All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh and five were from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “Doon Hospital recorded five deaths on Friday. Among these, four were confirmed Covid-19 positive patients while one was a suspected case,” confirmed Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). The deaths recorded at GDMCH were not included in the daily health bulletin. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said, “Srinagar is a town with barely a population of 30,000. On Friday, it recorded 57 cases. Even the Jaimandi village in Rudraprayag, which has a population of just 500 people, had reported 38 cases earlier this week. The major concern associated with this surge in the number of cases in hills is — how will Uttarakhand cope with the spread of Covid-19 in the absence of good healthcare infrastructure?” Meanwhile, the rate of infection reached 5.6% and that of recovery became 67.1% on Friday. “The state has tested over 4 lakh people till now and the results of 14,992 samples are awaited,” added Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/831-fresh-cases-push-covid-19-beyond-23k-in-ukhand/articleshow/77937298.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Labourer held for molesting friend’s daughter||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old man on the charge of molesting the minor daughter of his friend.The 12-year-old’s mother said in her police complaint, “My husband and I work as labourers. The accused, who is also a labourer, is a friend of my husband and often visits our house. When I returned home on Thursday evening, I saw my daughter crying. On inquiring, she told me about the incident. She said when we were at our workplace and she was alone at home in the afternoon, the accused came home.”He asked about her father. When she said nobody was home, he came inside the house. “He took the girl in his lap and assaulted her. When she raised the alarm, he escaped from there,” the complainant added. Investigating officer ASI Dharminder Singh said, “After registering a case under Section 354- B (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the police arrested the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labourer-held-for-molesting-friends-daughter/articleshow/77937294.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Meerut||Sexually-explicit content shared on WhatsApp chat group of Class X students in UP, cyber cell roped in||Meerut: A WhatsApp chat group, floated to share biology notes and other reading material for Class X students of a private school in UP’s Baghpat, suddenly came alive to a burst of objectionable photos and videos, forcing shocked parents to snatch the phones away from their children and contact police.Police said that the person who created the chat group used an international number to evade detection. “But it appears to be the work of some insider as he had the photograph of the school’s Biology teacher, which he used in its DP, as well as all the phone numbers,” a police officer said.The probe has been handed over to UP Police's cyber cell, he said.Alok Singh, circle officer of Baghpat’s Baraut area, said, “Some vulgar pictures and videos were posted on WhatsApp group named ‘Biology group Class 10’. The group had the display picture of the Biology teacher, who didn’t know about it. A probe has been ordered and it is being handled by the cyber-crime team.”The principal of the school said, “We had received a complaint. The WhatsApp account was fake, and was created with a foreign number. We have approached the police.”The chat screenshots shared by a few parents purportedly showed that the person using the number even asked for some pictures from the children. However, it was not clear what kind of pictures he was asking for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sexually-explicit-content-shared-on-whatsapp-chat-group-of-class-x-students-in-up-cyber-cell-roped-in/articleshow/77937293.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 5, 2020||Nashik||‘Teachers’ Day event can be held online’||Nashik: Bhartiya Janata Party’s regional secretary and MLA Devyani Pharande has condemned the state government’s decision to cancel the event of felicitating the teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day. She said they condemn the government’s move to cancel the ‘Adarsh Shikshak Puraskar’ programme due to cthe urrent covid-19 situation, adding that it could have been conducted online. “It is unfortunate that the state government has forgotten the way in which the teachers have reached out to the students in the remote areas as the schools have been shut since the Covid-related lockdown in March,” Pharande said. At a time, when the teachers should be encouraged for the way they have been carrying out there duties by conducting lessons online and offline, the government does nothing to pat their backs, she said The MLA has appealed to the government to hold the felicitation programme online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teachers-day-event-can-be-held-online/articleshow/77940835.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar revenue collection up by 11.7% in August: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: The state revenue collection in August has shot up by 11.70% compared to the same month last fiscal, said deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Friday. He said it happened for the first time in the last five months. However, he apprehends an overall revenue shortfall in the current fiscal. “But the government has been striving for and also hoping to at least equal the revenue collections made in the 2019-20 financial year,” said SuMo, who is also the finance minister of the state. Even if the monthly growth rate is sustained during the remaining months of the current financial year, the overall collection during 2020-21 would still remain “miles away” from the target of Rs39,989 crore fixed for the period, he said. “In that situation, we have been just hoping that the overall revenue collection during 2020-21 remains equal to that made in the last fiscal,” he said, adding that the lockdown following the coronavirus pandemic had completely disrupted the economic activities. SuMo said there has been average shortfall of 23.69% in the revenue collections from all the major departments till August. But there was a hopping 77.93% increase in the revenue collection in the mines department. Otherwise, August saw the 31.99% shortfall in the department of commercial taxes, 50.18% in the registration and 35.75% in the transport department, he added. However, even as the shortfall persisted in the first five months of 2020-21 fiscal, the situation kept on improving, albeit gradually. Amid total lockdown, April witnessed the shortfall in revenue collection by massive 81.61%, followed by 42.14% in May. Just as the unlock period started, June saw 15.12% shortfall, followed by 8.34% in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-revenue-collection-up-by-11-7-in-august-sumo/articleshow/77938476.cms||Abhay Singh
September 5, 2020||Kolkata||Garia-Airport Metro set to clear shanty hurdle||KOLKATA: The process of removing encroachment to make way for 11 piers of the New Garia-Airport Metro at the gateway of New Town has finally started. Two years ago, six buildings, including high-rises, were razed to free the land to bridge the 400m gap along the elevated Metro viaduct at the foot of the flyover near Mahishbathan. But Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the agency tasked to build the city’s longest Metro corridor, covering 32km between New Garia and Airport, couldn’t make any headway because most of the land was encroached upon by these shanties. In 2018, when Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had demolished the high-rises, the shanty count was 40. Now it has gone up to 74. A high-level e-meeting was held on Friday between North 24-Parganas DM Chaitali Chakraborti, Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, municipal commissioner Debashis Ghosh, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and senior police officers and it was decided that a committee will be formed to resettle the shanty-dwellers. The committee will comprise representatives from various stakeholders like Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, urban development department and police. An RVNL official said, “The committee will facilitate temporarily settling these 74 shanty-dwellers to a empty government plot. Once, the viaduct construction is over, the families will be brought back to the present location.” “Much as we want to remove the hurdle for the Metro project, we also need to rehabilitate the shanty-dwellers,” fire services minister and Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose said. Bidhannagar mayor, who has been included in the committee, said: “The committee will relocate the dwellers to a temporary spot belonging to the urban development department to make way for the Metro construction.” On Thursday, the mayor and the Hidco chairman visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/garia-airport-metro-set-to-clear-shanty-hurdle/articleshow/77938458.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 32, lynched by mob in Bareilly on suspicion of theft||BAREILLY: A 32-year-old man was allegedly killed by a mob on suspicion of theft as they tied him to a tree and rained punches and kicks for hours before he collapsed in Bareilly's Aonla area. Some of the attackers joined the crowd for sheer ‘fun’ of it and posed for mobile cameras while beating the man, Basid Khan, who later turned out to be a drunkard and not a thief. The alleged incident took place on late Thursday night and Basid breathed his last on Friday evening in a hospital in Bareilly. He was caught by a security guard who mistook him for a thief. Soon, a crowd assembled and dragged Basid to a nearby tree and tied him to it. Later, Basid was handed over to police, which, instead of taking him to a hospital, set him free as no one came forward to file a complaint against him. The family, after seeing his condition, took him to hospital where he died of internal bleeding. A heavy police force was deployed in the area. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey told TOI, “I have received a video in which Bashid is seen tied to a tree and locals were thrashing him. We are trying to identify the accused using the videos of the incident. There were no visible injuries on the body which is why no one, even his family, took him to the hospital for treatment. The post-mortem will be conducted by a panel of doctors to ascertain the reason of the death.” The fear was palpable on the faces of Basid’s family members. His mother told TOI, “When I came to know that he (Basid) was being beaten by some villagers, I asked my younger son to rush and save him. But he was so scared that he locked himself in a room. Locals thrashed my son for fun. Then policemen dropped him home in a rickshaw and left. He was in enormous pain. We took him to hospital, but he died there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-32-lynched-by-mob-in-bareilly-on-suspicion-of-theft/articleshow/77937325.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray clears Rs 16.5 crore for flood relief||MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday approved Rs 16.5 crore as relief to flood-affected people in Vidarbha. The money will be used for, among other things, providing domestic articles, financial help for house-repairs and for building shelters, the chief minister’s office said. More than 53,000 people had been evacuated between August 30-September 1 from 175 villages in Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts, which were flooded following heavy rain and release of water from dams. Opposition had blamed the flood situation in Vidarbha on lack of coordination between the Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-clears-rs16-5cr-for-flood-relief/articleshow/77939580.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Bareilly||Four booked for illegal fishing in PTR, assaulting forest team||PILIBHIT: Four residents of Mustafabad village have been booked for allegedly barging into the core forest area of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve's Mahof range, illegally fishing there and assaulting a two-man forest patrolling team. A written complaint to the effect was lodged at Madhotanda police station by a forest guard of Mahof range. He claimed that the patrol team caught Qasim Shah, Afsar Shah, Javed Shah and Chanda of Mustafabad village, allegedly catching fish from a reservoir in Mahof range. When told to leave, the four allegedly abused and attacked the patrol team. On their part, the four suspects filed a written complaint with the superintendent of police, Jai Prakash Yadav, on Friday, alleging that the forest personnel forced their way into one of their houses, beat up family members, tore the clothes of women and molested them. "Circle officer of Puranpur circle Uttam Singh has been directed to prove the allegations leveled against the forest staff,” said SP Yadav. Meanwhile, Shahroz Anwar, SHO of Madhotanda police station, said the four named accused were booked under IPC section 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) and 353 (assault or use of criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty) besides provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-booked-for-illegal-fishing-in-ptr-assaulting-forest-team/articleshow/77937297.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Accountant, 52, carjacked at gunpoint near Baddowal||TNNLudhiana: Three armed men carjacked an accountant outside a plant nursery near Baddowal on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road on Thursday. Kulwant Singh, 52, a resident of Shimlapuri, said in his police complaint, “I along with my wife, Maninder Kaur, had gone to a bakery in Mandi Mullanpur in our Maruti Ritz car. After making purchases, we were on way to Ludhiana when we stopped at a nursery near the bridge close to Baddowal.”Kulwant was sitting in the car while his wife was buying plants at the nursery. “Around 5.30pm, three men stopped their motorcycle a few metres from my car. Two of them walked towards me and opened the car door. Pointing a pistol at me, one of them asked me to come out of the vehicle. When I asked them what they wanted, the other accused asked the armed one to shoot me. I then alighted from the car,” he added.The accused, who were around 25-year-old, drove away with his car. “My and my wife’s cellphones were in the car. I couldn’t see the third accused as he was on the motorcycle,” Kulwant said.The complainant said he suspected that the weapon of the accused was fake.On being informed, Dakha police reached the spot.Dakha police station SHO inspector Prem Singh said, “We are checking the footage of CCTVs installed in the area.” The complainant’s son, Anmol Singh, said, “The accused went towards Ludhiana and then took a U-turn towards Mullanpur. After covering some distance, they threw out my father’s cellphone.”A case has been registered under sections 379 B (snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint or fear of hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.UNSAFE DISTRICTAugust 21: Goons robbed a Ferozepur-based businessman of his SUV at gunpoint near Mullanpur DakhaAugust 4: Two unidentified men robbed a hosiery factory employee, 25, of his car at gunpoint on Bhamiya Road, near Police ColonyJuly 15: A 36-year-old trader of Dugri, Phase 3, robbed of his sedan near Southern Bypass. A month later, on August 13, police booked four accused, including two sisters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/accountant-52-carjacked-at-gunpoint-near-baddowal/articleshow/77937299.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Rajkot||Biomedical waste thrown on road||Rajkot: After it caught two city-based Covid hospitals disposing biomedical waste on public roads as well as through tipper vans transporting household garbage to dumping sites, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC)’s solid waste department imposed a penalty of 10,000 each on the two hospitals. According to RMC, Saurashtra Covid hospital on Dhebar road and Orange Covid hospital on Yagnik road were found disposing of hazardous biomedical waste improperly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/biomedical-waste-thrown-on-road/articleshow/77937321.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||41-year-old ex-serviceman run over by speeding truck||Dehradun: A 41-year-old ex-serviceman was killed after the scooter he was riding was hit by a speeding truck near a flyover in Nehru Colony police station area on Thursday night. The truck was seized after the accident and the driver, who fled the site, was arrested on Friday. Narendra Singh, a resident of Shristhi Vihar in Deepnagar area, had recently retired from the Indian Army and was living here with his family. “On receiving information, a team reached the spot and took Singh to a nearby hospital, where he succumbed to injuries during treatment,” said an officer at Nehru Colony police, who did not wish to be named. The accused driver has been identified as Keshav Sharma, a resident of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/41-year-old-ex-serviceman-run-over-by-speeding-truck/articleshow/77937309.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 5, 2020||Nashik||Sinnar residents decrylong power cuts||Nashik: Residents of Kharjul Mala area of Sinnar Phata area in Nashik Road are irked with the long hours of power cuts they have been facing frequently in the past 10 days. While it is expected that the power supply resumes in an hour or two or at the most three hours, on one occasion the power cut was for more than 10 hours and on the other, it was of at least seven hours. With the spread of the city rising fast, the Kharjul Mala area of Sinnar Phata has witnessed heavy residential growth over the past few years with big residential complexes coming up in the area. The frequent power cuts are, however, leaving a large number of citizens frustrated. Rajesh Sabat, who is from the area, said, “It has become a frequent problem over the past couple of weeks. Many people like me are working from home and the use of internet has increased. Once the electricity is gone, the batteries of laptops, cellphones deplete fast due to the use of the internet. I had to take a day off on Wednesday after the lights went at around 12 pm and came only around 7 pm.” Mangesh Khalkar, an activist of the area, said the area has a population of 30,000 and everyone suffers during the power cuts, including shopkeepers and students who are having online lecture of schools and coaching classes. Meanwhile, senior officials of MSEDCL said that the work of widening the Pune highway is underway at Sinnar Phata and hence the power lines underneath the road are getting ripped off. Once that occurs, it takes a lot of time for the linemen to locate the area of problem and restore power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sinnar-residents-decrylong-power-cuts/articleshow/77940842.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 5, 2020||Pune||Driver stabbed to death in Pune, cops search for 2 robbers||PUNE: A 37-year-old car driver from Tuljapur, Osmanabad, was allegedly stabbed to death by two cellphone robbers near Jedhe chowk, barely 100m from the Swargate police station, late on Thursday night. The victim, Nagesh Gund, had just returned to the city to resume work as a driver after a long stay in his hometown due to the lockdown. “Gund died of excessive bleeding after the two men stabbed him in the thigh. He was declared dead at the Sassoon general hospital,” assistant commissioner of police Sarjerao Babar told TOI. Babar said Gund lived in a rented accommodation at Kothrud. He had left for his hometown with his family after the lockdown curbs were announced. Kamlakar Ghodke, Gund’s friend and the complainant in the case, told TOI, “Gund had come to Pune on Thursday night because he had to ferry some passengers from Bavdhan to Nashik on Friday morning. He called on Thursday morning to say he had started for Pune. Around 10.45pm, he called to say he was in Hadapsar and requested me to pick him up from the PMPML stop for Kothrud-bound buses near Jedhe chowk.” The bus stop, which is on the road leading to Sarasbaug, is mostly desolate at night. Ghodke said Gund called him around 11.30pm and told him that he was waiting at the bus stop. “I reached there within 15 minutes but couldn’t spot him. I saw two unattended bags at the stop and called Gund, but the phone was immediately disconnected. As I was taking a turn towards Jedhe chowk, I heard Gund call out to me. He was lying on the pavement, soaked in blood, near the bus stop,” he said. Ghodke said Gund told him that two men on a scooter had attacked him when he attempted to foil their bid to snatch his cellphone and cash. “Gund told me that the duo stabbed him in the thigh and fled with his cellphone and cash. I called the Swargate police and an ambulance,” he added. Senior inspector Brahmanand Naikwadi of the Swargate police said beat marshals sent Gund to hospital. “We have formed three teams to trace the suspects. They fled towards Katraj after stabbing Gund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/driver-stabbed-near-swargate-police-station-dies/articleshow/77939979.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 5, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Eight Filipinos who were booked during Covid discharged||NAVI MUMBAI: Vashi judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) court in Belapur on Thursday discharged eight Filipinos of Tablighi Jamaat, in response to their application after Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench quashed an FIR against 29 members for violations during Covid last month. Senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said, “We had on April 5 registered an FIR against nine Filipino pilgrims, including a 68-year-old man, who succumbed to Covid. They were booked under IPC sections, Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Covid-19 Management Rule, 2020, and Foreigners’ Act, 1946, for illegally staying at a religious place in Vashi on March 10 without informing local police and civic authorities.” Despite three of them testing positive after returning from a Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, they did not self-quarantine but visited a religious place in Vashi. They spread of infection to an office-bearer of the religious place, his son, 18-month-old grandson and house maid, he said. “We are yet to receive the court’s order copy,” Dhumal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/8-filipinos-booked-during-pandemic-discharged/articleshow/77939569.cms||George Mendonca
September 5, 2020||Meerut||Sero-surveillance to check prevalence of Covid antibodies begins in Meerut||Meerut: The health department has started sero-surveillance in Meerut on Friday and it will go on till September 6. Sero-survey is done by testing blood sample of an individual to find out the prevalence of antibodies in people against Covid-19. Health authorities say samples of 1,440 people from Meerut will be collected for the survey.The survey will be conducted at 45 spots, including 21 rural and 24 urban areas, sources said.Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “Earlier, sero-surveillance was to be conducted in the age group of 15-59 years, but now it is being done in the age group of 6-59 years.”There were plans to conduct sero-surveillance at the microbiology laboratory in Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College to evaluate the trend of Covid-19 among the laboratory staff and others at the hospital. However, due to work pressure at the hospital, it couldn’t be done.The samples will be collected and sent to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow for the surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sero-surveillance-to-check-prevalence-of-covid-antibodies-begins-in-meerut/articleshow/77937313.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll at 474 as 14 succumb to Covid-19; 184 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Fourteen patients from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 on Friday, when 184 from the district and 41 outsiders tested positive, as per the state media bulletin. According to the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 57-year-old woman of Guru Nanak Colony, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 35-year-old man of Kanganwal village, who had cervical injury; a 64-year-old man of Daba village road; a woman, 59, of New Kundapuri with diabetes and hypertension; a 62-year-old man of Gurdev Nagar; a 55-year-old man of Jodhan village; a resident of Haibowal, 65, who had diabetes; a 48-year-old diabetic man of Sahnewal; a 61-year-old woman of Sandhu Nagar; a 54-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan; a 45-year-old diabetic man of Tibba Road; a 61-year-old man of Chimney Makers, Khanna; and a 45-year-old man of Manjeet Nagar, Tibba. A 62-year-old woman of Doraha with hypotension died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.Besides, the day saw three outsiders succumbing to the virus here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has risen to 474 and that of outsiders to 112.Dr Bagga said of the patients from Ludhiana who tested positive, 115 were from flu corner (influenza like illness (ILI) patients), 33 were positive cases’ contacts, 73 from OPD, 14 health-care workers, one domestic / international traveler, one pregnant woman, 52 through tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases, one pre-operative case and seven undertrials.The local health department officials said the district case count has increased to 11,214 and that of outsiders to 1,204.To date, 8,994 patients have recovered, which constitutes 80.2% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,743 active cases here at present. The total number of people who were home quarantined was 35,888.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-at-474-as-14-succumb-to-covid-19-184-test-positive/articleshow/77937310.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Dehradun||‘Reply in 4 wks,’ HC tells state govt, police after woman who claimed BJP MLA fathered her child booked for extortion||Nainital: A fortnight after the wife of an Uttarakhand BJP MLA filed a police complaint against a woman for extortion and blackmail following the latter’s claims that the legislator had fathered her child, the Uttarakhand high court on Friday gave the state government and police four weeks to submit a response to a writ petition filed by the woman that sought quashing of an FIR against her. The single judge bench of Justice Ravindra Maithani also said that in the meantime no coercive action should be taken against the woman — effectively granting her relief from arrest — while adding that she should cooperate with the investigation. The FIR against the woman was filed at the Nehru Colony police station in Dehradun in August after a complaint by Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi's wife that the woman and her relatives were blackmailing the couple and had demanded Rs 5 crore from them. The woman was booked under sections 386 (extortion) and section 389 (Putting person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion) of the IPC following which she filed a writ petition in the high court and also made the state government a party to it. According to the woman, Negi is father to her three-month-old girl and she was thrown out of her house in Shamli (UP) by her husband after he found out through a DNA test that the child wasn’t his. The counsel appearing for the state government told the court that police were investigating claims by the woman that a DNA testing was conducted and have found no evidence to support it so far. During the hearing on Friday, WhatsApp chats between the woman and the MLA’s wife were also presented to the court. Birendra Singh Adhikar, the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, argued that the woman was seeking child maintenance from the lawmaker. “We have told the court that she wasn’t trying to extort money but asking for a maintenance amount from the girl’s father, in this case the MLA, which is her lawful right. The court has said that the case needs further deliberation and directed the respondents to file their counter-affidavits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/reply-in-4-wks-hc-tells-state-govt-police-after-woman-who-claimed-bjp-mla-fathered-her-child-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/77937324.cms||Prashant Jha
September 5, 2020||Pune||15 bins for PPE, masks at airport||Pune: As many as 15 garbage containers have been installed at the city airport by the authorities for disposal of masks, PPE kits and other such materials. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said these bins have mostly been kept in the arrival area, along with other zones. Last month TOI had reported about PPE kits being discarded at different areas on the airport premises, mainly near the pick-up and drop areas at the parking lot, which enhanced the chances of spread of infection. “Apart from the arrival area, these bins with proper lids will be placed in the pick-up and drop area. Flyers need act responsibly and follow the regulations,” an airport official said. Earlier, authorities had said it was possible that some flyers, who weren’t aware of the hazards, were disposing the waste anywhere. “Strict monitoring is being implemented now. The airport officials are checking different areas frequently,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-bins-for-ppe-masks-at-airport/articleshow/77940015.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray names Pune man as advisor||MUMBAI: In addition to principal advisor Ajoy Mehta, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will have another advisor, former Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, for tackling Covid-19. An IAS officer of 2003 batch, Mhaisekar, who retired on July 31, 2020, will report to Mehta and will be based in Pune. Mhaisekar was appointed because of his experience in tackling Covid-19 in Pune region. He is expected to advise the CM on initiating new measures for tackling Covid-19 and to coordinate with central and state agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-appoints-pune-man-as-second-advisor/articleshow/77939557.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Amritsar||Once hailed for Covid-19 curbs, Punjab fast stumbling||CHANDIGARH: Once hailed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19, Punjab is fast crumbling under the burden of alarming rise in the number of cases and deaths. Till July 31, Punjab appeared to be in control of the situation, but things changed in August. The state took 153 days to get 16,119 cases and 386 deaths till July 31. By recording several single-day highest numbers, Punjab added 16,577 cases and 450 fatalities in just 17 days. The daily growth rate of cases in Punjab from August 1 to September 3 varied between 2% to 6%, against the national growth rate of 2% to 3%. Barring five days - August 3, 4,8, 12 and 31 - when Punjab’s growth rate was similar to the national average, the cases grew at a higher rate than the national average. There were days when the state’s growth rate was up to 3% higher than the national rate. The impact of high growth rate can be seen on the different parameters such as recovery rate, active cases and doubling rate. The rapid surge in cases has pushed the active cases in the state higher than the world as well as national average. With 15,554 patients undergoing treatment as on September 3, the percentage of active cases in Punjab stood at 26.58% against the world average of 26.26% and national average of 21%. The recovery rate has gone down. Punjab has a recovery rate of 70.53%, third worst in the country, against the national average of 77.21%. Punjab’s doubling rate is 24.1 days, while the national rate is 32.8 days. Ease of travel restrictions, people flouting curbs, and not getting tested in time are the key reasons for the deteriorating situation, says Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The movement of people from outside the state after lifting of curbs has gone up. Over 3,000 travellers have been tested positive so far. Still, people can be seen moving in public without masks or maintaining proper distance. The government has been struggling to enforce the health advisories, despite carrying out sustained awareness drives and imposing monetary fines. “People not taking precautions is not helping the cause,” rues Dr Bhaskar. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu too blamed irresponsible behaviour . He urged people not to pay heed to rumours being spread on social media and get themselves tested at earliest so that they can get timely treatment. Delay in treatment can prove fatal. “So far, 67% of Covid-19 deaths occurred due to late reporting,” said Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/once-hailed-for-covid-19-curbs-pb-fast-stumbling/articleshow/77943646.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Once hailed for Covid-19 curbs, Punjab fast stumbling||CHANDIGARH: Once hailed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19, Punjab is fast crumbling under the burden of alarming rise in the number of cases and deaths. Till July 31, Punjab appeared to be in control of the situation, but things changed in August. The state took 153 days to get 16,119 cases and 386 deaths till July 31. By recording several single-day highest numbers, Punjab added 16,577 cases and 450 fatalities in just 17 days. The daily growth rate of cases in Punjab from August 1 to September 3 varied between 2% to 6%, against the national growth rate of 2% to 3%. Barring five days - August 3, 4,8, 12 and 31 - when Punjab’s growth rate was similar to the national average, the cases grew at a higher rate than the national average. There were days when the state’s growth rate was up to 3% higher than the national rate. The impact of high growth rate can be seen on the different parameters such as recovery rate, active cases and doubling rate. The rapid surge in cases has pushed the active cases in the state higher than the world as well as national average. With 15,554 patients undergoing treatment as on September 3, the percentage of active cases in Punjab stood at 26.58% against the world average of 26.26% and national average of 21%. The recovery rate has gone down. Punjab has a recovery rate of 70.53%, third worst in the country, against the national average of 77.21%. Punjab’s doubling rate is 24.1 days, while the national rate is 32.8 days. Ease of travel restrictions, people flouting curbs, and not getting tested in time are the key reasons for the deteriorating situation, says Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The movement of people from outside the state after lifting of curbs has gone up. Over 3,000 travellers have been tested positive so far. Still, people can be seen moving in public without masks or maintaining proper distance. The government has been struggling to enforce the health advisories, despite carrying out sustained awareness drives and imposing monetary fines. “People not taking precautions is not helping the cause,” rues Dr Bhaskar. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu too blamed irresponsible behaviour . He urged people not to pay heed to rumours being spread on social media and get themselves tested at earliest so that they can get timely treatment. Delay in treatment can prove fatal. “So far, 67% of Covid-19 deaths occurred due to late reporting,” said Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/once-hailed-for-covid-19-curbs-pb-fast-stumbling/articleshow/77943645.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Once hailed for Covid-19 curbs, Punjab fast stumbling||CHANDIGARH: Once hailed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19, Punjab is fast crumbling under the burden of alarming rise in the number of cases and deaths. Till July 31, Punjab appeared to be in control of the situation, but things changed in August. The state took 153 days to get 16,119 cases and 386 deaths till July 31. By recording several single-day highest numbers, Punjab added 16,577 cases and 450 fatalities in just 17 days. The daily growth rate of cases in Punjab from August 1 to September 3 varied between 2% to 6%, against the national growth rate of 2% to 3%. Barring five days - August 3, 4,8, 12 and 31 - when Punjab’s growth rate was similar to the national average, the cases grew at a higher rate than the national average. There were days when the state’s growth rate was up to 3% higher than the national rate. The impact of high growth rate can be seen on the different parameters such as recovery rate, active cases and doubling rate. The rapid surge in cases has pushed the active cases in the state higher than the world as well as national average. With 15,554 patients undergoing treatment as on September 3, the percentage of active cases in Punjab stood at 26.58% against the world average of 26.26% and national average of 21%. The recovery rate has gone down. Punjab has a recovery rate of 70.53%, third worst in the country, against the national average of 77.21%. Punjab’s doubling rate is 24.1 days, while the national rate is 32.8 days. Ease of travel restrictions, people flouting curbs, and not getting tested in time are the key reasons for the deteriorating situation, says Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. The movement of people from outside the state after lifting of curbs has gone up. Over 3,000 travellers have been tested positive so far. Still, people can be seen moving in public without masks or maintaining proper distance. The government has been struggling to enforce the health advisories, despite carrying out sustained awareness drives and imposing monetary fines. “People not taking precautions is not helping the cause,” rues Dr Bhaskar. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu too blamed irresponsible behaviour . He urged people not to pay heed to rumours being spread on social media and get themselves tested at earliest so that they can get timely treatment. Delay in treatment can prove fatal. “So far, 67% of Covid-19 deaths occurred due to late reporting,” said Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/once-hailed-for-covid-19-curbs-pb-fast-stumbling/articleshow/77940011.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 5, 2020||Patna||HAM(S) ‘shields’ Nitish as LJP talks tough||Patna: The NDA’s newly minted partner Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) launched a scathing attack on Friday against Chirag for declaring earlier that he could field candidates against the JD(U) in the coming polls. This comes on a day the Chirag Paswan-led LJP took out a full-page advertisement in newspapers across Bihar carrying a veiled attack on the Nitish Kumar government. “If Chirag Paswan opens his mouth against Nitish Kumar, we too will open our mouth,” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said in a video clip released on Friday, adding, "If he is threatening to field candidates against the JD(U), then we too will do the same on LJP seats.” Rizwan further cautioned, “If he is in the NDA, then he should stay in it for all his rights and duties. We will not tolerate threats against Nitish.” Chirag had stated that LJP could contest against JD(U) on the day Manjhi had joined the NDA two days ago. LJP’s full-page newspaper ad, which was also carried in several other states, comes ahead of the party’s parliamentary board meeting in New Delhi on September 7 to discuss the strategy for the upcoming assembly polls due in October-November. The ad titled ‘Bihar 1st, Bihari 1st’ says, “Wo ladh rahen hain ham par raj karne ke liye, ham ladh rahen hain Bihar par naaz karne ke liye (They are fighting to rule over us, we are fighting to be proud of Bihar)”. It ends with an intriguing slogan, “Dharm na jaat, kare sabki baat (No religion, no caste, we are for everyone),” which is seen as an attempt to expand its political spectrum. Chirag has been attacking Nitish frequently over various issues, including “mismanagement” of Covid19 pandemic, floods in the state or the perennial law and order problem. Political watchers say the entry of Manjhi, another Dalit leader, in the NDA has altered the chemistry in the NDA and widened the gap between LJP and JD(U). Sources in LJP said the two leaders—Chirag Paswan and Nitish Kumar—have not been on talking terms for long. Manjhi’s entry is seen as Nitish’s game plan to counter Chirag within the NDA. While LJP has its core support among the Paswans, a Dalit caste group, HAM(S) counts as its core base the Mushahar caste, which is preponderant in the Magadh region and also in the eastern Bihar districts of Purnia, Katihar and Araria. Implicitly, the political interests of LJP and HAM(S) are expected to clash during the seat-sharing exercise. Given this backdrop of an imminent clash, HAM(S) spokesman Rizwan said, “Who is happy or annoyed at our return to the NDA is not our concern. Our agenda is clear. We have come to strengthen the hands of Nitish Kumar. We are not making any claim on seats,” Rizwan said. On the newspaper ad, LJP’s chairperson of the parliamentary board, Raju Tiwari, denied that it was aimed at attacking “any individual or any political party or political combination in the state”. When asked about the negotiations for seat-sharing within the NDA, the Govindganj MLA said all such issues would be discussed at the parliamentary board meeting. JD(U), however, preferred to remain mum. “We have been told by the top leaders not to make any comment on the relationship between JD(U) and LJP. We don’t intend to cause any harm to the alliance,” a senior leader said seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-shields-nitish-as-ljp-talks-tough/articleshow/77938523.cms||Ramashankar
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 60k with 1,498 new cases; 49 succumb to virus||Chandigarh: Punjab on Friday crossed the 60,000 mark by recording 1,498, new cases and 49 deaths. The state’s overall tally now stands at 60,013. With 1,498 people testing positive out of 22,992 samples collected by the health officials, the positivity rate stands at 6.51%. Of 49 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 14 were in LHryudhiana, six in Mohali, five in Amritsar, four in Jalandhar, three each in Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala, two each in Gurdaspur and Ropar and one each in Tarn Taran, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Sangrur and Bathinda. The high fatality rate is expected to continue in coming days as 80 people in critical condition are on ventilators while 501 are on oxygen support. Of the fresh cases, Jalandhar district reported the highest number (210), followed by Ludhiana (184), Mohali (138), Gurdaspur (108), Bathinda (101), Amritsar (92), Faridkot (71), Moga (58), Hoshiarpur (58), Ferozepur (57), Kapurthala (43), Sangrur (36), Muktsar (36), Fazilka (34), Barnala (21), Mansa (20), Pathankot (13), Fatehgarh Sahib (12), Tarn Taran (7) and Ropar (5). A total of 1,272 people recovered, taking the tally of patients discharged to 42,543. The most recoveries were in Ludhiana district (245), followed by Gurdaspur (218), Patiala (195), Bathinda (100), Jalandhar (97), Hoshiarpur (67), Amritsar (66), Muktsar (47), Barnala (45), Mohali (44), Sangrur (34), Pathankot (28), Nawanshahr (21), Fatehgarh Sahib (21), Kapurthala (14), Ferozepur (11), Tarn Taran (5) and Mansa (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-60k-with-1498-new-cases-49-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77940014.cms||---
September 5, 2020||Chandigarh||8% of Haryana population exposed to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: The sero survey conducted by the Haryana health department, to determine the extent of Covid-19 spread, has found that the risk of spread is higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas of the state. Sero prevalence study has shown that overall sero-positivity of SARSCoV-2 in Haryana is 8%. The SARSCoV-2 sero positivity observed in urban areas is 9.6% and in rural areas it is 6.9%. The NCR districts have high sero-positivity like 25.8% in Faridabad, 20.3% in Nuh, 13.3% in Sonipat and 10.8% in Gurugram. Higher sero positivity than the state average (8%) is also noticed in some other districts including Karnal 12.2%, Jind 11%, Kurukshetra 8.7%, Charkhi Dadri 8.3% and Yamunanagar 8.3%. The districts which have lower sero-positivity than state average include Panipat (7.4%), Palwal (7.4%), Panchkula (6.5%), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala 5.2%, Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar 3.4%, Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendragarh (2.8%) and Kaithal (1.7%). The survey, to identify the penetration of Covid-19 at community level and to monitor its transmission trends, was conducted in August in collaboration with the department of community medicine and school of public health and PGIMER, Chandigarh. Total 18,905 samples were collected, by taking 850 persons from each district, including both urban and rural populations. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said the findings will be useful in designing strategies and implementation of appropriate containment measures in the state. As for higher sero-positivity in NCR districts, he said the reason could be high density of population due to urban slums, multi-storey buildings and daily movement of large population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8-of-haryana-population-exposed-to-coronavirus/articleshow/77940013.cms||Ajay Sura
September 5, 2020||Gurgaon||8% of Haryana population exposed to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: The sero survey conducted by the Haryana health department, to determine the extent of Covid-19 spread, has found that the risk of spread is higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas of the state. Sero prevalence study has shown that overall sero-positivity of SARSCoV-2 in Haryana is 8%. The SARSCoV-2 sero positivity observed in urban areas is 9.6% and in rural areas it is 6.9%. The NCR districts have high sero-positivity like 25.8% in Faridabad, 20.3% in Nuh, 13.3% in Sonipat and 10.8% in Gurugram. Higher sero positivity than the state average (8%) is also noticed in some other districts including Karnal 12.2%, Jind 11%, Kurukshetra 8.7%, Charkhi Dadri 8.3% and Yamunanagar 8.3%. The districts which have lower sero-positivity than state average include Panipat (7.4%), Palwal (7.4%), Panchkula (6.5%), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala 5.2%, Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar 3.4%, Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendragarh (2.8%) and Kaithal (1.7%). The survey, to identify the penetration of Covid-19 at community level and to monitor its transmission trends, was conducted in August in collaboration with the department of community medicine and school of public health and PGIMER, Chandigarh. Total 18,905 samples were collected, by taking 850 persons from each district, including both urban and rural populations. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said the findings will be useful in designing strategies and implementation of appropriate containment measures in the state. As for higher sero-positivity in NCR districts, he said the reason could be high density of population due to urban slums, multi-storey buildings and daily movement of large population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/8-of-haryana-population-exposed-to-coronavirus/articleshow/77943753.cms||Ajay Sura
September 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Only 3% increase in active cases in Bengaluru since August 1||BENGALURU: Although the number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing astronomically in Karnataka, the number of active cases in Bengaluru has held steady. There has been only a 3% rise in active cases in the capital city between August 1 and September 1 and experts feel there is no need to panic over managing the pandemic in terms of hospital infrastructure. On August 1, Bengaluru had 37,760 active cases, which rose marginally to 38,906 by September 1. In contrast, Delhi’s active cases in the same period jumped 50%, Chennai’s by 5%, while Mumbai’s fell 3%. The burden of active cases in Bengaluru had gone up 712% in July, rising from 4,649 on July 1 to 37,760 on August 1. “There isn’t an uncontrolled surge in Bengaluru,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist, head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India and an expert on the government’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee. “About 20-30 % of hospital beds are vacant and many are opting for home isolation. The number of active cases is by and large the same as the number of discharges is almost the same as freshly detected cases.” Dr Babu compared this to the simple analogy of the water level in a container, where water falling into the container is equal to what is going out. He, however, added that increasing testing in a graded manner will help detect more cases. However, the state’s disease burden in terms of active cases has gone up over the past month. On August 1, the state had 73,219 active cases, which increased to 90,999 on September 1, a 24% spike. Experts say this reflects the huge rise in cases in districts other than Bengaluru. Basavaraja Horatti, MLC and former minister, said the government’s focus is only on Bengaluru, while patients in other districts, especially North Karnataka, are left in the lurch. “To understand the active case burden faced by North Karnataka districts, one should stand in front of a hospital in the region,” Horatti said. “If a patient gets a bed, s/he won't get oxygen supply if needed. If oxygen is supplied and the patient still develops complications, there isn’t a ventilator available. The most apt example is that of the Gadag doctor who died in a hospital in Bengaluru.” He said former MLA Appaji Gowda died because of lack of advanced facilities in the districts. “These were people in power and yet they could not get the best of treatment. Imagine the status of a lay man,” Horatti said. However, Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said there is a lot of movement happening outside Bengaluru which has led to an increase in cases. “There is no shortage of ICU beds, and each district hospital has 125 oxyegenated beds. Infrastructure work is on in taluk hospitals. Each district has an expert committee which reviews Covid-management in hospitals,” said Akhtar. Dr KV Trilok Chandra, head, Critical Care Support Unit for Covid-19 patients in the state, said the demand for ICU beds has not increased. “Of 785 ICU admissions, 276, or 36% are in Bengaluru. Only Hassan, with 80, has a high number in ICUs,” he said. Akhtar said cases reported now are largely asymptomatic.  Meanwhile, Questions are being raised at Covid-19 expert committee meetings on how and why daily new cases in the state and Bengaluru are hovering around 8,500-9,000 and 2,500-3,000 mark respectively for the past few days. “In several meetings, we raised this issue,” an expert said. “We could allege data manipulation, but we need evidence, which we don’t have. Besides, if there is a surge there can’t be data manipulation.” The committee has sought for Bengaluru’s zone wise testing data to analyse exact numbers. However, with Unlock4.0 in place, there are chances of cases going up. “When people start violating norms like wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, cases will increase,” Dr Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-3-increase-in-active-cases-in-bengaluru-since-august-1/articleshow/77937337.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 5, 2020||Ranchi||Babadham, Basukinath priests demand removal of Covid SOP||DUMKA: The Panda Dharma Rakshini Sabha, the assocation for priests at Deoghar’s Baidyanath Dham temple, has criticised the district administration’s move to set up an ‘arghya’ at the temple premises. The arghya enables the devotees to offer water to the deity without entering the temple’s sanctum sanctorum. On Thursday, priests under the Sabha’s fold sat on a dharna to protest against the arghya system, which they say is preventing the devotees from getting a glimpse (darshan) of the deity. On Friday, priests of the Basukinath Dham temple in Dumka also followed suit and sat on a dharna demanding the removal of arghya from the temple premises. Arghyas, a long channel made of brass, are usually set up in Baidyanath Dham temple during the Hindu month of Shravan. They facilitate devotees to offer water to Lord Shiva without entering the temple’s crammed sanctum sanctorum and thereby reducing chances of stampede. “The arghya system is set up during Shravani Mela and other important occasions as part of the crowd control management. But now when the number of devotees has already been restricted to 200 per day, the arghya system does not hold any significance,” Kartik Nath Thakur, the general secretary of the Sabha, said. The priests are also demanding that the devotees from across the country be allowed to visit the temple and the provision of e-passes be scrapped. They have threatened to launch an agitation if the e-pass system is not withdrawn at once. Both Baidyanath Dham and Basukinath Dham temples, which were closed to public after the imposition of lockdown, have been opened following an order of the Supreme Court. The apex court in its order had directed the authorities to allow a limited number of devotees from Jharkhand to visit both the temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babadham-basukinath-priests-demand-removal-of-covid-sop/articleshow/77940878.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 5, 2020||Ranchi||Magistrates at Kelly’s Bungalow to stop Lalu’s ‘election durbar’||RANCHI: Curtains finally came down over Lalu Prasad’s daily “poll durbar” being held at Kelly’s Bungalow, the Rims director’s house, where the jailed RJD chief was shifted on August 5 as a precaution against Covid-19 infection after cases rose in and around his paying ward. On Friday, Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan deployed magistrates to supervise the policemen posted by SSP Surendra Jha. The decision was taken after a letter written by IG (prisons) Birendra Bhushan to the DC on August 31 was leaked to the media. In the letter, Bhushan pointed out an office order issued two years ago and which gave clear cut instructions on security and providing guest visit permission to prisoners undergoing treatment at hospitals (out of jail campus). “It is clear that police officers deployed (at bungalow) by SSP Ranchi are facilitating visitors to meet Lalu Prasad in violation of the norms. In light of the violation, it is requested that magistrates be deployed at Kelly’s Bungalow to monitor the actions of the police officers,” the letter read.  Three magistrates have been deployed on Thursday who will be on eight hour duty each. The district police have also been asked to enhance security in the area.” Ranjan, however, did not comment if he was aware of political meetings only after obtaining the letter from the IG. Police remained silent if action would be taken against the policemen and officers deployed at the bungalow after their deriliction of duty was pointed out by the IG. Jha did not respond to phone calls or texts. SP (city) Saurav said, “ The local police station have been asked to keep a vigil outside the bungalow so that there is no gathering. If anyone is found visiting from Bihar without proper exemption, he or she will be quarantined for 14 days.” DSP (sadar) Prabhat Ranjan had carried out night inspection of the bungalow on Tuesday to assess the security arrangement. “I had no idea about the IG’s letter, but based on media reports I had gone for inspecting and had instructed the policemen there to ensure that there should be no gatherings,” he said. Despite the inspection, the durbar continued for the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/magistrates-at-kellys-bungalow-to-stop-lalus-election-durbar/articleshow/77940860.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||3 Covid-19 deaths, 1,537 fresh infections reported in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported a dip in Covid-19 deaths but a spike in the number of fresh infections. While only three deaths were reported, the state witnessed 1,537 new cases. Among the deaths, two were reported from East Singhbhum and one from Dhanbad. East Singhbhum district continues to be on the top with the highest number of casualties at 204. Of the total reported cases, both Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 354 new infections. Ramgarh and Bokaro, too, saw a hike in the number of cases since the past one week. While Ramgarh reported 163 cases, Bokaro detected 126 new infections. West Singhbhum also recorded a spike with 87 cases followed by Palamu with 67. With 1,537 fresh infections and 1,157 recoveries on Friday, the cumulative caseload in the state stood at 48,039, of which 15,549 are active and 32,043 have recovered, including 1,157 on Friday. Even though the state's recovered cases crossed the 32,000-mark, the positivity rate maintained its pace and reported a spike of 1.5% and stood at about 6.8%. On Friday, a total of 1,537 samples returned positive out of a total 22,368 tested for the virus. As state continued to report a surge in fresh infections and the number of active cases crossing 15,000-mark, Ranchi (4,426) and East Singhbhum (2,686) contributed significantly to the number of active cases as of Friday. The seven-day growth rate continues to maintain its rate at 4.18% which is around 2% more than the national average of 2.2%. The doubling rate of Jharkhand, too, reduced to 17 days and it is around 50% less than that of national average which is stood 32 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/3-covid-19-deaths-1537-fresh-infections-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77944543.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 5, 2020||Ranchi||3 Covid-19 deaths, 1,537 fresh infections reported in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported a dip in Covid-19 deaths but a spike in the number of fresh infections. While only three deaths were reported, the state witnessed 1,537 new cases. Among the deaths, two were reported from East Singhbhum and one from Dhanbad. East Singhbhum district continues to be on the top with the highest number of casualties at 204. Of the total reported cases, both Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 354 new infections. Ramgarh and Bokaro, too, saw a hike in the number of cases since the past one week. While Ramgarh reported 163 cases, Bokaro detected 126 new infections. West Singhbhum also recorded a spike with 87 cases followed by Palamu with 67. With 1,537 fresh infections and 1,157 recoveries on Friday, the cumulative caseload in the state stood at 48,039, of which 15,549 are active and 32,043 have recovered, including 1,157 on Friday. Even though the state's recovered cases crossed the 32,000-mark, the positivity rate maintained its pace and reported a spike of 1.5% and stood at about 6.8%. On Friday, a total of 1,537 samples returned positive out of a total 22,368 tested for the virus. As state continued to report a surge in fresh infections and the number of active cases crossing 15,000-mark, Ranchi (4,426) and East Singhbhum (2,686) contributed significantly to the number of active cases as of Friday. The seven-day growth rate continues to maintain its rate at 4.18% which is around 2% more than the national average of 2.2%. The doubling rate of Jharkhand, too, reduced to 17 days and it is around 50% less than that of national average which is stood 32 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-covid-19-deaths-1537-fresh-infections-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77940826.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 5, 2020||Ranchi||Teen third of a family to die in quick succession, BJP claims hunger death||BOKARO: A 12-year-old girl allegedly died of hunger in Karma village of Kasmar block in Bokaro district on August 31. She is reportedly the third victim of hunger in the family even as DC Rajesh Kumar refuted the allegations and said the family members died of a disease. Denying charges of starvation deaths, district civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said: “The three members of the family died of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease. In this disease, the immune system of the body mistakenly attacks healthy tissues.” However, BJP’s Chandankyari MLA Amar Kumari Bauri, who visited the village of the deceased, Rakhi Kumari, along with the DC on Thursday, claimed that during the tenure of the Hemant Soren government, the poor are dying of hunger. Earlier on May 20, Nitesh Ghasi (20), brother of Rakhi had also allegedly died of hunger. Their father Bhukhal Ghasi reportedly died of starvation, too, on March 6. The family has now Bhukhal’s widow Rekha and five others, including, Rekha’s son, his wife and two children. The BJP MLA said, “During the tenure of Soren government, the poor are dying of hunger. We will stop not until Rakhi and others get justice.” At the time of Bhukhal’s death, Bagodar MLA Vinod Singh along with several opposition legislators had demanded an inquiry during the budget session of the assembly. DC Kumar said, “There were foodgrains and edibles in the household. We had even provided them with extra ration during my visit with block officials. The officials were instructed to inspect the health of the family members and send a report every 15 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teen-third-of-a-family-to-die-in-quick-succession-bjp-claims-hunger-death/articleshow/77940788.cms||Divy Khare
September 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM writes to PM on GST dues, slams Union finance minister’s formula||RANCHI: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought his intervention to release the state’s GST compensation dues at the earliest. In a three-page letter, which he shared on his verified Twitter account, Soren claimed that Jharkhand has suffered a revenue loss to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore in the current fiscal and that the state is looking up to the Centre for funds to take care of the farmers, unorganized sector, migrant labourers and the unemployed youth amid the ‘precarious condition’ of the state’s economy. Referring to the recently held GST council meeting, Soren criticized the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for not giving a firm commitment about dispersing the dues but asking the states to borrow money. “This act of sovereign default to compensate states for GST losses runs against the very spirit of cooperative federalism and is symptomatic of withering trust between the Centre and the states,” he wrote. Stating that GST was implemented after the states consented to the Centre’s assurance to compensate the states for their losses for five years, the CM said the states feel deserted within three years. “Reluctance of the GoI to give full compensation to the states is a betrayal of the commitment it made to the Parliament and in all GST council meetings held so far,” Soren wrote. Pointing out that Jharkhand contributes Rs 5,000 crore in cess in the mineral sector, Soren said the state receives a paltry sum of Rs 150 crore as monthly compensation. “And now we are being asked to borrow when the state is hard pressed to fulfil the salaries of government servants. Why the GoI can’t borrow and compensate the states to fulfil its Constitutional commitments,” Soren questioned. Stating that PM’s call of ‘Jaan Hai To Jahaan Hai’ brought the country’s economy to a grinding halt and the state faced an influx of 7 lakh migrants, Soren said the states expected the Centre to announce more than the admissible compensations and that the GST compensation should continue beyond 2022. “The way things are headed, the states will be in tremendous problems in near future,” Soren told journalists at the Project Building. Soren’s letter came days after state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon demanded that the state be compensated its GST dues of Rs 2,500 crore and the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha claimed that the Centre owes Jharkhand Rs 1 lakh crore in GST, mining royalties and cess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-writes-to-pm-on-gst-dues-slams-union-fin-mins-formula/articleshow/77940772.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 5, 2020||India||West Bengal’s JEE (Main) turnout followed usual pattern||NEW DELHI: While the West Bengal government claimed attendance of 25% on the first day of JEE(Main) — for Paper 2 (BArch/BPlanning) — official data put it higher at 33% with sources saying that it reflected the usual gap seen between the all-India turnout and that of the state. Analysis of official data, accessed by TOI, reveals that West Bengal traditionally sees less attendance in JEE(Main) as compared to the all-India average, with a usual gap of 15-20%. The all-India attendance for Paper 2 this time was 54.7%, while in the subsequent days for Paper 1 (BTech/ BE), turnout was more than 81% as against the usual 85-90%. In Paper 1, West Bengal registered a little over 60% attendance. The JEE (Main) and NEET-UG had been postponed twice due to Covid-19. West Bengal was among the six states which had filed a review petition in the Supreme Court seeking further deferment of the exams, which was dismissed by the court on Friday. One of the reasons cited for lower attendance in JEE (Main) in West Bengal is that the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination was conducted on February 2 in which 1.1 lakh candidates appeared. Its results were declared on August 7 and counselling for seats is under way. In three days of Paper 1 (from September 2-4), Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, UP and Bihar recorded higher attendance than national average of 81.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/west-bengals-jee-main-turnout-followed-usual-pattern/articleshow/77941787.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
September 5, 2020||India||Several state assemblies that met amid pandemic did without Q-hour||NEW DELHI: Though Congress and some other opposition parties are demanding that there should be a question hour during the monsoon session of Parliament, the process has been suspended in several states where short assembly sessions took place recently due the Covid-19 situation. Government sources said the latest state to do away with question hour was West Bengal. The move is quite in contrast to the demand raised by its Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien who called the decision to not have question hour “murder of democracy”. Since March, assembly sessions ranging from one to three days were held in Andhra Pradesh (June 16-18), Kerala (August 24), Punjab (August 28), Rajasthan (three sittings between August 14-21) and UP (August 20-22). Government sources said even Maharashtra was mulling a session soon but without question hour. One assembly passed more than a dozen bills in a day. “There is a concerted effort to spread misinformation regarding question hour in the monsoon session of Parliament. Let some of the opposition members give answers to what assemblies have been doing,” a senior government functionary said as he questioned adoption of “double standards”. He said it should also be noted that there were no special mentions and calling attention motions in most assemblies that met in the recent past. The government will give written replies to 160 unstarred questions in the coming session. “This effectively means the government will reply 1,120 questions every week. Besides, every day, there will be special mentions up to 10 in number, and 10 zero hour mentions will be allowed by the Chair. In addition, the Chair will allow short duration discussions on issues such as Covid-19, economy and other important issues,” a Rajya Sabha source said. It was pointed out that Parliament was meeting amid very trying circumstances and the presiding officers did not want to prolong the risk for all who attended. “This change is only for the monsoon session and the government has made it clear that question hour will be back in the winter session,” an official said. Sources said for the first time in history, the premises of both Houses of Parliament will be used for the running of each House. Rajya Sabha will be sitting from 9 am to 1 pm whereas Lok Sabha will function from 3 pm to 7 pm. The intervening two hours will be used for cleaning, sanitisation and disinfection of the premises. This effectively leaves four hours each day for each House. Out of these, if two hours are dedicated to question hour and zero hour, only two hours will be left to conduct the remaining business. “This will be grossly insufficient as 20 bills and 11 ordinances will be taken up for discussion, debate and disposal in this session,” a government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/several-state-assemblies-that-met-amid-pandemic-did-without-q-hour/articleshow/77941797.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 5, 2020||Delhi||Active cases in Delhi rise 90% in a month||NEW DELHI: Active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi have increased by over 90% in the past one month — from 9,897 on August 4 to 18,845 on September 4. This is more than double the rate of increase in active cases nationally in the corresponding period. However, active cases in Delhi are only around 10% of the total cases whereas nationally the figure is 24%. In June-end, when the Covid outbreak in Delhi was at its peak, active cases had touched 28,000. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, told TOI that the rise in active cases in Delhi could spur further spread of the disease. “Also, the demand for Covid beds is likely to go up even more in the coming days,” he said. 80-90 admissions at Lok Nayak dailyOn Friday, Delhi recorded 2,914 new cases, the highest single-day spike in 70 days, taking the total tally to over 1.85 lakh. The toll in the city mounted to 4,513 with 13 more fatalities recorded in the past 24 hours. One of the major changes in the Covid management strategy of the state government in the recent past has been increase in testing. Delhi conducted 36,219 tests — 8,488 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 27,731 rapid antigen — in the past 24 hours, officials in the state health department said. “Increased testing has certainly led to identification of more Covid-19 cases. But the rate of infection has also gone up, possibly due to increased mobility and lack of social discipline,” the AIIMS director said. He added that if enforcement of behavioural changes, such as wearing masks in public, wasn’t implemented strictly, the crisis could get bigger in the coming days. In June, when daily coronavirus cases in Delhi had touched 3,000, people had to struggle to get Covid beds. Due to this, the government mandated private hospitals — both small and big — to reserve at least 20% of their capacity for Covid-19 patients in addition to increasing the capacity of its own hospitals. This, taken with the reduction in active cases, stabilised the situation. However, once again, hospitals are saying they are flooded with requests for admission. “We are getting 80 to 90 new admissions for Covid-19 daily over the past few days. In July, this number had reduced to less than 30,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. He added that unlike earlier, most patients seeking admission these days are sicker and require ICU care. AIIMS is also witnessing a similar trend. “The demand for beds has also gone up because a number of patients from neighbouring states are rushing to Delhi for Covid treatment,” said Dr D S Rana, chairman, board of management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. He added that in their hospital, 55% of the patients admitted for Covid-19 are from outside Delhi. Overall, data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona app showed 4,855 (34%) out of 14,151 Covid beds were occupied in city hospitals on Friday at 10pm. The occupancy of ventilator beds and ICU beds without ventilators was 47% and 59%, respectively. The number of ICU beds with ventilators available at AIIMS Delhi and Ram Manohar Lohia hospitals stood at five and three, respectively. The state of availability of ICU beds at bigger private hospitals was even worse. Max Smart Saket, Apollo, Fortis Vasant Kunj and Aakash Healthcare, among others, didn’t have a single ICU bed with ventilator support available. A total of 25 hospitals mentioned on the Delhi Corona app didn’t have ICU beds without ventilator support available. This included Lady Hardinge Medical College, which is a central government-run facility, and 24 top private hospitals. Watch Covid-19: Active cases in Delhi rise 90% in a month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-in-delhi-rise-90-in-a-month/articleshow/77941794.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||CM ayes Rs 16.48cr flood relief package, BJP calls it measly||Nagpur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday sanctioned an amount of Rs 16.48 crore for flood relief package for citizens of Nagpur revenue division, who suffered heavy losses to their homes and hearth. Three days of intensive rains had flooded the region between August 30 and September 1. BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule has called the amount measly and demanded that relief be given on the lines of western Maharashtra flood victims when the BJP was in power. Of the totally sanctioned relief package, an amount of Rs 8.86 crore has been apportioned to provide immediate relief to the families of people who died in the floods, citizens who suffered injuries and for disbursal as flood relief grant to those whose homes were totally submerged in flood waters leading to loss of household articles. Similarly, a sum of Rs 7.15 crore will be used to provide financial aid to those residents whose homes were partially damaged by the floods so that they may carry out the necessary repairs of their dilapidated homes. The remaining amount of Rs 47 lakh has been earmarked for setting up and operating flood relief centers for those rendered homeless by the floods. The relief centers would provide food grains, water and healthcare to the flood-hit population housed at the government provided shelters. Commenting on the package, Bawankule said that the amount was not even 2% of what BJP government had sanctioned for flood victims of western Maharashtra. “The CM should go through the six government resolutions (GRs) issued by us and implement them in toto for Nagpur division,” he told TOI. The floods which finally subsided on Tuesday left more than 90,000 persons affected in the region. Out these, more than 47,000 had to be rescued to safer locations. About 1 to 1.5 lakh hectares of agriculture land has been damaged. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar had announced an immediate relief package for the affected districts soon after the floods. It included Rs 10,000 for all the affected families. A compensation of Rs 18,000 per hectare for crop losses and another Rs 95,000 will be given for completely damaged homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-ayes-rs-16-48cr-flood-relief-package-bjp-calls-it-measly/articleshow/77938805.cms||Ashish Roy
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Hit by floods, farmers still counting losses||Nagpur: “A milch cow, her calf and our house, in all worth Rs 95,000 at least,” says Raju Dupare of Chickalgaon village in Chandrapur district as he counts his losses. He has not included the damage to crops yet. Dupare had not insured his produce under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme. Apart from damaged homes and dead livestock, paddy growers along the Wainganga river are staring at a complete loss of harvest after the floods. With all other cultivation activities done, the farmers were only waiting to harvest paddy in a month’s time when the floods washed away their fields. Farmers in Bhandara and Chandrapur districts TOI spoke to said as much as 25% of the paddy growing area in the districts has been affected. The loss is complete or close to it. “There are many others whose homes have gone entirely,” says Dupare. “The Ladhaj village in Brahmapuri tehsil that was in the news during floods was always a natural island, but there was connectivity too. The water dried up in the summers and the rest of the year it was not too deep and local boats could get people across. The floods had left it totally cut off, drowning even the paddy fields,” said Sunil Dhande, a farmer from Pimpalgaon Bhosle village near by. He has a farm in Ladhaj too. Dhande, who has 50 acres of land, says that as against average output of 20 quintals an acre each year, he only hopes to reap a little from a small part of the farm now. For the rest of the area, even clearing the damaged crop would mean an additional expenditure, he said. Dhande had his crop insured and has begun formalities to claim the damages. A number of other farmers from his village have land in Ladhaj, where the crops have been entirely destroyed. As the water remained for more than 24 hours in the fields, there is no chance for the paddy crop to be salvaged, he said. Rajendra Fulbhande in Bhandara said, “Even soyabean and other crops like vegetables, chilli and turmeric have been destroyed. Farmers had gone for crops like turmeric, for which no insurance is available. Even I had grown turmeric this year, and the entire fields were flooded.” “The Wainganga and Kanhan river meet at a location close to my village Siddi. The locals have not yet returned to their homes from the shelters provided by government in zilla parishad schools. They had also taken their livestock along. A number of them have nowhere to go as their homes have been destroyed,” said Diwakar Mane from Bhandara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hit-by-floods-farmers-still-counting-losses/articleshow/77938835.cms||Shishir Arya
September 5, 2020||Nagpur||Heated arguments in meet on Smart City tree felling||Nagpur: The first public hearing for objections filed against felling of trees for Smart City Project Roads was held on Friday evening at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) office.Witnessing heated arguments and difference of opinions, the meeting was held between environment activists, officials of NMC’s garden department and Smart City Project special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL).As reported by TOI earlier, the civic body had called objections for felling of 139 trees for construction of five roads in Smart City Project area. The estimated road length is around 6 kilometres.Activists got irked when they learnt that overall length of Smart City roads will be around 49 kilometres, leading to felling of many more trees.“The authorities have no data regarding the total number of trees that will be cut. At present, they are taking permission for small parts. It is the responsibility of garden department to bring out total number of trees proposed to be felled so that overall environmental damage of the project can be gauged,” said honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das.Mahesh Moroney, deputy CEO of Smart City Project special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited, agreed that the total road network was 49 kilometres. He clarified that the work will be done patch-wise as and when the company acquires land.In January this year, Moroney with a team of other officials and environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation had done a joint survey on the 6km network following which it was concluded that 30-35% trees could be saved.Sticking to it, Moroney said that modifications have been done in the plan accordingly. “We have reduced the width of roads wherever it was possible so that trees can be saved. We are also trying to save trees coming on pavements. Trees will only be felled at places where there is absolutely inevitable, for instance on carriageways where movement of vehicles takes place,” he added.Activists further highlighted that compensatory plantation against the felled trees should not remain only on paper. Das and founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee demanded plantations should be done in 1:5 ratio. “It should be done close to the areas where trees are being felled to maintain ecological balance. Also, only native species should be planted,” said Chatterjee.On this, Moroney stated the agency will be starting its own nursery. “Apart from compensatory plantations, we will also do roadside plantations. Also, part of a road will be passing through a 0.9 hectare forest land which is presently encroached upon and is barren. We would be doing afforestation in two hectares of land against it,” he added.Officials said people are free to visit the site of proposed tree felling. “However they should only file objections after doing a proper spot inspection,” said NMC garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar.Activists have demanded to fell as few trees as possible. “What would be a smart city without green cover,” they asked.Bizman chops off dozens of treesDespite massive efforts by environmentalists to make citizens aware, there seems to be no end to illegal tree felling in the city. On Friday, around 60-70 fully grown trees were felled by a prominent businessman at his property near Tajbagh. He failed to take the mandatory permission from Nagpur Municipal Corporation's garden department. Getting a tip-off, green activist Pranay Ade immediately alerted the garden department, officials of which reached the spot and did panchnama. Officials said notice will be issued to the land owner. NMC is repeatedly reminding people that to cut trees even on their own property, they need NMC's permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heated-arguments-in-meet-on-smart-city-tree-felling/articleshow/77938855.cms||Manka Behl
September 5, 2020||Noida||Defunct machine halts plasma donation in Noida||NOIDA: Plasma donation at the Rotary Blood Bank in Sector 31 of Noida has stopped since the past one week due to the breakdown of the plasma extraction machine. The bank started operating from early August after its inauguration by UP health minister Atul Garg on July 25. While a new machine has been ordered at the cost of Rs 15 lakh and the bank is expected to become operational from next week, the district health department and the DM had provided a list of overall 161 Covid-19 recovered patients to the bank for plasma extraction. The bank has a capacity to store 10,000 units of plasma but got only four-five donors so far. A staff member at the plasma bank said, “No donation is happening at the bank right now. Our machine has broken down and a new one is expected to reach us soon.” Ravi Chopra, management trustee of Rotary blood bank Sector 31, said that an order for a new machine has already been placed. “Though the machine is imported from the USA, the company’s distributors are sending it from Coimbatore. The dispatch of the machine got delayed due to Onam but we are going to receive it soon,” Chopra said, adding that the machine that broke down could extract plasma as well as platelets, but its security check component malfunctioned last week. Chopra added that even though the administration has a list of over 100 recovered patients, only four-five have donated plasma and another 10 are willing to donate. “We have refrigerators to store up to 10,000 units of plasma but we are not getting adequate donors,” he said. Watch Noida: Defunct machine halts plasma donation in Sector 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/defunct-machine-halts-plasma-donation/articleshow/77940964.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
