September 6, 2020||Goa||Match-fixing in Goan football: Even a month later, GFA makes no headway||PANAJI: The Goa Football Association is yet to make any headway in its ‘match-fixing’ probe, a month after TOI front-paged the report and six months after the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) opened Goa’s eyes to manipulations in the Goa Professional League. On March 3, 2020, All India Football Federation’s integrity officer, Javed Siraj, sought an explanation from GFA on six matches played between October 16, 2019 and November 19, 2019, which according to Sportradar showed suspicious betting patterns. The London-based Sportradar monitors betting odds, movements and patterns worldwide and identifies suspicious activities through a unique Fraud Detection System. The GFA kept the match-fixing report hidden from everyone. Neither its executive committee members or the clubs involved were briefed. No action was taken. There was an ‘investigation’ but that eventually made the association see red after naming its own partners. Siraj, a former CBI officer, said the ‘letter’ – and not an investigation report – sent by GFA on March 9, 2020, had no connection to match-fixing suspicions in the Goa Pro League. On August 3, 2020, TOI front-paged the match-fixing report, detailing how AFC had red-flagged six matches, one of them highly suspicious. GFA then admitted it had the report for several months, but even a month after the world knew about the suspicious matches, there has been no action. “People are being finalised. It’s not done yet. I think it’s almost agreed. All will be confirmed,” said GFA general secretary Jovito Lopes. Lopes was responding to questions whether there was any progress on the inquiry committee that the GFA had promised to constitute to look specifically into the match-fixing suspicions. The five-member committee is to be headed by a retired judge. According to sources, GFA is awaiting approval from its executive committee for the panel. Called the Ethics Committee, it’s being constituted under Article 48 of the GFA Constitution and will be headed by district judge (retired) Afonso Araujo. The committee, which has four lawyers as members, has the approval of GFA president Churchill Alemao. “The committee shall take charge with immediate effect and function till the end of the tenure of executive committee. The committee shall try to complete the investigation by December 2020,” Lopes wrote in a communication to all members. Meanwhile, GFA said it has written to all Pro League clubs, seeking detailed information about officials and contracts, some of which may have been terminated mid-way into the competition. “We have sent letters (through Speed Post) to all clubs, asking them for various information on contracts. Whether they had lodged police complaint, any one of them. They were given six days to respond but there were holidays, so some have asked for time,” said Lopes. Some clubs like Calangute Association, Vasco Sports Club and Guardian Angel have responded to the GFA. Others are adopting a wait-and-watch approach, while at least a couple of them want to take legal opinion before responding. Many observers are alarmed that match-fixing suspicions have not been treated with urgency, or seriousness it deserves. Siraj had made it clear that “the report prima facie indicates that the matches, detailed in the report, were fixed,” while AFC said there was “clear and overwhelming betting evidence that the course or result of the match was unduly influenced with a view to gaining betting profits”. GFA’s proposed Ethics Committee: District judge (retired) Afonso Araujo (chairman), Adv Dene Rosario (deputy chairman), Adv Kamlakant Raju Poulekar, Adv Mavlon Afonso, Adv Kiev Paes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/match-fixing-in-goan-football-even-a-month-later-gfa-makes-no-headway/articleshow/77954413.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 6, 2020||India||‘Despite delay, bullet trains could start running in Gujarat before 2024’||NEW DELHI: Delay in land acquisition in Maharashtra and Covid pandemic have impacted the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project, but railways on Saturday did not rule out the possibility of operation of the high speed trains on the Gujarat side before 2024. A major portion of the project corridor – 349 km out of total 508 km – falls in Gujarat. Railway board CEO and chairman, V K Yadav said while in Gujarat 82% of the required land has been acquired, barely 23% has been acquired in Maharashtra. “In the case of linear projects, it’s better to award works when 90% of land is available. We are in talks with the Maharashtra government and are hopeful of good progress in the next six months,” he added. Responding to a question from TOI on the possibility of making the first bullet train operational in Gujarat portion, Yadav said, “We are hopeful of land acquisition in Gujarat touching 95-100% in the next three months. It’s desirable to open the entire corridor in one go. As land acquisition status gets clear, we will take a decision and we will share it with you.” Sources said the government would be keen to deliver the project before the next general election. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the high speed rail or bullet train project in September 2017 and December 2023 was set as the deadline. Yadav said all designs related to the project have been approved; tenders have been finalised and all statutory approvals have been obtained, While maintaining that the project is progressing well, he said an assessment would be carried out in the next 3-6 months as the Covid condition and land acquisition improve. “Then we will be in a position to set the timeline,” he added. The railway board chief claimed there is significant interest from both domestic and Japanese players. Watch Now, bullet train from Ahmedabad to Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-bullet-train-run-in-gujarat-side-by-2024/articleshow/77954494.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 6, 2020||Thane||Thane: Only 12 tonnes of floral waste generated this year||THANE: This year due to a low-key Ganesh festival, only 12 tonnes of floral waste, also known as nirmalaya, was collected by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). This is 78% less than last year which recorded 57 tonnes of floral waste. Every year, the TMC, along with an NGO, collects the floral waste that is deposited at various artificial lakes and visarjan ghats in the city. “Every year, we collect 60 tonnes of waste. But this year, it was merely 12 tonnes as many sarvajanik mandals refrained from organising the festival. Also, those who kept the idols at home had very few or no visitors due to the ongoing pandemic. So, the amount of waste was less. Another reason is that flowers were expensive,” said Bhatu Sawant, a member of the Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth NGO. The floral waste is converted into manure which is used as a fertilizer. This is done so that the water bodies do not get polluted. The manure is used in over 35 TMC gardens in the city. However, this year, only two tonnes of manure will be generated, which will not be sufficient for all the gardens. Meanwhile, the city also saw a drop in the generation of plastic waste and since the last two years there has been zero thermocol waste. “While last year around 20% plastic was seen in floral waste, this year it was merely 2%. In recenttimes, people have become more sensitive towards the environment," Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/only-12-tonnes-of-floral-waste-generated-this-yr/articleshow/77954740.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
September 6, 2020||India||Indian agencies get Pak document ‘certifying’ Hizbul chief Salahuddin as ‘bona fide‘ official of ISI||NEW DELHI: In a breakthrough for their efforts to nail Pakistan's state agencies to their “proxies” fomenting terror in Jammu & Kashmir, the Indian security establishment has got its hands on a recent document issued by the Directorate of Intelligence, Islamabad “certifying” Syed Muhammad Yousaf Shah alias Syed Salahuddin, head of banned terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, as its “bona fide official” who is “working with ISI”. The letter, issued in the name of director/commanding officer Wajahat Ali Khan, states that “it is certified that Syed Muhammad Yousaf Shah, Ameer Hizbul Mujahideen, is working with Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), Islamabad. He is bona fide official of this department”. Sharing details of the vehicle used by Salahuddin, the letter instructs that “he is security-wise cleared and should not be unnecessarily stopped”. This certificate, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI, is valid up to December 31, 2020. Salahuddin, apart from leading Hizbul Mujahideen, a designated terror outfit in the US and India, also heads United Jihad Council (UJC), an umbrella body of terror outfits including the UNSC-proscribed Lasker-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. He had admitted in an interview in 2012 to “fighting Pakistan’s war in Kashmir”. On Saturday, Indian Army officials, at a press conference in Baramulla (J&K), said Hizbul Mujahideen was trying to re-establish its base in north Kashmir. Indian agencies are overjoyed over what they call "clear evidence of "ISI's ties with banned terror outfits responsible for several attacks in India” and feel that the revelation will strengthen the case for moving Pakistan to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) ‘blacklist’. Pakistan which is currently on the FATF ‘grey list’, was in February given a four-month window to deliver on the 27-point Action Plan to curb terror financing and money laundering. This deadline was extended because of the pandemic and the next review is due on September 14, followed by FATF plenary in October. The success of Indian security agencies also shows that the so-called anti-terror measures Pakistan recently took under tremendous pressure were a deception aimed at averting financial sanctions in FATF. The dodge included approval of some FATF-related legislations and issuance of Statutory Regulatory Order (SRO, (Aug 18) that ostensibly puts restrictions on 88 individuals and entities affiliated with extremist groups under the UNSC sanctions. Pakistan is estimated to be sheltering around 130 UNSC-sanctioned terrorists. Significantly, next FATF review of Pakistan’s status comes against the backdrop of the bank trail unearthed by NIA of money transfers made by Pakistan-based Jaish operatives to a key perpetrator of the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack that killed 40 CRPF personnel. Also a charge-sheet was filed by ED against Salahuddin and 11 others in a terror financing case. ED has also sought confiscation of HM’s attached assets. As reported earlier by TOI, NIA charge-sheet filed last month cites deposit slips for five cash transfers, totalling Rs 10 lakh, made by Jaish into accused Mohammad Umar Farooq’s two bank accounts in Allied Bank, Khyber Agency and Meezan Bank, Peshawar, days before the attack. Of this, Rs 5 lakh were dispatched to Kashmir through the hawala route and used for making the car bomb. An officer here said the bank trail found by NIA establishes how Pakistan’s banking system was complicit in funding the perpetrators. China has been the main backer of Pakistan in FATF. As three votes are required at FATF to prevent blacklisting, Beijing, in cahoots with Malaysia and Turkey, has been blocking Pakistan’s blacklisting. One of the key agenda of Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi’s recent visit to Beijing was to seek China’s support ahead of the FATF review. However, with Pakistan's links with terror outfits coming again under international glare, China may be required to step up its effort to save it. Pakistan is under international heat with US is probing the role of Pakistani nationals in Islamic State (IS)-linked activities in Syria. US-backed Kurd Democratic Forces (KDF) reportedly handed over a list of 29 Pakistanis who it is holding captive and who were fighting for IS in Syria. Germany recently turned down a Pakistani request for supply of German Air Independent Propulsion (AIP) system for its submarines. Pakistan is actively engaged in supporting terrorist outfits in Afghanistan. In March 2020, ISI in collaboration with its proxies— Haqqani Network and LeT—- carried out a terror attack on a Sikh Gurudwara in Kabul, killing 28 people. Pakistan also has alleged links with terror groups Jamaat Ansarullah in Tajikistan, The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and East Turkistan Islamic Movement in China, that it uses as leverage to seek quid pro quo with these countries, forcing them to go soft on its links to terror. Salahuddin supports terrorist activities on Indian soil through proxy NGOs and charities supported by Pakistan’s ISI. Most prominent is the Jammu and Kashmir Affectees Relief Trust (JKART), with its head office in Rawalpindi and branches in Islamabad and Muzaffarabad (PoK), etc. Watch Pak document 'certifies' Hizbul chief Salahuddin as 'bona fide' official of ISI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-agencies-get-pak-document-certifying-hizbul-chief-salahuddin-as-bona-fide-official-of-isi/articleshow/77956163.cms||Bharti Jain
September 6, 2020||India||India’s Covid cases world’s 2nd highest||NEW DELHI: India overtook Brazil on Saturday as the country with the second highest recorded cases of Covid-19 after the US. The pandemic continued its unprecedented surge in India, with fresh cases close to 90,000 on Saturday, the fourth straight day of record daily rise in infections. In another grim milestone, Covid deaths in India crossed 70,000, having risen by more than 10,000 in 10 days. India’s case count crossed the 41 lakh mark late on Saturday, going past Brazil’s tally of 40,93,586 cases at 11pm, as per worldometers.info. Brazil’s numbers may overtake India’s when its final tally for Saturday is added. But going by recent trends, India’s caseload is expected to break away from Brazil by Sunday. India, currently in the midst of the biggest Covid-19 spike seen in any country since the pandemic’s outbreak, has been recording nearly twice the number of daily cases than Brazil and US over the past few days. Over the past 24 hours, 89,690 infections where recorded in the country, taking the total caseload to 41,05,930 a day after crossing the 40-lakh mark, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. This was the fourth peak in daily cases in the past four days. The spike in infections was again led by Maharashtra, which reported as many as 20,489 new cases on Saturday, its highest single-day count so far. Seven other states also reported their biggest daily jump in cases — Uttar Pradesh (6,692), Kerala (2,655), Haryana (2,289), J&K (1,251), Uttarakhand (950), Tripura (691) and Meghalaya (182). The nationwide death toll from the virus on Saturday was 1,055, taking the total to 70,606. This was the fifth straight day of 1,000-plus death toll. On an average, there have been over 1,000 deaths per day in the country over the past 10 days. Delhi continued to report a resurgence of the virus, with 2,973 fresh infections on Saturday, the highest count in 67 days. The surge of cases in Maharashtra and Mumbai continued with the state on Saturday crossing a new grim milestone of adding over 20,000 cases in a day, its highest ever addition in a day. The state’s Covid case burden is now at 8,83,862, accounting for 22% of India’s tally. The only silver lining was that the state’s case fatality rate dropped under 3% (2.97%) on Saturday for the first time since March. Mumbai’s spike too continued as, for the fourth day in a row, it added 1,737 cases to push its overall tally to 1,53,712. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh achieved the four million Covid-19 tests milestone on Saturday, even as the state reported 10,825 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 4,87,331.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-cases-worlds-2nd-highest/articleshow/77956328.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||Arunachal probing kidnap of 5 tribals by PLA troops||GUWAHATI: Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday despatched a police team to a frontier area along the McMahon Line that separates Upper Subansiri district from Tibet to investigate the alleged abduction of five tribal porters by People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The administration was alerted by a Facebook post in which the brother of one of the missing Tagin youths said Chinese troops whisked away the group from the ‘Sera-7’ patrolling area of the Indian Army along the international border near Nacho, about 120km north of the district headquarters of Daporijo, on Friday. According to the post, which was shared on Twitter by Congress MLA Ninong Ering and BJP MP Tapir Gao, PLA had allegedly abducted seven men, of whom two escaped. “The OC of Nacho police station has been sent to the area to verify the facts. The report will be available by Sun day morning,” Upper Subansiri SP Taru Gussar said. The Army said it didn't have any information about the alleged abduction until the local administration reacted to the social media post. “We have alerted our teams and are in constant touch with the civil administration. The SP of Upper Subansiri said the police haven’t received any formal missing complaint yet,” a defence source said. Villagers of Nacho, which is 10-12km from Sera-7, claimed the missing youths had been engaged by the Army as porters to carry supplies and work as guides in an area that has no motorable road and mobile connectivity is almost non-existent. The youths trekked to the border area with Army personnel on Thursday, they said. “It is quite common for local youths to work as porters for the Army. The missing boys must have ventured into the jungles to hunt, fish or collect medicinal herbs after dropping supplies at the Army post,” Ering, a former Union minister, said. The missing youths have been identified as Prasat Rngling, Toch Singkam, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. Sharing the FB post by Prasat’s brother Prakash Ringling, MLA Ering tweeted late Friday: “SHOCKING NEWS: Five people from Upper Subansiri district of our state Arunachal Pradesh have reportedly been ‘abducted’ by China’s PLA. Few months earlier, a similar incident happened. A befitting reply must be given to #PLA and #CCPChina.”Soon, Arunachal East’s BJP MP Tapir Gao tweeted it was “time to take a stand against #CCP” and tagged the PM, home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. On March 19, a 21-year-old man identified as Togley Sinkam was out collecting herbs with two friends when he was captured by Chinese troops in Upper Subansiri’s Asapila sector. In a statement on April 7, the Indian Army said it had “successfully facilitated the safe return of an Arunachal youth who reportedly crossed over to the Chinese side in search of herbs on March 19”. The Arunachal government had confirmed the “abduction of Togley by the Chinese PLA” just the previous day. Watch 5 boys of Arunachal abducted by Chinese Army, claims Congress’s Ninong Ering||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arunachal-probing-kidnap-of-5-tribals-by-pla-troops/articleshow/77956332.cms||Prabin Kalita
September 6, 2020||India||China acted unilaterally, violated pacts: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: India and China agreed to refrain from taking anyurther military actions that may escalate tensions in eastern Ladakh, but there was no tangible breakthrough in resolving the over-four-month military confrontation during a meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart, Gen Wei Fenghe, in Moscow on Friday. In the first such high-level political meeting since the face-off began, Singh told Wei that India would not cede even an inch of its territory and would protect its sovereignty at all costs. Wei, in turn, said the responsibility for the current tensions lies “entirely” with the Indian side. There could be a more substantive outcome in the meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart, Wang Yi, on September 10. But amidst all the muscular signalling, the two sides did agree to continue working through diplomatic and military channels to disengage and de-escalate along the LAC in consonance with the “consensus” between PM Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping for maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border region. At the 140-minute meeting, Singh categorically said the PLA’s “aggressive actions and behaviour” in trying to “unilaterally alter the status quo” violated all bilateral agreements. According to Xinhua, Wei said, “China’s territory cannot be lost, and the Chinese military is fully determined, capable, and confident to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity.” With winter fast approaching in eastern Ladakh, both sides would want a way out of the stalemate though the stakes in terms of perceptions about “stepping back” have risen after the PLA halted the disengagement process. Gen Wei, a PLA veteran, came to the hotel Singh was staying at and is understood to have mentioned how he has sought discussion on no less than three occasions earlier. China, in fact, had pushed for the defence ministerial meet after Indian troops conducted a pre-emptive military manoeuvre last weekend to occupy multiple heights in the Chushul sector, from the southern bank of Pangong Tso and Spanggur Gap to Rezang La and Reqin La. The move has given India some bargaining leverage for the first time in the ongoing negotiations. At the meeting on Friday, India stuck to its bottomline that China restore status quo as it existed in April by withdrawing its forces from Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang, while also reducing its military build-up along the LAC. Singh told his counterpart there should be no doubt about the troops’ determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Watch Rajnath Singh slams China for changing status quo at LAC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-acted-unilaterally-violated-pacts-rajnath-singh/articleshow/77956343.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 6, 2020||Hubballi||Wary of catching a cold, tipplers shun chilled beer||Hubballi: Sale of beer fell by 53% per cent in the district owing to the fear of catching a cold and having a sore throat after consuming it. Beer is popular among the youth and those who drink occasionally. But since the onset of the pandemic, there is a significant drop in beer sales. Sunil Jituri, a CL-2 bar owner said after the lockdown was relaxed, there has hardly been any beer sales. Beer has a shelf life of only six months and many bar owners are offering concessions to clear stock. “The situation is such that, we are seeing God in a customer buying beer as they are our saviours from financial losses,” he said. “Before the lockdown, we used to sell around 40 bottles of beer per day. Now its just 3-4 bottles. The overall business is also down by 30%,” he added. Dashrat Miskin, who owns a bar and restaurant, said they are giving a concession of Rs 20 per bottle of beer. “People are scared to have beer. Even those buying hard liquor are not cold soda or soft drinks. They prefer mixing normal water or soda in room temperature with the liquor. Such is the fear among people,” said. “The price of beer is also high. Hence people are preferring cheap liquor. I used to sell 10 cases of beer every month but now it has dropped to 3-4 cases,” he added. “Sale of tablets for cold and cough has been made stringent at all pharmacies. So, if our customers they have a cold, cough or sore throat they need to go to a doctor and the doctor may refer them for a swab test. To avoid all these complications, people are simply not preferring beer. While only a few people like warm beer, a majority like it chilled,” he said. Manjunath Areguli, office deputy superintendent of Dharwad District Exercise Office said that between April and August last year, 2,98,419 boxes of beer were sold. In the same period this year, only 1,38,766 boxes were sold, which is 53.64% lesser. “People have shunned having cold beverages as they are worried about catching a cold. The direct impact was witnessed on the sale of beer. After takeaway sale of liquor was permitted, people did not prefer to take beer home and refrigerate it before consuming it. That may be one of the reason for the drop in sales,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/wary-of-catching-a-cold-tipplers-shun-chilled-beer/articleshow/77953156.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 6, 2020||Surat||Dhanvantari Raths provide treatment to 17 lakh in Surat||Surat: The Dhanvantari Raths seems to have proven an effective way to identify cases of fever, cough and other symptoms post Covid-19 outbreak in the city and has provided health services to as many as 17.64 lakh people till date.According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the services of Dhanvantari Raths began with 77 raths and at present there are 121 such raths which are going to the doorsteps of people in every corner of the city to carry out health check-up.“During the surveillance and health check-up through Dhanvantari Raths, 12,955 cases of fever, 43,623 hypertension, 41,480 diabetes and 38619 cases of acute respiratory illness and 16.26 lakh people with mild illness were found during this programme. All these people were given treatment and medicines on the spot,” said an official.“The medical team of Dhanvantari Raths also checked the oxygen level of the people. As many as 574 people were found to have oxygen level below 95 and they were referred to hospital for further treatment. There was 1,06,976 rapid antigen tests conducted since July 18 in Surat city,” added the official.“The early identification and hospitalisation of patients helped us in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the city and Dhanvantari Raths played a major role in it. Dhanvantari Raths were sent into containment zones on priority basis to identify such cases,” said S K Langa, officer on special duty for Covid-19 in SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dhanvantari-raths-provide-treatment-to-17-lakh-in-surat/articleshow/77953688.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Student keeps Covid patients on a high with his music||Surat: Don't be surprised to hear music coming from Atal Samvedna Covid Care Centre at Althan. It’s a young man who has taken up the onus of keeping the patients admitted here entertained. Jenish Surti, a college student, has been trying to calm the anxieties of Covid-19 patients for the past few weeks with his soothing music.Interestingly, Jenish, who had first-hand experience with the stress after his parents and sister got infected with the virus, realizes how difficult it is to cope with the trauma. He, therefore, decided to help other patients get relief from such pain through music. Jenish is doing his postgraduate studies in Sanskrit and plays music too.“People who are suffering from physical pain are also passing through mental stress. Mind is the source of pain. If a person is strong-willed, he or she can recover fast from any illness. Music can play an important role in giving a stress-free environment to the patients,” Jenish told TOI.“My sister Roshni got infected with Covid-19 and was admitted here. I soon started giving my voluntary services here. After she recovered and went home, my parents got infected and that was the most difficult time for me. I then thought of all the other patients undergoing treatment and their mental stress. So, I started playing the guitar to entertain them at the Covid care centre,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/student-keeps-covid-patients-on-a-high-with-his-music/articleshow/77953560.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Bharuch NRI shot at in Venda of SA||Bharuch: A non-resident Gujarati (NRG) Arkam Haji Yusuf Patel, 32, who had settled in South Africa’s Venda in Thohoyandou district was attacked and shot at by a gang of robbers near a supermarket in a bid to loot. This is the second such attack on NRGs there. Salim Patel, a relative of Arkam told TOI from Vend that the incident had taken place on Friday evening when the victim was in his car near Khakhu Supermarket at Tshisahulu Village in Venda. “Three thieves came in a car and two of them rushed near Arkam’s car to attack him. They also opened fire at him from their revolver firing two shots. Arkam was hit by one bullet on his hand. They looted 5000 Rand in cash, his mobile phone and other valuables. He was taken to a hospital, where he is stable,” said Patel. Arkam’s father Haji Yusuf Patel, hailing from Vora Samni Village of Bharuch taluka, had shifted to Venda two decades ago. Earlier in June, another NRG from Devla of Jambusar in Bharuch, Basir Lalsa, too was looted in a similar manner, Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-nri-shot-at-in-venda-of-sa/articleshow/77953832.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||More than 70% of all convicts in state from SC, ST & OBC categories: NCRB||PATNA: More than 70% of all convicts in jails across the state belong to SC, ST and OBC categories, according to prison statistics released recently by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) with figures recorded till December 31, 2019. Out of the altogether 8,525 convicts in the state around 53% belong to the OBC category, 16% are from scheduled castes and 3% from scheduled tribes. These are 59 jails in the state with a total housing capacity of 42,222 inmates. Besides convicts, Bihar altogether has 31,275 under-trials lodged behind bars of whom 30,300 are men and 975 are women. Of the 8,525 convicts, 1,372 belong to SC category, 273 from ST category and 4,508 convicts were OBCs. Altogether 2,372 of the 8,525 convicts were from other castes and religion. In addition to this, Bihar has been ranked second among all states and Union Territories in terms of the highest number of jail inmates after UP. Altogether 1,96,253 inmates were thrown behind bars last year. Uttar Pradesh admitted 3,21,543 inmates in 2019. The third is Maharashtra where 1,55,029 inmates were put behind bars last year. Altogether 18,86,092 inmates were put in prisons nationwide last year. The percentage share of inmates for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Maharashtra is 17%, 10.4% and 8.2% respectively. In terms of female inmates, Bihar ranked third after Gujarat and Maharashtra, which jailed 6,215 and 5,569 female inmates respectively last year. With altogether 39,814 inmates (convicts and under-trials), Bihar ranked third nationwide in terms of prisoners in jail. Uttar Pradesh topped the chart with 101297 followed by Madhya Pradesh where 44603 inmates were behind bars. These three states along with Maharashtra, Punjab and West Bengal together had 56.4% of total prisoners across the country. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra told TOI over the phone that he has nothing to say on the data as it is of NCRB and all are facts. Social scientist and professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DM Diwakar, said there are several aspects of the facts that major chunk of convicted inmates are of other backward classes and scheduled caste. “One factor is that there had been middle-caste oriented politics in the last few years due to which the ratio of such people in getting convicted has increased,” he said. Another factor is that in OBC, SC and such backward class people are being heard by the government. “When they realise that they are being heard then they retaliate too. This is the reason that their percentage share in conviction is also high,” he said. Diwakar said that last factor is that such people are socially as well as economically backward. “This results in the scenario that they can’t fight their legal battle properly and get their case present in court in an effective manner by hiring a good lawyer or presenting a witness in their favour. Thus law goes against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-than-70-of-all-convicts-in-state-from-sc-st-obc-categories-ncrb/articleshow/77954085.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 6, 2020||Patna||RJD, Congress cry foul as BJP puts up SSR posters||PATNA: A campaign poster of state BJP’s art and culture cell seeking justice for actor Sushant Singh Rajput has created a stir in the political circles in poll-bound Bihar. Around 30,000 posters and pamphlets have been printed to call for “justice for the departed son of the soil”. The posters in Hindi read, “Na Bhoole Hain Na Bhoolne Denge (We have neither forgotten (you) nor will we let anyone forget).” The posters assume significance in the light of the row between the Bihar and Maharashtra governments over the demand for a CBI probe into the actor's death. The spat reached its crescendo with senior political leaders as well as police officials of the two states spitting venom against each other. Varun Singh, the state convener of BJP’s art and cultural cell, said the poster was part of their campaign for justice for Sushant’s family. “Being an artist, there was an emotional attachment with Sushant, who belonged to our state. It was the art and culture cell, which had first raised the demand for CBI investigation into Sushant’s death, only two days after his body was recovered from his flat in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14,” Singh told TOI on Saturday. Singh said the cell had also written to CM Nitish Kumar to name Rajiv Nagar Chowk in Patna and also the proposed film city at Rajgir in Nalanda after the departed actor. “I have come to know that Nitish has already forwarded our letter to the state urban and housing department for necessary action,” the cultural cell in-charge said. The BJP cell functionary also claimed that senior leaders such as Ravi Shankar Prasad, Ram Kripal Yadav and Sushil Kumar Modi paid a visit to the actor’s Rajiv Nagar residence and meet his father KK Singh on their persuasion. “We will not sit idle and continue our campaign till justice is delivered to the family,” Varun asserted. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand, however, said the campaign should not be seen from a political angle. “There should be no political interpretation of the genuine concern expressed by any forum of the state BJP. It is just meant to show solidarity with the departed actor’s family, which was craving for justice,” the BJP spokesperson said. The opposition RJD, however, slammed the BJP’s move to derive political mileage from Sushant’s death. “It’s bad to give the incident a political colour,” RJD spokesperson Mriunjay Tiwari said, adding, “Kishi ki lash par rajniti nahi honi chahiye.” Tiwari said RJD leader Tejashvi Yadav was the first to demand a CBI probe into Sushant’s death by suicide. “Tejashwi raised the issue both in the House and also met the actor’s father at his residence in Patna soon after his death,” Tiwari said. Almost every political party in the state joined the chorus for CBI probe as Sushant belonged to the dominant Rajput caste, which has a sizeable population in the state. “The Rajputs have their influence in around 40 constituencies in the state. There are 19 legislators from this caste in different political parties in the present assembly, whose term is to end on November 29,” a senior Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-congress-cry-foul-as-bjp-puts-up-ssr-posters/articleshow/77954075.cms||Ramashankar
September 6, 2020||Patna||Manjhi hails CM, Mayawati fumes||PATNA: Two former Dalit CMs – Jitan Ram Manjhi from Bihar and Mayawati from Uttar Pradesh – on Saturday sang different tunes on the decision of the Nitish Kumar government to frame rules to give government job to the next of the kin of any SC/ST person killed in Bihar. While Manjhi, who heads the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and is now the NDA partner, praised the Bihar CM for taking the decision, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, in her two tweets, felt that the decision was aimed at garnering the support of the SC/ST sections ahead of the assembly elections. “The CM has asked the department concerned to implement the provisions under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1995 as amended from time to time. He deserves praise for it,” Manjhi said. He added the relevant section of the Act, first framed by the Centre in 1989, has provided for punishment to the perpetrator of murder, government job or issuance of licence to the next of the kin of the murder victim, besides providing education to their children at residential schools. “It is a central Act. Those who criticise Nitish should contact the central government,” Manjhi said. Meanwhile, Mayawati criticised Nitish in her two tweets. “The present (Bihar) government is once again indulging in giving allurements/assurances to the SC/ST people to garner their votes when the elections are around (sic),” she tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-hails-cm-mayawati-fumes/articleshow/77954043.cms||Abhay Singh
September 6, 2020||Patna||Appoint a full-time VC: TMBU teachers||BHAGALPUR: The Bhagalpur University Teachers’ Association (BHUTA) and Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) Teachers’ Association have demanded appointment of a regular vice-chancellor (VC), preferably from the state, so that issues plaguing the students, teachers and employees could be sorted out at the VC level. BHUTA general secretary Pawan Kumar Singh said adhocism should end and the chancellor-cum-governor should take steps to appoint a regular VC at the university in order to facilitate academic, administrative, financial and policy decisions. “Acting or incharge VCs cannot take decisions related to policy and finance on their own. They have to depend on chancellor every time,” Singh said, adding TMBU needs a fulltime VC with academic background. General secretary of BHUSTA Jagdhar Mandal too said incharge VCs have no freedom to take decisions on policy matters and those involving finance. “Issues related to teachers’ promotion and employees’ and students’ problems remain unresolved most of the time. Issues related to regularisation of academic sessions are also hampered. The incharge or acting VC’s attention is divided between his or her primary office and the additional burden. Higher education system gets badly affected due to such adhocism,” Mandal added. The last full-time VC, Rama Shankar Dubey, had completed his three-year tenure on February 6, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/appoint-a-full-time-vc-tmbu-teachers/articleshow/77953859.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||Manjhi calls on Nitish||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar, state assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi held a closed-door meeting at the CM residence on Saturday. The purpose of the meeting, however, is still not clear. “When such big guns sit together, it is natural that they also discuss matters related to politics. But just what they discussed is not known,” a source said. When contacted, a source close to Manjhi said, “It can be surmised that they might also have discussed the seat-sharing issues. The NDA’s joint poll manifesto could also have been on their plate.” Asked about seat-sharing talks in the NDA, state BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said, “It is in the domain of our parliamentary board. Only they can decide anything on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-calls-on-nitish/articleshow/77954050.cms||Abhay Singh
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||Smaller districts turn big Covid hotspots: Active cases higher than Madhya Pradesh average||BHOPAL: Though overall in the entire Madhya Pradesh, only 24% of tally of positive patients are active — more than 75% have recovered — but what underlies is there are at least 15 districts where more patients are active compared to the state average. And alarmingly, these are smaller districts which have seen recent growth in active cases due to the spurt in Covid-19 cases as for the 16th consecutive day on Friday more than 1000 positive cases were reported and overall — an alarming 21895 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in these past 16 days. There are even districts like Mandla where 47% of the people tested positive so far still in the hospital — though numbers may be less but also less is population of Mandla. Likewise in Shivpuri and Guna districts, more than 38% of the patients who have been tested positive are still in hospitals as active patients. Though the number of patients in these districts is less like in Mandla, overall only 274 people had tested positive so far and out of these 131 are active patients. But, if left unattended, these smaller districts could witness the next Covid-19 explosions. What gives further ground to this argument is the fact that though the situation in these districts have further worsened in the recent spurt of cases in past 16 days, but the condition was not too good even before this recent spurt. Like in Mandla now 47% of patients are active, 41% were active 16 days also, on August 20, when the tally of positive patients had crossed 1000. In Guna 49% of patients reported positive till then, were active patients as on August 20 — there has been a minor decline but still 37% are active patients. In Shivpuri the condition had deteriorated in past 16 days as only around 26% of the patients reported till then were active patients on August 20 but now the figure stands at 38%. Sources said that though Indore and Bhopal may be home to highest number of patients the percentage of active patients out of total tested positive so far is lower than these districts. In Bhopal less than 15% of the total reported positive are active patients as on September 4 and in Indore around 28% are active patients. But there is a major difference in both population density and the health infrastructure available in Indore and Bhopal compared to the 15 districts where the percentage of active patients is far above the state average. Overall in the entire state only 22% of the patients who have been tested positive so far are active as on September 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/smaller-dists-turn-big-covid-hotspots-active-cases-higher-than-mp-average/articleshow/77954415.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar 26th in ‘ease of doing business’||PATNA: Bihar has bagged 26th rank out of 36 states in the ease of doing annual business ranking of states and union territories released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday. The ranking is based on business reform action plan (BRAP) 2019. The neighbouring Jharkhand has bagged the fifth rank. The ranking was based on performance of states on 180 reform points, covering 12 business regulatory areas, including access to information, single-window system, labour and environment with the larger objective of attracting investments and ease of doing business. The ranking gave full weightage to the feedback from over 30,000 respondents at the ground level, who gave their opinions about the effectiveness of the reforms. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan attributed the low ranking of Bihar to lack of overall industrial development. “The BRAP rankings reflect the fact that the level of industrialisation is extremely low in Bihar. There is also a lack of supporting infrastructure, such as transportation and hospitality which hampers the ease of doing business in the state,” he said. Khaitan added, “I run around 11 businesses in Bihar across several industries, including plastic, transport and fabrication. I can tell from my experience that the facilities provided to businessmen in the state are below par.” According to the rankings, while Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh were touted as best performers in north and west region, respectively, Jharkhand left West Bengal behind to emerge as the best performer of the east region. Andhra Pradesh was the best performer in the south region and Assam at the 20th position was the best performer of the north-eastern region. Delhi was the best performer among all the union territories. Satyajit Singh, a leading makhana exporter from Patliputra Industrial Area, said unlike other states, the single-window clearing system was not properly implemented in Bihar. “In order to start a business, you have to fill 24 different forms of different departments. The entire process is very time consuming. No trader would want to do business in such a harrowing scenario,” he said. Barna Ganguli, assistant professor at the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), said, “Although there are abundant resources in Bihar, our industrial base is not that strong. Most industries went to Jharkhand after bifurcation. There is lack of policy support from the government which makes things difficult for businesses in Bihar,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-26th-in-ease-of-doing-biz/articleshow/77953772.cms||Arunima Lal
September 6, 2020||Patna||Cong holds digital rally, raps Bihar govt over unemployment||PATNA: The youth wing of the state Congress on Saturday held a digital rally – christened ‘Rozgar Do’ – and also announced to start an ‘unemployment registration campaign’ across the state from Sunday. The Congress youth wing also launched a toll-free number (7998799854), asking unemployed youths to get connected with it. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (youth wing) president Gunjan Patel said his team members would get all the youths connected to one digital platform and fight for their rights. “We have both online and offline options. We will collect the database of unemployed youth and compel the government to work for them and create jobs. If voted to power, the Congress will use this database for job creation. Our fight is to get around five lakh vacant posts filled in Bihar,” he added. While addressing a rally at Sadaquat Ashram here, All India Congress Committee youth wing president Srinivas B V lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar for the “plight” of youths in the state.” Party’s state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil said people of Bihar have made up their mind to change the government. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha appreciated the initiative taken by the youth wing and asked them to connect more people through their campaign. The youth leaders also held a meeting with the manifesto committee of the party. Committee’s chairman Anand Madhab said youth-related issues would be higlighted in the party’s poll manifesto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-holds-digital-rally-raps-govt-over-unemployment/articleshow/77954011.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Robbers flee with Rs 25 lakh from bank||KOLKATA: A gang of armed robbers barged into the Champahati branch of a nationalized bank on Saturday afternoon and fled with Rs 25 lakh after forcing an employee to open the cash locker. Six armed men, with their faces covered by black cloth, entered the bank around 3.40pm. They first snatched the revolver from the security guard and pushed him to the floor. They then threatened employees to remain at their desks and switch off their mobile phones. One of the robbers pointed a gun at the cashier and asked him to open the locker. They fled with a box containing Rs 25 lakh. Baruipur SP Rashid Munir Khan said, “We are investigating the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/robbers-flee-with-rs-25-lakh-from-bank/articleshow/77954310.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
September 6, 2020||Patna||Two Bihar teachers among 47 honoured by President Ram Nath Kovind||PATNA: President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday conferred the ‘National Teachers Award’ on 47 teachers from across the country, including two from Bihar, in a virtual ceremony on the birth anniversary of former President and educationist S Radhakrishnan, which is celebrated as Teacher’s Day. Sant Kumar Sahni, the headmaster of the Upgraded Middle School (Begusarai) and Akhileshwar Pathak, principal of Middle School Chainpur Bhaiswara (Saran), have been felicitated for their achievement in establishing a gender-sensitive school with more enrolment of girls and adopting new techniques of teaching for holistic education. Akhilehswar (51) said the award is a recognition for all teachers, who help provide better education to children. “This award would encourage many other teachers to bring positive change in the education system of government schools,” he said. He recalled, “Two years ago when I was posted here as principal, there was no boundary wall, no toilet for girls and no drinking water facility. Within a year, I started a dining hall for students to eat mid-day meal and installed RO 20 taps. With the state’s help, we also started a boarding facility for girls. We equipped the campus with CCTV cameras and arranged other facilities, including LED screens, and biometric attendance system for students.” “A separate hall with seating capacity for 100 students has been created recently equipped with a projector. We have 775 students, including specially-abled kids, and 10 teachers,” he added. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen congratulated him and said, “This award is an honour for the entire district. And there are enough possibilities from teachers and students of this district. Certainly, parents are responsible for the birth of a child, but teachers decorate and shape their career and as such the role of a teacher becomes most important in shaping the career of any youth.” Sahni, a visually- impaired teacher from Maoist-hit area in Birpur block in Begusarai, built a unique mini-museum at the school where ancient breeds of grains of 25 crops and, a small model of monuments have been kept. “We have a ‘skill club’ where students learn poetry writing and model-making skills. Several students received a national award for a science model. Last year, a student Gautam Kumar got the award,” he said. He added, “In my tenure, the school has been upgraded to a high school from middle school. The enrolment has increased from 123 in 2004 to 1,336 in 2019. We have 15 qualified teachers.” With Sahni’s efforts, the four-room dilapidated school building has been transformed into a 30-room school with facilities like library, laboratory, computer lab and smart classrooms. Principal secretary of state education department, Sanjay Kumar congratulated the national awardees and tweeted: “We are proud of your achievements and sense of dedication. May you be the role model for the education fraternity (sic).” Meanwhile, 20 teachers were felicitated with state award on Saturday. The awards were given to the teachers by the district magistrates. Patna DM Kumar Ravi has given appreciation certificates, mementoes and a cash award of Rs 15,000 each to Rajiv Ranjan, a teacher at SC/ ST Awasiya Vidyalaya, Gai Ghat and Ashok Kumar, a teacher at DAV Inter- School, Danapur Cantt. Online Teachers’ Day: With educational institutes are shut amid the pandemic, several city schools celebrated teacher’s Day on virtual platforms on Saturday. Students sent digital cards, screened compiled videos of songs, dances, speeches and poems and with other innovative ways, they showed their appreciation to their teachers. Live games on social platforms and an array of events, kept teachers glued to their screens. (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-bihar-teachers-among-47-honoured-by-prez-kovind/articleshow/77953748.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar hopeful of getting central aid||PATNA: State disaster management department (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Saturday said the additional details sought by the central team on the damage caused to infrastructure by floods in the state this year would be sent within a week. The state government has demanded a financial assistance of Rs 3,328 crore from the Centre to mitigate the flood damages. “They have sought some additional details on the damage caused to the infrastructure facilities. Like in the case of roads, they sought to know the nature of damage and similar other points in other matters,” Amrit said, adding, “We will send them the details within a week.” “The central team follows standard protocol. We cannot say when the assistance will be provided. They listened to our case with concern. We are hopeful about the central assistance,” he added. The six-member central team headed by joint secretary in the Union ministry of home affairs Piyush Goyal toured the three districts of Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj on Wednesday and Thursday to make their own assessment of the damage caused by the floods. On Friday, heads of the departments concerned – DMD, rural works, agriculture, road construction, energy, building construction and water resources – had made a detailed power-point presentation of the damage caused by the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-hopeful-of-getting-central-aid/articleshow/77953894.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||Lung cancer treatment to have lesser side-effects||Vadodara: A research carried out by a team from M S University’s Faculty of Pharmacy promises safer treatment of patients battling lung cancer. The researchers have developed a new drug delivery system that ensures that 80% anti-cancer drugs reach their target — the lungs — instead of other organs of the body which often results in multiple side effects. For the invention of this new nano-based formulation, Dr Hetal Thakkar and her PhD student Dr Rahul Dhande have been granted patent by government of India. The patented invention is called ‘Pegylated spherulites of anticancer active ingredients.’ “Currently, the main problem in treatment of cancer is non-specific distribution of the drugs. When you are treating a patient of lung cancer, you want that the anti-cancer drugs target the lungs. But since such anti-cancer drugs reach other organs of the body as well, it results in serious side effects like anaemia, thrombocytopenia, cardiac arrhythmia and alopecia among others,” said Thakkar. The researchers have formulated pegylated spherulites of two anti-cancer drugs — gemcitabine hydrochloride and vinorelbine tartarate, already used in treatment of lung cancer. “Pegylated spherulites are nanocarriers. In layman’s terms, spherulites which are of nano size provide a coating to the anti-cancer drugs,” she said. The researchers evaluated the efficiency of the new formulation using various in-vitro and in-vivo studies carried out at the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, which is a Delhi-based lab of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The in-vivo studies conducted on rats indicated the preferential accumulation of the formulation in the lungs and negligible distribution to the other organs. “In fact, more than 80% reached lungs. This proved that the formulation developed by us offered a safer alternative to the conventional treatment of lung cancer. The new formulation helps in targeted delivery of the drugs without severe side effects,” she said. “We were waiting for the grant of the patent. Now, any pharmaceutical company manufacturing anti-cancer drugs can carry out human trials so that patients suffering from lung cancer get a safer treatment,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lung-cancer-treatment-to-have-lesser-side-effects/articleshow/77953589.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 6, 2020||Surat||SMC employees hold liquor party in office, suspended||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) swung into action after two of its employees arranged a liquor party in the civic body office and a video of the party went viral on social media. According to SMC officials, they received the video showing the two SMC employees having a liquor party in the office. After verifying the contents, the duo seen in the video had been suspended with immediate effect. “The employees who were seen in the video having liquor party were identified as Virendrasinh Thakore, clerk and Vishal Munsi, a clerk with South Zonal office. They organized a party while they were on duty wearing uniform of the civic body. Considering seriousness of the matter, SMC has suspended both the employees with immediate effect,” said an SMC official. “Besides suspension, a departmental inquiry too has been initiated against the them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-employees-hold-liquor-party-in-office-suspended/articleshow/77953621.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Eight of one family beat coronavirus||Surat: Eight Covid-19 positive members of a family in Katargam locality of Surat have recovered from the disease. According to the officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), 53-year-old Magan Dobariya, who is into real estate business, his wife Rita, son Nilay (30), daughter-in-law Disha, daughter Dr Reema Dobariya and two nephews — Paresh and Nikhil — were infected with Covid-19.Magan Dobariya, a native of Rohishala village of Botad district, has been living in Surat for the past 25 years. He had developed Covid-19 symptoms in the first week of July and got admitted to a hospital for treatment.“All our family members got tested for Covid-19, of whom seven were tested positive. Two kids were tested negative. Our daughter-in-law Disha was also tested positive. She has a newborn child (Rigved). Doctors have advised us that she can continue breast feeding her child,” Magan Dobariya said.“Our neighbours Arvind Monpara and Mukesh Savani helped our family during this difficult time and provided food and other help while our family members were in home isolation,” Dobariya added.Magan Dobariya donated plasma after 28 days of his recovery to help other Covid-19 patients get fast recovery with plasma therapy.“I also had Covid-19 symptoms and spent two weeks in home isolation. I got tested for antibodies and it was found to be positive. So, I went to donate my plasma at the SMC run SMIMER Hospital, but the hospital authority requested me to donate blood, as blood too was in short supply. If plasma is required, I will be ready to donate it any time,” said Dr Reema Dobariya .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-of-one-family-beat-coronavirus/articleshow/77953639.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||80% donated plasma at AIIMS-P in August||PATNA: Of the 250 people who have donated plasma at AIIMS-Patna so far, more than 80% did so in August alone. Plasma therapy is recommended for Covid-19 patients with moderate or severely moderate symptoms. Altogether 170 people have so far undergone plasma therapy at AIIMS-P, including 96 in August. The number of Covid cases had spiked from 54,508 on August 1 to 1,36,337 on August 31, as per the data of the state health department. Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer at AIIMS-Patna, said as the demand for plasma donation increased last month, more people came forward. “Around 200 cured patients voluntarily donated their plasma in August. Plasma therapy has shown encouraging results at the hospital,” she said. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-P, said, “Of 230 plasma transfusion, the doctors have applied plasma therapy on 60% patients with moderate symptoms and 40% patients with severely moderate or severe symptoms. Of them, only 2% severe patients have recovered.” He added, “Plasma was also given to the NMCH-Patna and two other private hospitals for therapy in August.” To encourage blood plasma donation, the state government recently announced a cash reward up to Rs 5,000 for the donors. Besides, the hospitals have already been giving incentives and mementos to the donors. “AIIMS-Patna gives travelling allowance of Rs 500, certificate and food to the volunteers from the very beginning of plasma trial. Now, the donors will get Rs 5,000, as the notification has already been issued by the ate government in this regard. We will start taking the bank account details of the donors from Monday,” an AIIMS-Patna official said. Dr Sanjeev added, “The doctors create awareness among the existing and former patients about plasma donation. As the therapy involves extraction of plasma from the blood of recovered Covid patients, the doctors first check the IgG level of the donor. These people should have good amount of antibodies. Some people do not fulfil the parameters of plasma donation.” NMCH-Patna and PMCH had started plasma therapy recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/80-donated-plasma-at-aiims-p-in-august/articleshow/77953713.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 6, 2020||Hubballi||Farmers demand MSP procurement centres||Dharwad: Members of the district unit of Bharateeya Kisan Sangha (BKS) have urged the administration to set up centres to procure green gram, soya bean and maize under minimum support price scheme in Dharwad district. In a memorandum submitted to the deputy commissioner here on Friday, BKS leaders said after a long gap, farmers in the district who had suffered losses were harvesting kharif crop and were expecting some income. They said farmers who have already harvested the crop were being exploited by commission agents at APMC yards by offering low price. The commission agents are making money by selling the produce procured from farmers, BKS alleged. The government has fixed a minimum support price of Rs 7,196 per quintal for green gram, Rs 3,780 for soya and Rs 1,850 for maize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmers-demand-msp-procurement-centres/articleshow/77953026.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Seven members of one family go missing in Morbi||Rajkot: Seven members of a family have mysteriously gone missing from Morbi. Police said Shambhu Luhar (55), Rekha Luhar (50), Kamlesh Luhar (26), Lakhi Luhar (70), Dharmishta Luhar (17), Anandi Luhar (13) and Hasi Luhar (21) have gone missing for the past few days.“The missing persons are from one family who used to live in a rented flat in Hari Om Park Society of Morbi. They have gone missing ever since one of their family members have done love marriage,” said an official from the Morbi police.“The relatives of the Luhar family have registered a missing complaint, on the basis of which we have launched a search for the missing members of the family,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-members-of-one-family-go-missing-in-morbi/articleshow/77953883.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Affidavit found in school teacher’s sexual harassment case||Surat: Police came across an affidavit during the investigation in the alleged sexual harassment of a school teacher in an Adajan school on Saturday. The case that involves top realtor and diamond unit owner Chunilal Gajera is becoming murkier with every passing day.In this case, a 50-year-old former school teacher of a school run by Gajera’s trust alleged that Gajera had harassed her by calling her at his office in December 2018. She lodged a complaint against Gajera on Tuesday with Adajan police station. On the same day an offence of alleged extortion of Rs 11 lakh was lodged against the school teacher by Shweta Parihar, the school principal.The police are yet to make any arrest in the absence of strong evidence against the accused in both the cases.Earlier in the extortion complaint, the copy of an agreement was submitted by Parihar in which the school teacher had signed and given undertaking that she would not use pressure techniques against the school in future for money. However, the police are yet to confirm that the signature is that of the woman. The police have also asked the school principal to submit the original document which has the signature of the woman. The police are supposed to call the woman for the confirmation about the signature. Meanwhile, another agreement of the woman with one Tushar Shah was found during investigation, sources in the police informed. In the agreement, she was assured by Shah that he would help her find a job. The police now suspect that both the agreements were signed at the same place after agreeing over some points.“There is no strong evidence against Gajera and without evidence the police cannot arrest him at present. The woman had submitted a complaint in the past and later submitted a letter requesting to discontinue police actions, and then again approached the police to register an offence,” said a police officer. The school teacher had approached Adajan police station multiple times since April 2019 to lodge a complaint and only after order by Gujarat high court, the police complaint was registered. Initially, the woman had submitted an application in the police four months after the alleged sexual harassment but soon submitted an application to stop legal actions. After a few months she again approached the police to register an offence but the police did not register it due to past records.The 50-year-old woman was a teacher in the school in Pal area from July 2018 to March 2019. During this period she was allegedly sexually harassed by Gajera who allegedly called her at his office in Katargam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/affidavit-found-in-school-teachers-sexual-harassment-case/articleshow/77953811.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||Vegetables price soar in Patna as local supply chain hit||PATNA: The prices of onions and other seasonal vegetables have soared in the city, burning a hole in the common man’s pocket. While the cost of onion in the retail market has surged from Rs 15 to Rs 30 per kg in a fortnight, the price of cabbage has also gone up from Rs 10 to Rs 25-30 per kg. Similarly, the price of bottle gourd has soared to Rs 30 and that of pointed gourd risen to Rs 70. Tomatoes are priced at Rs 50-60 per kg and eggplants at Rs 50 per kg. Sellers at the Phulwarisharif market told this newspaper on Saturday that the local supply of most vegetables had almost dried up in the last few days because of rainfall and floods, leading to a gap in demand and supply and a surge in prices. “Since the local supply has been affected, I am buying coriander leaves from my wholesale supplier for Rs 400 per kg because he brings them from Bengaluru. And people here want us to give them coriander leaves and chillies for free. How do we do that?,” asked Chandan Kumar, a vegetable seller at Police Colony near Anisabad. A vendor on Anisabad Mor, Dina Nath Chaudhary, attributed the rise in veggie prices to increased transportation costs due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The cost of transporting nearly 5 tons of tomatoes and cabbages from Bengaluru to Patna is Rs 1,18,000 and Rs 1,40,000, respectively. Consequently, tomatoes that sell for Rs 20 per kg in Bengaluru cost around Rs 60 per kg in Patna,” Chaudhary claimed. Pramod Kumar Pandey, who procures large supplies of vegetables for hotels and banquet halls from the Mithapur Mandi, pointed out that the quality of vegetables had also deteriorated because of the erratic changes in weather. “My clients have been complaining about the bad quality of vegetables. Most of them are either rotten or damaged,” he said. Not just seasonal vegetables, the prices of beans and capsicums have also shot up. On Boring Road, French beans are being sold for Rs 70 per kg as opposed to Rs 50 last week. Capsicums, which were priced at Rs 40-45 per kg last week, are now available for Rs 70. The sudden rise in vegetable prices has disturbed the budget of many households. “Prices are on fire because of which I am buying less vegetables. My wife only cooks chickpeas and ‘rajma’ for us these days,” rued Amrendra Kumar from Kankarbagh. Rajeev Nagar resident Premlata Devi said, “The prices of onion, garlic and ginger have skyrocketed. Garlic was being sold for Rs 80 per kg a week ago, but now it is priced at Rs 150. It is difficult for me to run a household.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/veggie-prices-soar-in-city-as-local-supply-chain-hit/articleshow/77953691.cms||Arunima Lal
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Ridership improves on B’luru-M’luru KSRTC buses||Mangaluru: The lockdown left the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) reeling under enormous losses and the situation continued to look grim as ridership remained poor even after the restrictions were lifted. Now, KSRTC’s Mangaluru division is buoyed with the improved ridership on buses plying on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru route. While ridership on Volvo AC buses continues to remain less than encouraging, officials are nevertheless pleased with the development, and are keeping their fingers crossed to see more passengers riding on the buses soon. Explaining the poor patronage for Volvo services, KSRTC Mangaluru division controller SN Aruna told TOI, “Normally, it is executives and professionals who prefer to take these buses but most of them are working from home, and even on those rare instances when they do have to travel, they prefer to take their own vehicle.” Although the division’s buses on all routes have registered a spurt in ridership in the past two months, the officials are awaiting directions from the government to resume inter-state services. “The central government has relaxed rules on travel, but restrictions continue to remain in place in some of the states. This is the reason we are waiting for the government to clarify its stance on the subject. Once the confusion is cleared, we will start operating buses on those routes,” Aruna said. He said that they were tracking the public response minutely. “Since maintaining of a safe distance is vital to checking the spread of Covid-19, increase in ridership has been slow across divisions. For instance, KSRTC operated 200 trips between Mangaluru and Dharmasthala daily before the onset of the crisis. After the lockdown was lifted, we started with 40 to 50, which has now risen to 120. However, the continued closure of schools and colleges, coupled with restrictions on ceremonies has meant that patronage has not picked up drastically,” Aruna added. In addition to buses being thoroughly cleaned regularly, all employees are being subjected to pulse test on oximeter every day. he estimated loss till August end was Rs 47 crore and revenue loss is around Rs 100 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ridership-improves-on-bluru-mluru-ksrtc-buses/articleshow/77952979.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot’s Covid picture gets dirty with muddled death, case figures||Rajkot: Deaths due to Covid-19 in Rajkot suddenly shot up in August ringing alarm bells across the state’s power corridors, forcing principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi to camp in the city for the past few days along with industries commissioner and former Rajkot collector Rahul Gupta. If sources are to be believed, the duo has been asked to stay put till the situation improves. According to figures released by the district administration, nearly 320 people succumbed to the virus in August alone, while more than 40 have died in the past four days of September. On the other hand, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC)’s official release, however, claims that only 75 deaths had been reported in the city since the outbreak of the global pandemic. The district administration declares the death toll on a daily basis but the final cause of death is subject to audit by the death audit committee. This panel was formed by the state government in each district to standardize the process of declaring deaths from coronavirus. It, however, has remained conspicuous with its silence over the final death figures. Even the head of the death audit committee in Rajkot, Umed Patel, denied sharing details of the number of deaths with TOI. “I am not authorized to share any detail with the media, this is a very sensitive matter and I won’t give you any figures,” he said.District collector Remya Mohan told TOI, “All the deceased who are suspected to have died from Covid or from co-morbidities are cremated as per Covid protocol. Hence, the figure of death is looking big.” District health officer Manish Bhanderi said that 33 percent of coronavirus positive patients are from neighbouring districts besides patients from Rajkot rural too, who are getting treated in the city. As such, the number of Covid-19 patients in Rajkot looks huge.”The number of positive cases in Rajkot district crossed the 5,000 mark two days ago. According to official data, the total number of positive cases in the city is more than 3,600 at present, while that of the rural is above 1,500, including the 20 children from the observation home. Sources claim that complaints of unsatisfactory service in Rajkot civil hospital, as well as private hospitals taking higher charges, have been listed. After the transfer of Manish Mehta, superintendent of the civil hospital, no other doctor has been given charge looking at the current situation and the total charge has been retained with the collector’s office. All the senior doctors have been allotted different responsibilities by the administration. Sources also point at the ‘lack of coordination between Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and the collector’s office since the beginning’, which it also claims has added to the worsening situation. RMC in a first stopped giving names of positive patients by June end, and then sometime in July also stopped giving figures of death in the city. Accusing the government of trying to hide from public, leader of opposition in RMC, Vashram Sagathiya said, “The government has stopped giving real figures of death to hide their failure. We demand RMC and district collector to declare all the details related to Covid transparently.” RMC officials raided a few private Covid hospitals to verify their rates and services, but none has been penalized till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkots-covid-picture-gets-dirty-with-muddled-death-case-figures/articleshow/77953526.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Pregnant doctor undeterred in fight against Covid-19||Rajkot: She is six-month pregnant. Yet, she is undeterred in her fight against Covid-19. Meet Dr Shahin Adham, a corona warrior who has been travelling to various villages of Lodhika taluka in Rajkot district in Dhanvantari Rath, a mobile medical van, carrying Ayurvedic medicines for coronavirus.“To me, duty comes first before my life. I have to visit different villages and carry out health check-ups of the people. Back home, I also have to attend to my three-year-old daughter,” says Dr Shahin. “Since August this year, I have conducted the health check-up of 11,102 people in different villages of Lodhika taluka. Those covered under the health check-up included 274 diabetes patients and 322 blood pressure patients,” informs Dr Shahin. “While performing my duty, I am also taking care of the child I am yet to give birth to. I eat nutritious food for my child. I also take care of sanitization the moment I get back home. I bathe myself properly applying soap to my body as soap is known to kill coronavirus. Then I clean my face mask and hand gloves with sanitizer,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pregnant-doctor-undeterred-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/77953673.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Eight people practising Garba booked||Rajkot: Eight people were booked for practising garba on Friday night in Rajkot and charged with violation of Covid notification. The accused comprised Dandia teachers and learners who were practising ahead of Navratri. While patrolling, Gandhigram police heard loud Garba music being played in the area on Friday and discovered the gathering. Considering the act to be violation of notification regarding Covid-19 that prohibits any kind of gathering, the police booked eight people and brought them to the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-people-practising-garba-booked/articleshow/77953546.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||Resumption of train services sought||BHAGALPUR: Even as the railway ministry has announced to start more special passenger trains across the country under Unlock 4.0, a section of residents of Bhagalpur and Banka districts under Malda railway division of Eastern Railway (ER) are disappointed owing to non-resumption of intercity trains on Sahebganj-Danapur and Banka-Patna routes. Several business organisations, Indian Medical Association, District Bar Association and Railway Passengers Users’ Organisation have also demanded resumption of long-distance trains to Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mumbai and other destinations from Bhagalpur. Earlier, only one special passenger train – Dibrugarh-Delhi Brahmaputra Mail – which touches Bhagalpur junction, was resumed on June 3. “Resumption of only Brahmaputra Mail is not serving the purpose as it does not stop at small stations. For common people as well as patients, there is an urgent need to resume intercity and long-distance trains from Bhagalpur,” IMA general secretary Dr Birendra Kumar Badal said. Meanwhile, railway officials said Malda railway division is in action mode to resume services of intercity and long-distance trains from Bhagalpur. “We are awaiting Railway Board’s nod,” said Yatendra Kumar, divisional railway manager (DRM) at Malda railway division. According to railway sources, the mechanical department of the ER recently sent a report to the Railway Board for resumption of long-distance trains originating from Bhagalpur. The maintenance department of railways has also given its nod to resumption of regular train services from any day. Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Ashok Bhiwaniwala said revival of business and economy along with safeguarding people’s lives could only bring the country and human lives back on track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/resumption-of-train-services-sought/articleshow/77953852.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabs his neighbour in Rajkot over illicit affair, booked||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Saturday for brutally stabbing his neighbour in his stomach, pulling out his intestines in Mafatiyapara area of Rajkot on Friday night. Police said the accused, Vikas Soni, allegedly stabbed Shani Deep (22), for allegedly having an illicit relationship with his wife.Deep was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Meanwhile, Soni has been detained after having been booked under sections 307, 504, 506 (2) and 135 of Indian Penal Code.“We have detained Soni on the complaint of Deep’s father Vikram Deep. Vikram has admitted that his son has an extra-marital affair with Soni’s wife. Soni and Deep fought over this issue in the past,” said an investigating official. Soni had even deserted his wife, who had entered into a live-in relationship with Deep. After staying two months with Deep, she returned to Soni. However, her relationship with Deep continued. On Thursday night, Soni spotted his wife and Deep together in Deep’s room. Soni picked up a fight with Deep and threatened to kill him. Then on Friday night, he attacked Deep. “We have detained Soni. We will be arresting him after he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added the official.Both Soni and Deep are migrant labourers from Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabs-his-neighbour-in-rajkot-over-illicit-affair-booked/articleshow/77953853.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Congress cries foul over BJP chief’s visit at Rani ki vav||Palanpur: Opposition leader in Patan municipality Bharat Bhatiya has demanded that Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani should ensure that fees of Rs 35 is collected from each BJP member who on Friday had visited world heritage site – Rani Ki Vav – along with state BJP president C R Paatil.A copy of the letter has been forwarded to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) circle at Vadodara which manages the ASI protected monument.He said that during lockdown all heritage monuments were closed for visitors. They were recently opened for general public with the condition that the tickets should be purchased online and social distancing norms should be maintained.But this rules were openly violated as around 70 workers including Paatil were not only allowed inside the monument but were given a red-carpet welcome.“If BJP refuses to pay for this visit, I will urge residents of Patan to collect money from the police officials and employees of the district collectorate. The entry fee of the ticketed monument comes to Rs 2,450 for 70 BJP persons who had entered the monument without paying for it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/congress-cries-foul-over-bjp-chiefs-visit-at-rani-ki-vav/articleshow/77953868.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Surat police forms rules for TRB jawans, prompted by RTI plea||Surat: An application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act seems to have prompted Surat city traffic police to formulate rules that govern the traffic brigade (TRB) jawans. The decision of the city police taken last week also assumes significance was there have been incidents in recent past where TRB jawans have been accused of extortion and illegally penalising traffic violators.Currently 1,486 TRB jawans are working in Surat against total approved strength of 1,600. These jawans work under Traffic Education Trust and their services are of honorary nature, for which they are paid an honorarium.In July, 78-year-old retired banker Hasmukh Modi filed an RTI application seeking information from Surat police about the rules that govern the TRB jawans, who assist in managing city traffic at various junctions. Hasmukh also questioned the power given to the jawans. “My father was disturbed after watching a few videos on social media of a TRB jawan manhandling citizens and extorting money from them,” said Hasmukh’s son Rajesh Modi, a textile engineer. The father-son duo have been regularly filing RTI applications on various civic issues. In his application, Hasmukh had sought details of rules that govern the TRB jawans. He also asked if any punitive actions can be taken against erring TRB jawans. Hasmukh had specifically asked if these jawans were allowed to stop vehicles in case of traffic violation and collect fine. In reply to the RTI application, the public information officer of city traffic police replied, “There is no information available related to the questions in the form of record.”“I have never come across such a vague reply from the government office till now. It was shocking to know that they (city police) don’t have any rules that govern the TRB jawans who assist a law enforcing agency,” said Rajesh.However, last week, the traffic department formulated detailed rules governing the TRB jawans. “There were no rules for TRB since its inception. It came to our knowledge recently, after which we formed detailed rules and this will help us ensure discipline in performance of the traffic brigade,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Earlier this year, a TRB jawan was arrested on corruption charges while a couple of others were booked in Mahidharpura police station for extortion attempt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-police-forms-rules-for-trb-jawans-prompted-by-rti-plea/articleshow/77953777.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 6, 2020||Patna||JEE, NEET: Rlys extends run of spl trains||PATNA: The railways has extended the run of the Buxar-Fatuha special train (03261/03262) up to Islampur to help the candidates of JEE-Main, NEET and NDA exam to reach their centres easily. It has also decided to stop the Katihar-Patna special (05713/05714) at Narayanpur and the Patna-Bhabua special (03243/03244) at Bela and Guraru. “The Railway Board has given its approval to run 20 pairs of MEMU/DEMU and eight pairs of intercity special trains for JEE, NEET and NDA examinees from different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) till September 15,” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper. At present, special trains are being run on the Patna-Gaya (03211/03212), Fatuha-Buxar (03261/03262), Mokama-Danapur (03217/03218), Muzaffarpur-Raxaul (03311/03312), Samastipur-Saharsa (03349/03350, 03251/03252) and Samastipur-Muzaffarpur (03269/03270) routes. Trains are also running on the Barauni-Katihar (03313/03314), Samastipur-Katihar (03315/03316), Barauni-Patna (03283/03284), Sonepur-Chhapra (03253/03254), Muzaffarpur-Patliputra Junction (03267/03268), Gaya-Dehri-on-Sone (03291/03292), Gaya-Kiul (03355/03356), Gaya-Patna (03545/03546), Rajgir-Danapur (03339/03340), Gaya-Kiul (03317/03318), Raxaul-Patliputra Junction (05215/05216) and Raxaul-Samastipur (05217/05218) routes. “The railways will run a special train (01651/01652) between Singrauli under the ECR’s Dhanbad division to Madan Mahal in Jabalpur from Sunday to cope with passengers’ rush. It will leave Singrauli at 4.45am and reach its destination at 12.30pm. On its return journey, it will leave Madan Mahal at 3.10pm and reach Singrauli at 10.40pm,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jee-neet-rlys-extends-run-of-spl-trains/articleshow/77953841.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||BJP forms 35 committees||PATNA: State BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal on Saturday announced constitution of 35 different committees to handle the party’s poll-related activities. Two Union ministers – Nityanand Rai and Ravi Shankar Prasad – will head the steering committee and publicity-cum-propaganda wings of the party, respectively. “The Election Commission is likely to announce the poll schedule soon. Accordingly, we have also set up various committees to handle the party’s poll activities,” Jaiswal said. “The state NDA will have its own separate poll manifesto, but the BJP will prepare its own manifesto,” he said, adding agriculture minister Prem Kumar will head the manifesto committee. Similarly, health minister Mangal Pandey has been made the chairman of the equally significant election management committee, and would be assisted by former MP Janak Chamar and MLC Samrat Choudhary. However, the steering committee headed by Rai takes the cake with 69 other members, including Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Raj Kumar Singh, Giriraj Singh and Ashwini Kumar Choubey, as well as former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh, besides the party’s state chief Dr Jaiswal, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, senior state ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar and Mangal Pandey. State BJP general secretary Dewesh Kumar has been made its co-convener. The other prominent members of the steering committee are Dr C P Thakur, Renu Devi, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Ram Kripal Yadav, Rama Devi, Pradeep Kumar Singh, Gopal Ji Thakur, Ajay Nishad, Janrdan Sigriwal, Chhedi Paswan, Gopal Narayan Singh, Satish Chandra Dubey, Rakesh Sinha, R K Sinha, Vinod Narayan Jha, Sanjay Paswan and Rituraj Sinha. Party sources said the steering committee members would have the important task of spreading themselves out in the state to mobilise people by presenting before them the achievements of the central government under PM Narendra Modi and also of the state NDA government headed by CM Nitish Kumar, as well as presenting the party’s viewpoint on the national issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-forms-35-committees/articleshow/77954039.cms||Abhay Singh
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Rolling back to normal: 4th tram route to start ops||Kolkata: After a trial run on Saturday, one of the most popular tram routes in the city — Shyambazar to Howrah — will be open for the public. This is the fourth route to open after restoration post Amphan as tram services limp back to normal.Earlier, services on Tollygunge-Ballygunge, Rajabazar-Howrah bridge and Gariahat-Esplanade were opened and there has been a revenue jump with more and more passengers choosing it in this time of the pandemic. The services have been closed since March 2020 when the lockdown started. The engineering section of WBTC has been working continuously to restore the overhead wires destroyed by Amphan. The cyclone had also led to tram tracks being damaged by trees. Out of the six routes operative before the pandemic, three routes have earlier been restored. The Ballygunge-Tollygunge route, the trial run for which was conducted on June 13, was resumed from June 14 keeping safety protocol and social distancing norms in mind. The trial run for the second route — Rajabazar-Howrah bridge — was conducted on July 2 and the route was operational from July 3. On July 20, the trial run for the third route — Gariahat-Esplanade — was conducted and services started on July 21. At present, as part of the new normal, no passenger is being allowed on board without a mask. Other safety measures include proper and regular disinfection and sanitization of the depots and the tram cars, before and after each shift of operation. Earlier, some trams were fitted with heritage art installations to make the youth aware of the Kolkata’s history of trams. The timing of the currently running routes is from 7am to 8pm and the services operate at intervals of 25 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rolling-back-to-normal-4th-tram-route-to-start-ops/articleshow/77954274.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 6, 2020||Patna||No decision yet on GA’s CM face: RLSP||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha on Saturday said the seat-sharing formula within the Grand Alliance should be decided at the earliest. Kushwaha told this newspaper over the phone from New Delhi that the leaders of the RLSP called on RJD state president Jagadanand Singh in Patna on Friday and submitted a list of constituencies the party wanted to contest in the upcoming assembly polls. “It will be beneficial for all alliance partners if the seat-sharing formula is finalised at the earliest. I don’t think there will be any problem. But it is getting delayed. If it is done early, the candidates will start canvassing through virtual platforms as per EC’s guidelines,” he said. Kushwaha, however, remained non-committal on RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as CM candidate of the opposition alliance. He said he had spoken umpteen times on the issue and that no decision has been taken on CM candidate of the GA yet. “The decision on the CM candidate will be taken at the meeting of Congress, RJD, RLSP and other alliance partners,” he said. The former union minister said there was no question of his party returning to the NDA fold. “The NDA will bite the dust as people have made up their mind and are looking for an alternative to the present dispensation,” he asserted. On HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi’s joining hands with Nitish Kumar, the RLSP leader said it was his (Manjhi’s) personal decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-decision-yet-on-gas-cm-face-rlsp/articleshow/77954029.cms||Ramashankar
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||3rd lung transplantation in last mth carried out in city||Hyderabad: The third lung transplantation over the last one month was reported in Hyderabad on Saturday, after the family of a brain dead patient at Apollo Hospitals agreed to donate the organs. This was the first organ donation in the last two months in the state. While the state Jeevandan officials have been actively involved in getting donors, there have been a few months when no donations happened in the state. “This is a donor from our own state and this is the first donation happening after two months. With this donation, two kidneys, one lung, one liver was donated,” said Dr Swarnalatha, incharge, Jeevandan Telangana. The lung transplantation gave a new lease of life to a 53-year-old patient at KIMS Hospitals. The donor was a 43-year-old who was in a road accident & was declared brain-dead and the recipient was a patient of Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3rd-lung-transplantation-in-last-mth-carried-out-in-city/articleshow/77955733.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Transport of salt in open wagons begins||Rajkot: For the first time on Friday industrial salt was loaded on to open containers from Vavania station near Morbi that comes under Rajkot division of Western Railway. The newly formed Business Development Unit (BDU) had requested the railway board to amend the rule to allow transport of industrial salt in open wagons. According to the railways, the salt was not allowed to be transported in an open wagon. The traders have to pay 20% less freight if goods are transported in open wagons. On Friday, 3,883 tonne of loose industrial salt was transported from Vavaniya to Renukoot station in Dhanbad division of Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/transport-of-salt-in-open-wagons-begins/articleshow/77953899.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 recovery rate in Bihar touches 88%||PATNA: State health minister Mangal Pandey on Saturday claimed Bihar has reached the top position in terms of Covid-19 recovery rate in the country. However, as per the data shared by Union minister of health and family welfare on Saturday morning, the recovery rate of Bihar was 87.79%, while that of Dadar and Nagar Haveli/Daman and Diu, it was 88.36%. Pandey said 1,965 people have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. “So far, 1,28,376 people have recovered from Covid in the state, taking the recovery rate to 88.01%,” he claimed. Meanwhile, altogether 1,727 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,45,861. Officially, nine deaths were reported on Saturday. With this, Covid toll in the state has jumped to 750. Active cases in the state, on the other hand, stand at 16,733. IPRD secretary Anupan Kumar said the state was witnessing a drop in number of active cases and increase in recovery rate. “Every day, the number of tests is increasing. Still, the positivity rate is under control,” Suman said, adding 1,50,483 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the highest test done in a day so far. So far, 38,71,733 samples have been tested in the state. As per the data shared by the state health department, two fresh deaths were registered in Patna, Bhagalpur and Munger, taking the toll in these districts to 177, 50 and 30, respectively. Lakhisarai, East Champaran and Saharsa reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna has recorded two fresh deaths. The deceased included a 32-year-old woman from Madhubani district and a 55-year-old woman from Kaura in Bhojpur. Hospital’s Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said nine people were discharged and 13 admitted on Saturday. “There are 147 patients Covid patients in the hospital as of now,” he added. No fresh death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. Of 1,727 cases registered across the state in the last 24 hours, 220 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 22,318. However, with 20,025 recoveries, active cases stand at 2,116 in Patna district. Muzaffarpur has recorded 126 new cases, Purnia 98 and Araria 83.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-in-state-touches-88/articleshow/77953676.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 6, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur: 19-year-old girl burned to death||PATNA: A 19-year-old girl, Sufiyan Parveen, was allegedly burned alive over a land dis by her uncle and aunt at Rampur Bakhri village under the Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur district on Friday night. The accused – Zainul Abdeen and his wife Hakima Khatoon – fled the village along with their three minor sons after committing the crime. Hakima’s father and brother are also evading arrest. Sufiyan’s mother Husna Bano has lodged an FIR with Sakra police station against Zainul, Hakima, her father and brother, accusing them of strangulating her daughter and then burning her alive by pouring kerosene. Sufiya’s younger brother Kudrat Ali told TOI over phone on Saturday that the former had gone to take bath at her neighbour Samshud Zoha’s house as their handpump was not working. “Zoha’s family had given us keys of their house to use the bathroom. Hakima and others burned my sister to death at Aoha’s house and fled,” he said. Kudrat said his father Abdul Sattar had written 10-dhur village land to Zainul ten years back before his death. “My uncle now claims ownership of that land as well as 10-dhur additional land in which we live,” he said. SHO of Sakra police station Lallan Kumar said efforts were on to arrest the four accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-year-old-girl-burned-to-death/articleshow/77953878.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||Will fill 4.5 lakh vacant posts if voted to power, says Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday said if voted to power, his party would fill 4.5 lakh vacant posts in various government departments in the state. He also launched a web portal – www.berozgarihatao.co.in – and issued a toll-free number, 9334302020, for preparing database of unemployed youths in Bihar. Addressing a press conference at the RJD office here, the younger Yadav scion said, “At 46%, Bihar’s unemployment rate is maximum in the country. Even in the category of poverty and migration, Bihar is the worst. The state’s poverty rate is 52% and every other family has to migrate either for job, health service or education. Despite ruling the state for 15 years, CM Nitish Kumar failed to address these issues.” Tejashwi said with elections round the corner, the government has started offering job only on contract basis to save its face. “I am discussing the issue of unemployment with experts and will come up with a blueprint soon,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi also criticised various government institutions like Bihar Public Service Commission and Bihar Technical Service Commission for “delaying” the recruitment process. He said, “What Nitish could not do in 15 years, how can one expect him to achieve the same two months before election? Industrial units and IT parks have not come up in the state yet. Removing Nitish-led NDA government is the only way to boost employment in the state,” he added. Reacting to Tejashwi’s charges, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the former has no right to raise the issues of unemployment and migration. “Maximum migration took place during Lalu-Rabri regime in the state when industrialists, doctors and students left the state to save their lives. Tejashwi should avoid touching these issues.” Meanwhile, Tejashwi on Saturday also criticised the government’s decision of providing employment to one member of a Dalit family if anyone in that family is murdered. He said the move would only promote murders. “The CM should have come up with a plan to ensure that Dalits are not murdered,” he added. JD(U) spokesperson Ranjan said the announcement made by the CM has made Tejashwi worried and uncomfortable. “Such statements of Tejashwi which will only hurt the Dalits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-fill-4-5l-vacant-posts-if-voted-to-power/articleshow/77953935.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar legislative assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary opens 50-bed Covid care facility||PATNA/SAMASTIPUR: State legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary inaugurated a 50-bed Covid health facility at A N M School in Dalsinghsarai on Saturday. He was accompanied by Samastipur district magistrate Shashank Shubhankar. Set up with the cooperation of the district health society and a public trust, the specialized facility will be used to isolate and treat moderate and severe corona patients. As many as 48 beds are connected with a centralized oxygen gas pipeline system. The Speaker promised all possible support to the health department for managing the new facility and ensuring uninterrupted services. “The effort put in by the state government to prepare an action plan amid the Covid crisis has started showing its direct effect today. Whether it is a matter of recovery rate or number of tests, we are not lagging behind any state,” Choudhary said. He added, “The 50-bed Covid care centre has ventilator facility which is not available in any government or private hospital nearby. Apart from the people of Dalsinghsarai sub-division, the residents of Samastipur and some areas of Begusarai district can also come here.” Lauding the initiative, the DM said, “The public trust has worked intensively with TB patients in the district. Their overall work in healthcare is commendable.” Civil surgeon Sudhir Kumar Singh, SDO Gyanendra Kumar, DSP Dinesh Kumar Pandey, ACMO Dr Jitendra Kumar, sub-divisional hospital’s deputy superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Singh and nagar panchayat’s executive officer Rajesh Kumar Ranjan, among others were present on the occasion. According to sources, nearly 10,000 corona tests are being conducted in Samastipur daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-opens-50-bed-covid-care-facility/articleshow/77953701.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sting-wary Madan Mitra files complaint, three held||KOLKATA: The Ballygunge police have arrested three persons — two from Belgharia and one from Khardah — for allegedly trying to record a video of former Trinamool minister Madan Mitra on his office premises in the Ballygunge area. Mitra, who himself lodged the complaint, stated that the accused had “wrongfully trespassed” his office on Ballygunge Circular Road and were recording the videos to deliberately extort from him. The accused have been identified as Ankan Datta, 21, Sanjay Chakraborty, 50, and Mrinal Mukherjee, 48. According to cops, Datta is a college student. The accused have been charged under various IPC sections pertaining to house trespass, putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy. DC (SED) Debasmita Das confirmed the arrests. Speaking to TOI, Mitra said he received a call from an unknown number and one of the accused sought to meet him. The accused said they were from Belgharia, his constituency. “I told them to come to my Ballygunge office as I am not well and not visiting my constituency at the moment. They said they needed to discuss some personal issues and requested others to leave. The accused then spoke about helping professionally, but I realized one of them was from BJP. My colleague who came in pointed out the accused were video recording everything and my PSOs confirmed it. I have now handed them over to cops. No one is above the law,” Mitra said. In a Facebook video released by Mitra, he claimed Datta introduced himself as a pass-out from a reputable university who wanted to join Trinamool, Mukherjee claimed he wanted to return to the party. Chakraborty introduced himself as an advocate. It was during a 45-minute conversation at the Automobile Association of Eastern India office, of which Mitra is the president, that the accused tried to record him. “I have been a victim of dirty sting politics before and I was asked by my party leaders to be watchful. I have now caught them red-handed,” Mitra said. Some Trinamool workers claimed the main opposition party was behind this “unsuccessful sting”, though they have not produced any evidence so far. Cops said a further probe was needed to ascertain if the accused were working on behalf of someone else. Cops are likely to send the mobile phones of the accused to forensic experts, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sting-wary-madan-files-complaint-three-held/articleshow/77954269.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 6, 2020||Goa||Sr public prosecutor, who won CBI its 1st case in Goa, resigns||Panaji: S R Rivankar, the state’s senior public prosecutor in the high court, who won the CBI its first case in Goa in 1998, has tendered his resignation. During a trial at the Margao sessions court in the custodial killing of an alleged criminal, Abdul Gaffar Khan, Rivankar got one police inspector and head constable convicted. He was later given a letter of merit. “It was a sensational case. The family wouldn’t take the body and the government, under pressure, finally handed the matter over to the CBI. The deceased was a notorious criminal from Margao. When he was arrested, something went wrong and he was found dead with several injuries,” Rivankar recalled. He also handled several high-profile and sensitive cases during his tenure, including that of the death of a British teen, the kidnapping and murder of a young DJ and most recently, the Merces double murder case. According to Rivankar, a public prosecutor is not a prosecutor for the government. “It’s not about defending the government but defending the public. A conviction is not a success for the government but for the public. The public must be satisfied that justice has been served,” he said. Rivankar said he strove to help the poor if he could. “There’s no point helping rich people. They can get the best legal advice and assistance in the country,” he said. Although he has resigned as senior public prosecutor, Rivankar told TOI that he will continue to fight income tax matters, his favourite subject. After obtaining his LLB degree in Goa and his LLM degree in Mumbai, Rivankar practised for a few years in the Bombay high court before returning to Goa in the late 1980s. He began independent practice in 1992 and continued till 1997. He was appointed standing counsel by the Centre from 1998 to 2000, handling mostly custom and excise matters. He was also appointed by the I-T department as standing counsel from 2002 to 2011, and continued with the CBI till 2010. In 2011, he gave it up for private practice until the late chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2012 asked him to join as a public prosecutor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sr-public-prosecutor-who-won-cbi-its-1st-case-in-goa-resigns/articleshow/77955742.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Encroachers evicted from flats meant for poor in Mussoorie||Mussoorie: The officials of Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) and the local administration have started evicting illegal occupants of the flats built for financially weaker sections under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) on the Tehri Bypass road. The matter was taken up by the MMC after the issue was reported by TOI on September 1. MMC officials, along with police teams, reached the site on Saturday to evict the illegal occupants and out of the 40 families residing in these flats, 18 were evicted. Speaking to TOI, executive officer of MMC, ML Shah said, “MMC had conducted a survey last week and had intimated the illegal residents to vacate the flats. As they didn't abide by our orders, we are forcibly evicting them now.” Meanwhile, the residents who were evicted vented their anger against the administration. “We were rehabilitated here after our houses were damaged four years ago. Now, we cannot be arbitrarily removed without even a notice. We will not vacate these houses,” said Anital Godiyal. Residents alleged that the MMC was adopting a ‘biased attitude and that those residents’ who had the support of local politicians were not being evicted. “Why were only 18 families evicted? Why not all 40? A former chairman of MMC and his close aides had allowed a few families to occupy these flats and such families are not being removed,” said a resident, who did not wish to be named.Notably, MMC land on Tehri Bypass road had been taken by the administration to construct 90 flats for the financially weaker section under the JNNURM. However, only 40 flats could be constructed. Among these, 25 flats were fully constructed while the remaining 15 were left in semi-finished conditions. Later, all 40 flats were occupied by local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/encroachers-evicted-from-flats-meant-for-poor-in-mussoorie/articleshow/77953723.cms||Anmol Jain
September 6, 2020||Kanpur||‘Ensure strict Covid protocolcompliance to curb mortality’||Kanpur: Additional chief secretary medical education Dr Rajneesh Dube on Saturday directed district authorities to ensure the compliance of Covid protocol strictly in containment zones, ensure all people must wear masks and conduct door to door sanitization. Dube, additional chief secretary industrial development Alok Kumar-I and Dr R K Singh convened a meeting with district officials at collectorate auditorium and asked them to arrange better facilities at Level-2 private hospitals. The patients having corona symptoms should be admitted to Covid hospitals, he added. He directed the authorities to ensure the rapid response teams visit the residence of each Covid patient in home isolation to inspect the facilities and arrangements, adherence to Covid protocol and supervise the health of the patients and their caregivers. Two teams of doctors should be deputed in two shifts to collect the data of home isolation patients. If the patients or their caregivers report any difficulty in breathing then they should be sent to Covid hospital immediately. In the meeting with divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde, district magistrate Alok Tiwari, chief development officer Dr Mahendra Kumar, CMO Dr Anil Mishra, additional CMO R P Yadav, Dubey said all the patients admitted to flu corner at private hospitals should be tracked. The officials also directed the district authorities to increase the number of ICU beds in Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals, including GSV Medical College, Kanshiram hospital and Rama Medical College. They were told around 100 ICU beds would be added Very soon. The officials said all specified measures must be taken to reduce the mortality rate. The health of patients admitted in hospitals must be monitored daily by a team of doctors. The samples of senior citizens, patients having comorbidities and those in serious condition with Covid symptoms should be marked and kept separately and their testing must be given on priority so that their treatment starts at the earliest. They also told officials to increase the number of surveillance teams and stress on contact tracing of positive cases. Kumar said sampling capacity should be increased further and the work of rapid response teams must be cross-checked. The officials emphasized on providing ambulance services timely and ensuring better medical facilities to Covid patients. The doctors should take multiple rounds of the Covid wards and monitor the condition of the patients earnestly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ensure-strict-covid-protocolcompliance-to-curb-mortality/articleshow/77954782.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Secondary attack rate of 8.8% for Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: A study carried out by the researchers from the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), claimed the secondary attack rate (SAR) of 8.8% in confirmed Covid-19 positive patients in Gandhinagar district. SAR can be explained as the new (secondary) cases out of the total contacts of the primary infected person, said experts. The results also pointed at more secondary infection among the women and less mortality among the secondary cases. The primary study, titled ‘Household Secondary Attack Rate in Gandhinagar district of Gujarat state from Western India’ by a team of authors led by Komal Shah, assistant professor at IIPH-Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) and Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G, is currently under review. Shah said that for the study 74 household in Gandhinagar district except municipal corporation area were randomly selected that reported at least one RT-PCR confirmed case between March 28 and July 2. “From these households, we selected 386 of their close contacts. Their analysis revealed 34 positive cases, giving 8.8% of SAR,” she said. Talking about relevance of the study, Mavalankar said that it’s one of the first primary-level research in SAR for the state. “We had earlier conducted systematic review of the global papers on SAR and also studied the result of a similar work by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for India. The primary finding of 8.8% SAR is almost on the lines of ICMR study that showed SAR of 6% for India,” he said. He added that there could be factors ranging from genetics to immunity which could be reason for the phenomenon. “If we see SAR of a few other infectious diseases, it’s higher than Covid-19,” he said. “But it should be kept in mind that the study was limited to rural or semi-urban area with relatively less denser population and it was based on RT-PCR confirmed cases. It’s possible that SAR could be higher in cities like Ahmedabad and it’s also possible that some of the infections could have gone unreported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/secondary-attack-rate-of-8-8-for-gnagar/articleshow/77954429.cms||Parth Shastri
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Amid reports of dissent, U’khand BJP plans ‘grand party meet’ in Doon before Assembly session||Dehradun: As reports of dissent within the Uttarakhand unit of BJP are doing rounds, party insiders say that they are mulling to have a grand MLA meet to demonstrate that everything is fine in the organisation. The speculations of dissent arose after at least three BJP MLAs met party’s top bosses in Delhi to express their displeasure over the “non-cooperation” from the chief minister and the “indifference” shown by officials. The MLAs who approached party president JP Nadda are Umesh Sharma ‘Kau’ from Raipur constituency, Puran Singh Fartyal who represents Lohaghat constituency in Champawat, and Didihat MLA Bishan Singh Chuphal. According to sources, Kau is unhappy with delay in the release of funds for his area under MPLAD scheme and the slow pace of development works. He has also alleged non-cooperation from the bureaucracy. Similarly, Fartyal also wrote a letter to the national president of the party alleging corruption in road construction work between Tanakpur and Jauljibi. And Chuphal was miffed with the fact that several road contracts were given to firms that do not fulfil the requirements to bag government tenders. The MLAs maintained that all these delays project a negative image of the local leaders. Commenting on the MLAs meet before the beginning of the Assembly session, BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said, “No MLA is against the party and all of them have already made this clear. The Opposition has no other job but to raise fake issues as they have nothing substantial to talk about. As for the proposed meeting of the MLAs, it’s a basic protocol that the CM meets all the MLAs before the Assembly session to discuss the matters to be tabled in the House. The meet will probably take place two or three days prior to the Assembly session,” he added. Meanwhile, the Congress has attacked the incumbent government saying how will the ruling party manage a pandemic when it cannot even manage its MLAs. “This is nothing but a mockery of democracy. Even BJP MLAs are aware that their slogan of zero tolerance towards corruption is fake and fraud. All the dissenting MLAs have the same complaints — development works in limbo in Uttarakhand,” said Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-reports-of-dissent-ukhand-bjp-plans-grand-party-meet-in-doon-before-assembly-session/articleshow/77953737.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Rain exposes Trichy’s lack of preparedness, bldg violations||Trichy: Heavy rain that lashed most parts of Trichy on Friday has exposed the unpreparedness of the city, as waterlogging in commercial streets affected motorists, and rainwater entered the shops in the basements. The most affected were the major commercial streets of Thillai Nagar, Salai Road, West Boulevard Road and Chathiram bus stand vicinity. With the Trichy Corporation undertaking smart stormwater drain construction work on the existing drains, the rain flooded the low-lying and vulnerable areas within an hour for the first time in recent years. The materials kept for the construction work also resulted in blocking the water flow. However, residents say construction work alone cannot be blamed for the mess as there are several building violations. “Recently, a private lab was sealed for building plan violation. There are several such violations in commercial complexes too such as converting basement meant for parking as shops. That is also one of the reasons for shops getting damaged,” K Shyam Sundar, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) said. Encroachments was cited as another reason. Following the rain, corporation workers struggled for six hours to stop the inundation. “New stormwater drains are facilitated with rainwater harvesting (RWH) mechanism. We are also identifying vulnerable spots to establish roadside RWH structures to harvest the surplus water. Teams are formed to avoid waterlogging in the vulnerable spots,” S Amuthavalli, city engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-exposes-trichys-lack-of-preparedness-bldg-violations/articleshow/77955745.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Cong questions state govt for not holding Assembly session on Monday||Dehradun: The state unit of Congress has once again raised the issue of not holding an Assembly session on Monday, which is the day when questions can be asked from the chief minister (CM) regarding the works related to more than 40 departments that are under him. The Congress MLAs have claimed that the Assembly session was cancelled on Monday so that the CM could escape from answering the questions related to his departments. Qazi Nizamuddin, Congress legislator from Manglaur in Haridwar district, said, “I can’t remember when was the last time a session was held on Monday. The CM is heading some of the most important departments like home, PWD, and health and yet we are not being given a chance to ask questions from him. All departments are equally important but due to the pandemic, healthcare has become the major concern and everyone wants to know what further is being done to improve medical services.” In a similar vein, Manoj Rawat, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, said that rather than starting the session from a Wednesday (September 23), the state could have chosen Monday. “The six-month deadline for holding a session ends on September 25. Therefore, it should have started on Monday. During the monsoon and Covid-19 outbreak, health and PWD remain the two most important areas and questions related to them should be answered. We are noticing that the state government has avoided holding an Assembly session on Monday earlier as well,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-questions-state-govt-for-not-holding-assembly-session-on-monday/articleshow/77953747.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||Sero survey in Bhopal from Monday, 8,000 to be tested in first||BHOPAL: Sero-survey for Covid-19 that will give health experts an indication of immunity against the virus in the population will begin in Bhopal from Monday, according to top health department officials. Around 85 teams will carry out the survey in all the 85 wards of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). The member of the teams underwent a through training at Gandhi Medical College (GMC). The team of trainers was lead by HoD community medicine, Dr D K Pal. Other experts include HoD microbiology Dr Deepti Chauraisa and Dr S K Patne. Around 8,000 people across the city have been identified for the survey. ‘Kish grid’ selection method which uses a pre-assigned table of random numbers to find the person to be interviewed, would be utilised. It is a technique widely used in survey research. In once household or building only one person would tested for detection of IgG antibodies, said an official. ‘IgG antibodies’ generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection, once the individual has recovered after infection and can last for several months. The random sampling would be of asymptomatic of people in general population as well as in high risk populations. According to ICMR protocol, the sero-survey would be conducted using an IgG ELISA kit. Scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune have developed and validated an indigenous IgG ELISA test for antibody detection for Covid-19. Blood sample is taken from a subject. Then test would reveal if IgG form after an infection or immunisation in the subject. Sero survey main aim is understanding the virus’s epidemiology in the general population. Unlike direct detection methods like RT_PCR test, antibody tests help determine whether the individual being tested was previously infected—even if that person never showed symptoms. However, not everyone is convinced about sero-survey and its efficacy with very little understanding of Covid-19. Going by US CDC ‘currently, there is no identified advantage whether the assays test for IgG, IgM and IgG, or total antibody’ for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sero-survey-in-city-from-monday-8k-to-be-tested-in-first/articleshow/77954424.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Religious amity in new sectt: Asad||Hyderabad: Welcoming the CM’s assurance to inaugurate a temple, a mosque and a church on the same day inside the new Telangana secretariat AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said: “The CM had shown us a plan of a bigger masjid with better infrastructure in another location inside the premises. But, members of AIMPLB and other organisations said that once the masjid is built, it cannot be shifted. Reacting to this, the CM said he doesn’t have any objection.” The Hyderabad MP was addressing reporters at the party headquarters in Darusalam on Saturday. Meanwhile, taking potshots at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said: “It has been hours since Chinese defence minister issued a statement after bilateral talks in Moscow, we still don’t have a statement from our government. May be our Prime Minister is busy feeding peacocks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/religious-amity-in-new-sectt-asad/articleshow/77955746.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Labourers to get corona scan at railway stations||AHMEDABAD: From Sunday, the AMC will start a drive to ensure that no Covid positive labourer enters the city. On Friday, the civic body had sealed the bullet train construction site after it found 52 labourers positive. The AMC will begin scanning those entering the city through railway stations. AMC officials said that over the past week, authorities have found a large number of infected labourers at three major sites. The officials said that 125 labourers were found positive at a PSP construction site; 22 at a North construction site; and 52 at the bullet train construction site. The officials said that the infected labourers can transmit the disease to many co-workers. Hence the AMC decided that all labourers will be checked at railway station stage itself. The officials said that the majority of those found infected were from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar. These labourers will return to their native states. An official said that as the drive to check large organizations began, it was decided to examine construction labourers as well. AMC teams will be deployed at Kalupur, Sabarmati, and Maninagar stations. Those who test positive will be sent to Covid care centres or hospitals depending on the symptoms. An official said that earlier, check posts had been set up on all highways to scan people and over 1,800 positive cases were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/labourers-to-get-corona-scan-at-railway-stations/articleshow/77954442.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand jumps to 11th spot in ease of doing business index||DEHRADUN: In the latest ranking for ease of doing business released by the department of promotion of industry and internal trade, Uttarakhand has secured the 11 position nationwide. This is a major jump considering that the Himalayan state was ranked 23rd in 2015. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who attended the video conferencing session with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, said that the state has witnessed major changes and reforms in the last three years and as a result, the rankings have gone up considerably. CM Rawat maintained that constant efforts are being made to ensure investment in the state and the Uttarakhand government has come up with several policies to help those people who are planning to invest in the state. The CM said that the availability of skilled labour, crime free environment, easy availability of resources, and close connectivity with Delhi have made Uttarakhand a major centre for investment in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-jumps-to-11th-spot-in-ease-of-doing-business-index/articleshow/77953765.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||DD to telecast edu programs for Classes VI to VIII||Dehradun: The state education department has decided to telecast educational shows for students of Classes VI to VIII on public broadcaster Doordarshan. The programs will run for an hour from 11:30 am to 12:30 pm and will cover three subjects — English, Hindi, and Mathematics. The decision was taken as it became evident that the reopening of schools for students of lower secondary classes and primary classes is unlikely during Unlock 4 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Also, many students from hilly regions of the state were facing difficulties in accessing online classes. The ‘Gyandeep’ program is shown on DD Uttarakhand and can also be accessed on the YouTube channel of the public broadcaster. Notably, the state education department is already telecasting educational shows for students of Classes IX to XII on Doordarshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dd-to-telecast-edu-programs-for-classes-vi-to-viii/articleshow/77953755.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Ariyalur grievance meet to be held online||Trichy: The Ariyalur district administration is set to resume the conduct of weekly grievance meet that was stalled for the past five months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The redressal meeting from Monday (September 7) will be conducted online. People can directly communicate their grievances with the district collector and other senior officials. District informatics centre (DIC) said the meet will be conducted through Google meet platform. On Monday morning at around 10am, the technical team will facilitate a tab on the official website www.ariyalur.nic.in for the public to join the meeting. Moderators will oversee the progress of the meet and guide the petitioners while officials will hear the grievances from conference hall in Ariyalur collectorate. People with access to mobile phone or laptop with internet connection can connect form their homes whereas citizens lacking such facilities can make use of nearest e-Seva centre functioning from the agriculture cooperative society. The meet shall be held till 1pm, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ariyalur-grievance-meet-to-be-held-online/articleshow/77955756.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Ganja has little benefit, serious impact on health’||VARANASI: A critical analysis of medicinal use of ganja (cannabis) has found that it has little medicinal benefit but serious health consequences. A team of researchers at Tata Memorial Center, Mumbai led by Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi (Deputy Director, Center for Cancer Epidemiology, Tata Memorial Center, Mumbai) conducted critical analysis of all major studies conducted on the use of cannabis and marijuana and reached on this conclusion, which has also been published in the ‘Indian Journal of Palliative Car’e on August 29. After TMC’s Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre shared details of the studies on Saturday, TOI contacted Dr Chaturvedi for details. He said, “Our team is conducting a research to see whether cannabis extract can be effective in giving relief to palliative cancer patients, who suffer unbearable pain both physical and mental. This study had been started recently and is in initial stage. But, before this research we worked to critically evaluate the available data regarding its medicinal benefits, health hazards and long-term outcomes of legalization. Major outcome of this study was that cannabis has several serious health consequences.” Efforts are made to know cannabis’s medicinal benefits, he said adding, “We studied cannabis role in the control of nausea and vomiting, in control of chronic pain, epileptic disorders and other problems. We found that there is very weak evidence that cannabis is beneficial when used in other diseases such as Crohns disease (chronic inflammatory bowel disease), sleep disorder, glaucoma, Tourette syndrome (nervous system disorder.” There are several case reports of tumours that have responded to treatment with cannabis such as gliomas, lymphomas, prostate cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, skin cancer, and pancreatic cancer, he said adding, but there is no strong evidence to recommend them in routine oncology practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganja-has-little-benefit-serious-impact-on-health/articleshow/77954823.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Roadways awaits nod from neighbouring states||Chandigarh: The Haryana transport department has written to the governments of Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir, seeking their nod to resume inter-state bus service in the northern region. Currently, the Haryana Roadways buses are plying to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh only. Once Delhi gives the permission, the state will also start deploying Volvo buses on Chandigarh-Delhi-Gurugram route. According to the transport department officials, if all goes well, the Haryana Roadways will soon start full-fledged inter-state service to all the neighbouring states, especially Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir. Since the start of unlock procedure, Haryana has pressed around 1,700 buses in service, plying within the state as well as to Rajasthan and UP. Once the situation further eases, the Roadways will deploy another 500 buses on these routes. Director general of transport department Virender Dahiya admitted that it could take some more time before the entire fleet is out on road. “As of now, we are waiting for response from the neighbouring states. In view of the guidelines of the Union government, we are hopeful of getting an early response. So far as plying of buses within the state is concerned, we will run more buses only after the demand increases,’’ said Dahiya. Currently, schools-colleges are closed, and all head offices in Chandigarh and Panchkula, including mini secretariat and Haryana civil secretariat, have been declared out of bounds for the general public, he said, adding, “We are here to provide service but only in accordance with the demand.” Haryana has around 3,600 buses in its fleet, out of which 100 are kept on standby. Due to lockdown there was no service between April and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-roadways-awaits-nod-from-neighbouring-states/articleshow/77955749.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn urged not to raise funeral charges||Trichy: The city-based litigants’ welfare association has urged the Trichy Corporation not to revise the funeral charge for cremating bodies at the Oyamari electric crematorium here. At present, Rs 1,500 is collected as cremation charge per body. The association claimed that the civic body is contemplating to revise and increase the charges by 100% and added that people below poverty line (BPL) and marginal families will suffer due to this proposal. However, following the backlash, the corporation has distanced itself from the proposal. Usually, about five bodies are cremated at the crematorium. As it is situated on the banks of the Cauvery river, residents sentimentally prefer this over other crematoriums. Apart from city residents, people from suburbs including Akilandapuram on Lalgudi Road have also been using this facility. The association further claimed that the civic body has handed over the maintenance to a trust and as per the agreement has permitted it to collect Rs 3,000 per body. “The proposal to handover the maintenance to a private trust should be nullified and the fare should not be revised,” M Sekaran, president of the association said. “The agreement with the private trust was not okayed as they are unwilling to operate amid the Covid-19 outbreak,” a senior corporation official said. However, the civic body was hesitant in assuring that the funeral charge will not be revised if another trust or organization agrees to take up the maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-urged-not-to-raise-funeral-charges/articleshow/77955748.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chicalim panchayat shut after member tests positive||VASCO: The Chicalim panchayat will remain shut till Thursday after an office-bearer tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The building was immediately sanitised. Sources said that since the member had a slight fever on Friday, he underwent a Covid-19 test at the sub-district hospital at Chicalim. After he was found to be positive, the panchayat office was instructed to complete important work and shut down. It will now reopen on Friday. The member has asked those who have come in contact with him to take a Covid-19 test. He is believed to have organised a house-warming ceremony on September 1 and on September 4, he and a few other panchayat members and staff had inspected the nullah at Assai Dongri, Chicalim, where PPE kits, allegedly from the Dabolim airport, had surfaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-panchayat-shut-after-member-tests-positive/articleshow/77955763.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Green corridor for organ transport||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad traffic police provided a green corridor to facilitate non-stop movement to an ambulance carrying live kidney, lungs and liver on Saturday within the city limits. The green channel was provided to the ambulance from Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills to KIMS Hospital, Begumpet. According to Anil Kumar, Additional CP Traffic, the ambulance covered the 11.5 km in nine minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-corridor-for-organ-transport/articleshow/77955764.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||51% of active cases in city’s west||Ahmedabad: Ghatlodia, Bodakdev, Thaltej and Gota — in the North West Zone — account for over 17% of the total active cases in the city. The western part of the city accounts for 51% of the 3,246 active cases. The North West Zone has the highest (561) cases followed by 542 in the West Zone comprising Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, Vasna and Sardar Patel Stadium. The South West Zone has 538 active cases. The zone covers Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej, Vejalpur and Maktampur. AMC officials said that for the past one week, these three zones have been registering the maximum increase in cases. They said active surveillance has been taken up in this part of the city. The officials said that even the central part of the city, which had about 310 cases, now has 326. The officials said that on the micro-containment list of 19 areas, nine are from the North West Zone and one from the West Zone. The micro-containment areas had 40 or more houses in most instances. The officials said that the newly merged areas of Bopal-Ghuma are recording a high number of cases. Many societies in Bopal are on the micro-containment list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/51-of-active-cases-in-citys-west/articleshow/77954455.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||226 new Covid cases in Bhopal in a day, count at 12,134||BHOPAL: 226 new cases of the infection were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital, here on Saturday. Since the pandemic began 12134 cases have been reported in Bhopal resulting in 300 deaths. On Sunday, it would be first times in a month that markets will be opened in the state capital. Eight people tested positive in Coral Woods colony on Hoshangabad Road. Four of the infected were from the same family. Four others tested positive in Saket Nagar in Sector-B. All were from the same household. At Arera Colony, cases of Covid-19 infections continued to increase. E1, E-2, E-6 and E-7 areas in Arera Colony reported more cases of the infection. Mahadev Parishar (Shivaji Nagar) also reported one cases of the infection. Palace Orchard (Kolar) reported two positive cases of the infection. The same colony reported a wall collapse after heavy rainfall last week. Nearby Shalimar Complex (Kolar) also reported new cases of the infection. Residential colony of public broadcaster, Doordarshan reported it sixth case of the infection on Saturday. Health department has initiated containment measures in the colony. Medical practitioners continued to be amongst the infected. Six doctors were diagnosed with the deadly infection. They are from from AIIMS Bhopal, Jawaharlal Cancer Hospital, CHC Bairagarh and JP Hospital. Two doctors have been tested positives in a Malviya Nagar hospital. Public sector, bank LHO, in MP Nagar which has reported about 50 cases of the infection, reported two more positives on Saturday. Housing Board (Koh-e-Fiza) reported three positives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/226-new-covid-cases-in-city-in-a-day-count-12134/articleshow/77954448.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Anil Vij supports Kangana Ranaut, raps Sanjay Raut||AMBALA: Haryana cabinet minister Anil Vij on Saturday came out in support of actor Kangana Ranaut and criticised Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for reportedly asking her not to return to Mumbai. “Is Mumbai the ancestral state of Shiv Sena or Raut? Is it his father’s state? Mumbai is a part of India and anyone can go there. Action should be taken against people who make such threatening statements. You cannot stop someone from speaking the truth,” the minister said at his residence in Ambala on Saturday. “Where is the candle brigade that comes out on the road on every issue? Why are they not speaking on this and why are they are not returning their medals when she is being stopped from speaking?” he questioned. On Ranaut alleging drug scams in Bollywood and demanding protection, Vij said, “Kangana Ranaut should be given protection and allowed to make revelations on whatever she wants to make freely. India is a free country and she should be allowed to express herself freely.” On September 3, Kangana Ranaut tweeted, “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/anil-vij-supports-kangana-ranaut-raps-shiv-sena-leader/articleshow/77955761.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, dhadi jathas unite for revival of folk art||Ambala: Taking a step towards the revival of dhadi jathas (bard groups), a group of Sikhs in Haryana have formed the Haryana Dhaddi Sabha in the memory of 17th Century dhadis (bards) Bhai Abdullah and Bhai Nath Mal, who were employed by Guru Hargobind to recite heroic ballads at Akal Takht Sahib in Amritsar. Lakhwinder Singh Paras of Rajouli village in Ambala district was elected the president of the sabha, after a meeting at Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib in Ambala on Friday. Paras said the motive of the organisation was to organise and revive the art and support dhadi jathas of Haryana and ensure their welfare. Bhai Abdullah’s name was Mir Abdullah. He belonged to Sursing village, Amritsar district, and was an expert rabab player. Bhai Natha belonged to Sultanwind, Amritsar district, who played the dhaad. Dhaddis were distinct group performers who emerged in the times of Sikh gurus and they sang ballads of warriors playing instruments like dhadd and sarangi, which are folk instruments related to Punjab. They play an important role in preserving and telling the history related to Sikhism. Paras said, “As per my knowledge, this is for the first time ever that dhadi jathas of Haryana have been united under an organisation. The motive is to revive and spread dhadi art in Haryana, Punjab, India, and rest of the world. The organisation will help and support dhadis in times of need and any family problems. The body will provide them loans from available funds without any interest which they can return in installments. The body will also help budding dhadis with content and in all aspects. There is a plan to open a training centre for teaching dhadi art to the young generation too and we will write to panthic organisations and societies for establishing the institution.” So far, 20 dhadi jathas of Haryana have associated themselves with the organisation, including 10 from Ambala, four from Panchkula, three from Karnal, and two from Kurukshetra. Other office-bearers of Haryana Dhaddi Sabha include vice-president Gurmel Singh Kaler of Mardon Sahib village of Ambala, chief adviser Amar Singh Noor of Machhonda village of Ambala, chairman Kartar Singh Mehram of Majra village of Ambala, press secretary Malkiat Singh BA of Kalerheri village of Ambala, secretary Raghubir Singh Khalsa of Fatehgarh village of Ambala, treasurer Narinder Singh Rana of Asa Singh Garden Colony, Ambala City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-haryana-dhadi-jathas-unite-for-revival-of-folk-art/articleshow/77955759.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||No rush this Saturday as Sunday lockdown is over||Trichy: As the government has lifted complete lockdown on Sundays, it has brought down public movement on Saturday compared to previous weeks. Since April, Trichy Corporation had imposed complete lockdown in the city with commercial establishments closed except those selling essential commodities. Due to this meat shops and fish stalls saw a huge crowd on Saturdays as people stocked up for Sundays. As part of unlocking measures, Tamil Nadu government had said that complete shutdown will not be imposed on Sundays from September 1. “Compared to last few Saturdays, the sale of meat was down by 60% this week. As the complete lockdown is lifted, people did not rush to stock the meat for the next day. After months, we are going to open our business on Sunday,” said J Prabakaran, a meat stall owner from Palakkarai. Trichy Corporation sources acknowledged the drop in public movement and gathering in shops this Saturday compared to previous weeks. “Usually, there used to be crowding dueing closing time of the shops on Saturdays, it was absent this week,” a health official said. Other shops including grocery outlets also saw a dip in footfall. The urban local body added that monitoring will resume in fish markets and meat stalls on Sundays to regulate the crowd and ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-rush-this-saturday-as-sunday-lockdown-is-over/articleshow/77955760.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 6, 2020||Varanasi||Five arms suppliers linked to Mukhtar Ansari gang arrested||VARANASI: Azamgarh police on Friday night arrested five arms smugglers from Mahuari village of the district. However, four of their accomplices managed to escape in a SUV after opening fire on the cops. The cops recovered 24 live cartridges of AK-47 from the arrested persons. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said the arms and ammunition suppliers were connected with jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and other criminal gangs, including that of slain don Prem Prakash alias Munna Bajrangi. Singh said, “Acting on a tip-off an arms deal at a tubewell in Mahuari village under the limits of Tarva police station, a team of police raided the place. On seeing police some miscreants opened fire. While four of them fled the scene after boarding a SUV, five were caught.” The arrested arms smugglers were identified as Arun Singh alias Sintu, Hariom Singh, Anjani Singh, Anand Singh and Navin Singh. Their accomplices who managed to escape were identified as Manish Rai, Chhotu Singh, Anup Singh and Vivek Singh. Apart from 24 live cartridges of AK-47 riffles, a country-made revolver, a SUV and two motorcycles were recovered from them. During interrogation they confessed to their involvement in supplying arms to criminal gangs of east UP region. Singh said they divulged that the cartridges of AK-47 were given to them by one Chhotu, who was sharp-shooter of Bajrangi in past. Azamgarh cops nabbed the arms suppliers at a time when jailed Mukhtar is already facing heat as his economic empire and armoury is being targetted by the police for the past last three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/5-arms-suppliers-linked-to-mukhtar-gang-arrested/articleshow/77954843.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||Six held for gambling in Sambhal, Rs 28k seized from spot||Bareilly: Six people were arrested on Saturday for allegedly gambling in an agricultural field under Rajpura police station in Sambhal district. A sum of Rs 28,000 in cash, packs of playing cards and 19 motorcycles were seized from the spot. Bijendra Singh, SHO, Rajpura police station, said, “The arrests were made based on a tip-off that a group of people were engaged in gambling in agricultural field at Devra Bhura village. Around 15 people were were found gambling on the spot. We managed to arrest six while the others managed to flee." The six who were arrested have be identified as Shripal, Amarpal, Fareed, Rishipal, Ramesh and Buddhi. An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act, SHO Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-held-for-gambling-in-sambhal-rs-28k-seized-from-spot/articleshow/77952989.cms||Maria Khan
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,311 new Covid cases, 16 deaths reported in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours added 1,311 Covid cases, taking the total to 1.03 lakh. It was the state’s fifth consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases in a day. The cases included 277 in Surat, 167 in Ahmedabad, 145 in Rajkot, 119 in Vadodara, and 111 in Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 62.5% of the cases in 24 hours. With the update, the cumulative cases in Vadodara and Rajkot crossed 8,800 and 5,500 respectively whereas the cases in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,436 and 21,957. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,094. The deaths include six from Surat, three from Rajkot, two each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar and Mehsana. One of the patients was identified as a resident of another state. Covid deaths in Rajkot crossed 100 as Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now have 1,731, 651, and 139 respectively. With one death of a patient from outside Gujarat, the toll for the patients from outside the state is three. A total of 1,148 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 83,546. The discharges include 388 from Surat, 169 from Vadodara, 107 from Jamnagar, and 78 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the death rate of Gujarat reduced to 3%. Till the beginning of June, the mortality rate was 6.25%. The share of discharged and active patients in the state is now 81.1% and 15.9% respectively. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 16,366 active patients. In 24 hours, Gujarat carried out 72,751 tests, taking the total to 27.08 lakh. State health department officials said that the number is 1,119 tests per day per million people. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 5.69 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 2,138 are in quarantine facilities, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-adds-1311-new-cases-16-deaths-reported-in-24-hours/articleshow/77954462.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat adds 1,311 new Covid cases, 16 deaths reported in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours added 1,311 Covid cases, taking the total to 1.03 lakh. It was the state’s fifth consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases in a day. The cases included 277 in Surat, 167 in Ahmedabad, 145 in Rajkot, 119 in Vadodara, and 111 in Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 62.5% of the cases in 24 hours. With the update, the cumulative cases in Vadodara and Rajkot crossed 8,800 and 5,500 respectively whereas the cases in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,436 and 21,957. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,094. The deaths include six from Surat, three from Rajkot, two each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar and Mehsana. One of the patients was identified as a resident of another state. Covid deaths in Rajkot crossed 100 as Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now have 1,731, 651, and 139 respectively. With one death of a patient from outside Gujarat, the toll for the patients from outside the state is three. A total of 1,148 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 83,546. The discharges include 388 from Surat, 169 from Vadodara, 107 from Jamnagar, and 78 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the death rate of Gujarat reduced to 3%. Till the beginning of June, the mortality rate was 6.25%. The share of discharged and active patients in the state is now 81.1% and 15.9% respectively. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 16,366 active patients. In 24 hours, Gujarat carried out 72,751 tests, taking the total to 27.08 lakh. State health department officials said that the number is 1,119 tests per day per million people. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 5.69 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 2,138 are in quarantine facilities, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-adds-1311-new-cases-16-deaths-reported-in-24-hours/articleshow/77956724.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Surat||Gujarat adds 1,311 new Covid cases, 16 deaths reported in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours added 1,311 Covid cases, taking the total to 1.03 lakh. It was the state’s fifth consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases in a day. The cases included 277 in Surat, 167 in Ahmedabad, 145 in Rajkot, 119 in Vadodara, and 111 in Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 62.5% of the cases in 24 hours. With the update, the cumulative cases in Vadodara and Rajkot crossed 8,800 and 5,500 respectively whereas the cases in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,436 and 21,957. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,094. The deaths include six from Surat, three from Rajkot, two each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar and Mehsana. One of the patients was identified as a resident of another state. Covid deaths in Rajkot crossed 100 as Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now have 1,731, 651, and 139 respectively. With one death of a patient from outside Gujarat, the toll for the patients from outside the state is three. A total of 1,148 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 83,546. The discharges include 388 from Surat, 169 from Vadodara, 107 from Jamnagar, and 78 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the death rate of Gujarat reduced to 3%. Till the beginning of June, the mortality rate was 6.25%. The share of discharged and active patients in the state is now 81.1% and 15.9% respectively. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 16,366 active patients. In 24 hours, Gujarat carried out 72,751 tests, taking the total to 27.08 lakh. State health department officials said that the number is 1,119 tests per day per million people. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 5.69 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 2,138 are in quarantine facilities, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-adds-1311-new-cases-16-deaths-reported-in-24-hours/articleshow/77956726.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Allahabad||High Court turns down plea to deprive Kanhaiya Kumar of Indian citizenship||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has dismissed a PIL seeking deprivation of Indian citizenship of former JNU students union president, Kanhaiya Kumar for allegedly raising anti-national slogans during an event that took place on JNU campus on February 9, 2016. Terming the PIL filed by one Nageshwar Mishra as frivolous, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the petitioner, saying that he filed the present petition under the garb of public interest litigation with the sole motive of gaining cheap publicity, without even going through the relevant provisions of the Constitution of India and The Indian Citizenship Act, 1955. Following the said incident Kanhaiya Kumar and others are facing the trial after receiving nod for prosecuting them in a sedition case. Dismissing the PIL, the court observed, “The question of deprivation of citizenship cannot arise, merely because Kanhaiya Kumar is facing trial before the court in Delhi on charges of allegedly raising the inflammatory slogans. Also, under the present proceedings we are not competent to express any opinion with regard to the merit of the criminal case pending against him. It must be noted that deprivation of citizenship is a serious aspect as it would affect a person's right to live in India, and it may also result in making the person stateless.” The counsel for the petitioner took the plea that despite the anti-national slogans raised by Kanhaiya Kumar, the Government of India is not taking any action to terminate his Indian citizenship. It has been further stated in the petition that Kanhaiya Kumar and his associates are supporting the freedom struggle of terrorist groups, who are working on the instigation of Pakistan to destabilize the unity and disturb the peace and tranquillity of our country. It has been further averred that a criminal case has been instituted by lodging an FIR (No. 110 of 2016) under Sections 124-A (sedition) and 120- B (conspiracy) and other sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Kanhaiya Kumar and his associates for raising anti-national slogans. It has been further stated that keeping in view the anti-national activities, Kanhaiya Kumar be deprived of citizenship under Clause (2) of Section 10 of the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955. Elaborating the legal aspect, the court observed, “The petition is devoid of merit as petitioner relied on section 10 of the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955, which is applicable in cases where citizenship is given by the central government to a non-citizen and not to someone, who was an Indian citizen by birth.” “In the present case, admittedly, Kanhaiya Kumar was born in the territory of India, as such, by virtue of Article 5(a) of Constitution of India, he is a citizen of India,” the court added. Coming down heavily on the petitioner for filing PIL only for publicity, the court observed, “It appears that the present petition, filed under the garb of public interest litigation has been preferred with the sole motive of gaining cheap publicity, without even going through the relevant provisions of the Constitution of India and The Indian Citizenship Act, 1955.” “As such, valuable time of this Court, which is functioning in its limited strength, during the period of the pandemic, has been wasted by filing the present writ petition. Intention of the petitioner, in our opinion, is not to espouse the interest of the public, but only of his own self, by gaining publicity. Such conduct is highly condemnable. The present public interest litigation is wholly frivolous and an abuse of the process of law. Therefore, we deem it fit to impose heavy cost,” the court further observed. The judgment dated September 2 came to limelight on September 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-turns-down-plea-to-deprivekanhaiya-kumar-of-indian-citizenship/articleshow/77955775.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat adds 1,311 new Covid cases, 16 deaths reported in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours added 1,311 Covid cases, taking the total to 1.03 lakh. It was the state’s fifth consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases in a day. The cases included 277 in Surat, 167 in Ahmedabad, 145 in Rajkot, 119 in Vadodara, and 111 in Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 62.5% of the cases in 24 hours. With the update, the cumulative cases in Vadodara and Rajkot crossed 8,800 and 5,500 respectively whereas the cases in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 32,436 and 21,957. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,094. The deaths include six from Surat, three from Rajkot, two each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar and Mehsana. One of the patients was identified as a resident of another state. Covid deaths in Rajkot crossed 100 as Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now have 1,731, 651, and 139 respectively. With one death of a patient from outside Gujarat, the toll for the patients from outside the state is three. A total of 1,148 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 83,546. The discharges include 388 from Surat, 169 from Vadodara, 107 from Jamnagar, and 78 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the death rate of Gujarat reduced to 3%. Till the beginning of June, the mortality rate was 6.25%. The share of discharged and active patients in the state is now 81.1% and 15.9% respectively. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 16,366 active patients. In 24 hours, Gujarat carried out 72,751 tests, taking the total to 27.08 lakh. State health department officials said that the number is 1,119 tests per day per million people. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat has 5.69 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 2,138 are in quarantine facilities, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-adds-1311-new-cases-16-deaths-reported-in-24-hours/articleshow/77956725.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s visiting faculty found dead at home||Vadodara: A visiting faculty of MS University’s famed fine arts faculty was found dead at his home in Kalali on September 3. The body of Anish Vohra (55) was found when his neighbours broke open his house in Ace Octave complex in Kalali. His body was lying on the bed in his room following which police were informed. Cops said that Vohra was living alone after separating from his wife. Vohra’s body was taken to SSG Hospital for post-mortem and a case of accidental death was registered at Manjalpur police station. “The post-mortem has revealed that the man had died due to heart attack. He was a visiting faculty at fine arts faculty,” said a cop. Many of Vohra’s students and friends from the faculty were shocked on learning about his passing away and shared their memories with him on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-visiting-faculty-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/77953612.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Allahabad||Gorakhpur emigrant to honour Captain Vijayant Thapar’s parents in Japan||PRAYAGRAJ: Around 30 years ago, Ganesh Yadav, an unassuming youth from Kotha village in Gorakhpur, decided to try his luck overseas and went to Thailand in search of work, and a year later landed in Japan for better avenues and scripted a spectacular success story. Ganesh, who had passed high school after two attempts, is now a Non-Resident Indian (NRI) who owns a chain of five restaurants, a workshop spread over 18 acre and agricultural land of several acres in the Tsukuba Science City, Japan. Ganesh still remembers his roots and plans to honour those who laid down their lives while protecting his motherland. He has decided to honour the parents or families of a martyr from Indian every year at Japan and has invited the parents of Kargil war martyr Captain Vijayant Thapar. Capt. Thapar’s father Colonel VN Thapar and his mother Tripta Thapar have given their consent to visit Tsukuba once international flights start operating. “We remember and honour our martyrs who make the supreme sacrifice while defending their motherland. While those of recent times stay in our memories, we tend to forget the earlier ones. Hence, I want to honour the families whose brave sons and husbands laid down their lives long ago and give them the message that their sacrifice and loss has not been forgotten,” said Ganesh, while talking to TOI from Tsukuba. How daily labourer became a top gunThe parents of Capt. Thapar, who was awarded Veer Chakra, would be honoured at the University of Tsukuba. “Me and my wife are very enthusiastic after getting the invitation from Ganesh. It’s an honour for us. The martyrs don’t die, they live forever. The invitation from this NRI, who has not forgotten his roots, is just another example of this fact,” said Col Thapar, talking to TOI from Noida. International cyclist Heeralal Yadav, who went to Japan on an expedition, is assisting him in making the arrangements. “I will go to Japan with Capt. Thapar’s parents as soon as international flights start. Col Thapar will also join us in a cycle expedition from Nagasaki to Hiroshima on ‘No War’ theme,” said Heeralal. Ganesh moved to Thailand in 1992 and reached Tsukuba in 1993 and worked as a daily labourer and mechanic and later turned entrepreneur. He married Milagros Valdes, a Cuban national who was pursuing her PhD from University of Tsukuba, and now they have two daughters and a son. Ganesh named his restaurant The New Mira Indian Restaurant, after his daughter Meera and has painted it in shades of the Indian tricolor. He also exports big earth movers, JCBs, loaders, etc. to Cambodia, Thailand and the Philippines besides owning huge parking space. Ganesh also sponsored 50 Indians and gave them employment in his farm and workshop during the corona crisis. “I also want to try to make up the loss of the martyr’s aged parents, wife and children and plan to sponsor their visit to Europe, East Asian countries to make them feel happy and ensure they don’t fell left alone,” said Ganesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gorakhpur-nri-to-honour-martyrs-kin/articleshow/77955790.cms||Rajeev Mani
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mecca Masjid, Shahi Masjid thrown open to public with restrictions||HYDERABAD: Finally after a gap of five months, the historical Mecca Masjid near Charminar and Royal Mosque (Shahi Masjid) at Public Gardens were thrown open for the public on Saturday. After the State Wakf Board’s decision to open the two big mosques of Hyderabad, the places of worship were opened for offering five times prayers with strict adherence to MHA guidelines. On Saturday, the mosques were opened from pre-dawn prayers (Fajr) to night prayers (Isha). Though devotees thronged for prayers, only fifty persons were allowed inside the mosques. The regular Imams of the mosques led the prayers in the open shed erected in the vicinity of the places of worship with two meter physical distancing. However, the administration has avoided arranging Namaz in the actual structure due to ventilation issues. Though the government decided to open the mosques with the condition of maximum 50 devotees in the initial days but from September 21, there will be permission for 100 devotees. Automatic hand sanitisers have been fixed at the entrance and each person is being screened. Children less than 10 years of age and elderly people aged above 60 years will not be allowed in the mosques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mecca-masjid-shahi-masjid-thrown-open-to-public-with-restrictions/articleshow/77955787.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Sri Lankans attack 4 TN fishers in sea||Trichy: Four fishermen from Arukattuthurai near Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district were allegedly assaulted by a group of fishermen from Sri Lanka in mid-sea and robbed of their nets and catch while they were engaged in fishing. One of the injured victims was treated at the government hospital and Vedaranyam marine police are inquiring into it. Police identified the victims as Gopi, 45, Velavan, 45, Sugumar, 42, from Arukattuthurai and Kalidass, 20, from Tsunami Nagar near Vedaranyam. All four had ventured into the sea on a fibre boat owned by one Rajendran on Friday night. The incident happened when they were engaged in fishing about 12 nautical miles south east of Vedaranyam, they told police. Six Sri Lankan fishermen arrived on a mechanized boat, got into their boat, assaulted them and took away their catch and nets worth lakhs of rupees, the victims told marine police. Gopi, sustained injuries on his head as the Lankans attacked him with an iron rod. He was treated at the government hospital in Vedaranyam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sri-lankans-attack-4-tn-fishers-in-sea/articleshow/77955768.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Systematic operation prevented flood in Bharuch: SSNNL||Gandhinagar: Following allegations made by Congress leader Ahmed Patel and others regarding flooding in areas located downstream of the Sardar Sarovar dam, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) has issued a statement denying allegations of negligence.SSNNL said in a statement that timely coordination with upstream dams and systematic operation of the Sardar Sarovar dam helped prevent a major flood in Bharuch.SSNNL said, “Recent operation of Sardar Sarovar dam gates and release of water in the downstream have been questioned by some anti-Narmada individuals and they have made some fictitious allegations against the project authorities. In view of such misinformation campaign, it is hereby clarified that decisions of operation and regulation of Sardar Sarovar reservoir during current monsoon are being taken on the basis of sound and well-established engineering principles only. Reservoir operation carried out in constant coordination with engineers of the upstream dams, Central Water Commission and Narmada Control Authority, has helped avert severe flooding of Bharuch city and surrounding villages.” “Due to widespread rains in the entire catchment area of 1,163km-long stretch of Narmada river from Amarkantak to Sardar Sarovar, upstream major dams namely Bargi, Tawa, Indira Sagar and Omkareshwar got filled up, which led to continuous huge discharge. This further got added up by the run-off generated due to heavy rains in the intermittent catchment. Consequently, release from Sardar Sarovar was started with 50,000 cusec on 28th August at 6pm, which was further increased to 2.65 lakh cusec at 11pm and then in a phased manner to 7.6 lakh cusec at 10pm on 29th August. Every time advance alerts were issued to all the concerned authorities and in turn to the general public,” the statement said.The SSNNL statement said that in any major dam, its rule levels for different points of time are to be followed during monsoon and water cannot be stored above that level to ensure adequate absorption capacity to deal with any probable flood event. “In the case of Sardar Sarovar, this has also been duly taken care of. Indira Sagar dam, the largest in the Narmada basin, was subjected to inflow of more than 16 lakh cusec on 30th August. Thus, efficient reservoir operation with day and night monitoring and that too in close coordination with all the concerned, has helped avert the severe flood in Bharuch and about 30,000 hectare surrounding area.” SSNNL statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/systematic-operation-prevented-flood-in-bharuch-ssnnl/articleshow/77954500.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||1636 new cases take Madhya Pradesh Covid tally at 72,000; over 11,000 +ve in a week||BHOPAL: More than 11000 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in this week as 1636 people tested positive in the state on Saturday. Saturday was the third consecutive day when more than 1600 new cases were reported. With these new cases, tally of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 71880. On Thursday, 1672 (highest ever number of cases reported in a single day in state) were reported, followed by 1658 new cases on Friday. In this week between, August 30 (Sunday) and September 5 (Saturday) a total of 11005 new positive cases have been reported. This is 15% of the total cases reported so far in the state since March 20 when the first Covid-19 patient was found in the state. Data for the first week of September reveals that at least one patient was tested positive every minute. Apart from these fresh cases, 30 deaths were also reported in the state. Of these nearly half of the deaths were reported from four districts namely Indore (4), Bhopal (4), Jabalpur (2) and Gwalior (4) districts only. On the brighter side, 1392 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-corona-wrap-september-5/articleshow/77954490.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Allahabad||District admin demolishes building of Atiq Ahmad’s kin||Prayagraj: Continuing the crackdown against mafia don turned politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad and his relatives, the district administration demolished a building at Paani ki tanki, near Allahabad High Court, on Saturday. The building was constructed on Nazul land by Atiq’s relatives many years ago. On Saturday morning, a big contingent of officials from the district administration, Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) and Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC), arrived at Paani ki Tanki. The demolition work bulldozer and supporting machines was still undergoing at the time of the filing of this report. “The building was illegal, and though it was not spread across a big tract of land the demolition work has been slow as we had to be very careful not to damage the adjacent and nearby properties. Because of the delay here, we were unable to demolish another illegal property linked to Atiq at Civil Lines,” said officer in-charge PDA, Alok Pandey. The demolition of the second building would be done on Monday, he added. It is worth mentioning that till now the administration has attached assets worth about Rs 60 crore of Atiq Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/district-admin-demolishes-building-of-atiq-ahmads-kin/articleshow/77955784.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Five arrested in homeless person’s murder case||KOLHAPUR: A mentally-ill and homeless man was brutally murdered by a group of five men in the city on Thursday because they felt he was a “nuisance in society” as he suffered from bouts of violent behaviour and was also accused of stealing idols from a temple. Although the five suspects were arrested in the case a day later, the incident has highlighted the failure of the administration and even elected representatives in arranging medical and psychiatric help for the victim. Instead, some local residents decided to address the “nuisance” in the most inhumane and illegal manner. Police are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased, but initial investigation has revealed that he used to wander around in the Kasba Bawda area. The five suspects, residents of the Kasba Bawda area, had allegedly thrown the man along the national highway after severely beating him and tying him up with a rope before putting him in a tempo. His body was found by the residents of Ambapwadi area who, in turn, alerted the police. “The victim used to spend time near a religious place and local residents used to give him food and other items. However, the man was given to violent outbreaks. Some also suspected that he had stolen idols from the temple and buried them in a nearby farmland,” said police. On Thursday night, the man was involved in a quarrel with a temple devotee. A group of people then decided to take him away from the area. However, the man pelted stones at them, following which the incident happened, said police. The man died of his injuries and his body was found on Friday. Police, with the help of CCTV footage, identified the tempo and tracked down its owner. The five men were arrested based on information given by the tempo owner, who too was allegedly part of the group. The arrested suspects have been identified as Yogesh Ravindra Tandle (23), Sushant Jaywant Mane (19), Nikhil Raghunath Biranje (25), Dattatrey Hindurao Shinde (46) and Shubham Schin Koli (22).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mentally-ill-man-brutallythrashed-dies-5-arrested/articleshow/77952997.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||MGP president Deepak tests +ve, Sudin discharged||Ponda: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar has tested Covid positive. He is the fifth member of the Dhavalikar family to contract the virus. Medical superintendent of the Ponda Covid hospital Dr Vikas Kuwelkar said Deepak’s swab test was conducted on Friday. Earlier, Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar and his wife had tested positive and were admitted to the Manipal Hospital at Dona Paula. Soon after they were discharged a day prior to Ganesh Chaturthi, his brothers Mohan and Deelip were also admitted. Sudin had to be readmitted after developing some symptoms. After being discharged on Saturday, Sudin cautioned people not to ignore even mild fever. “There is high risk of developing complications if fever is ignored without treatment,” he said. Sudin said his younger brother Deelip is almost cured, but has stayed back at the hospital to look after their elder brother Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-president-deepak-tests-ve-sudin-discharged/articleshow/77955796.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Gold jewellery, silver articles, cash stolen from temple||Thanjavur: Unidentified men stole a nine sovereign gold chain, a four gram gold chain, silver puja utensils worth Rs 5 lakh and Rs 5,000 in cash from the Mulaikottu Mariyamman temple near Pattukottai in Thanjavur district. The theft came to light when a priest came to the temple to perform rituals on Saturday morning. The thieves entered the temple after breaking open the north door. Pattukottai deputy superintendent of police Pugazhendhi Ganesh and the Mathukur police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Forensic experts also visited the temple. The Mathukur police registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gold-jewellery-silver-articles-cash-stolen-from-temple/articleshow/77955778.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Ministry’s RTI reply in Hindi raises hackles||Trichy: The Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee has slammed the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation under the ministry of Jal Sakthi for replying in Hindi to a clarification sought in English under the right to information (RTI) act. It has also resolved to move the court in this regard. In his RTI application sent to the department on July 16, committee convener P Maniarasan had sought response for eight questions including the monthly quantum of water that should be released by Karnataka to Tamil Nadu according to the final verdict of the Supreme court. Besides this, he also sought details of the quantum of water measured at Billigundulu that has been released by Karnataka dams to Tamil Nadu in June and July, he said. However, in a letter received from the office dated September 1, everything was written in Hindi. “Since I don’t know Hindi, I could not understand what they had replied. I raised questions which were very relevant for the farming community in delta districts. It is condemnable to send a reply completely in Hindi. I have written to the ministry asking to resend the letter in English. We have decided to file a petition before the court praying to implement the official language Act in letter and spirit”, Maniarasan told TOI. He said that according to Article 343(2) of the Constitution, English is allowed to be used as an official language in non-Hindi speaking states like Tamil Nadu. Also, Article 343(3) empowered the Parliament to provide by law for continued use of English for official purposes even after 25 January, 1965.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ministrys-rti-reply-in-hindi-raises-hackles/articleshow/77955780.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||Masks on, but helmets vanish on Bhopal streets||BHOPAL: People seem to have given preference to the mask over helmet. Despite several instructions, people have put their life in jeopardy by not wearing helmets and instead focusing on masks only. A few citizens, who use both a mask and helmet while riding two-wheelers, said that the administration needs to be strict with people who are only wearing masks and not helmets.  Official data also suggested that more fine has been levied for not wearing masks than for helmetless driving. A mask is considered the best way of fighting the coronavirus. But, alongwith this essential accessory, many two-wheeler riders have forgotten to put on the helmet, which is a vital safety gear. When asked why they skipped the helmet, the riders made lame excuses. “Wearing mask and helmet is very suffocating. As I have to travel daily to Bairagarh to work from Arera Colony, it is just not possible to wear both,” said rider Sanjay Sahu. About the importance of the helmet, he said, “I know it is a safety measure, but wearing both is not possible when one has to travel such long distances.” Another rider Vikas Verma said, “I have found that the police were also keen fining people for not wearing masks and not those who did not wear helmets. In such a situation, helmet wearing has taken a backseat.” He added that the trend is to avoid fines instead of taking it as a safety gear. “Now, the fine is more on not wearing a mask. Due to this, people are wearing only masks and not the helmets,” Verma added. However, there are people who strictly wear both helmet and mask ever since the corona scare began. “Wearing masks and helmets are both for our safety. Missing any one of them can cost our life. I am doing it for my own safety. Whether the police fines or not, I ride my two-wheeler only after wearing both a mask and helmet,” said Rano Aseri, an MPT employee. She added that the people should not wait for the administration’s rap to follow safety measures. “Why should we do things only when the administration asks us to do it? It is our life and we have to keep it safe,” Aseri added. Manmeet Sing, is also one of such riders, who never misses wearing both mask and helmet. “This is strange that for your safety, the district administration has to impose fines. Being part of a civilised society, we all should set an example by wearing both masks and helmets,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/masks-on-but-helmets-vanish-on-city-streets/articleshow/77954505.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Blue Cross of India looks for sponsors to remodel aviary||Chennai: Every day, the Blue Cross of India (BCI) receives three to five sick or injured birds. Caring for them is a challenge as they not only require specific nutrients and supplements but also special feeding equipment and cages. That’s why the animal welfare organisation is looking for sponsors who will help them remodel its aviary. “We have had a separate section for birds for 23 years. We rebuilt the aviary around seven years ago but we need to rebuild certain sections, replace cages and get special equipment to feed the birds,” says Sathya Radhakrishnan, honorary joint secretary, BCI, adding that providing nutrient-rich diets for the birds is also expensive. The organisation gets both native and non-native species. “We get native birds such as pigeons, and water birds such as cormorants. People usually bring in the sick or injured birds or call and alert us,” says Radhakrishnan, adding that they have about 175 birds in the aviary right now. “The attenders feed the young birds with the help of special feeding tubes. The injured or sick ones are kept in cages, moved to a bigger enclosure when they recover and then released in batches,’ he says. The non-native species, especially those kept in captivity such as love birds cannot be released into the wild as they won’t be able to fend for themselves. “So they remain with us. And all the species that come under the Wildlife Protection Act are treated and then handed over to the zoo as the wildlife department has authorised us to do so,” says Radhakrishnan. Some birds also need to be kept away from the others. “At the moment, we have 25 sick pigeons, four koels, owls and also have nine sanda kozhis or fighting roosters that were rescued by the police,” says Radhakrisshnan. “The challenge is keeping them apart because if we keep the two roosters together they will start attacking each other.” With the need for special equipment, better cages and also nutrient-rich food, BCI is looking for sponsors. “We need donors who can sponsor the feed as well as feeding tubes, which are expensive,” says Radhakrishnan. “It will help us care for more birds in distress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/blue-cross-of-india-looks-for-sponsors-to-remodel-aviary/articleshow/77954510.cms||Priya Menon
September 6, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University registration process closed||PRAYAGRAJ: The registeration process for applying in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Allahabad University (AU) closed on Saturday. Earlier, the last date for applying was extended various number of times. According to the data released by the authorities on Saturday, a total of 2,47,010 students had registered themselves for different courses out of which 1,29,333 had successfully submitted their fee and completed the registration process. Of these, 1,12,535 aspirants had registered for UG courses including BA/BSc/BCom out of which 68,235 have completed their registration. This also means that AU authorities will now be making arrangements for these students in the entrance test, be it online or offline. Likewise, 26,394 aspirants registered for courses under Institute of professional studies (IPS) out of which just 2302 submitted the fee for the entrance test. For BA LLB (Hons), 12,636 aspirants has registered while 7979 completed their registration. For LLB (Hons) (five year) 21,019 has registered while 14,441 completed the process. For the PG courses, 49,645 students had registered and 18,902 submitted the entrance fee and for BEd, 6782 got themselves registered and 4809 completed the process. For Med, the number of registration was 1592 out of which 1179 deposited the prescribed fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-registration-process-closed/articleshow/77955798.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolhapur||CPR asks patients’ kin to find donors for plasma therapy||KOLHAPUR: The compulsion to find and bring a donor for administering plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) Rugnalay, the civil hospital in Kolhapur designated for treatment of the viral infection, has miffed both relatives of the patients and the corporators. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has reserved beds in 37 hospitals for treating critical patients. Most critical patients who do not respond to antiviral therapy require plasma that hasantibodies to fight Covid-19. The CPR hospital has the facility to extract plasma from the blood donated by the patients who have succesfully recovered from the infection. Earlier, many recovered patients were coming forward to donate plasma. However, in the past few weeks, despite repeated appeals, very few donors are voluntarily donating plasma. The administration had appealed to the Ganesh mandals to organise plasma donation camps. However, no such camps could be held due to lack of proper guidelines. Now, because of the shortage of plasma, the CPR Hospital has made it compulsory for the relatives of the patients seeking plasma therapy to get a donor to replenish the stock. While the medical superintendent of CPR hospital could not be reached for his comments on the issue, several calls to the blood bank at the hospital went unattended. Chairman of KMC’s standing committeeSachin Patil has raised the concern with top civic authorities. “I have been assured by our officials that the matter will be taken to the district health administration. We too will try to get the donors in large numbers for which there is a need to create awareness among the recovered patients. However, there should not be such compulsion. We are also trying to get a separator machine so that the plasma can be extracted in our blood banks and kept in storage units.” Patil also said that donating plasma should be made compulsory for all those getting treatment free of cost at the government and civic hospitals. The plasma therapy has been proved successful in saving lives of the patients at the critical stage of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cpr-asks-patients-kin-to-find-donors-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77953030.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Tenant farmers seek inclusion in PM scheme||Thanjavur: Farmers who take up cultivation on leased land staged a protest in front of Kumbakonam railway station on Saturday demanding their inclusion in the Prime Minister’s Kisan scheme. They asked why they were not brought under its ambit though they are eligible to receive compensation for crop losses. Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said there were around 4 lakh tenant farmers across Tamil Nadu and 40 lakh in the country, all of whom are not included in the scheme. The scheme was introduced in 2018 by the BJP government to provide cash assistance to farmers. Around 8.5 crore farmers benefit from the scheme with Rs 6000 being credited directly to the bank accounts of each farmer holding land in three instalments, he said. Tenant farmers hold a meagre area and have been cultivating on it for decades. Most of them were Adi Dravidar and tribals, who were engaged in cultivation for generations, yet they were denied the cash assistance because the land was not in their name, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tenant-farmers-seek-inclusion-in-pm-scheme/articleshow/77955792.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Man hacked to death by gang||Thanjavur: A 30-year-old man was hacked to death by an unidentified gang near Kabisthalam in Thanjavur. The deceased was identified as Vinod Kanna, a native of Sowkath Street near Valangaiman in Tiruvarur district. He was working abroad and had returned home due to the lockdown. His wife Hemavathi, 27, was staying at her parents’ house along with their five-month-old son at Manalur village near Kabisthalam. The incident happened on Friday evening when Vinod was returning to his native in his car after visiting his wife and son. While he was nearing Kongal canal near Kabisthalam, a gang on two bikes intercepted the car and hacked Vinod to death. The Kabisthalam police rushed to the spot and sent the body to a government hospital. Police are investigating the motive behind the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-hacked-to-death-by-gang/articleshow/77955789.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||IPS probationers from Telangana eager to serve home state||HYDERABAD: For many the first dream after clearing the civil services exam is to get home state cadre. Three of the eleven IPS probationers, who passed out of the SVP National Police Academy (SVPNPA), are from Telangana. All three of them - B Bala Swamy, B Rohith Raju and Chennai Rupesh - are eagerly looking forward to serve their native state. Bala Swamy, a native of Vouthampally in Nagarkurnool district, is the first educated person from his family. The 38-year-old son of a farmer had earlier worked as a daily wager but was determined to continue higher education. After completing his PhD, he worked as an assistant professor at the Osmania University before appearing for civil services. He got into Indian Revenue Service before he cracked IPS. “It is a different experience altogether to see my parents proud and happy,” Swamy said. However, Rohith Raju always wanted to follow the footsteps of his father and wear khaki. “My father retired as a constable this year. Seeing him wearing a khaki uniform had always fascinated me. As a child, I wanted to become a sub-inspector. Later, I dreamt big and told my parents that I want to become an assistant commissioner of police,” chuckled the 28-year-old. After completing engineering he declined a software job and appeared for UPSC exams. “I got my offer letter from an IT company, but I decided not to join and started preparing for civil services,” he said. He cleared the exam in his earlier attempt, got into Indian Revenue Service (IRS) and had worked at Nagpur’s income tax before getting selected for IPS. “My father wanted to attend my passing out parade and a few months back had planned what to wear for that event. Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, families were advised to witness the parade from home,” Rohith said. During his district practical training in Kothagudem, he helped tribal people in interior parts of the district by supplying ration and other essentials during the lockdown. Third probationer Chennai Rupesh’s father is an auto driver and a bidi worker. He secured a central government job after his engineering degree. “I continued the job to provide financial support to my parents. Simultaneously I started my civils preparation. However, I did not let my parents know that I was preparing for IPS until I cracked the exam in my fourth attempt,” said the 29-year-old. “It is a great opportunity to serve the my home state. This way I can also stay close to my family and do good for the people here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ips-probationers-from-t-eager-to-serve-home-state/articleshow/77955804.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body sets timeframe for redressing grievances||CHENNAI: Residents scanning Greater Chennai Corporation social media handles this week got important information. They came to know about the time the civic body would take to redress grievances registered on Namma Chennai mobile application. A stray animal found dead near a house would be cleared in a day, while problems about public toilets would take three days to be resolved, the corporation announced. The mosquito menace in an area would be resolved in three days, while issues of quality of food in hotels or roadside eateries would be resolved in a day. Problems about professional tax, trade licences and property tax would be solved within seven days. Social media platforms soon were flooded with feedback, with most residents appreciating the fact the corporation had come out with a deadline for its officials. A few, however, pointed out that the civic body had not adhered to such timelines in the past, but hoped that things would get better. Social activist and convenor of Arappor Iyakkam Jayaram Venkatesan said this was exactly what his NGO had been demanding for a while — a citizen charter which gives a clear timeline on what is the process. The corporation should also clarify what the process would be and action taken against the officials, in case the grievance is not redressed in the time frame fixed. “Accountability has to be fixed,” he said. Also the civic body should publish the number of complaints in every category and the time taken to address them. “Of late, it has removed a lot of data from the site,” he said. P Sajeevan, a resident of Perungudi, said that a complaint about an illegal sewage line he filed last week was closed without being attended to. “The corporation does not intimate us when the complaint is closed. There is an option given to reopen the complaint, so it is unclear if the civic body takes that into account while setting timeframes for solving the issue,” he said. Complaints can only be reopened 24 hours after they are closed, so that is a technical issue that needs to be clarified, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-sets-timeframe-for-redressing-grievances/articleshow/77954522.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 6, 2020||Trichy||Horse dead in accident, two others injured||Trichy: A horse died in a road accident after the horse cart was hit by a two-wheeler near Mukkombu on Trichy- Karur road in Trichy on Saturday. The horse was owned by Neelamegam, 50 of Siruganur. The accident occurred when Neelamegam was riding the cart saddled with the horse near Mukkombu. The Jeeyapuram police said that Neelamegam used to ride the cart to train the horse for race every morning. He was returning home after the training Ramalingam, 51, coming from Gandhigram in Karur on his two-wheeler forcefully hit the cart. The horse sustained severe injury and died on the spot. Both Neelamegam and Ramalingam were flung off their vehicles. They fell on the road and suffered injuries. They were rushed to the hospital for treatment. The Jeeyapuram police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/horse-dead-in-accident-two-others-injured/articleshow/77955797.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai metro installs tap-and-go card readers for passengers||CHENNAI: A soap box-sized tap-and-go device for smartcard top-ups will protect passengers from contracting Covid-19 infections by minimising contact during metro train rides when CMRL resumes operations on Monday. The travel card readers have been installed at all the 32 stations for passengers to tap their smartcards for top-up, check balance or view travel history. CMRL has revised its train timings to 7am to 8pm, instead of its earlier plan to operate from 8am to 8pm, following feedback from office-goers. State industries minister M C Sampath said the card reader has been introduced to prevent people from queuing up at ticket counters. The reader along with the new QR-code ticket service, which will enable passengers to purchase train tickets through cashless payments in their smartphone, will minimise passengers’ contact with staff and ticket vending machines at the station as well as with save time. “With these facilities, the chances of the infection spreading is very less and we are confident there won’t be any issues during train operations,” the minister responded to a question at a press meet on opening metro services when infections continue to be high in the state. The minister inspected the various measures taken by CMRL to protect passengers against infection, ahead of resuming operations. Metro rail MD Pradeep Yadav said all 32 stations will have two travel card readers at the concourse level where passengers, who had done a web-top through CMRL app, could update their smartcard by placing it behind the device for a few seconds. “Passengers whose smartcard validity has expired could also use the card reader to reactivate their cards,” he said. Earlier, around 60% passengers were buying single journey tokens. CMRL now encourages them to purchase smartcards to minimise contact, as tokens are reused. “We will encourage passengers to buy smartcards or use the QR-code ticket service, through which they can book their own tickets. Use of tokens will be less,” he added. Cmrl officials said tokens, once used, will be reused after 48 hours post sanitizing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-installs-tap-and-go-card-readers-for-passengers/articleshow/77954528.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||With virtual gigs, students celebrate Teachers’ Day||BHOPAL: Performances became virtual, greeting cards turned into Gifs, but the emotion and love of students remained intact this Teachers’ Day. As schools remain shut due to the ongoing Covid crisis, children took the e-way to express their gratitude to the teachers. Pankaj Sharma, principal of Sagar Public School said, “Students had prepared online dance performances and skits for their teachers. It was the first time they were performing online, and teachers loved their effort.” From dedicating poems to sending e-cards, students left no stone unturned to make their gurus feel special. “My students sent me audio and video messages, with self-composed poems and lovely wishes telling me what they loved the most about my classes. There could be no better gift,” said Praveena Sharma, an art teacher. Students of Mithi Gobindram Public School made digital cards for their teachers while others hosted online celebrations. The school administration appreciated the efforts of the teachers who upgraded their technical skills and successfully conducted e-classes, ensuring students do not miss on studies in Covid times. A civil services club had asked students to write letters to their gurus, and the best entry will be awarded a cash prize and the letter will be framed and presented to the teacher. The contest received more than 100 entries. Youngsters also planted saplings and seeds, dedicating it to their teachers. They vowed to take care of the greens just how their teachers helped them grow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-virtual-gigs-students-celebrate-teachers-day/articleshow/77954529.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||171 more ‘discharged’ in Vadodara||Vadodara: For the third consecutive day, the number of discharged Covid-19 patients in the city remained high with 171 persons being discharged from hospitals or home isolation. This brought down the number of active cases in the city to 1,596. According to sources, the reason for the high discharge rate was a major exercise by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to take stock of cases that were in home isolation either from the day they tested positive or after being treated in the hospital for a few days. It came to light that several such cases were well past beyond their home quarantine time, but had not been considered discharged. The VMC has aggressively started identifying such cases, reaching out to the patients and including them in the number of discharged cases. The number of fresh cases reported during the 24 hours since Friday evening stood at 119. The number is the lowest in nine days since August 31. As many as 1,415 patients remained under treatment in various hospitals in the city. These include 59 on ventilators or BIPAP machines. The total number of Covid-19 cases identified in the city and district now stands at 8,673. VMC confirmed one more death due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 149. Meanwhile, the death of a 70-year-old patient at home in the city had caused a flutter as family members were not willing to handle the body. Top Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) functionaries and health department officials had to intervene and ensured that the body was wrapped safely as per protocol by staffers from the SSG Hospital and cremated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/171-more-discharged-in-vadodara/articleshow/77953645.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Rane has audacity to blame the dead: AAP||Saligao: AAP criticised the BJP government and health minister Vishwajit Rane for stating that most Covid related mortalities are due to patients delaying in getting themselves admitted to hospital. Speaking to reporters at Mapusa, AAP functionary Rahul Mhambre said, “Rane is hiding his and the BJP government’s incompetence by insensitively blaming Covid positive patients. At a time when people are distraught at losing their family members, Rane has the arrogance and audacity to blame the departed.” He alleged that Rane is single handedly responsible for the Goa moving from a green zone to being the first and only state where Corona has infected 1% of the population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-has-audacity-to-blame-the-dead-aap/articleshow/77955808.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Youth dies in a road accident||Chennai: A 17-year-old teenage biker died after he rammed into a van which stopped suddenly to take an ‘U’ turn near Poonamallee on Friday. The boy was wearing helmet, police said, but the head gear broke into pieces after he hit the road. His mother riding pillion escaped with minor injuries. The deceased youth, identified as Govardhanan, was a resident of Nolambur near Maduravoyal. Witnesses told police that after the van stopped suddenly Govardhanan lost control and slammed against the van proceeding in front of his two-wheeler on Anakaputhur flyover on Tambaram-Maduravoyal bypass. The van driver did not put turn signal on. While Govardhanan’s mother Raniammal fell on plants on the median the boy landed on road pulpit. Poonamallee traffic investigation inspector Kausalya said, “Though Govardhanan was wearing a helmet as soon as he hit the road, the head gear broke into pieces and his head sustained severe injury.” On information, a police team sent him to the Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) hospital for his treatment. However, doctors declared him brought dead. The Poonamallee traffic investigation police registered a case under Section 304 (A) (death caused due to negligent driving) and arrested van driver Immanuel Raj, 23. Police said the teenager may have bought the helmet from an unauthorised dealer, which didn’t have ISI trade mark. This has claimed his life. The investigation officer also said that she would alter Sections of IPC and involve Govardhanan’s father or relative who allowed the teenage boy to ride the bike, who didn’t possess any valid driving license.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-dies-in-a-road-accident/articleshow/77954532.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||Woman takes dig at BJP with ‘gaddar’ poem at bypoll meet||BHOPAL: After the alleged betrayal by Congress MLAs leading to the collapse of Kamal Nath-led Congress government, the Hindi word ‘gaddar’ gained currency in political parlance and meetings. An elderly woman in Sagar recited a poem highlighting the word ‘gaddar’ in a BJP rally of minister Govind Singh Rajput, who is preparing for the bypoll from Surkhi seat, leaving everybody embarrassed. Now, the video clip is going viral. In a political drama, 22 Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist MLAs left the then ruling Congress party and joined BJP that led to the fall of the 15-month old Kamal Nath regime in March this year. Prior to that, Scindia himself had quit the party to join BJP. After the political drama, Congress had started calling him and the MLAs ‘gaddars’. To counter the word, BJP coined the Hindi word ‘khuddar’ (person with self-pride). The incident happened in a sector meeting of BJP workers in Bilhera village of Surkhi assembly seat on Saturday. Amid the meeting, an elderly woman insisted to speak from the dais. She first met the minister who was presiding over the function and then held the microphone. After speaking for a while, she recited a five-line poem in Hindi and the last two lines goes like this, “Sambhal ke rahna apne ghar mein, in chupe hue gaddaron se.” The video clip of the woman reciting the poem soon went viral. People have been forwarding the video, creating further embarrassment to BJP leaders in Sagar district. However, BJP has refused to react over the incident. Bypolls are expected on 27 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh in the upcoming months. The maximum number of seats that are going for bypolls are in the Gwalior-Chambal region, considered as Scindia bastion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/woman-takes-dig-at-bjp-with-gaddar-poem-at-bypoll-meet/articleshow/77954558.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid warriors slay the virus, come up trumps||HYDERABAD: He was in the midst of a team meeting in June when his phone buzzed. He reluctantly picked up the mobile and a stranger at the other end delivered a cold message – his Covid-19 test result was positive. For a moment, the news had unnerved Hyderabad additional commissioner of police (law and order), DS Chouhan, but he gathered himself and decided to take the virus head-on. “I panicked for a second. I wrapped up the meeting quickly and went home. I quarantined myself and calmly broke the news to my family,” recalled the senior officer, who returned to work after 10 days in isolation. Recalling the initial days, Chouhan said, he was more worried about his family. “We know the risks. I had visited every floor of Gandhi Hospital apart from routine duty. Soon after the pandemic broke out, I started taking precautions by keeping a distance from my family. It was months ago that I hugged my kids,” the officer, who had mild symptoms of, told TOI. But soon he beat it. “I did not take it lightly. Even after I resumed work, I was extremely cautious for at least a week. I asked my team not to come to my cabin. If I had to see a file, they were asked to drop it at the doorstep and I would pick it up only after they left,” he said. Over 400 police personnel with the Hyderabad police commissionerate have resumed duties after battling the coronavirus infection. Moghalpura additional inspector, Ranjit Kumar Goud (38), is among them. “I was at home when I got the results. I was worried because the day before, I spent time with my kids,” he said. As Ranjit had mild symptoms, he took treatment at Gandhi Hospital for the first 10 days, and quarantined himself at home for the next 11 days. He breathed a sigh of relief when his other family members tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-warriors-slay-the-virus-come-up-trumps/articleshow/77955832.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 6, 2020||Goa||Union Ayush minister likely to be discharged this week||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s health is improving and he is likely to be discharged from the private hospital where he is undergoing treatment this week, four weeks after he tested positive for Covid. “If he has no fever for the next 48 hours and no other complications, he will be discharged on Tuesday or Wednesday,” clinical head at Manipal Hospital, Dr Shekhar Salkar said, adding that he has not had a fever for almost a fortnight now. “He will require oxygenation at home too and arrangements are being made for an oxygen concentrator. Oxygen is recommended to prevent any long-term damage to his lungs,” he said. Former deputy chief minister Sudin Dhavalikar was discharged on Saturday. Three of Dhavalikar’s brothers continue to receive treatment at the private hospital. Two are fit for discharge. Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao has been off oxygen and is also likely to be discharged at the beginning of the week, Salkar said. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa has been shifted to simple oxygen from high flow nasal oxygen and will take a few more days to recover, Salkar said. On Friday, health minister Vishwajit Rane said D’Sa was given plasma twice, which helped him recover.  Naik was also administered plasma therapy. Salkar said this helped his condition improve considerably. Last month, a team of doctors from AIIMS and the armed forces command hospital had come to Goa to assess the Ayush minister’s condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-minister-likely-to-be-discharged-this-week/articleshow/77955814.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra Covid recovery rate up, death toll share same||PUNE: The easing of restrictions since June 1 has led to a more than 10-fold increase in the number of Covid-19 patients across the state, data collected until September 2 revealed. During this period, despite patient recovery rate rising from 43% to 73%, the death rate stayed in the range of 3%-4%. The number of active cases in critical condition has also remained around 3%. Experts said inadequate contact tracing, poor medical follow-ups of people who had tested positive with mild to no symptoms, half-hearted efforts at monitoring high-risk individuals and fitful ‘syndromic surveillance’ were key reasons behind the state’s failure to curb the death rate. On the clinical side, doctors said delayed patient admissions — after oxygen saturation levels had already dipped below 90 — was another reason why the death rate has remained largely the same. They said in addition to increased testing, swift hospitalisation was vital to bringing down the number of critical patients in hospitals who are most likely to succumb to complications. Senior public health expert Subhash Salunke, an adviser to the state on Covid-19 mitigation, said, “Besides testing, the state government should have had equal focus on syndromic surveillance and daily monitoring of high-risk people with pre-existing ailments. Alongside improved recovery rates, it is equally important to reduce the death rate, which we have miserably failed to do.” Doctors and experts said increased testing will lead to a rise in numbers, but would also help doctors intervene early. Even if case numbers rise, a majority of the patients will be in early stages of the illness, which means good chances of recovery. Prakash Doke, a former director of health services and adviser to the state government, said testing of all high-risk contacts and treatment immediately after onset were essential to bringing down the death rate as well as the number of critical patients. “We are still not able to detect cases early. Many patients are being admitted late — ignoring initial symptoms will delay proper treatment. It turns into a challenge for doctors if a patient comes in at stage 2 of the illness,” he said. Salunke added that massive syndromic surveillance could have been key in reducing the death rate. Had the state changed strategy to contain deaths through massive syndromic surveillance — checking on a large number of high-risk individuals with influenza-like illness (ILI) — rather than singularly focusing on tracing and testing close contacts of patients, there would have been a drop in casualties by now. Doctors have now called for more tests across the state’s rural areas and non-metropolitan zones to reduce patient loads on hospitals in the major cities. There have been several instances of critical patients being rushed to hospitals after initial delays in treatment. Dr Ajay Sankhe of the Bhaktivedanta hospital on Mira Road said, “Testing has to be increased in rural areas. We get many cases from Palghar district because rural areas do not have the infrastructure or manpower to treat Covid-19. If we increase testing in rural areas, and catch cases early, chances of patient recovery rise tremendously."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtras-recovery-rate-up-but-share-of-critical-patients-deaths-stay-the-same/articleshow/77955812.cms||Swatee Kher
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon session promises to be stormy as Congress gears up to raise GST issue||Shimla: The monsoon session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly, which starts from Monday, promises to be a heated one with the opposition Congress preparing to confront the state government on various issues. The discussion is likely to revolve around corruption during the Covid-19 pandemic, failure to tackle the disease and absence of financial assistance from the Centre. The Congress had been demanding a special session of the Assembly to discuss these issues for a long time. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri asked the CM to tell people whether the Centre had refused to provide GST gap funding to Himachal Pradesh. He also asked the CM to clarify if the Centre had instructed the state to cover the shortfall in GST through loans. According to him, Thakur would have to clarify whether the state had opposed any such proposal during the GST Council meeting. Even as reports of the Centre stopping GST gap funding are doing the rounds, the state government has maintained complete silence on the issue, he asserted. “Earlier, the Centre assured states of assistance to cover up the GST shortfall till June 2022,” he added. Agnihotri pointed out that the Himachal Pradesh government relies heavily on Government of India for financial assistance. “Under the changed circumstances, the chief minister should tell the people of the state whether the double engine government at the state and Centre has failed as the state will rely more on loans now,” he added. Saying that the state government has broken all previous records of taking loans, Agnihotri warned that an attempt to cover GST shortfall through loans would derail the already weakened economy. He asked the state government to tell how much of the shortfall has been included in the total target of GST collection. He asked how much decrease in the state’s share of GST collection had been registered. Agnihotri asked the state government to tell people about the discussion held with the Centre on revenue deficit grants and maintained that the state government has no funds for developmental works. A limit of 35% of the budget has been fixed for developmental activities, he said. Despite the cash crunch, the CM is busy laying online foundation stones of developmental works across state, he said, urging the government to disclose how it planned to recover unspent funds from different departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/monsoon-session-promises-to-be-stormy-as-congress-gears-up-to-raise-gst-issue/articleshow/77955813.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Shimla||Hundreds of vehicles stuck due to rockslide on Chandigarh-Manali national highway||MANALI: Hundreds of vehicles were stuck on the Chandigarh-Manali national highway following a massive rockslide at Kara near Dawara in Mandi district of Himachal since Saturday morning. Police say that the stretch is likely to be cleared only by Sunday afternoon. After the mountain face at Kara started sliding at about 6am on Saturday, police stopped traffic on the highway. Even though efforts were made clear the debris, the loose strata kept coming down on the highway almost all day. The highway is now covered with hundreds of tonnes of debris that is being removed by machines. With hundreds of vehicles, including buses and trucks, being stuck on both sides of the spot, other vehicles are now being stopped at Mandi and Bajaura in Kullu. Light traffic is being diverted via Kataula bypass road. An official said that road clearance work was stopped at 6pm given the safety of the machine operators. The work will resume after stabilisation of the rock mass. Nearly 10km stretch of highway at Dawara-Hanogi temple area in Mandi district is highly dangerous for traffic movement due to lose rock strata. National Highway Authority of India is building twin-tube four-lane tunnels in this area as widening of the road is not possible. This stretch witnesses a large number of landslides every year. Two truck drivers were killed after a massive landslide in front of Hanogi Mata temple on August 14. Mandi additional district magistrate Shrawan Manta said light traffic is being diverted via Mandi-Kataula-Bajaura bypass road. "Police personnel have been deployed at the sliding site to ensure public safety. No one was hurt in the incident. The traffic will be resumed as soon as possible," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hundreds-of-vehicles-stuck-due-to-rockslide-on-chd-manali-nh/articleshow/77955815.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||No child’s play: One-year-old boy swallows venomous snakelet while playing in courtyard in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A one-year-old boy accidentally swallowed a snakelet while playing in the courtyard of his house in Bholapur village of Fatehganj (West) area in Bareilly district on Saturday afternoon. The boy bit the snakelet into two pieces and had partially swallowed it when his mother happened to catch a foreign object into his mouth. As she took the object out, she found it to be a baby snake and rushed the boy to a hospital, where he is under observation, at present. Dharampal, a farmer, visited the Bareilly district hospital with his one-year-old son Devendra and a six-inch-long dead snakelet with him. Dharampal told emergency medical officer Dr Harish Chandra that his son had swallowed a snake and kept the dead snakelet on his table. The doctor immediately shared the information with physician Dr AM Agarwal and an anti-venom injection was administered to the boy and he was admitted to the emergency ward. According to doctors, it was a krait hatchling, which is extremely poisonous, but the child is out of danger due to the timely treatment. Dharampal told TOI, “My wife Somwati saw something squirming in Devendra’s mouth and when she took it out, she screamed with fear as it was a small snake that died soon. We rushed to a community health centre, but they sent us to the district hospital. We are praying for Devendra’s life.” Senior Indian Forest Service officer Ramesh Pandey told TOI, “Krait hatchlings and common wolf snakes often look similar and differentiating them is extremely difficult because their skin patterns are almost the same. Krait hatchlings can claim human life, but wolf snakes are not lethal. But, there is no harm in administering anti-venom to the boy, as it doesn’t have a side effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-childs-play-one-year-old-boy-swallows-venomous-snakelet-while-playing-in-courtyard/articleshow/77953077.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||Accused cops at police station for reconstruction||Vadodara: The six cops accused of custodial death of Sheikh Babu Nishar at Fatehgunj police station were brought to the police station on Saturday morning for the reconstruction of the crime. The officials of CID (crime) said that the reconstruction was done in the presence of forensic experts and a panchnama was also done. “The accused were taken to the place from where they had been following the victim and from where they had picked him up for questioning and had brought to the police station,” said Dr Girish Pandya, superintendent of police, CID (crime). In the police station, the cops showed the places where Nishar was kept and interrogated. Pandya also said that help from forensic science laboratory (FSL) and technical experts is being taken to retrieve the missing footages of the CCTV cameras of the police station. He added that the investigating agency’s priority was to find out where and how Nishar’s body was disposed of. However, he refused to divulge more details about it. The six cops including then inspector of Fatehgunj police station, Dharmendrasinh Gohil, sub-inspector Dashrath Rabari and lok rakshak dal jawaans — Yogendrasinh Jilansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai, Pankaj Mavji and Hitesh Shambhu — were sent to police custody for 10 days by a local court on September 2 after they surrendered before the CID (crime) in Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/accused-cops-at-police-station-for-reconstruction/articleshow/77953662.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Nine deaths on Saturday takes Goa’s September toll to 31||PANAJI: With nine Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, the toll for the first five days of September has reached 31. As on Saturday, the state has seen 229 Covid deaths and over 20,000 cases with 592 more testing positive. All the nine patients passed away at Goa Medical College (GMC) and one did not have comorbidities. Three of the deceased had hypertension, diabetes as well as Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD), two had only diabetes, one only hypertension, one patient had prostrate with metastasis and one had prostrate, diabetes and nephropathy. Two of them in their 30s had diabetes. The deceased include an 80-year-old from Penha de Franca, 83-year-old from Nageshi, 68-year-old from Maulinguem, 67-year-old from Sanvordem, 62-year-old from Marcaim, 51-year-old from Velim and two patients in their 30s from Karaswada and Zuarinagar. Margao continues to have the highest number of active positive cases at 437 followed by Ponda with 351, Sakhali with 291, Porvorim with 274, Vasco with 255, Panaji with 248, Pernem with 224 and Mapusa with 220 active cases. Around 150 persons have tested positive over the past five days in Panaji. While the vacancy for critical Covid patients hasn’t been declared by the directorate of health services, Covid care centres had more than 500 beds vacant on Saturday. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had recently stated that private hospitals are full and had hinted that government hospitals too are overburdened with announcements of new wards opening up every few days. On Friday, he had said that only critically critical Covid patients would be admitted to GMC. Dean of GMC, Dr Shivanand Bandekar on Friday had said shortage of beds arises because most patients who are severely symptomatic have to be admitted for at least 15 days. Rane said there would be a spike in cases for the next few days and cautioned people against taking the disease lightly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nine-deaths-on-saturday-takes-states-sept-toll-to-31/articleshow/77955830.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Patna||ASI shot at by bootleggers in Patna raid||PATNA: An assistant sub-inspector and a liquor smuggler was shot when a police team chasing bootleggers came under their attack on railway tracks behind P & T Club near R-Block in Patna on Saturday morning. The incident took place around 7 am when a patrolling team of Jakkanpur police station and two quick mobile constables reached the spot after receiving inputs that liquor smugglers were offloading at least 15 sacks of liquor from a train at R-block. A police source said the ASI, 53-year-old Ashutosh Kumar Rai, was mercilessly thrashed by liquor smugglers using stones on the tracks. His blood-soaked cap and torn uniform with his badge found lying on the tracks after the incident. The injured ASI was taken to the PMCH first from where he was shifted to a nearby private hospital. A bootlegger identified as Subodh Paswan (28), was also wounded in firing and was admitted to a private hospital at Saguna Mor. “Rai has received severe head injuries. He had also received leg injuries. A pellet was found stuck inside his shoe,” a police officer said. Police sources said Rai got trapped as he walks with a limp and was unarmed. They said smugglers lived in hutments just behind the club. A tea stall owner Kumar Ranu said police had fired at least three rounds in self-defence while retreating after being pelted with stones by the smugglers. He showed two empty 9mm cartridges claiming to be those fired by the police. However, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma denied any firing by the police. “All cartridges allotted to policemen involved in the incident were accounted for,” he said. He said two accused have been arrested and an FIR registered with the Jakkanpur police station. The SSP said that the injured liquor smuggler seems to have been mistakenly shot by his associates during the clash. “The ASI was shot in one of his foot. Pellet was recovered from the shoe. Subodh received gunshot injury in the abdomen. The bullet pierced through his abdomen sideways,” Sharma said. He said there are at least 14 cases of liquor smuggling and recovery registered against Subodh, his brothers and mother Jasmati Devi with the Secretariat and neighbouring police stations. “They have been jailed on multiple occasions. Subodh is charge-sheeted in a smuggling case,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/asi-shot-at-by-bootleggers-in-patna-raid/articleshow/77953920.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 6, 2020||Chennai||2,000 acres of temple land in Thiruporur: Madras HC gags registration dept||CHENNAI: Ring-fencing about 2,000 acres of temple land along the Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and the East Coast Road (ECR) near the city, valued at about Rs 6,000 crore, against sale or lease by fraud, the Madras high court has restrained Thiruporur sub-registrar from creating any encumbrance on these properties. The land parcels are mostly owned by Arulmigu Thiruporur Kandaswamy Temple and Arulmigu Thiru Alavandan Temple in Thiruporur. Admitting a public interest writ petition filed on the basis of a news report published in TOI dated July 14 titled ‘Tiruporur firing brings focus on shady land deals’ a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha tagged the PIL with pending similar matters and adjourned the case for further hearing on September 10. The report brought to light how 2,000 acres of ₹6,000-crore worth land belonging to the two temples were being eyed by land sharks. Plea wants entire land surveyed for encroachmentsPointing out that the lands administered by the Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE)department fall under the jurisdiction of Tiruporur sub registrar office, the report quoted officials as saying about 20 gangs, including some with political backing, were eyeing these land parcels. Relying on the report, B Jagannath, an advocate, filed the petition saying there were multiple attempts to transfer the properties illegally with some staking claim from different parts of the state using forged documents. He wanted the court to pass an interim order directing the authorities to survey the entire land and file a status report with details of encroachments if any within a reasonable time. He also wanted the court to restrain the Tiruporur sub-registrar or the inspector-general of registration from alienating or creating any encumbrance on these land titles. Noting that those refusing to fall in line to clandestine offers are often threatened by local politicians, the petitioner said: “The revenue, registration and HR&CE departments have significant collective responsibility to act as a custodian and guardian of the temple lands and the manner in which the lands are being encroached and misappropriated is disgusting to say the least.” Citing various judgments of the Supreme Court, the petitioner said authorities had to work together to safeguard valuable temple assets, especially immovable properties, as they are a prime source of income for the temples. “It is the duty of the authorities, especially state revenue department, to protect these temple lands by ensuring that encumbrance of temple properties does not take place without following the due process of law,” the advocate added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-register-2000-acres-of-temple-land-in-thiruporur-hc/articleshow/77953083.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 6, 2020||Patna||Many cured patients of Covid developing lung fibrosis: Doctors||PATNA: Doctors of at least three dedicated Covid hospitals in the city have detected a worrying trend of cured Covid-19 patients returning a few weeks later with lung fibrosis — scarring of tissues leading to breathlessness, chronic coughing and weakness. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-P, said around 100 recovered Covid-19 patients have come back to the hospital with these symptoms, which after diagnosis turned out to be pulmonary or lung fibrosis. “Lung fibrosis is the scarring in the lung tissue, which develops as a response to inflammation due to the Covid-19 infection. It is the most common respiratory ailment faced by Covid-19 patients post-recovery,” Dr Sanjeev told this newspaper on Saturday. He added, “Post-Covid fibrosis stiffens the lung tissues and makes it harder for the patient to breathe properly, sometimes requiring oxygen support. Under normal conditions, the fibrosis is reversible in most patients and they recover with medications. However, it can be severe in patients who already have some previous respiratory ailments.” According to Dr Samarendra Jha, assistant professor of respiratory medicine at PMCH, one in four recovered patients are likely to develop this condition. “According to empirical evidence as of now, around 25 to 30% of recovered Covid-19 patients will go on to develop lung fibrosis. Hence, one should take all necessary precautions and avoid catching the covid-19 virus in the first place,” Dr Jha said, adding, it is a chronic condition and hampers the day-to-day activities of a patient. PMCH has also received several such patients diagnosed with the condition a high-resolution computerised tomography (HRCT) scan, Dr Jha said, adding, “Covid-19 patients experiencing breathlessness have more chances of developing lung fibrosis.” Dr Jha further said, “Covid patients returning to hospitals post-recovery is a worrying trend. Not just in Patna, my colleagues working across other districts and states have also established the occurrence of post-covid lung fibrosis in many patients. However, the exact numbers are yet to be compiled.” Confirming the occurrence of the post-covid respiratory ailment, pulmonologist Dr Vijan Sharan said, “Post-covid lung fibrosis is a clinically established fact. As per my observation, in about one-third of Covid-19 cases, some form of pulmonary fibrosis develops. ” Dr Satyajit Singh of Ruban Hospital said, “We have seen two to three cases of post-Covid lung fibrosis in our hospital so far. Cases might increase in the coming days as more patients have been discharged recently.” Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a radiologist at Paras hospital, told this newspaper, “25% of patients from our hospital have been diagnosed with post-Covid lung fibrosis. Most of them had comorbidities.” However, city doctors are unsure how long this condition can last after Covid recovery as five months of the outbreak has generated limited patient data on this condition. “It is too early to comment on its uniqueness or how the symptoms of lung fibrosis will progress in different patients but in most of the cases, the condition will take a maximum of six months to resolve,” Dr Sanjeev of AIIMS-P, said. Since it’s a relatively new phenomenon, doctors in the city are contemplating over the line of treatment to be followed for post-Covid lung fibrosis. “We are thinking of administering a drug widely used to treat lung cancer to patients developing lung fibrosis,” said Dr Sanjeev of AIIMS-P. Health experts claim that early diagnosis, swift treatment, adequate hydration and use of vitamin C and zinc supplements can help prevent post-covid fibrosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-cured-patients-of-covid-developing-lung-fibrosis-doctors/articleshow/77953909.cms||Arunima Lal
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||With 3k cases for 3rd day in row, Vid reaching towards projected peak of 75k||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported a spike of more than 3000 Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day, taking the total cases in region to 73,167. According to the projection given by director health service back in April, a peak of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha is expected at 75,801 cases. At the present rate, this number is most likely to be achieved on Sunday. But Nagpur alone accounts for more than 40,000 cases in Vidarbha, representing a dire situation. On Saturday, Nagpur reported 1,752 cases, followed by Amravati (227), Chandrapur (195), Gondia (159), Akola (155), Buldhana (147), Wardha (140), Bhandara (138), Yavatmal (138), Washim (43), and Gadchiroli (23). Nine of the 11 districts in Vidarbha have reported three-figure increase in cases. Death toll is not coming down despite all measures in Vidarbha. Deaths are surging in districts like Bhandara, where the Covid-19 spread was under control till mid-August. On Saturday, Nagpur recorded 45 deaths, followed by Yavatmal (7), Buldhana (4), Bhandara (3), Amravati (3), Chandrapur (2), Akola (2), Washim (2), and Gondia (1), respectively. Vidarbha’s overall Covid-19 death toll reached 1,923. The region’s case fatality rate is still around 2.6%. Recoveries continued to bring some relief to the region on Saturday. A total of 1,905 patients recovered in a day, including Nagpur (1347), Amravati (131), Yavatmal (102), Wardha (60), Buldhana (57), Akola (46), Gondia (44), Chandrapur (34), Bhandara (30), Washim (28), and Gadchiroli (26). This took the total recovered patients to 46,551. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is just under 64%. YAVATMAL: The district has reported 31 deaths in the last five days, including seven on Saturday. All of them are men in the age group of 47-60, hailing from Yavatmal city, Digras, Umarkhed, Pusad and Wani tehsils. Total 138 new positive patients were reported on Saturday, of whom 77 are men and 61 women. According to sources, there are 1,005 positive patients in district, with 741 of them admitted in Covid-19 care centres and 265 in home isolation. Today, 180 swab samples have been sent to lab for testing. Total cases in Yavatmal reached 4063. With 2,941 of them recovered and 117 dead, total 1005 patients are still under treatment. AMRAVATI: With three Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, the district’s toll reached 150 mark, while a record single-day spike of 227 took the Covid case count to 6,736. With 131 getting discharged today, the number of recovered patients went past 5,000 mark and reached 5073. This left 1,513 active cases today, with 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 343 in home isolation, a civil surgeon office report said. The report further said a 54-year-old male from village Pimpalkhuta, a 60-year-old female from village Sawali and a 56-year-old male from Chandur Bazar died during treatment to take the death toll to 150 since the first death on April 2. Today’s spike of 227 was the highest recorded on a single day, beating 218 recorded on September 2. It was the third double century spike. August 28 had reported 206 cases. For the 14th consecutive day, the district reported 100-plus spike, and it was the 26th overall. BULDHANA: For the second consecutive day, Buldhana reported 4 deaths due to Covid-19, which took number of Covid death toll to 57. A 45-year-old man from Malkapur, a 65-yr-old man from Mehkar, 85-year-old man from Khamgaon, and 85-year-old man from Shegaon died of Covid-19. Record 671 test reports were received in a day, out of which 147 tested positive. With this, number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana reached 3,752. With 57 patients getting discharge in a day, total 2,629 of them have recovered. Now, 1,005 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. BHANDARA: Covid-19 death trap is getting scarier in Bhandara with 3 deaths reported in a day on Saturday. Total 138 new patients were detected, taking total number of cases to 1,884. 30 patients recovered, taking their numbers to 937. Now 914 patients are under treatment in Bhandara and recovery rate is around 50%. AKOLA: Two Covid-19 deaths in a day took Covid death toll of Akola to 165. 155 new cases in a day ended the two weeks of respite and the hope of flattening of Covid-19 curve in Akola. Now, the district has 4,511 cases and 926 patients under treatment. With 46 patients recovering in a day, total 3,420 have got recovered till date. Akola’s recovery rate, which was more than 85% once, has reduced to 75% with this. WASHIM: District reported 2 Covid-19 deaths and 43 new cases. A 62-year-old man from Washim city and 70-year-old man from Kalamba Mahali village in Washim tehsil died during treatment. Washim’s death toll reached 38, including a suicide. Total cases reached 2,093 with 1,470 recoveries till date. 585 patients are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The Covid-19 total in Chandrapur climbed to 3,641 as the district posted 195 new cases on Saturday. The day also saw discharge of 34 patients, taking the total of cured patients to 1,642. This has left 1958 active patients. Two deaths were also registered during the day and toll scaled to 41. Both the deceased belong to Chandrapur city. A 56-year-old person from Ramnagar locality was admitted on August 31 and died of coronavirus at GMCH on Friday night. The other deceased was a 76-year-old patient from Ganesh Nagar in Tukum locality. He was a comorbid patient, suffering from pneumonia and was admitted on Friday and died on the same evening. New Covid patients include 95 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Saoli (29), Ballarpur (17), Gondpipri (12), Bramhapuri (9), seven each in Rajura and Mul, five each in Bhadrawati and Pomburna, three each in Warora and Korpana, and 5 each at Nagbhid and Sindewahi. Meanwhile, district administration agreed to allow the private pathology labs to carry out Covid-19 tests in light of rising crowd for carrying out the tests in government labs. The decision was taken after a meeting between guardian minister and pathologists, doctors and IMA representatives. GONDIA: In Gondia district, 159 citizens were found infected with Covid-19 and 44 patients returned home after becoming corona-free. A 25-year-old corona-infected patient died on Saturday during treatment. This patient was already suffering from other extremely serious diseases. Out of 159 patients found positive in the district, 92 were found in Gondia tehsil alone. Gondia now has 2,186 cases, with 1,143 of them recovered and 29 dead. Total 1,014 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: The surge in Covid cases in district continued with 140 new cases on Saturday. 85 men and 55 women tested positive for coronavirus out of 1,324 test reports. Meanwhile, 60 were discharged after recovering from coronavirus. Highest cases were detected in Wardha (66) and Hinganghat (37). Selu recorded 16 cases and Arvi 7, while Deoli, Ashti and Karanja recorded 4 cases each. Samudrapur (2) recorded lowest cases on Saturday. Due to the continuous surge in cases, district collector Vivek Bhimanwar took the decision for 100 more beds for Covid patients at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram. He has also given such instructions to the dean of hospital, Dr Nitin Gagane. The caseload of the district reached 1,602 and active positive are 685. Total 886 patients defeated Covid-19 so far in district and death toll is 31. GADCHIROLI: While 26 patients recovered in a day, 23 new patients were Covid-19 infected on Saturday. Total Covid-19 cases reached 1,252, with 953 of them recovered and 1 died in May. 298 patients are under treatment. So far, this is least number of under-treatment patients in any of the districts in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-3k-cases-for-3rd-day-in-row-vid-reaching-towards-projected-peak-of-75k/articleshow/77955828.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Four cops succumb to Covid in a day||Nagpur: City police lost three personnel, and their rural counterparts one staffer to Covid-19 within a span of 24 hours. Head constable Vyatshala Masram, 54, posted at the police headquarters, was the first woman cop to die of Covid-19. She had been ill since August 31. Masram was admitted at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where she was declared dead on Saturday. Around 800 cops in the city have so far tested positive, including 23 on Saturday. Nine cops from city police have so far fallen prey to coronavirus. Head constable Sunil Selukar, posted at the rural police control room, was declared dead at Shalinitai Meghe hospital in Wanadongri. Naik police constable Pravin Surkar, 43, was declared dead at a private hospital. He was posted at Sakkardara police station. It’s learnt that Surkar had developed Covid-19 symptoms on September 1 and was admitted at a private hospital by his family. Assistant sub-inspector Suresh Madavi, posted at Ganeshpeth police station, was also declared dead at a private hospital. He had developed symptoms on September 2. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of police hospital, said utmost attempts were made to revive Madavi after he was put on ventilator, but the cop passed away. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, in his maiden address to the force on Saturday, said he would ensure that all the immunity booster doses and preventive cure measures were followed. It’s learnt he issued strict instructions for cleanliness in and around police stations and maintenance of hygiene, in the backdrop of the Covid surge in his department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-cops-succumb-to-covid-in-a-day/articleshow/77955834.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid Impact: Deaths in Aug double as compared to last year||Nagpur: Total deaths in the city nearly doubled this August as compared to the corresponding month last year, making it clear that the sixth month of Covid-19 pandemic impacted Nagpur severely. Alarmingly, there were 26% (880) more deaths this August even after taking into consideration share of Covid-19 fatalities in the increase in total deaths. Doubts are being raised whether this excess deaths are due to impact of Covid-19. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) collected data of cremations done at 23 ghats, 10 kabrasthans and 2 Christian cemeteries in the city in August. It revealed 3,586 bodies were cremated in 31 days of August. Of them, 201 were victims of Covid-19 from Nagpur rural and other districts who were cremated here. Thus, overall there were 3,385 deaths in the city this August. As per the civic body’s data, overall there were 1,787 deaths in the city in August last year. It means this August saw 1,598 more deaths — an increase of 89.4% — in the city as compared to same month last year. The first case of Covid-19 was registered in the city on March 11 and full lockdown started from March 21. In April, May and June, when the overall deaths reduced in city, there were only 12 Covid-19 positive deaths. Experts and NMC had cited full lockdown as reason behind reduction in deaths during these three months. The central and state governments started the unlock phase from June 1 and major relaxations in lockdown came from July 1. In July, there were 64 Covid-19 deaths. The month also saw overall deaths increase by 168 as compared to corresponding period last year. In August, 718 Covid-19 positive patients died. When Covid casualties are discounted from increase in overall deaths this August as compared to last year, it shows there were 880 more deaths, which is 26% of total deaths for the month. A former NMC health officer and RTI activist TH Naidu told TOI, “718 deaths due to Covid-19 in a month itself proves failure of administration, ruling party in NMC and state. The government had alerted the administration here to keep medical infrastructure and manpower ready for the pandemic,” they said. The former NMC health officer who is a practicing doctor said on condition of anonymity, “Excess 880 deaths prove there are non-reported or undetected Covid-19 deaths. It is a serious issue and raises a big question about the administration’s functioning,” he said. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar too confirmed some of the excess 880 deaths are unreported Covid deaths. “The statistical change in number of deaths as compared to last year is dangerously rising from July onwards. This is alarming and should shake all of us,” he said. Regarding fewer deaths between April and June, he said it could be due to less accidents, decrease in infections and lifestyle related mortalities. “But the change in graph from July onwards and rise in deaths vis-à-vis last year reflect complacency of public, seasonal disease affliction, increase in stress-related mortalities, improper follow up and treatment of comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, organ failure apart from more medicolegal cases and even unreported Covid deaths,” he said. “Although all indoor emergency admissions are screened by hospitals for Covid, negative patients may subsequently turn out to be positive during hospital stay or even after discharge and may remain undetected. RT-PCR swab tests of all deaths including home deaths may reveal clear picture,” said Dr Marar. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B denied any unreported Covid-19 deaths. “First of all a conclusion cannot be derived comparing this year’s data with only last year. There should be comparison with at least last 4-5 years. Since easing full lockdown, unnatural deaths are on rise and might be reason behind the excess 880 deaths,” he said. According to him, GMCH and IGGMCH are testing brought dead for Covid-19. “Time and again we have been requesting people to inform us in case of any home deaths with symptoms so that testing can be done. People too will have to cooperate,” he said. Till mid of July, the NMC used to trace suspected home deaths and test for Covid-19 by taking bodies to IGGMCH or GMCH. It was done to contain spread of disease by tracking and testing high-risk contacts and give treatment to positive patients in time to prevent more deaths. Among other measures, this too was discontinued. There were 76 Covid-19 deaths in the city in 143 days between March 11 and July 31 while 718 deaths in August. The first five days of September have witnessed 169 Covid-19 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-impact-deaths-in-aug-double-as-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/77955847.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 75L more for Srisailam fire victims||Hyderabad: Telangana Genco has decided to enhance the ex gratia given to the families of victims of the fire accident at Srisailam power house a couple of weeks ago. They will get an additional Rs 75 lakh each. Nine persons died in the accident on the fateful day. Telangana Genco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao said it was decided at the board meeting of Genco held on Saturday that an additional Rs 75 lakh financial assistance would be provided other than the ex gratia given by the government. He said the family of divisional engineer Srinivas Goud, who died in the accident, would get Rs 1.25 crore, while families of other victims would get Rs 1crore. Rao said that the board has also decided to offer a job to the kin of the deceased employees. The department would provide other help too. Earlier, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao instructed that humanitarian approach should be followed while supporting the members of the bereaved families. The board has unanimously treated the fire accident as a special case and accord assistance. “The death of our colleagues in the accident has caused immense pain to all of us. Those who died in the accident had shown a lot of bravery and sacrifice. We may not get them back to life. It is our bounden responsibility to extend help. We believe that we have to extend additional financial assistance other than the help given by the government on behalf of Telangana Genco,” CMD Prabhakar Rao announced at the meeting. The CMD has constituted a three-member committee to revive the plant and take necessary measures to generate power from the Srisailam hydel power plant. Genco hydel, civil directors, Srisailam project CE would be part of the committee, which would supervise the revival works and take decisions and implement them. The Committee would work to revive the plant at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-75l-more-for-srisailam-fire-victims/articleshow/77954754.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Inclusion of coding in NEP a challenge’||Ahmedabad: Coding is included in the newly announced National Education Policy (NEP) to increase the exposure of children to technology. The initiative will pose a challenge to schools and teachers, opined Prof Vijaya Sherry Chand, the chairperson of Ravi J Matthai Centre for Educational Innovation (RJMCEI). “A small number of teachers can currently do it,” said Prof Sherry Chand. “But of course, the outline of what is to be taught is to be decided by the state-level implementing committee and teachers or representatives can share their views before its formulation.” He was speaking at a webinar on NEP 2020 organized by GIAN, InShodh and FAIR-E on Saturday. Earlier in the webinar, Prof Sherry Chand discussed the salient features of the policy including early childhood care, the concept of ‘Balvatika,’ and improving pupil-teacher ratio to 30:1 by 2025. Other features discussed included curtailing dropout rates, the inclusion of open and distance learning programmes, and the requirement of teacher orientation for the new classification of education levels. The participants in the webinar also spoke about the methods of teaching basic skills such as reading, writing and counting in Classes I and II. Experts stressed the need for wholesome development of children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inclusion-of-coding-in-nep-a-challenge/articleshow/77954728.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||No certainty on resumption of Aurangabad-Mumbai Air India flight||AURANGABAD: The director of Aurangabad airport came out with an announcement on its Twitter handle on Saturday stating that Air India was all set to start Aurangabad-Mumbai flights from September 15. “Air India is starting Mumbai – Aurangabad – Mumbai flight from September 15. Frequency of operation 2, 4, 6 days a week. Arrival time at IXU at 19.20 and departure time 20.20 (validity of operation from 15.09.2020 to 24.10.2020),” read the tweet by airport director D G Salve. However, the tweet was deleted hours later. When contacted, senior officials at the Aurangabad airport cited unavailability of slots at Mumbai airport for cancelling the flight and said that the official announcement would be made once the slot was finalised. A slot is a time frame of three minutes allotted to an airline for either take-off or landing at the runway strip. Air slots are divided in three categories depending on the type of cities (tier-I, tier-II and tier-III). Last month, flights connecting Aurangabad to Delhi (three days a week), two flights connecting the city to Hyderabad were started as part of ‘Mission Begin Again.’ Flights to Mumbai have been stopped ever since the imposition of the lockdown. A senior official said, “Best efforts are being made to resume Aurangabad-Mumbai flight at least thrice a week. It is mandatory to start the flight given the increase in travel load.” Air ticketing agent Ashutosh Badve said, “In the past few days, this is the second time that the Aurangabad-Mumbai flight got cancelled.” He, along with other air ticketing agents, said the airline was to be blamed for giving priority to flights connecting to tier-I cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-certainty-on-resumption-of-abad-mum-air-india-flight/articleshow/77953133.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 6, 2020||Nashik||BJYM begins self-reliant India drive||AURANGABAD: Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of BJP, has launched a state-wide awareness drive about the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat ‘or self-reliant India, which was recently announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Party insiders said the move is aimed at countering the alleged propaganda by the opposition parties, who are claiming it to be a hollow promise.  Vikrant Patil, the newly appointed state president of BJYM, has started a state-wide tour. As a part of this campaign, Patil held a meeting in Aurangabad with key office bearers from eight districts of Marathwada to sketch out a strategy for the same. Patil told TOI, “As a part of the drive, we will be reaching out to the beneficiaries of central government announcement schemes like Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative, PM Sanman Kisan Yojana, transferring of direct cash in the bank accounts under Jan Dhan Yojana and others” State general secretary Rajendra Sable Patil said during the lockdown, BJYM reached out to about 90 lakh people with food and ration kits in the state..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjym-begins-self-reliant-india-drive/articleshow/77953283.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kutch’s Banni grasslands reserve to be restored||Gandhinagar: The Banni grassland, which played a key role in Kutch’s rural economy until it got choked by rapidly increasing soil salinity, climate change and the ‘Gaando Baval’ invasion, will be restored back to its splendour soon.The state government has drawn up a plan of removing ‘Gaando Baval’ (prosopis juliflora) from around 20,000 hectares of land, and replenishing the grassland with Banni grass.The Banni grassland in Kutch district is a natural, unique and complex ecosystem. Apart from being one of the biggest grasslands in the Asian region spanning an area of 2,497 sq km, it is also a rich biodiversity area with a remarkable landscape. It is a source of sustenance not only to people of 48 villages inside Banni, but also serves as an important livelihood support system to the inhabitants of the district, which has faced severe drought in the past.Over the years, the landscape of Banni has shown drastic changes. A study done by Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology (GUIDE) in 2009 showed that there had been a steep decline in area under grasslands of Banni. In 1989, the Banni grassland area was spread over 1,42,882 hectares which reduced to a mere 63,073 hectares in 2009. This deterioration has continued since 2009 and it is imperative for the government to intervene before the grassland ceases to exist.Due to the drastic reduction in the grassland area, the government has had to procure 1,388 lakh kg of fodder in the form of grass from outside Gujarat, which has resulted in a huge burden on the exchequer. Apart from restoring the ecology of the region, the government also aims to become self-reliant for fodder.Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment department, said the CM had directed the department to revive the ecology and socio-economy of the Banni grassland region. Based on scientific inputs of study by GUIDE and GEC (Gujarat Ecology Commission), a pilot project for rejuvenating Banni grasslands has been taken up by the Gujarat forest department.“The main objective is to improve the production of grass qualitatively and quantitatively by gradually replacing the inferior species of grasses by indigenous superior grass species. Prosopis will be uprooted and removed completely from areas which are suitable for growing grass. Area will be ploughed and compost, gypsum and farm yard manure (FYM) will be added to improve the soil. Seeds of grasses occurring naturally in the area will be sown and necessary tending will be done to convert the area in a grassland which now looks like a thorn forest,” Gupta said.Gupta added: “The purpose of Banni grassland improvement project is to rejuvenate the degraded and unproductive grasslands and improve the production of good quality palatable superior grasses. The government has decided to take up grassland improvement work in Banni area in 20,000 hectares.” “Once this project is complete these grasslands will produce additional about 200 lakh kg of grass which will be available to Kutch district in drought period,” Gupta explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kutchs-banni-grasslands-reserve-to-be-restored/articleshow/77954724.cms||Kapil Dave
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||Suicide note silent on reason: Cops||Vadodara: The note recovered from the house of Dudhiyawala after the family of five ended their lives in what appears to be a suicide pact late on Thursday night, says nothing about what had pushed them all to take the drastic step. The police are now hunting for other clues to ascertain the reason behind the mass suicide. The bodies of Saifuddin Dudhiawala (42), his wife Mehzabin (35) and their three daughters Zainab (16), her twin sister Arva and the youngest daughter Hussaina (7) were found in the apartment on Friday morning by Saifuddin’s father Shabbir Dudhiyawala and his mother Mariam after their return from their daughter’s house. According to sources, the suicide note found in the house in Batul Apartments in the Sujaibaug locality on Godhra Road in Dahod only stated that they were taking the step of their own will. While officials said that they were informed about the family’s financial crisis, they were yet to get any evidence in this regard. Officials have started gathering details of bank accounts of the victims and are also speaking to family members and other known people. An official said that the family may have consumed water or some drink laced with a poisonous substance to end their lives. Another official said that traces of poison were found in remains of vomit found in sinks. It has also come to light that deceased Saifuddin had even earlier attempted suicide about a couple of years ago. Sources said that they are examining the possibility of loan repayment pressure that may have led to the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/suicide-note-silent-on-reason-cops/articleshow/77953682.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||Drunk man mistaken for thief, lynched by mob; some take selfies before joining attack||BAREILLY: A day after a video surfaced, purportedly showing a 32-year-old man being tied to a tree and beaten up to death by a mob, police arrested two of the 10 people they have booked for murder. The man, Bashid Khan, was inebriated and “mistaken for a thief” by a security guard at Aonla in Bareilly on Friday, after which a mob gathered, tied him up to a tree and started beating him up. Soon, passersby joined in, some of them even posing for selfies before joining the attack. The man died in hospital later that evening. A father of three minor children, Bashid lived in Quila Teli locality in Aonla town and worked at a tent house. He was caught in Nalkoop colony with an electric motor on Friday morning. Bashid, who couldn’t give any satisfactory answer to the questions of local residents as he was drunk, was mistaken for a thief. After thrashing Bashid, locals handed him over to police and he was dropped at his house in a rickshaw. The family alleged that Bashid’s life could have been saved if the policemen would have taken him to a hospital instead of dropping him home. They also demanded action against the policemen for negligence. Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said that the autopsy confirmed that Bashid died due to “internal bleeding and had severe head injuries possibly caused by a blunt object”. “We have registered an FIR against security guard Rahul and nine others under IPC’s sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 302 (murder) on the complaint of the victim’s brother Nasir. Two accused, including Rahul, have been arrested so far and efforts are on to nab the remaining eight. We are still collecting evidence to find if someone else was involved in the incident” the SSP said. “Bashid had no criminal record and he was possibly under the influence of some narcotic substance at the time of the incident and his activities looked suspicious, which is why he was caught by the security guard. We will also look at the role of the local policemen and action will be taken if they are found guilty of negligence,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-man-mistaken-for-thief-lynched-by-mob-some-take-selfies-before-joining-attack/articleshow/77953135.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown was necessary in March: Piyush Goyal||NAGPUR: The central government is facing criticism for the long lockdown, which led to unprecedented contraction in gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter of this fiscal. Defending the decision, railway minister Piyush Goyal said lockdown was necessary in March as the country was not prepared for Covid-19 at that time. “In January we had done only 300 Covid-19 tests. We did not have enough testing kits, PPEs, masks, Covid hospitals etc. Hence there was no option but to impose lockdown. The number of PPE kits manufactured in March in the country was around 1,000 per day. Now it is over 5 lakh. Now we have enough masks, ventilators, hospital beds, etc,” said the minister. He was addressing a webinar organized by BSE IPF and Money Bee Institute. Money Bee director Shivani Dani Wakhare conducted the programme. Goyal expressed confidence that India would be able to beat Covid-19 and become a 5-trillion dollar economy by 2025. “When your target is high, your capabilities improve automatically,” he said. The minister gave the mantra of EQUIP for the audience — Efficiency, quality, uniqueness, innovation and productivity. “Our ‘jugaad’ mentality will not do any longer. We will have to focus on quality. Innovation is vital. The countries that do a lot of research and development (R & D) do well economically. Israel, a very small country, is a classic example,” he said. The minister expressed concern over the rapid increase in stock market. “There seems to be a disconnect between the digital world and real world. I am concerned about the small investors,” he said replying to a query. Goyal admitted that economics and geopolitics were interlinked. “If relations with any country sour, the economy is hurt. There must be peace in the Indo-Pacific region for our progress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-was-necessary-in-march-goyal/articleshow/77955863.cms||Ashish Roy
September 6, 2020||Meerut||UP’s most wanted gangster hiding in Mumbai as fruit seller arrested||MUMBAI/MEERUT: Dreaded gangster and Mirchi gang kingpin Ashu Jaat (32), who was wanted for the murders of Noida executive Gaurav Chandel and Hapur BJP leader Rakesh Sharma, was arrested by a joint team of Hapur police and Mumbai crime branch from Jogeshwari on Saturday. Carrying a bounty of Rs 2.5 lakh, Ashu, top of UP’s most wanted list with 51 cases of murder, kidnapping, loot and theft against him, was selling fruits. Ashu’s name cropped up in the Chandel case in January. A regional manager with a healthcare firm in Gurgaon, Chandel was found murdered on a service road on January 7. Police later impounded Chandel’s stolen SUV from Ghaziabad’s Akash Nagar. Hapur police had earlier arrested his wife Poonam and other gang members, Ashu feared he would be killed in an encounter by UP Police’s STF. He sneaked into Mumbai, took a rented room in Vile Parle and changed his appearance by growing a beard, police said. A minor mistake of calling up an associate in UP paved the way for his arrest. “UP Police last week shared information that he was staying here. Crime branch (unit XI) inspector Sunil Mane and sub-inspector Sharad Zine, along with staff, posed as vendors for three days before nabbing him,’’ said Mumbai DCP (crime) Akbar Pathan. Mane said the accused had switched off his cell phone and sold fruits at Irla market. “UP police sent us his old pictures but he looks different now. Our team posed as BMC officials and got close to him. We took precautions and picked him up,” added Mane. Hapur superintendent of police Sanjiv Suman said, “A Hapur police team that visited Mumbai 10 days back arrested him on Saturday morning.” Senior police officials said Ashu would be brought to Hapur on transit remand on Sunday. Ashu and his brother Bholu, police said, led a gang of more than 25 members, wanted by Noida, Ghaziabad and Hapur police for snatching, robbery and contract killing cases. Sources said the gang got its name ‘Mirchi’ for their modus operandi of throwing chilli flakes into eyes of commuters and robbing them. UP STF said Ashu had a narrow escape last October when four gang members were arrested after an encounter with Hapur police, while his aide Rahul had escaped. Watch Gaurav Chandel murder case: Main accused Ashu Jaat arrested from Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-most-wanted-gangster-hiding-in-mumbai-as-fruit-seller-held/articleshow/77956631.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lightning killed 64 in Gujarat in 2019||AHMEDABAD: The state recently experienced heavy rainfall and thunderstorms due to the monsoon. While the rainfall in 2019 was more than 100% of the seasonal average in the state, Gujarat also reported its highest number of deaths due to lightning for the past five years in 2019, revealed the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report ‘Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India’. Deaths due to lightning accounted for 46% of the total deaths attributed to ‘forces of nature’ in the report. Experts pointed to reasons such as more thundershowers/thunderstorms and more persons working outdoors. The report did not provide city or district-wise details for these deaths. Despite 2019 having excessive rainfall – the state got 1,175mm of rain, or 144% of the average seasonal rainfall till October 31 – it recorded the fewest deaths in five years under the floods and torrential rain category. Compared to 102 deaths in 2015 and 101 in 2017, there were just 17 such deaths in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lightning-killed-64-in-state-in-2019/articleshow/77954761.cms||Parth Shastri
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rush begins for pharmacy courses||Ahmedabad: The results of Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GujCET) 2020 on Saturday led to a spike in the number of students registering for pharmacy courses. This is reflected in the large number of applications received by Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) on September 5, the last day of registration. Of the 9,500 applications received by ACPC for admissions to pharmacy courses, 800 new applications were filed on Saturday. “While there is a good demand for pharmacy courses these days, the students of class XII, be it Group A or Group B, all can apply for pharmacy courses. In case of Group B, many students who were earlier aspiring for admission to medical courses, have taken a calculated decision and applied for pharmacy colleges,” said sources in ACPC. The committee has received 1,000 new applications for engineering and 1,500 applications for pharmacy in the last five days after it decided to extend the August 31 deadline for registration. In the case of engineering, ACPC has received 29,000 application forms of which 1,000 fresh applications came in after August 31. The admission committee is currently initiating admission process for 66,128 engineering seats. Of these, 9,010 are of 16 government-run colleges, 1,076 seats of four grant-in aid colleges and 55,838 of 114 self-financed institutions. The remaining 204 seats are of an autonomous college. Respective managements will fill 50% of seats of self-financed colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rush-begins-for-pharmacy-courses/articleshow/77954767.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||Unlock 4: Manmad special to be first inter-district train from September 12||MUMBAI: Of the 40 pairs of trains to run from September 12, only one pair will operate from Mumbai. Mumbai-Manmad train will be first train that will run within Maharashtra from September 12. Twenty-three pairs of trains are running from Mumbai to various parts of the country since June 1, but none were exclusively for Maharashtra, as the state government had banned inter-district travel. Even bookings for these trains for stations in Maharashtra were banned till September 2, when conditions were relaxed under Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the state. Central Railway chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said train 02109 (special) will leave CSMT at 6.15pm daily and arrive at Manmad at 10.50pm the same day. Train 02110 (special) will leave Manmad at 6.02am daily and arrive at CSMT at 10.45am the same day. It will halt at Dadar, Kalyan, Devlali, Nashik Road, Niphad and Lasalgaon, and will have 17 second class seatings and three AC chair cars. Reservations dates will be announced soon, he added. A CR official said, “The decision was taken by railway board after discussions with state government. It will run on the path and timings of Panchvati Express, which has many daily commuters who work in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unlock-4-manmad-spl-to-be-first-inter-dist-train-from-sept-12/articleshow/77954835.cms||Manthank Mehta
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||UP’s most wanted gangster hiding in Mumbai as fruit seller arrested||MUMBAI/MEERUT: Dreaded gangster and Mirchi gang kingpin Ashu Jaat (32), who was wanted for the murders of Noida executive Gaurav Chandel and Hapur BJP leader Rakesh Sharma, was arrested by a joint team of Hapur police and Mumbai crime branch from Jogeshwari on Saturday. Carrying a bounty of Rs 2.5 lakh, Ashu, top of UP’s most wanted list with 51 cases of murder, kidnapping, loot and theft against him, was selling fruits. Ashu’s name cropped up in the Chandel case in January. A regional manager with a healthcare firm in Gurgaon, Chandel was found murdered on a service road on January 7. Police later impounded Chandel’s stolen SUV from Ghaziabad’s Akash Nagar. Hapur police had earlier arrested his wife Poonam and other gang members, Ashu feared he would be killed in an encounter by UP Police’s STF. He sneaked into Mumbai, took a rented room in Vile Parle and changed his appearance by growing a beard, police said. A minor mistake of calling up an associate in UP paved the way for his arrest. “UP Police last week shared information that he was staying here. Crime branch (unit XI) inspector Sunil Mane and sub-inspector Sharad Zine, along with staff, posed as vendors for three days before nabbing him,’’ said Mumbai DCP (crime) Akbar Pathan. Mane said the accused had switched off his cell phone and sold fruits at Irla market. “UP police sent us his old pictures but he looks different now. Our team posed as BMC officials and got close to him. We took precautions and picked him up,” added Mane. Hapur superintendent of police Sanjiv Suman said, “A Hapur police team that visited Mumbai 10 days back arrested him on Saturday morning.” Senior police officials said Ashu would be brought to Hapur on transit remand on Sunday. Ashu and his brother Bholu, police said, led a gang of more than 25 members, wanted by Noida, Ghaziabad and Hapur police for snatching, robbery and contract killing cases. Sources said the gang got its name ‘Mirchi’ for their modus operandi of throwing chilli flakes into eyes of commuters and robbing them. UP STF said Ashu had a narrow escape last October when four gang members were arrested after an encounter with Hapur police, while his aide Rahul had escaped. Watch Gaurav Chandel murder case: Main accused Ashu Jaat arrested from Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ups-most-wanted-gangster-hiding-in-mumbai-as-fruit-seller-held/articleshow/77954836.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI polls over; Natubhai Patel becomes new president||Ahmedabad: Despite the ongoing pandemic situation along with a recent spell of heavy rains across the state, there was nearly 50% turnout of voters at the annual elections of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) on Saturday. Polling was held from 8.30am till 4pm at the industry body’s office in Ahmedabad, for which people from different parts of the state came to vote.Some 3,200 members of GCCI were registered to cast their votes. GCCI officials said that all measures to maintain hygiene and social distancing were in place during the polls.Soon after the polling was over, the annual general meeting of the industry body was held. The annual audited accounts were presented before the members, as Natubhai Patel, managing director of Meghmani Organics, took charge as the new president of GCCI.The counting of votes and results will begin on Sunday around 10.30am. There was no p olling for last two years at GCCI because candidates were elected uncontested.There is strong contest for key posts of senior vice-president and vice-president this time at the state’s apex industry body. To jointly campaign for elections, Pragati panel and Atmanirbhar panel were formed by the candidates. Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), who leads the Atmanirbhar panel is in the fray for the post of senior vice-president against Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group – a logistics firm. For the post of vice-president, Bhavesh Lakhani, convener, BJP Business Cell for Gujarat, is in the fray against K I Patel, founder of Aries Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-polls-over-natubhai-patel-becomes-new-president/articleshow/77955031.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||Gangster carrying bounty of Rs 25,000 held in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Shahjahanpur police, in a joint operation with Kheri police, arrested a notorious history-sheeter Mohammed Salman on Saturday. He was wanted in dozens of cases in both the districts. Salman was recently charged under the gangster act and was arrested from RC Mission area of Shahjahanpur after receiving a tip-off from Kheri police on Friday midnight. He was carrying a bounty of Rs 25,000. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Shahjahanpur S Anand said, “Salman Qureshi has been booked under various cases of cow slaughtering. He was hiding in the RC Mission area. A team from Pasgava police station shared the information about his hideout with us and a joint operation was conducted. When police asked Salman to surrender, he opened fire at them. Later, however, he surrendered after police opened fire in retaliation. An FIR under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) has also been registered at RC Mission police station against him for opening fire at the police team.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gangster-carrying-bounty-of-rs-25000-held-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77953172.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Reconstitute PCB appellate, urges PIL||Hyderabad: Questioning the inaction in constituting the pollution control appellate authority, a public interest litigation was filed in the high court urging it to direct the state to immediately constitute the same. Front Line Environment Safeguard Society president PLN Rao filed the plea saying that the state is dodging the issue for the last three years. Though the posts of chairman and other members of this appellate tribunal fell vacant in 2017, they are not being filled. “This is a statutory body and a duty is cast upon the state to fill these posts regularly to ensure clean environment in the state,” he said. The body was first constituted in 2015 with Justice CV Ramulu as its first chairperson. His tenure got over in 2017. “The state pollution control board has been writing letters regularly to the state government to reconstitute the board, but to no avail,” said Rao. Earlier in 2018, industries minister KT Rama Rao had assured the constitution of the appellate, but no measures were taken afterwards. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reconstitute-pcb-appellate-urges-pil/articleshow/77954791.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Business||How UP jumped 10 places to 2nd spot in ‘ease of doing business’||LUCKNOW: In a huge boost for the Uttar Pradesh government’s efforts to build an investor friendly environment in the state, it ranked second in the national State Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 — the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ annual rankings released on Saturday. The state jumped 10 positions since the 2017-18 rankings, when it had ranked 12th. Andhra Pradesh retained its top position while Telangana slipped from second to third position. Additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said as part of this year’s parameters, UP implemented 186 out of 187 reforms suggested by Centre. “Since the final evaluation of this year’s ranking is based on ‘users’ feedback’, the feedback received from entrepreneurs on state’s single window portal ‘Nivesh Mitra’ played an instrumental role in UP leaving behind leading states like Gujarat, Telangana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan,” he said. Crediting CM Yogi Adityanath for the improvement in state’s ranking, industries minister Satish Mahana said: “The CM has been emphasising on the need for transparency, adoption of best practices and business-to-government interactive procedures through use of technology”. The industries department said over the past two years, the Nivesh Mitra portal received 2,29,936 applications this year for no-objection certificates and out of that, 94% applications had been been disposed of. At present, 146 services under 20 departments are being provided through the portal. An official said the ‘user feedback’ module of the portal had received 62,286 investor-feedbacks till July out of which around 73% users had rated services as “satisfactory”. In May, chief secretary RK Tiwari had said that to im prove the overall performanceof the state in ease of doing business rankings, the state would assess each district in how efficiently they were able to handle issues raised on the Nivesh Mitra portal. Rankings were issued in June in which Unnao came first. The services which have been included under the reforms include labour regulation, access to information and transparency, land administration, construction permit, commercial disputes, inspection enablers etc. Watch Watch: How UP bagged 2nd spot in 'ease of doing business' ranking||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-up-jumped-10-places-to-2nd-spot-in-ease-of-doing-business/articleshow/77956444.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Ease of doing business rankings: Telangana slips to 3rd spot||HYDERABAD: India’s youngest state of Telangana has slipped to third spot in the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) rankings 2019, behind Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Telangana was edged out by dark horse Uttar Pradesh, which jumped 10 spots by scoring 186 out of 187 in the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 2019 to clinch the second spot. The first spot is retained by Andhra Pradesh. Commenting on the EoDB rankings, Telangana IT & industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “Our biggest strength is that the level of satisfaction of all the investors in the last five-to-six years is very high. This has led to many of them continuing to invest in the state. Basically, there is action on the ground. Many new projects that come to us are referred to the state by the existing players.” He, however, said the state was not taking the drop in EoDB rankings lightly. “We will analyse the areas where our scores have fallen and others have improved and the steps that nees to be taken. We will definitely work on it. But we are awaiting those details at this moment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-slips-to-3rd-spot-in-eodb-ranking/articleshow/77954839.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Berths on popular trains sold out within hours on Saturday||CHENNAI: Brisk bookings ensued for the 13 trains that the Southern Railway plans to run within the state from Monday and tickets on major routes were sold out within a few hours on Saturday. Reservation was slow in the morning though there was a reasonable crowd at counters at Central and Egmore. It picked up later in the day and trains to Madurai, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Coimbatore were full by end of the day for travel on the first service. People also made advance booking for the trains for travel on weekends. Tickets to Madurai on Chennai-KanyaKumari Express on Tuesday for sleeper, AC 3 tier and AC 2 tier are at RAC and on Chennai-Madurai express there are no tickets for sleeper class for travel on Tuesday.  There is only one train to Madurai on Monday which is not full. Reservation status has touched RAC for sleeper class on Chennai-Tuticorin Express on its first service on September 10. Seats on Chennai-Trichy day trains were getting filled fast as there were only seven second seats available on Saturday evening. A railway official said patronage is good because trains are being operated from Chennai. There were hardly any passengers in the seven special trains that operated from stations in the suburbs of the city during shutdown. “The state has relaxed restrictions and given permission to run trains from Central and Egmore. There are no travel restrictions by road so people across the city and suburbs can come to Central, Egmore and Tambaram and board trains. This is the reason for demand for berths,” he said. Though reservations are not on the same lines as it used to be in the pre-shutdown days, railway officials feel it will pick up in the coming days. Online booking continues to be high. Some passengers felt it would have been better if the trains from Central had convenient stops at suburban railway stations because people who live in the suburbs like Tiruvallur or Arakonam may not be able to board as suburban trains are not yet available. Railways is thinking of starting a few suburban trains but plans have not been firmed up. S Baskar, former member of divisional railway consultative committee said, “Special train to Coimbatore is provided a stoppage at Walajah Road and Ambubut not in Tiruvallur. There are no connecting local trains available to catch the above express train at Arakkonam too.” There are also demands from passengers to operate Chennai-Madurai Podhigai express and a few other popular express trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/berths-on-popular-trains-sold-out-within-hours-on-saturday/articleshow/77954792.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Start SIT to probe property-related offences: Anil Deshmukh to new CP||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, who prompted the unprecedented initiative to give a befitting farewell to erstwhile CP BK Upadhyay at the Police Gymkhana on Saturday, asked the new police chief Amitesh Kumar to form a special investigation team (SIT) for property offences. He also said that Maharashtra police is exhausted tackling Covid-related issues but will not relent until the virus takes a back seat. Upadhyay, the first city CP whose send-off was attended by the state home minister, said his two-year stint in Nagpur was a ‘golden period’ in his career. In his speech, Upadhyay recalled how Deshmukh accompanied him to review containment zones across the city and also spoke to the families of the Covid positive patients. Upadhyay got a pat from the HM for his innovative time-bound operations and drives to control crime, especially the record of leaving no murders undetected in the city. Deshmukh, who claimed that Maharashtra’s police’s image is at an all-time high after their Covid-related efforts and loss of more than 165 personnel, directed Kumar to set up a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate property-related offences like land grabbing by goons. “Nearly 80 out of the 100 complainants whom I meet have grievances related to property. My drive to collect complaints directly from citizens has also underlined the same trend. I will forward 350-400 complaints to you (Kumar) which can be probed through a SIT,” said Deshmukh. The minister also lauded the role of the previous SIT formed in the city following an order by his predecessor, ex-CM and HM Devendra Fadnavis. Deshmukh also urged Kumar to ensure that citizens, especially women, feel safe in the city. “Think about starting a horse-mounted police squad on the lines of Mumbai, a practice revived after a long time. Try to rope in corporates and use their social welfare funds to start Drones with public announcement facilities for traffic and crowd management,” he said. Deshmukh stressed the fact that Kumar, along with his rural counterpart, also needs to review requirements and put up proposals for housing the constabulary. The home minister also asked Kumar to follow in the footsteps of Upadhyay in kick-starting special operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/start-sit-to-probe-property-related-offences-hm-deshmukh-to-new-cp/articleshow/77955882.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Will ensure every woman moves safely in Nagpur: New CP||NAGPUR: The city’s new police commissioner (CP) Amitesh Kumar, who took over the baton from BK Upadhyay, said on Saturday he would ensure every woman and senior citizen in the city feels at ease to move around safely, at any point of time. The new CP also stated he would invoke stringent provisions of law if the weaker sections of society were targeted, during his first formal press conference held at Police Gymkhana. Vowing to clamp down on corruption, Kumar said he would not let a situation arise where a cop is caught taking a bribe. “We will stop corruption and stress on transparency and fairness,” he added. Prior to the press conference, state home minister Anil Deshmukh set the agenda for city police before Kumar, during the farewell programme of former CP Upadhyay. Deshmukh told Kumar that every citizen must have trust and faith on the cops, and women must be safe in the city. He also said Upadhyay and his team had almost cleansed the city of goons, and henceforth no new ones should crop up. Reflecting the priorities of the home minister, Kumar said he would stress on basic and effective policing. “Murder rate has already come down in the city, and I will try to ensure it becomes even lesser. I would review the state of street crimes, detection, economic offences, cyber crimes and formulate the course of action,” said Kumar, a 1995 batch IPS with his second stint in the city after 13 years. Post the press conference, Kumar, in his maiden address to city police officers, presented a no-nonsense stance. Speaking mostly in Marathi, Kumar, who was seated alongside the Covid-recovered joint CP Nilesh Bharne, ensured he repeated certain points in the Queen’s language to stress on them. Amid the recurrent “he chalnar nahi” (this will not be tolerated), Kumar’s ‘I will not hear this’ could be frequently heard. Kumar sought rotation of staffers’ duties, particularly mentioning the writers of inspectors. “If you feel it is not possible to function without your writers then surrender your chair to them,” said Kumar. There was pin-drop silence among cops as Kumar sounded the warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-ensure-every-woman-moves-safely-in-city-new-cp/articleshow/77955880.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||More officials will be arrested: SP||Ahmedabad: After TOI exposed the widespread corruption in MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) in Banaskantha, district and police administration have swung into action by suspending and arresting prime accused in the case. District SP Tarun Duggal said that police had arrested Chaman Raydara, sarpanch of Balundra village of Amirgadh taluka and gram rojgar sevak (GRS) Hitendrasinh Chauhan on Friday night. Duggal said that thorough investigation was being carried into the suspected role of senior officers who monitored the MGNREGA implementation in the area when the fake job card scam took place. “Once complicity of senior officers is established, we will not spare them,” said Duggal. District development officer Ajay Dahiya told TOI that Raydara was also issued a show cause notice on Friday. “Then talati Gajendrasinh Rathod was suspended and services of GRS were dismissed,” he said. In Balundra village, large scale corruption in the MGNREGA scheme was exposed by Dalit rights activist and Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani along with his aides Kiran Parmar and Dinesh Rathod. Later, as TOI investigated the scam, it was revealed that fake job cards were created in the name of dead persons and even school going children to pilfer union government funds meant to give livelihood to the poorest of the poor. These unprecedented stories of corruption were reported by TOI in a series of articles from September 2. These included cases in Salempura village in Palanpura taluka, where job cards were created in the name of a prisoner, who was lodged in Palanpur sub jail for murder of a five-year-old girl. Also names of a government peon and a secretary in a local dairy were found on MGNREGA muster card. In Kumbhasan village of Palanpur taluka, a dummy job card was made in the name of a cop and his parents. Sources in police said that they had also begun inquiry into the corruption cases of Salempura and Kumbhasan where an FIR might be lodged soon. “In Salempura and Kumbhsan villages, a taluka development officer was asked to become a complainant and file an FIR against erring Sarpanches and government officers,” said a police officer. The scam was first flagged by Dalit activist and independent MLA from Vadgam Jignesh Mevani and his outfit Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch members — Hasmukh Rathod and Kiran Parmar — who exposed gross irregularities in the MGNREGA where dummy job cards were created to get undue financial benefits. Mevani told TOI: “Responsibility of the superiors including district rural development agency (DRDA) head and taluka development officer (TDO) must be fixed. No payments could be made without approval of TDO and DRDA head. They have to be privy to all the documents. The evidence is there for all to see. Any delay in arresting superior officers would only be seen as an attempt to thwart the investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-officials-will-be-arrested-sp/articleshow/77954821.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Candidates can file papers online||Thiruvananthapuram: The byelections to Chavara and Kuttanad to be held in November would be the first election where candidates will have an option to file their nomination papers online. “Candidates can submit their nomination papers online. They can also come and physically submit them, but only two persons can come with the candidate,” said chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena. In the wake of Covid-19, several restrictions for candidates, party workers and the general public would be put in place for elections that are likely to incur more expenses for the election commission. “Under normal circumstances, EC may spend Rs 4-5 crore/constituency. Under existing circumstances, this may go up by Rs 1-2 crore,” Meena said. The announcement by central election commission on Friday that bypoll will be held in both constituencies has prompted both LDF and UDF to go into poll mode. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that bypolls will be an appraisal of government performance. Noting that only four months will be available for the newly-elected legislators, CM said this is a peculiar situation but it would be unfair for the state to oppose bypoll. The NCP leadership has reached an understanding to field Thomas K Thomas. On Friday, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the seat belonged to NCP. RSP central committee that met on Saturday formally elected RSP leader Shibu Baby John as the UDF candidate for Chavara and the decision was conveyed to the UDF. Considering Covid-19 situation, the number of voters — which used to be 1,500/polling booth — will be reduced to 1,000, which would mean an increase in polling booths. “EC may extend polling time by an hour,” Meena said. The regular polling hours are from 7am to 5pm. In polling booths, voters will have to wear masks and they will be provided disposable gloves while entering polling booths. Health workers will be deployed in addition to polling officials who will ensure that there is a gap of 1m between two voters in the queue. There will be three new categories of voters: Covid-19 positive, those in quarantine and others who are asymptomatic but positive. For the first two categories, EC will provide postal ballots. For the third category, they will be isolated from voters and allowed to vote at the end of the polling time with necessary precautions. Meena said parties will be encouraged to use online platforms for maximum campaigns. A physical campaign convoy can contain only five vehicles with a limited number of people in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/candidates-can-file-papers-online/articleshow/77954008.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GujCET results published on Sat||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) declared the results for Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) 2020 on Saturday. The highest score this year for Group A and Group B Class XII (science) candidates was 116.25 out of 120 marks. As many as 410 students of the Group A and 655 of Group B have secured 99 percentile, the state board announced on Saturday. The marksheets will be handed out to the students along with the Class XII (science) supplementary board exam results, the date for which will soon be announced. The details for availing the duplicate OMR copies for various subjects will soon be announced by the board. The state level entrance exam is held annually for science students seeking admissions to degree engineering and pharmacy colleges in government, grant-in-aid and self-financed engineering institutions. A merit list for college admissions will be drawn up later by giving 40% weightage to percentile obtained by the candidate in GujCET 2020 and 60% weightage to percentile obtained in Class XII (Science) board exams. A total of 20,909 students in Group A and 32,732 candidates in Group B scored more than 50 percentile, the board said. About 50,000 students of Group A had registered for the exam held by GSHSEB, about 77,000 from Group B and less than 500 from Group AB. After being deferred thrice due to the Covid-19 crisis, GujCET was held on August 24 with full precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujcet-results-published-on-sat/articleshow/77954873.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects plea to stay MBBS exams||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Saturday rejected a plea to stay final year MBBS exams scheduled on September 8 and to be conducted physically. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and S P Tavade said nine students had approached court at the “eleventh hour’’. Namrata Karade and eight other under-graduate medical students of various streams filed the petition to seek withdrawal of an August 21 circular issued by Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) and stay final year medical exams in the state. “The petition discloses there are about 10,000 students who are to appear in the physical exam mode,’’ HC said. The students’ lawyer, Kunal Kumbhat, sought that the exams be postponed due to Covid-19 and “unpreparedness’’ of authorities in holding exams at present. The students wanted the state to extend the date. The state, through government pleader P P Kakade and additional GP M M Pabale, left it to MUHS’s discretion as it was the best judge of the situation. The exams are to be held from September 8. With “only one working day’’ till then, the bench said it was not inclined to stay the exams. HC also noted that Supreme Court, while dismissing petitions seeking postponement of NEET UG-2020 and JEE (Main) in its August 17 order, had found there was “absolutely no justification in the prayer made for postponement of exams”. SC had noted, “Though there is a pandemic, ultimately life has to go on, and careers of students cannot be put in peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted.” HC posted the students’ petition for further hearing on September 17. No advocate appeared for MUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-rejects-plea-to-stay-mbbs-exams/articleshow/77954842.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Para badminton champion shuttles into blade running||AHMEDABAD: With Covid curtailing sporting events, world para badminton champion Manasi Joshi has begun practising on a blade — a specialized prosthetic leg designed for athletes with disabilities. The champion has been walking with the blade and expects to be able to run soon. “Running was part of my daily schedule before I met with an accident. Over the past few days, I have been learning to use the blade,” said Joshi, whose left leg had to be amputated as a result of a road accident in 2011. “I think that in a fortnight or so, I should be able to run with the blade,” Joshi said. She said that she had been considering the idea of running on a blade for a while. “But since the lockdown, all sporting events have been put off and I thought this was the right time to begin,” she said. “I am thankful to Alimco (Artificial Limb Manufacturing Corporation of India) for sponsoring the prosthesis.” A blade costs Rs 4-5 lakh. “Running will help me keep fit and increase my stamina. Also, whatever is one’s situation, one must keep learning new things,” Joshi said. “When the process of unlocking began, I thought this was a good chance to get into the fitness mode.” Joshi has been picking up the technicalities of walking and running on the blade under the watchful eyes of two prosthetists — Santosh Raut and Jemin Chauhan. Asked if she was exploring the possibility of using the time available to train for para athletics, Joshi said no. “I am using this new skill only to get better at badminton,” she said. In August 2019, Joshi was crowned the para badminton champion at the world championships in Basel, Switzerland. She was keenly looking forward to the Paralympics 2020, which has been postponed because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/para-badminton-champ-shuttles-into-blade-running/articleshow/77954856.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP minister Baldev Singh Aulakh tests Covid-19 positive||RAMPUR: Uttar Pradesh minister Baldev Singh Aulakh tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Friday. “I got the test done today after having initial symptoms of Covid-19. The report has come positive. I have isolated myself at home on the advice of doctors, tweeted Aulak, who is also the minister of state for Jal Shakti department. Speaking to TOI over the phone from Lucknow, the minister ‘s personal security officer Partap Singh, said, “He tested positive for Covid – 19. He is fine and healthy.” Aulakh is the BJP MLA from Bilaspur Vidhansabha constituency of Rampur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-minister-baldev-singh-aulakh-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77953194.cms||Nazar Abbas
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Two-day further remand granted||Ahmedabad: After it was ordered to hear the remand application afresh, a magisterial court in Mirzapur on Saturday granted further remand for two days to owners of Popular Builder on charges of attempt to murder, domestic violence. The court has granted custodial interrogation of Monang Patel, his father Raman Patel, uncle Dashrath Patel and cousin Virendra Patel till Monday afternoon based on an FIR filed by Monang’s wife, Fizu, last month. The court has passed the order on Vastrapur police’s demand for six-day further remand of all four persons. Earlier, the magisterial court ordered one-day remand for the accused in response to police’s seven-day remand application. The police sought six more days for interrogation of the accused saying that one-day interrogation was not adequate and evidence in the form of video footage of their meeting with the complainant and documents were required to be recovered. However, the magistrate rejected the request for further remand and sent the accused to judicial custody on August 30. The police approached the sessions court for further remand on the grounds that the lower court had given them too little time to question the accused. The sessions court quashed the rejection order and asked the lower court to hear the remand application again. Meanwhile, the accused approached the sessions court on Friday for a stay on its order remanding the application to the lower court. The sessions judge imposed fine of Rs 5,000 on each of four accused for filing the application with the observation that it was a delaying tactic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-two-day-further-remand-granted/articleshow/77954845.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man robbed by autorickshaw gang||AHMEDABAD: Nitin Brahmbhatt, 63, of Navrangpura, lodged a complaint at Airport police station on Friday alleging that on his way home from his workplace, an auto driver and his accomplices staged a fight among themselves, and in the confusion stole his wallet and gold chain worth over Rs 1 lakh. Brahmbhatt stated he works in a private company in Sabarkantha and commutes daily from Navrangpura. “On Thursday evening, while he was returning from his job and waiting for the AMTS bus at Nana Chiloda , an auto came there. Brahmbhatt boarded the auto to go home. On the way, other passengers sitting in the auto started fighting with the auto driver over making a fourth passenger sit in the auto,” said a police official. The auto driver stopped his auto near Kotarpur waterworks and asked him to get down of the auto as the other passengers were fighting. “The auto driver dropped him near a bus stand and did not even wait to take the fare. When Brahmbhatt checked he found that his wallet and gold chain were missing. We are probing the incident,” said an inspector of Airport police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-robbed-by-autorickshaw-gang/articleshow/77954840.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Authorities on alert to ensure social distancing on first unlock Sunday||CHENNAI: Police and civic body officials are gearing up to take effective measures to control crowds on the first lockdown-free Sunday. More attention will be given to fish, meat and vegetable markets in the city, said officials. According to a corporation official, measures will be the same as what is followed for weekdays. Teams, formed under every police station, will be accompanied by collectorate officials to fine those not wearing masks. Greater Chennai Corporation revenue officials will be looking into commercial establishments that fail to follow distancing and mask rules. Civic body officials said they will continue their awareness and enforcement measures as cases are expected to rise with lockdown norms relaxed. The aim is to remind the public to not be complacent about safety norms. Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal conducted a meeting with subordinate officers to ensure physical distancing in markets. Police also asked traders and vendors to request customers to follow norms. A deputy commissioner said, “We have assigned patrol vehicles at public places to monitor and book cases against those not wearing face masks.” People from the city and suburbs of Chengalpet and Kancheepuram districts are expected to throng Mamallapuram and East Coast Road on Sunday. This would be first time the tourist town draws crowds after more than than five months. However, all monuments maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/authorities-prepare-for-first-unlock-sunday/articleshow/77954828.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Mobile Covid test vans to be deployed outside Delhi Metro stations||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is all set to resume its services from Monday after a hiatus of more than five months and at a time when the capital is witnessing a rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases. Delhi government has doubled the number of Covid-19 testing in the city and starting Monday, mobile Covid-testing vans are also going to be deployed for random testing of passengers outside busy Metro stations. “Civil Defence volunteers and officials of the North district will ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 related safety measures outside Metro stations,” said a government official. He added that the district administration has deployed mobile vans to target Special Surveillance Group, including e-rickshaw drivers, plumbers, mechanics, electricians etc. At Metro stations, frontline staff of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and Central Industrial Security Force personnel will carry out thermal scanning of all commuters and those who are found symptomatic, would be asked to visit the nearest medical centre. At stations where the vans will be deployed, Rapid Antigen Tests would be carried out of such commuters at the spot. Random testing of asymptomatic commuters will also be carried out, a source said. Delhi government started first such testing camps at Anand Vihar early last month, where tests of migrants coming back to the city are carried out. “To scale up testing to 40,000 a day, the government is deploying mobile units outside government offices, markets, inter-state bus terminals, railway stations etc,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobile-covid-test-vans-to-be-deployed-outside-stns/articleshow/77955909.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 6, 2020||Bareilly||Rs 10 lakh cash goes ‘missing’ from PNB branch; staff say robbery, police dismiss claims||Bareilly: In a bizarre incident, Rs 10 lakh cash allegedly went ‘missing’ from a Punjab National Bank (PNB) branch in Purani Painth area under the Chandausi police jurisdiction limits in Sambhal. The bank staff have claimed that it was stolen by a youth who was spotted in the CCTV, standing at a cash counter in the bank on Friday afternoon, following which the cash went missing. But the Sambhal police has dismissed the allegations, saying that that the “cash-theft story was fabricated” and they suspect that an internal fraud might have taken place. According to the police, bank manager Dinesh Kumar found the money missing when the cash was being counted before the closing of the counter. “We did not receive any complaint regarding the incident from the bank, but through sources, we got to know of the incident. Inspections were conducted at the bank and CCTV footages were scanned. We were told that the CCTV at the counter from where the cash was stolen was faulty earlier in the day and hence was not working. Only the CCTV installed at the main entrance was functional,” superintendent of police, Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad told TOI. The SP said an FIR has been registered against unknown persons under section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code. “A detailed probe has been ordered and more sections might be added in the FIR, based on the investigation,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rs-10-lakh-cash-goes-missing-from-pnb-branch-staff-say-robbery-police-dismiss-claims/articleshow/77953218.cms||Maria Khan
September 6, 2020||Chennai||HC stops Vadapalani temple from building new parking space||Chennai: The Vadapalani Murugam temple administration cannot construct the proposed additional car parking on North Mada Street, as Madras high court on Friday ordered maintenance of status quo in the matter.Justice N Anand Venkatesh passed the interim order while admitting a plea by S Muralidharan, a resident of the area, claiming that a new parking facility is unnecessary, as the temple has four existing parking places to accommodate more than 1,000 cars.According to the petitioner, there are 14 grounds of land opposite Valli Marriage Hall, which belongs to the temple, in which around 160 cars can be parked. Similarly, 16 grounds of land are available near Deivanai Mandapam, in addition to 10 grounds inside the Valli marriage hall and 5.5 acres of vacant land in Saligramam belonging to the temple. In all these spaces, more than 1,000 cars and two-wheelers can be parked, advocate R Jayaprakash, representing the petitioner, said. “All these places are close to the temple. When the facts stood thus, in 2016, at the instance of a local politician from the ruling party, the same space (North Mada Street) was intended to be converted into a children’s park by shrinking the road,” he said. Based on my representation on January 22, 2016 stating the difficulties to be faced by residents of the locality in converting it into a park, authorities dropped the proposal, he said. “Now, at the instance of the same politician, the present proposal of allotting a parking space by shrinking the 40ft road is taken up by the Chennai corporation,” he alleged. The area is packed and random parking of vehicles by worshippers of Vadapalani temple is rampant. On the same road, a school is also functioning for the past 40 years, the petitioner said.Therefore, shrinking the width of the road to create a parking space is unwarranted and it would inconvenience residents in the locality. Highlighting the grievances, I made a representation to the corporation on March 10. Since they failed to act, I was constrained to move the court, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-stops-vadapalani-temple-from-building-new-parking-space/articleshow/77954844.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||This Malpura govt school is a cut above the rest||JAIPUR: This government senior secondary school in Malpura is a cut above the rest. It has CCTV cameras in all classrooms, digital boards in most of the classrooms, volunteers from abroad teach English, a track record of producing meritorious students every year and the highest enrolment ratio against classes. Principal Girdhar Singh, who has transformed the institute into one of the most sought-after school in the state, was nominated for a state-level award on Teachers’ Day on Saturday. But the ceremony was postponed following the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee. Since 2015-16, the results of the school has remained between 90-100% in the board exams. The distinction of 100% pass percentage in commerce for the last five years is unique to this school. “My school has been maintaining enrolment of 1,500 students and above from the last four years against 1,080 seats. The rush is so high that this year alone, I have received over 100 applications in August from parents whose wards are ready to move from a private school to my institute,” said Singh. The innovation in the school started after Singh went to an educational trip to 22 countries funded by a Jaipur-based NRI. He was sent to get a first-hand knowledge on the education system abroad such as teaching, student-teacher relations and the value system in Europe. The donor also arranged his meeting with teachers and principals of educational institutes in several countries. “The visit has changed my perspective on education. I have understood the importance of encouraging scientific temperament in every student irrespective of his stream. Problem-solving sessions to approach any problem with the sense of logic and reasoning has greatly contributed to learning outcomes of my students,” said Singh. His innovative approach doesn’t stop here. He has introduced motivation session every day by sharing a life sketch of great humans—philosophers, mathematicians, astrologers, physicians, chemists, statesmen and change-makers. “During a discussion in the British Library in London, I could realise that along with great Indian personalities, we have spread the good work of every great human being in the globe. I was surprised to see that how in every school Mahatma Gandhi is present either in the form of a chapter, lecture or his picture among the great thinkers,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-malpura-govt-school-is-a-cut-above-the-rest/articleshow/77955886.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra retains top position with pro-industry initiatives||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has retained its top position across the country in the ease of doing business index for 2019. The ranking was released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman in Delhi on Saturday. AP has achieved 100% compliance of the 187 reform action points by the Department for Promotion of Industries and International Trade (DPIIT) and the World Bank. The Business Reform Action Plan 2019 contains a list of 80 points for the states and union territories to be assessed for the ease of doing business rank. Andhra Pradesh minister for industries Mekapati Gautham Reddy said that the state had achieved 100% of the 80 points set by the World Bank and the DPIIT. “The rankings represent the ease of doing business in the state with increased transparency, efficiency and effectiveness of the government regulatory functions vis-a-vis the business enterprises,” the minister said. He said that AP was the first state in the country to have come up with the ReSTART package post Covid-19 for business continuity of MSMEs while fulfilling 90% of the promises made to the electorate and businesses in the very first year of governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-retains-top-position-with-pro-industry-initiatives/articleshow/77954870.cms||Gopi Dara
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||Remains of missing girl found after 18 days||Vadodara: Remains of a two-year-old girl, who was believed to have been kidnapped from outside her house in Chhota Udepur, was found after 18 days. The girl had gone missing while she was playing outside her house at Vadatalav village in Bodeli taluka on August 16 morning. The girl’s father was away at another village for work while her mother and other relatives were cooking inside the house. The family members searched for her for the entire day and approached police next day. Cops from Pavi Jetpur police station and local crime branch searched for the girl around her village and in nearby forest areas. “We had suspicion that a leopard might have taken the girl away as a woman too was attacked in a neighbouring village a few days before the girl went missing,” said superintendent of police Dharmendra Sharma. On September 3, remains of the girl were found a kilometre and half away from her village in forest area. The girl was identified from her clothes and her remains were sent to SSG Hospital for autopsy. “Our suspicion has been confirmed as the autopsy has revealed that a wild animal had killed the girl. We have however sent the evidence to FSL for more details and have also taken DNA samples to confirm the girl’s identity,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/remains-of-missing-girl-found-after-18-days/articleshow/77953696.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar: Rs 39 lakh stolen from retired IAS officer’s bungalow||AHMEDABAD: Theft of Rs 5 lakh cash and gold and diamond jewellery valued at Rs 39.5 lakh has been reported at retired IAS officer D K Rao’s bungalow in Sector 8 of Gandhinagar. An FIR was lodged on Friday by one Virendra Purohit, 57, a civil engineer, with Sector 7 police station. Purohit has family relations with Rao, said sources. Purohit has stated in the complaint that he got a call from Rao that on March 12 he had locked his house and had gone to his native place Hyderabad. “Rao urged me to get the house cleaned as it was closed for six months. Sam Joshwa, a priest, reached the bungalow with the keys given to him by Rao,” Purohit told the police. Joshwa opened the bungalow and Purohit sent three labourers to Rao’s bungalow for cleaning. Joshwa soon called up Purohit and told him that a cupboard on the first floor is open and the grill of the window is also broken. Purohit then informed Rao about the theft. “Gold and diamond jewellery and Rs 5 lakh kept in the cupboard were missing,” said a police official. “We have lodged a complaint for burglary. We tried to get CCTV footage but the cameras were not functional for six months. We are trying to get clues through CCTV footages from nearby buildings,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-39-lakh-stolen-from-retired-ias-officers-bungalow/articleshow/77955053.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Woman murders husband with tenant’s help, both held||COIMBATORE: A 58-year-old woman and a 41-year-old man were arrested on Saturday for beating her 60-year-old husband to death with a cricket bat on August 31. The Sulur police identified the accused as Rajamani, wife of G Kaliyappan, of Neelambur and their tenant N Arikrishnan, a native of Alangulam in Tenkasi district. An investigation officer said Kaliyappan was murdered when he went out for morning walk on Avinashi Road at 6am on Monday. “When he neared GRD Damodaran Academy of Management, an unidentified person followed him and assaulted him with a cricket bat. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera.” Kaliappan was rushed to a private hospital, where he succumbed to his head injuries the same night. The Sulur police later collected the CCTV footage and registered a murder case. “Arikrishnan was one of his tenants. Kaliyappan used to make lewd comments at his wife. When Arikrishnan warned him, Kaliyappan stopped providing water to the tenant and cut the powerlines also,” the officer said. Arikrishnan informed Kaliyappan's wife Rajamani about the issue and she allegedly asked him to kill her husband, who she said used to misbehave with women. She also agreed to pay him to execute the murder, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-murders-hubby-with-tenants-help-both-held/articleshow/77954847.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Thanaghazi gangrape final hearing tomorrow||ALWAR: A special court in Alwar has deferred the final hearing of the infamous Thanagazi gangrape case till September 7. The hearing in the case under the SC and ST (prevention of atrocities) Act restarted on Friday after a gap of five months because of the pandemic. The defence counsel submitted his arguments during the hearing. Sources said the hearing was in the final stages and the defence counsel would be given one or two more hearings before the judge pronounced judgment. The incident happened on May 2, 2019 when a Dalit couple on their way to Thanaghazi on Alwar-Thanaghazi road on their motorbike was dragged to an isolated place by the accused. The victim was stripped and gangraped by five persons in presence of her helpless husband. One of the accused shot the entire incident on camera and shared it on social media. The incident hogged national limelight as the video went viral in which the accused were clearly seen or identified. Following the incident, the SHO, DSP, ACP and SP were removed as they didn’t file the FIR at the first place. The state government has appointed the rape victim as a constable on humanitarian grounds. Thanaghazi police had on May 18, 2019 filed a chargesheet against five persons — Ashok, Indraj, Mahesh, Hansraj and Chotelal. They were held guilty of gangrape, dacoity, threatening victims and extortion. later, one Mukesh Kumar was held accused of uploading the video on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thanaghazi-gangrape-final-hearing-tomorrow/articleshow/77955884.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Bike papers as surety to free seized truck||Jodhpur: In an interesting case in a court of metropolitan magistrate here, a seized truck was released against the surety of a motorcycle on Saturday. The truck was seized by police after an accident last fortnight and required a surety worth more than the value of the truck for its release.The owner of the company on Saturday produced the documents of a motorcycle for the release of the truck, which astonished everybody present in the court. But their astonishment subsided when they learnt that the motorcycle was Harley Davidson, the value of which exceeded the value to the truck.According to lawyer Dhanraj Vaishnav, who represented the owner, one is supposed to give a surety of the value more than the value of the seized vehicle for its release by the court.“The papers of the motorcycle we submitted as surety were of Harley Davidson motorcycle, which was valued at Rs 29 lakh. Hence, the value of the motorcycle exceeded the value of the truck, estimated at Rs 20 lakh by the insurance company,” said Vishnav.The magistrate, Suprabha Dewal, after ensuring the value of the surety ordered to release the truck.According to information, the motorcycle had been purchased in 2016 for Rs 39 lakh on-road price. Its present value had been estimated at Rs 29 lakh, which made it an ideal proposition for the owner to offer it as a surety against the truck.The matter remained a talk of the court due to its bizarre nature. Vaishanav also said such types of sureties are rare as mostly papers of some property are submitted in the court for such high value releases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bike-papers-as-surety-to-free-seized-truck/articleshow/77955905.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Accused cops taken to PS to reconstruct custodial death||Ahmedabad: Six Vadodara police personnel, who surrendered to CID crime last Monday, were on Saturday morning taken to Fatehganj police station in Vadodara to reconstruct the events leading to the death of 62-year-old Babu Shaikh from Telangana, who died in police custody.The cops are inspector D G Gohil, sub-inspector D M Rabari and Lok Rakshak Dal jawans Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendra Jilansinh, Rajiv Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambhubhai. They allegedly tortured Shaikh to death.The investigating officer, SP Girish Pandya of CID crime, said, “We had local forensic experts with us to draw up the correct picture of the reconstruction which will provide vital clues during further investigation of the case.”Pandya said the accused personnel claim to have chased Shaikh and caught him near Phoolwadi Crossroads on December 10, 2019. “An FIR was lodged against the cops on July 6, 2020, following a preliminary investigation carried out by ACP S G Patil of Vadodara.Shaikh was picked up by police on suspicion of theft and was allegedly tortured inside the computer room of the police station, leading to his death. The accused then allegedly disposed of his body at an undisclosed location.The accused cops also made a false entry in the station diary stating that Shaikh was allowed to go on the day he was picked up. “This came to light when a constable of the police station, Rakesh Rathwa, told his superiors that the accused cops had beaten Shaikh up mercilessly which had led to his death,” said an investigator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accused-cops-taken-to-ps-to-reconstruct-custodial-death/articleshow/77954897.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Simplify laws & repeal irrelevant ones: Minister||JAIPUR: PHED and energy minister B D Kalla during a cabinet sub-committee meeting on the progress of works under six departments on Saturday, as listed in the Jan Ghoshna Patra, directed the law department to review the old laws, under revenue and other departments, that are irrelevant and are required to be repealed, and also work towards simplification of the complicated laws. “We have directed the law department to work towards reviewing the old laws that have become irrelevant with the objective of repealing them and simplification of complicated laws. The secretary of the law department will collect information regarding this from the officials of the department and other departments that are related to this every month and take appropriate action. Most of these laws are under the revenue department,” Kalla told TOI. “The recommendations of the committee will later be sent to the cabinet for approval. We will give the departments 2-3 months’ time to accelerate the progress of work,” he added. Development works of 6 departments were reviewed on Saturday. The departments include revenue, PHED, transport, law department, Public Works Department (PWD) and water resources. The officials of all the departments were instructed to monitor the matters related to their departments and submit a report to the committee after conducting a monthly review. “It was directed to the transport department to provide free passes to students appearing for competitive examinations. They informed that Rs 92 lakh has been spent on this. They are also doing it for NEET-JEET examination aspirants,” he added. Of the 8 points under PWD in the Jan Ghosna Patra, work is in progress in six of these and task has been initiated on two points. Of the 10 cases under the transport department, work has been completed in one and seven are in progress. Action has been taken on two points. Under the revenue department, of the six points, work has been completed in two, two are in progress and action has been initiated in one. Of the 8 points under PHED, five are under process and action has been taken on two points. Of the 8 points under the law department, two are in progress and action has been taken on 4. Similarly, under the water resources department, 9 out of 12 works are in progress and approval has been issued for one. Action has been taken on two other points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/simplify-laws-repeal-irrelevant-ones-minister/articleshow/77955907.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kozhikode||NCP to field Thomas K Thomas from Kuttanad||Kozhikode: Transport minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, AK Saseendran said that the party has decided to field Thomas K Thomas, brother of former minister (late) Thomas Chandy, as the candidate in the upcoming assembly bypoll from Kuttanad. However, a formal announcement will be made only after LDF approves his candidature. Chandy had represented Kuttanad for three terms from 2006 till his death in December 2019, which necessitated the byelection. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Saseendran said the candidature of Thomas was approved by NCP’s party central committee. "Everyone had expected that bypoll for Kuttanad seat would be held much earlier and LDF had, in its meeting held earlier, decided that NCP will contest from Kuttanad. Accordingly, the party had meetings for candidate selection. The name of Thomas K Thomas came up and was approved by the party central committee as well. Now, the only process remaining is the formal announcement of the candidature by LDF. All other procedures have been completed," he added. NCP state president T P Peethambaran echoed similar views. Earlier this year, Mercy – wife of Thomas Chandy – had written a letter to Peethambaran and senior NCP leaders along with CM Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan urging them to field Thomas in the byelection from Kuttanad. She had also stated that she or her children are not interested in contesting polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ncp-to-field-thomas-k-thomas-from-kuttanad/articleshow/77954079.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast adds 552 new C-19 cases||Mangaluru/ Udupi/ Mysuru: Dakshina Kannada and Udupi collectively reported 552 new cases on Saturday. While 377 fresh cases in DK took the tally to 14,600, Udupi’s 175 cases took its tally to 12,511. Nine Covid-related deaths in DK saw the toll touching 400, while Udupi reported four fatalities. Health authorities discharged 311 patients, including 193 in home isolation, which left the district with 2,961 active cases. The number of active cases and fatalities in Udupi stood at 1,906 and 112, respectively. Meanwhile, Mysuru recorded the highest single-day spike of 790 new cases. The day also saw 12 patients succumbing to the infection. As many as 418 persons were discharged. Figures in other districts: Shivamogga —346 new cases, 339 discharges, 8 deaths; Chamarajanagar — 31 new cases, 106 discharges, 2 deaths; Chikkamagaluru — 238 new cases, 4 deaths; Hassan — 347 new cases, 151 discharges, 6 deaths; Kodagu — 28 new cases, 35 discharges; Mandya — 246 new cases, 291 discharges, and 4 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-adds-552-new-c-19-cases/articleshow/77953243.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Agra||Wife of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar delivers a baby boy in Mathura||Agra: The wife of Akhilesh Kumar, the deceased co-pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express flight that crashed at Calicut International Airport in Kozhikode last month, gave birth to a baby boy at a private hospital in Mathura on Saturday.Expressing happiness, the family members said, “For us, the baby's birth rekindles the happiness and joy that Akhilesh radiated in our lives. We are extremely happy and we know that he is overjoyed wherever he is today.”According to doctors, both the baby and mother, Megha Shukla, are doing fine and are likely to be discharged in the next two days.ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/wife-of-co-pilot-akhilesh-kumar-delivers-a-baby-boy-in-mathura/articleshow/77953227.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Brahma Temple, Ajmer dargah will open from tomorrow||Ajmer: The Brahma Temple and Ajmer dargah will open for devotees from September 7. This is crucial because thousands of devotees come to these places. Economy of Ajmer and Pushkar mostly depend on these two religious places.There will be no offering of prasad in Brahma Temple. There will be social distancing and wearing of masks will be compulsory.District administrative officials on Saturday had a meeting with the stakeholders of dargah and instructed to follow guidelines. A day before officials also visited the dargah.Different groups related to dargah were demanding to open the shrine for devotees as they stated that they are getting request to offer prayers. District magistrate Prakash Rajpurohit on Saturday had the meetings with khadims and asked to follow guidelines released by state government for the religious places.He asked that social distancing should be maintained. There should be at least six feet distance between two devotees.Officials also made compulsory to wear face mask while entering the dargah. There will be thermal screening both at entrance and exist of the dargah. The devotees should get the facilities of hand wash and sanitizer before going inside. There will be no offering including flowers and chaddars inside the dargah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brahma-temple-ajmer-dargah-will-open-from-tomorrow/articleshow/77954875.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||134 recruits come out of MRC with flying colours||Udhagamandalam: At least 134 recruits successfully completed a year-long basic and advanced military training and came out in flying colours from the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington near Coonoor here on Saturday. The MRC also played host for the attestation parade by the recruits and their oath taking ceremony. The parade was carried out with appropriate social distancing and in consonance with traditions of the Army. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, commandant, MRC, said the recruits were being attested on Teachers Day and asked them to cherish the values imbibed in them by their instructors. The 134 military recruits will be joining various battalions of the regiment, shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/134-recruits-come-out-of-mrc-with-flying-colours/articleshow/77954876.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman attacks ex-boyfriend with acid twice in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A 20-year-old woman attacked her estranged boyfriend with acid for the second time in a week at Nandyal town in Kurnool district on Friday. The victim was identified as Nagender (23), an employee at a local provisions store. According to Nandyal police, Supriya attacked Nagender while he was returning home on a motorcycle. The girl was waiting for him near his house and when he slowed his vehicle at a speed breaker, she rushed with an acid bottle and splashed it on his face. Nagender suffered injuries on the right side of his face. Earlier, she had attacked Nagender when he was passing through her area. He had then sustained injuries on his shoulder and arm. However, Nagender had not lodged a complaint and the issue only came to light after the second attack. Supriya later spoke to the reporters justifying her action and said they were in a relationship for the last three years. “Nagender promised to convince his family so that we could get married. I had even questioned him whether his parents would agree since we are from different castes and he assured me that he would work things out. Now, he got married to another woman and despite that he claims to be with me,” Supriya alleged. “I even made him speak with my uncle, a sub-inspector of police, who gave him confidence about getting us married,” Supriya added. However, Nagendra said that he had mutually broken up with her before getting married to another person 12 days ago. “She is resorting to the attack not because we broke up but because I got married soon after that,” Nagendra said. Family members of Nagendra claimed that Supriya was informed about his marriage and sought an amicable end to their relationship to which she had agreed. The police said that they have registered a case against Supriya and would book her under relevant sections of IPC depending on the gravity of the injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-attacks-ex-boyfriend-with-acid-twice-in-ap/articleshow/77954919.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Nursing council ex-member & son held in assets case||Jaipur: The zonal unit of Enforcement Directorate (ED), Jaipur, arrested a former member of the Indian Nursing Council (INC) and his son from their Mansarover residence in connection with a case related to amassing of disproportionate assets by a public servant. Both were produced before a court on Friday when ED was granted custody of 10 days. Senior ED officials confirmed the arrests of Mahesh Chand Sharma and his son Mohit under sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “We had initiated investigation on the basis of an FIR and chargesheet filed by the ACB against Sharma, his sons Mohit, Ankit, wife Meena Devi and others. He had worked in medical and health department of the state government as nursing tutor (Nursing Grade-2), College of Nursing, SMS Medical College. He was also a member of India Nursing Council (INC), New Delhi,” said an ED officer.He along with his associate were trapped by the sleuths of ACB for accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a nursing institute for allegedly adding the name of the institute on the website of INC. “Investigation conducted by the ACB established that the accused had amassed illicit earning totalling Rs 10.60 crore which was 372% more than his known and legal source of income,” the officer elaborated. “In our investigation under PMLA found a large number of incriminating documents including property documents related to a number of plots, benami (unnamed) properties and high value financial transactions were seized. Investigation conducted so far revealed identification of additional properties to the tune of Rs 4 crore,” said an officer. So far the ED has made provisional attachment orders amounting to Rs 4.76 crores and Rs 7.86 crore have been issued on July 3, 2019 and June 24, 2020, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nursing-council-ex-member-son-held-in-assets-case/articleshow/77955915.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Record 4,531 suicides in Rajasthan last year, family issues top list||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has ranked 12th in the number of suicides in the country. A NCRB report said the state reported 4,531 cases in 2019, up from 4,333 cases in 2018. The number of suicides per lakh population stands at 5.8%. The report doesn’t give a state-wise data on the reasons for suicides, but officials in the home department said ‘family problems’ tops the list followed by professional reasons . Last year’s figures is the highest number of suicides that the state has ever seen. In 2014, the state had witnessed 4,459 deaths. Experts said the numbers are alarming in Rajasthan since ‘distressed farmers’ taking their lives is not high in the state compared to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Associate professor of sociology, Rajasthan University, Rashmi Jain said the figures might appear it is a uniform problem, but the reasons differ from one state to another. “The state has a feudalistic society where family/community honour is supreme and sacrosanct. Often, we come across news headlines about youngsters committing suicides. If we read the full report to sense that reason, family pressure or alienation for taking a line against their family or society are the big reasons,” said Jain. Women in general in the state doesn’t enjoy freedom to air her views or taking any stand. “I am sure the rate of women in suicide will be much be higher than other states,” added Jain. Nationally, 32.4% of the suicides are due to family problems, followed by 17.1% due to illness and 5.6% for drug abuse. Around 10% of the reasons are probably related to youths. Love affairs contribute for about 4.5%, failure in the examination was 2%, unemployment was 25% and professional career problem contributed to 1.2%. Dr R K Solanki Senior Professor and Unit Head, Department of Psychiatry SMS Medical College, Jaipur says that every suicide is preventable, provided an aware society. "Every day I deal with people who are suffering from acute depression due to various factors. What is common in almost all of them is lack of communication with their near and dear ones. Communication is a two way process, but in ideal conditions. Every person who develops suicidal tendencies leave an impression in various forms. It is up to people around you to notice and to prevent the person from taking such an extreme step," said Solanki. He urged the state to spread awareness on spotting behavioural changes in persons according to their age group and gender to help people around them notice any major change and take preventive measures. The state has maintained consistency in suicide rates also raises questions on the consecutive state government failing to address the problem. The State doesn't have a centralized system to respond or provide counselling to the vulnerable. The department of psychiatry is all government and private hospital is least visited shows how misinformed the society is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-4531-suicides-in-raj-last-yr-family-issues-top-list/articleshow/77955912.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Upasi seeks govt help to revive coffee industry||Udhagamandalam: The United Planters’ Association of South India (Upasi) has requested the Union finance ministry to reconsider the cut in export incentive on coffee and flagged the issue of Rule 7B(1) of the Income Tax Rule, 1962, as that dissuaded farmers from going in for value addition, which they said was the need of the hour. AL.RM. Nagappan, president, Upasi, said farmers would be taxed for processing coffee and that amounted to the extent of 25% of income earned through the same. The tax collected through 7B(1) is unknown and the information could not be obtained through the Right to Information Act as well. In a press statement, Upasi said the farmer was deprived of earning a better remuneration for his produce because of this age-old provision in the Income Tax Rules. In the recent report of the parliamentary standing committee on commerce that was submitted before the Rajya Sabha and Loka Sabha on August 26, there was a recommendation to repeal the Rule 7B(1) of the Income Tax Rules. Pointing out that plantation commodity exporters were availing a MEIS (Merchandise Export from India Scheme) export incentive of 5% up to December last, Nagappan said, the same was reduced to 3% thereafter. “In the case of instant coffee, the export incentive was reduced to 5% from 7%. Also, the Centre has discontinued the MEIS scheme all of a sudden from April. Because of this, many shipments, for which prices were contracted earlier, were affected.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/upasi-seeks-govt-help-to-revive-coffee-industry/articleshow/77954907.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Village stories open virtual chapter||Chennai: Dancing to the beats of the parai and narrating tales of fictitious regional characters, folk artist Mani Maran Magizhini has been in touch with his urban audience through Facebook Live, YouTube videos, and online classes all through the lockdown. "Most folk stories we narrate have supernatural elements intertwined with everyday stories. This makes each story fascinating," says Maran, as he narrates the story of a man who pursues a woman named Mohini, depicted as a beautiful and evil supernatural being. "She is just a strong woman who confronts a man she is not interested in," he laughs. The lockdown triggered by Covid-19 has been a huge blow to rural communities dependent on the tourism and recreational industry. As income streams have thinned, several communities have stepped on to digital platforms to sustain their livelihood. Storytelling or teaching the parai is among them. "I have never imagined teaching parai or narrating stories for students who live abroad," says the Vedanthangal-based parai artist who began teaching parai through platforms such as Zoom since the lockdown began. "Urban dwellers can leverage digital tools while maintaining social distancing, but rural India continues to be held back by the lack of digital skills and opportunities," says Shivya Nath, founder of travel blog, The Shooting Star. Her initiative, ‘Voices of Rural India’ (VoRI) — a digital platform sparked by the Covid-19 pandemic — provides space for rural communities to curate and deliver their stories in their own voices. Launched on August 15, VoRI works with rural communities in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Gujarat and is expected to expand to other states. Nath says VoRI owns what is possibly the country’s first Instagram channel run by a rural community. For Soniya Thakur, a 21-year-old student from Tirthan Valley in Himachal Pradesh, sharing her community’s culture through VoRI has been exciting. "Magh Mahina is a special month where we come together to cook local delicacies such as bhalla (fried lentil doughnuts) and babru (sweet fritters). I was thrilled I could share the story about this ancestral festival with everyone," she says, adding that this is the time of the year when every family gathers together in the chilly evenings, lights a fire and roasts walnuts over it. Staying connected to people’s lives is crucial, in times where tourism has taken a knock, explains Malika Virdi, co-founder of VoRI. "We want to draw people into our lives and not just be a feel-good tourist destination," says Virdi, who is also a farmer and sarpanch of Sarmoli Jainti Van Panchayat in Uttarakhand. During the pandemic, rural communities are slowly learning to negotiate available spaces, re-skill, and use the interim period to bridge the urban and rural divide, believes Virdi. Arjun Narayanan, co-founder of Chennai-based Simply Stories, says, "Bringing rural stories to the urban crowd and in turn, involving in the grassroots-level revival of folk culture and lifestyle is important in keeping their stories alive." He believes the need of the hour is the digitisation of oral folklore to help preserve them. According to Eric Miller, director of Chennai-based World Storytelling Institute, the role of traditional storytellers is different from new-age urban storytellers as they narrate their stories to reinforce their community identity and to educate and entertain outsiders. "Those with access to technology in these communities are mostly young individuals who aren’t necessarily those with the utmost knowledge about local customs and cultures," he says adding that finding the most suitable representatives to be the community’s storytellers is delicate, yet crucial to preserving the culture. Tribal and rural storytelling is a way of transferring indigenous knowledge to the next generation, says P Subramaniam, Director of Tribal Research Centre, Government of Tamil Nadu. "It is not communicated just for the sake of entertainment. Storytelling is a vital method of communication for most tribal groups." Subramaniam explains that one of the issues that can arise in communication is the difference in the cultural context. "For instance, taboo topics such as sex are openly discussed through dances and songs, however, they might be perceived in an inappropriate manner when communicated to an urban audience." Documenting tribal cultural values should be encouraged, he says. Recently, for instance, All India Radio, Ooty, hosted sessions where oral stories were narrated by the vulnerable tribal groups of Nilgiris themselves. A few writers have also been documenting oral folklore from this region in a written format, he says. Rekha Rautela, a 40-year-old from Sarmoli in Uttarakhand, is one such storyteller who aims to document untold and forgotten stories from her community through VoRI. "I am now working on a story exploring the evolution of love and relationships from ancestral times to the present, in my community. This is the ‘pyaar kahani’ of my people," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/village-stories-open-virtual-chapter/articleshow/77954909.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Happy birthday to you, dear peepal!||Coimbatore: Puliyakulam residents celebrated the 40th birthday of a peepal tree in the locality by cutting a cake on Friday. Elderly residents had planted the tree at the Karupparayan Kovil Street - Srirangan Street junction several years ago. They placed a Ganesha idol under the tree and constructed a small brick structure around it. As the tree grew in size, the structure started crumbling. “So, in June, we decided to pull down the structure and replace it with a new one, along with a strong platform around the tree. We took the idol and placed it in a nearby temple,” said Ramesh Varma, a resident. “As the peepal’s roots were interfering with water pipelines, we trimmed them, leaving the taproot intact. But the tree started to shed leaves. We were shocked and consulted two agriculture students. Based on their suggestions, we wrapped the cut portions of the roots with gunny cloth and provided the tree with nutrients such as cowdung and leaf compost,” Varma told TOI. The residents heaved a sigh of relief after a month, when the peepal started to show signs of revival and put on new foliage. “After the tree was back to its former glory, we decided to celebrate its 40th year on Friday. We cut a cake and offered a piece to the tree,” he said. The residents, who have formed a group for the tree, said they will work to save the trees showing signs of distress and take care of those translocated for road work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/happy-birthday-to-you-dear-peepal/articleshow/77954940.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||47 test +ve, 52 recover in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 47 new cases of novel coronavirus on Saturday, even as 52 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. The tally now stands at 1,857, of which 366 are active cases. The hill district also reported a Covid death. With this, the toll has risen to 14. As per official records, 1,477 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. A health official said 10 new patients, one of them a woman, had visited other districts, mainly Coimbatore. Among the new cases were a 30-year-old nurse, a 33-year-old staffer of the Ooty government hospital, 43-year-old medical shop owner in Ooty and a 42-year-old man who came from Odisha. The official said another six cases were linked to a wedding function that was held at Katteri recently. “Two are residents of Coimbatore and the cases would be cross-notified to that district,” the official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/47-test-ve-52-recover-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77954926.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||2.30am robbery on Navrangpura road||Ahmedabad: Kamal Rana, 40, of Nikol lodged a complaint with the Navrangpura police station on Saturday, stating that he was robbed in the area in the small hours of that day. He said that while he was going home at about 2.30am, two persons on a bike intercepted him. One of the men on the bike threatened Rana with a weapon and snatched his bag. “The complainant has mentioned in his FIR that his bag contained credit and debit cards, a cheque book, his PAN card, and Rs 1,500 in cash,” an official of the Navrangpura police station said. “We are gathering CCTV footage to identify the robbers and will soon catch them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-30am-robbery-on-navrangpura-road/articleshow/77954937.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Step up testing, early intervention key to bring down mortality||PUNE: Doctors and experts said increased testing will lead to a rise in numbers but it would help doctors to intervene early. Even if case numbers rise, a majority of the patients will be in early stages of the illness, which means good chances of recovery. Prakash Doke, a former director of health services and advisor to the state government, said increased testing of all high-risk contacts and treatment immediately after onset were essential to bringing down the death rate as well as number of critical patients. “We are still not able to detect cases early. Many patients are being admitted late — ignoring initial symptoms will delay proper treatment. It turns into a challenge for doctors if a patient comes in at stage 2 of the illness,” he said. Salunke added that massive syndromic surveillance could have been key in reducing the death rate. Had the state changed strategy to contain deaths through massive syndromic surveillance — checking on high-risk people with influenza-like illness (ILI) — rather than singularly focusing on tracing and testing close contacts of patients, there would have been a drop in casualties by now. Doctors have now called for more tests across the state’s rural areas and non-metropolitan zones to reduce patient loads on hospitals in the major cities. There have been several instances of critical patients being rushed to hospitals after initial delays in treatment. Dr Ajay Sankhe of the Bhaktivedanta hospital in Mira Road, said, “Testing has to be increased in rural areas. We get many cases from Palghar district because rural areas do not have infrastructure or manpower to treat Covid-19. If we increase testing in rural areas, and catch cases early, chances of patient recovery rise tremendously,” said Dr Ajay Sankhe of Bhaktivedanta hospital in Mira Road. Doctors said the state has to step up awareness measures using mass media tools and reach out to people living in low-income, densely populated neighbourhoods to bring down the death rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/step-up-testing-early-intervention-key-to-bring-down-mortality/articleshow/77953269.cms||Swatee Kher
September 6, 2020||Delhi||CISF to enforce Covid norms at Delhi Metro too||NEW DELHI: Starting Monday, the customary role of the Central Industrial Security Force personnel at Metro stations is going to change dramatically, with the force now also responsible for enforcing the new guidelines for travelling on Delhi Metro. The CISF personnel were primarily in-charge of security checking earlier, while quick reaction teams and dog squads patrolled the busy stations. Now, the teams have been assigned specific roles, including postings of more personnel at CCTV control rooms in order to maintain better check on social distancing norms. “Instead of being stationed at just the X-Ray baggage inspection system, personnel will be posted all over the Metro station. Each team will be responsible for controlling crowd effectively,” said a senior CISF official. While CISF, which has a central control room at Shastri Park, will provide inputs to individual stations, an official said that all stations will have a team of CISF personnel at CCTV rooms as well. The team monitoring the CCTV rooms will provide inputs to the staff patrolling the stations for enforcement. “As soon as someone is found not wearing a mask, they will be asked to put it on. If people refuse to comply, then they will be handed over to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited for penal action,” the official added. Quick reaction teams that patrol stations, often the first responders, will also travel in the Metros now. “Our basic duties will remain the same. An additional role is now to enforce social distancing norms and make sure people do not overcrowd outside the station, at the platform or within the Metro coaches,” said the official. The Metro will gradually resume services from September 7-September 12 in three phases, with around 260 entrances (approximately) to be open out of the 671 entrances available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cisf-to-enforce-covid-norms-at-metro-too/articleshow/77955919.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||NIA charge-sheets Raj man who stole warship gadgets||Jaipur: Almost three months after a man from Hanumangarh was arrested for theft of computer devices from an under-construction indigenous aircraft at Ernakulam in Kerala, the National Investigation Agency has filed a charge-sheet. Though prima facie case appeared to be of espionage, the NIA charged the accused under appropriate sections of IPC and IT Act.The accused identified as Daya Ram (age not revealed) was charged under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201(for disappearing after committing a crime), 380 (theft), 454 (trespass for the intention of theft) and other appropriate sections of IPC and 66F(1)(B) of the IT Act“The case pertains to the criminal trespass and theft of critical electronic components including processors, RAM and solid state drives installed aboard the the indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) under construction at Cochin Ship Yard Limited (CSL) between July and September 2019. Originally, the case was registered at Ernakulam Town South police station at Kochi on September 16, 2019. Based on the complaint of DGM, IAC Project, Cochin Shipyard,” said a senior officer of NIA on Saturday. Thereafter, NIA had re-registered the case on September 26 and after meticulous and scientific investigation spread over many states over a period of nine months, the agency zeroed in on two accused including Daya Ram of Hanumangarh. “Dayaram worked as a contract employee for painting work aboard the IAC in September, 2019. While working aboard the IAC, he along with another accused Sumit Kumar Singh of Bihar observed the computer systems functioning on the warship and conspired to commit theft of computer hardware for monetary gain. Consequently, between second week of July and first week of September, 2019, he along with other accused trespassed into the locations aboard the IAC where the critical computer resources were installed and committed theft of critical computer hardware knowing that the same pertains to the security of the nation,” the officer added. After the theft, the accused returned to his native place in Hanumangarh with the stolen property. “We arrested him on June 10 from Hanumangarh with the help of local police,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nia-charge-sheets-raj-man-who-stole-warship-gadgets/articleshow/77955918.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hubballi||Quota for locals: Details of other states submitted to CMO||Jaipur: As the state government is contemplating reserving all state government jobs for bona fide residents of the state, convenor of Rajasthan Berojgar Ekikrit Mahasangh Upen Yadav has submitted advertisements/details regarding the same of around 22 states (where local youths are given priority in different ways) to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) for perusal. The chief secretary had asked DOP and other departments to gather information and data from other states on how they had implemented this provision without inviting legal hurdles before the next meeting to finalise the proposal.The states where local youths were given priority in state government jobs in different ways include: Bihar, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Kerala, Mizoram, Haryana, Nagaland, Puducherry, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand, Manipur, Arunchal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Andhra Pradesh."There are around 22 states where people from Rajasthan are not given priority in government jobs. They have made it mandatory only for bona fide residents or they have given priority to those who know the local language or had educational qualification from that particular state. Under such circumstances, a Rajasthani cannot apply for jobs in those states," said Yadav."Similarly, in Rajasthan as well, priority should be given to residents of the state. So far, there is no demand for reservation in private jobs. The CMO had sought details from us seeking to know the basis of our demand," he added.While some states like Haryana had given 10% bonus marks in competitive exams for local youth, some southern states have given preference to the local youth by making knowledge of local language mandatory for a government job. The CMO had in October last year sought a factual report from DOP on the same issue based on the letter written by Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/quota-for-locals-details-of-other-states-submitted-to-cmo/articleshow/77954928.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Why is everyone saying thank you?||Chennai: Good morning, are you ready for your daily dose of vitamin G?" At the crack of dawn, educator Ruchi Mohunta addresses more than 100 participants of her 21-day virtual workshop that helps make ‘gratitude’ — or vitamin G — an integral part of their lives.It’s day 16 of ‘Magical Mornings’ and in this session, participants have been asked to walk for 90 seconds, saying ‘thank you’ every time they take a step. Just thank you, nothing else, because the two words, believes Ruchi, can turn your life around.Magical Mornings are based on readings from Rhonda Byrne’s best-seller ‘Magic’, says Ruchi. "The first session was in June and we are now on to our fifth round of readings," says Ruchi, who has also customized the gratitude workshops for teens, where the focus is on loving yourself the way you are, as well as another for children at Little Flower Convent for the Deaf. "It’s just a way of bringing positivity into your life," she says.For Rachna Kumar, who is conducting the workshop for a second time and plans on signing up for a third, it was the uncertainty and anxiety that the pandemic brought on that made her sign up. "Being in a constant state of gratitude for everything I have, rather than thinking of what I don’t, has made me calmer and happier," says the vice president of Hamsadhwani, a music sabha.There is a science behind the feeling of positivity that comes with gratitude, says Kamlesh Singh, associate professor of psychology, IIT Delhi. "When you express gratitude, your mind revisits the positive experiences that resulted in that gratitude. You then begin to relive that moment of positivity, which improves your mental well-being," says Singh, who specializes in the area of positive psychology. "In a study we did, we found people with a higher level of spirituality had more compassion, forgiveness and gratitude, which in turn led to a better state of mind."Singh says expressing gratitude in times of stress pushes positive emotions to the fore and helps reduce stress levels. A study published in August, based on anonymous nightly diaries software engineers from Microsoft were asked to maintain during the pandemic, found people who reported no gratitude were 22% less likely to report being satisfied that day. Google Trends in the past 90 days shows that in India and worldwide, the term ‘gratitude’ had a number of online seekers. There are more than 150 gratitude apps online.A 2018 study in the Journal of Positive Psychology found that maintaining a gratitude journal helped reduce levels of materialism in adolescents. It also found that adolescents who kept a gratitude journal donated 60% more of their earnings to charity compared to those who did not. "Gratitude demands only a few minutes each day, but the results are long-lasting," says Ruchi. And for your first dose of vitamin G, she suggests you write down ten things you are thankful for today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-is-everyone-saying-thank-you/articleshow/77954959.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hubballi||Celebrations sans students||Dharwad: Teachers’ Day was celebrated at various educational institutions in Dharwad on Saturday in the absence of students, thanks to Covid-19 restrictions. Teachers and non-teaching staff greeted each other and garlanded the portrait of former President S Radhakrishnan, whose birth anniversary is celebrated as Teachers’ Day. In some institutions, teachers, who would otherwise have conducted sports and cultural programmes to mark the occasion, conducted online classes for students. The department of public instruction held two functions — one at Karnatak Vidyavardhaka to felicitate taluk-level award-winning teachers and another at Alur Venkatrao Bhavan to honour those selected for the district-level best teacher award. DC Nitesh Patil, who inaugurated the Alur Venkatrao Bhavan event, said his teachers, especially at primary school, played a significant role in making him what he is today. He said he owed his IAS and the present position to his parents and teachers. Celebrations were also held at Leelavati Charantimath Public School, Janata Shikshana Samiti-run institutions, Lingayat Education Society, Karnatak Arts and Science Colleges, KE Board’s First-Grade College and all schools and colleges under KE Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/celebrations-sans-students/articleshow/77953286.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||CA, bank executives booked for cheating, forgery||AURANGABAD: A chartered accountant and some current and former executives of a cooperative bank have been booked by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Aurangabad police for allegedly cheated an elderly woman’s husband. This is the second cheating offence to be registered against the CA. The police said the suspect is known to boast about his contacts by falsely claiming to be the CA for the firms owned by political heavyweights. In her complaint, Raeesa Begum, a 61-year-old resident of the City Chowk area, said that in 2003, her husband Mohammed Nazim, a footwear trader, obtained a loan of Rs 30 lakh from the Adarsh Mahila Nagri Sahakri Bank by mortgaging their shop in the Gulmandi area. When Nazim came in contact with the CA, the latter allegedly forged documents and mortgaged a property owned by Raeesa Begum in the City Chowk area. The bank record stated that this property was mortgaged against obtaining cash credit of Rs 1.70 crore and Rs 2 crore, taken in June and July, 2005. However, Raeesa Begum had purchased the property in November 2005. The cooperative bank claimed of having a promissory note and a CC-sanctioned letter. It moved divisional registrar of cooperative bank’s court and filed a recovery suit. The woman said neither had she taken any cash credit/loan, nor had she mortgaged her property. However, 11 shops built on her property were seized by the bank. Perturbed by the incident, Nazim passed away. The woman recently reached out to the senior police officers and lodged a written complaint. Taking cognizance of the complaint, the EOW booked a cases against the CA and his alleged accomplices in the bank, on the charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery, cheating for forgery and common intention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ca-bank-execs-booked-for-cheating-forgery/articleshow/77953306.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Metro felicitates Covid warriors with medals, cash prize||LUCKNOW: All set to get back on track post lockdown, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) celebrated its third anniversary ‘Lucknow Metro Diwas’ on Saturday. Calling them ‘corona warriors’, the UPMRC applauded the contribution of its employees in various fields and felicitated them on the occasion at Transportnagar Metro Depot. MD’s gold and silver medals were awarded to the best performing staff of Metro project, operations and maintenance, along with cash prizes of Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000 and certificate of appreciation. In the best Metro project staff category, MD’s gold medal was awarded to Adarsh Kumar Singh, an assistant engineer, while silver medal was given to assistant engineer Ashish Kumar. MD’s gold medal in operation and rolling stock category was awarded to Manish Kumar Sonkar, senior supervisor (operations), and silver medal was bagged by RK Bhartiya, senior section engineer (rolling stock). In maintenance, Sandeep Singh, JE (traction), won the MD’s gold medal and Ujjwal Srivastava, senior section engineer (signaling), won silver medal. The best maintained Metro station award was awarded to Munshipuliya Metro Station for the year 2019-20. The operational staff of Munshipuliya was given a memento, certificate and a cash prize of Rs 10,000. Moreover, corona warriors of UPMRC were also felicitated. “The pandemic is unprecedented. Nevertheless, the crisis has not shaken our morale and UPMRC is steadfastly committed to resuming smooth and hassle-free operations, albeit with precautions and safety measures. ‘Adopt Metro with social distancing’ is the mantra that will inspire us in the post-Covid scenario,” said Kumar Keshav, MD, UPMRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-metro-felicitates-covid-warriors-with-medals-cash-prize/articleshow/77955945.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||State fixes Rs 3k to 5k per day for Covid-19 treatment in a hotel room||Jaipur: For cosy accommodation of Covid-19 patients in a hotel room, where they will be provided treatment by a private hospital, the state government has fixed the rates on Saturday according to the class of the hotel. The hotel facility will be extended arms of any private hospital, where a Covid-19 patient will get the treatment with all the medical facilities. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora issued the orders of capping the rates of hotel rooms depending upon the class of hotel for Covid-19 patients. The decision will help prevent overcrowding of hospitals with asymptomatic patients or having mild symptoms unnecessarily occupying hospital beds, which could be utilised by patients with moderate to severe symptoms. Such patients require only monitoring by healthcare staff, which can be done in a hotel room.Since a lot of asymptomatic patients or those having mild and moderate symptoms, do not want to get admitted to a hospital, such patients will have an option now as they will get medical facilities in a hotel room by a private hospital. Now, the private hospitals have been allowed to set up their Covid care centres in hotels, for which the state government has capped the treatment charges. "We have divided the hotels into three different categories according to the facilities — high class, middle class and standard class. On the basis of the class, per day rates have been finalized," said a senior health department official. The hotel will provide lunch, dinner, tea, water and snacks while the hospital will provide treatment to the patient. "The arrangement has been made available for those Covid-19 patients, who are not serious or critical and they require medical attention. But, they have to pay the bills on the basis of the rates which have been decided by the state government. The hotels will have all the facilities required for treatment of such patients even low flow oxygen will be made available," said the official.For high class, a patient will have to pay Rs 5,000 per day, for middle class it is Rs 4,000 and for standard class Rs 3,000 per day has been fixed. The private hospital, which has tied up with a particular hotel to be its extended arm, will have to provide ambulance facility, doctors, paramedical staff, and other required equipment such as low flow oxygen and other medical equipment. The decision made at a meeting of state chief secretary with private hospitals got green signal on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-fixes-rs-3k-to-5k-per-day-for-covid-19-treatment-in-a-hotel-room/articleshow/77954964.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Papla elusive even a year after jailbreak||Alwar: Almost a year has passed since gangster Papla Gujjar escaped from the lockup of Behror police station after his aides opened fire on police with AK-47s, but Rajasthan Police’s Special Operation Group (SOG) and Bhiwadi police are yet to arrest the gangster. TOI on Saturday spoke to the authorities to know the status of the case especially the investigation so far and if they had got any clues to nab the dreaded gangster. “We were very close to nabbing on a few occasions, however Papla’s informer network that also exists in Haryana police has been a deterrent in this case. On June 20 when we had nabbed 18 aides of Papla from a village of Haryana, we had a specific inputs about his presence. But it appears that information of our visit was leaked from somewhere,” said a senior officer of Bhiwadi police. The SOG hs so far arrested 33 accused who were part of the conspiracy to facilitate the escape of Papla. “We have to arrest Papala and his two close aides Balbir and Rajvir. Various teams are working on it. We have also changed our strategy this time which will certainly fetch us results,” the officer added. Senior officers said various teams of SOG and ATS were deployed to nab Papala and his aides. “We carried out raids in several states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Even, once our team had gone to Nepal border, but we were not successful,” the officer added. According to police, various teams have so far travelled 2 lakh km but still Papala remained elusive. Police have also declared a reward of Rs 5 lakh on the gangster. “A year has passed and it is really shameful that police has not been able to nab him,” said Awatari Meena, a local at Bhiwadi town in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/papla-elusive-even-a-year-after-jailbreak/articleshow/77955929.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Crude bomb, deer antlers seized, 2 men arrested||Coimbatore: The forest department officials in the district conducted raids at six houses in and around Karadimadai and Periyanaickenpalayam on Saturday based on a tip that their occupants were involved in making country bomb (avuttukai) and arrested two people for possession of the same, spotted deer horns and wildlife hunting equipment. Officials have launched a manhunt for two others, who are on the run. Officials have seized a country bomb, explosive materials (black powder) horns of nine spotted deer, which is an endangered species, an air gun, nine snares, two spears and three nets during the raid. An official identified the arrested as M Selvam, of Moongil Madai Kuttai, and N Chinnaswamy of Viraliyur. While Selvam had four spotted deer horns at his house, Chinnaswamy and his brother N Duraisamy, who is still at large, were in possession of explosive materials used to make avuttukai and three spotted deer horns. The official said they were also on the lookout for 30-year-old O Rengaswamy, of Karadimadai, who was in possession of the sole country bomb that they seized and two spotted deer horns. Pointing out that both wild and domestic animals had died after avuttukai, which was often concealed in fruits and meat balls, went off in their mouths, the official said they were determined to crack down on the people who were making the same. The teams were led by assistant conservator of forests Dinesh and Senthil. Each team comprised three forest range officers, foresters, forest guards, anti-poaching watchers and sniffer dogs from Anamalai Tiger Reserve and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. “The dogs were deployed to sniff out black powder and bombs. The black powder, which is also used for gun ammunition, is a mixture of sulphur, charcoal and potassium nitrate and usually stolen from mining sites,” the official said. The officials also met the villagers at their doorsteps and requested them to refrain from making or using the crude bombs. In another instance, the forest department has warned the people living along forest fringes of Sirumugai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Paruthi Kattu Malai, Kantha Vayal, Uliyur, Mokka Medu, Anna Nagar, Vedar Colony, Nayakkanpalayam, Poochiyur, Hi-tech city, Periya Thadagam, Mangarai and Thaneer Pandhal of heavy elephant movement. They have been advised not to venture out of their houses, ride two-wheelers and sleep outside their houses especially if they are near brick kilns, after darkness sets. They have been asked to contact the forest department if they spot any elephants close by.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/crude-bomb-deer-antlers-seized-2-men-arrested/articleshow/77954972.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman lodges DV plaint||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old woman, Rukhsar Memon, has lodged a complaint with Mahila police station, west, on Friday that her husband Nawaz Arif Memon, a resident of Shah-e-Alam did not allow her to take medicine for thyroid and epilepsy. She has alleged that whenever she tried to take the medicine, her husband would abuse her and beat her up. The FIR mentions that after frequent quarrels she went to live with her parents on July 12 and later approached the Mahila police. “As the husband was not ready for compromise, we lodged an offence for domestic violence,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-lodges-dv-plaint/articleshow/77954967.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Work in progress at new dedicated Covid-19 hospital||JAIPUR: Grappling with the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, the state government has intensified efforts to develop Jaipuria hospital as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital on Saturday. The authorities have initiated the process of vacating the Jaipuria hospital. Pregnant women and women undergoing treatment related to pregnancy have been shifted to Mahila Chikitsalaya, while patients undergoing treatment for other ailments and diseases, have been shifted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital to make space for Covid-19 patients. The state government declared Jaipuria hospital as dedicated Covid-19 hospital, but it is yet to be prepared for Covid-19 treatment. The work for expansion of oxygen pipelines network in the hospital has been started so that Covid-19 patients get the facility of high flow oxygen at their beds. The beds in the ICUs are also being prepared as per the requirement for Covid-19 patients. Jaipuria hospital will be the second government-run dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the city apart from RUHS hospital. The entire load of the patients was on RUHS hospital, which has been making adjustment for accommodating as many patients as it can, but the spurt in cases has forced the government to develop another dedicated Covid-19 hospital, said a senior health department official. Chief medical health officer Jaipur-I Dr Narrottam Sharma is involved in developing the facilities at Jaipuria hospital for Covid-19 patients. “Initially, we will have 110 beds which will have the facility for high flow oxygen. Besides, we will have 20 beds in the ICUs for Covid-19 patients with serious complications. Apart from that, there will be 200 separate beds for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms,” said Sharma. The state government has issued orders of deploying more than 60 doctors, who were awaiting posting orders. They will be deployed at Jaipuria hospital for Covid-19 patient’s treatment. However, the state government claimed that they will increase the number of beds to 500 for Covid-19 patients. At RUHS hospital, 40% patients are those who are brought from other parts of the state like Bikaner, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Bharatpur, Dausa and Sawai Madhopur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/work-in-progress-at-new-dedicated-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/77954973.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tiger covering nearly 30km each night in search of home||HYDERABAD: A male tiger that set off on an exploratory trek in Telangana’s Bhupalpally region — the first such instance in 17 years — is moving around at a brisk pace for the past one week. It has entered the dense forest area of Tadicherla forest range in Malharrao mandal after crossing the Boggulavagu project, which was a tiger territory in the late 1990s. The big cat is currently moving along Manair river, a tributary of Godavari. A two-member team, specially deployed by the forest department to monitor the animal’s movements, informed that the tiger is travelling around 20km to 30km every night sinceit started its journey from either Maharashtra’s Tadoba tiger reserve or Chhattisgarh’s Indravati tiger reserve. “The pug marks of the tiger were last sighted on Saturday near Manair after it crossed Boggulavagu project and Koyyur range on Friday. It is right now in the interior areas of the forest and is on the move in its search for a territory,” said forest beat officer Srikanth Boosa, who is among the two officials monitoring the tiger’s movement. Initially, pug marks sighted at two locations let the villagers to believe that there were two different tigers. However, the forest officials who took measurements of the pug marks clarified that it was the same tiger. “The equal measurements at both the locations revealed that it was the same tiger,” K Purushotham, district forest officer (DFO), told TOI. “Like any other migrating tiger, it is resting during the day and travelling more than 20km every night, leaving pug marks at different locations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-covering-nearly-30km-each-night-in-search-of-home/articleshow/77954970.cms||Moulika.KV
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Lobo slams local BJP leadership for DK’s waning economic prowess||Mangaluru: From the merger of various banks with roots in Dakshina Kannada to the shifting of the office of the principal commissioner (administration) for income tax by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) from Mangaluru to Panaji, the leadership of the local leaders of the BJP had systematically undermined the district’s stature as an economic powerhouse, charged former MLA and Congress member JR Lobo on Saturday. Lashing out at the CBDT top brass for the decision to shift the office of the principal commissioner to Panaji, Lobo said, “Dakshina Kannada is a major industrial centre, and having the office of the principal commissioner for I-T would have helped bolster economic activities in the region. There can be no comparison in the volume of trade in this part of Karnataka to that in Panaji.” Expressing disappointment with the lack of visible progress in transforming the Mangaluru Junction Railway Station into a world-class facility, Lobo said that unimpressive infrastructure in the region had been a major deterrent to IT companies expanding their footprint there. “The much spoken about ‘Plastic Park’ too has remained only on paper,” the former MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lobo-slams-local-bjp-leadership-for-dks-waning-economic-prowess/articleshow/77953197.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||28 students in IIM-V exec mgmt course||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) launched the second batch of its two-year executive management programme on Saturday. A total of 28 students, including several government employees, have enrolled in this programme which leads to the PGPEx degree. Professor Karuna Jain from School of Management, IIT Bombay, inaugurated the programme. In her address, Professor Jain spoke about the role of technology in transformation of organisations and how today’s corporations and personnel need to be agile to adapt to change. Earlier, IIM-V director Prof Chandrasekhar spoke about the rapid strides the institute has made within a span of five years. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/28-students-in-iim-v-exec-mgmt-course/articleshow/77953941.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Peddlers used code words for drugs to avoid suspicion, say cops||BENGALURU: Investigation into the drug racket that has rocked Sandalwood and the city’s social circles has taken an interesting turn with cops claiming the peddlers communicated with each other in code language to avoid coming under police radar. Interception of mobile phone messages exchanged between the accused revealed that methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) was referred to as Pink Punisher, ecstasy pills as Hello Kitty — as they come in the form of a candy — and cocaine as an energy drink. A police officer said: “Invitations to drug parties are selectively extended by targeting people from affluent families and those who want to be seen and known in the city’s social circles. The parties are held in star hotels in the city as well as resorts on the outskirts. Before such a party starts, peddlers are informed about the drug demand and the rates are fixed. Drugs are pushed during the party.” Sources said four persons (one of them has been arrested) organise such parties in the city and the guest list includes foreign nationals as well. In fact, RTO staffer Ravi Shankar reportedly told police about a party that was organised on the night of July 5 night at a resort near Yelahanka where drugs were consumed. “It was a closed-door party attended by around 30 revellers. According to Shankar, 12 people had consumed drugs supplied by Senegalese peddler Loum Pepper Samba at the same party,” sources said. While mid-level parties witness the usage of ganja, those attended by movie stars involve cocaine and MDMA, sources said, adding drugs are supplied from African countries. “According to Shankar, he had supplied drugs to parties organised at many star hotels in city and at resorts in Ramanagara, Bidadi, Mysuru and farm houses near Tumakuru and Davanagere. Meanwhile, police are probing the link between party organisers and foreign drug dealers. “There are many like Samba who have been supplying drugs to their contacts here. We are verifying the links,” a police officer said. In fact, Samba had reportedly told police he was supplying dugs to Ravi Shankar. The officer added: “Samba has not produced his passport or visa; he seems to be staying here illegally. He speaks an African language and we have to get a translator to understand what he says. But what’s baffling is the way the accused were doing business with him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/peddlers-used-code-words-for-drugs-to-avoid-suspicion-cops/articleshow/77954530.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Overall state count nears 90,000, Jodhpur leads in total cases||JAIPUR: Jodhpur continued to lead the districts reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases as it crossed 13,000 mark on Saturday with 205 new infections. The district’s current tally stands at 13,106. However, out of 13,106 cumulative cases, 10,800 have already been cured while 2,199 are undergoing treatment and 107 persons have lost their lives to the virus. The entire state is witnessing a spurt in new infections as the overall state count stood at 89,363 riding on 1,566 fresh cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives too taking the state’s fatality count to 1,122. “In districts where cases are constantly increasing, we have directed officials to ensure that patients get proper treatment,” said a health department official. The health department has taken initiative to create more space for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals and roped in hotels to develop as covid care centre with the help of private hospitals. In Jaipur, the situation is getting worse as active cases rose to 4,442, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (2199), Kota (2184) and Alwar (788). Besides, the number of recovered cases has increased to 73,245 with 1,346 persons recovering on Saturday. Active cases stand at 14,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (205), Kota (170), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Sikar (68), Bikaner (62), Jhalawar (56), Pali (36), Jaisalmer (35), Baran (34), Nagaur (32), Chittorgarh (29), Tonk (29), Bundi (26), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (23), Bhilwara (22), Dholpur (20), Bharatpur (17), Barmer (16), Karauli (16), Churu (16), Banswara (16), Sriganganagar (15), Dausa (15), Udaipur (13), Sirohi (12), Jalore (5), Rajsamand (3), Dungarpur (2) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/overall-state-count-nears-90k-jodhpur-leads-in-total-cases/articleshow/77957448.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Overall state count nears 90,000, Jodhpur leads in total cases||JAIPUR: Jodhpur continued to lead the districts reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases as it crossed 13,000 mark on Saturday with 205 new infections. The district’s current tally stands at 13,106. However, out of 13,106 cumulative cases, 10,800 have already been cured while 2,199 are undergoing treatment and 107 persons have lost their lives to the virus. The entire state is witnessing a spurt in new infections as the overall state count stood at 89,363 riding on 1,566 fresh cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives too taking the state’s fatality count to 1,122. “In districts where cases are constantly increasing, we have directed officials to ensure that patients get proper treatment,” said a health department official. The health department has taken initiative to create more space for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals and roped in hotels to develop as covid care centre with the help of private hospitals. In Jaipur, the situation is getting worse as active cases rose to 4,442, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (2199), Kota (2184) and Alwar (788). Besides, the number of recovered cases has increased to 73,245 with 1,346 persons recovering on Saturday. Active cases stand at 14,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (205), Kota (170), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Sikar (68), Bikaner (62), Jhalawar (56), Pali (36), Jaisalmer (35), Baran (34), Nagaur (32), Chittorgarh (29), Tonk (29), Bundi (26), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (23), Bhilwara (22), Dholpur (20), Bharatpur (17), Barmer (16), Karauli (16), Churu (16), Banswara (16), Sriganganagar (15), Dausa (15), Udaipur (13), Sirohi (12), Jalore (5), Rajsamand (3), Dungarpur (2) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/overall-state-count-nears-90k-jodhpur-leads-in-total-cases/articleshow/77954985.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||A bund in time could have helped Bhandara||NAGPUR: Losses in Bhandara town due to last week’s flood could have been contained had the protection bund, which is part of the Gosikhurd dam project, was constructed in time. Last week’s flood had left the entire town inundated. Tenders for the 8km-long Bhandara protection bund along Wainganga river were issued in 2006. Fourteen years down the line the construction remains incomplete. Slowed by procedural hassles the irrigation scam controversy also pulled the work back. This is being built in anticipation of a likely major flood endangering Bhandara town, if water was released from Gosikhurd dam. The bund is designed to protect water flowing from the river into the town. During floods, the pump houses will be throwing out the water flowing from streams inside the town into the river. Pravin Mahajan, an activist in irrigation sector in the region, has raised the issue after the floods. There are gaps between the wall which led the flood water flow into the city. Mahajan maintains that timely completion of the bund could have prevented it. “The matter has been taken up at every level including the ministry,” he said. Officials in Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) too admit the work is running behind schedule. Over 80% of the Rs70 crore tenders has been completed at present. The usual problem of lack of funds for the Gosikhurd project is one of the key reasons for delay. There were delays on the part of the contractor too, said an official requesting anonymity. In 2016, when 80 existing tenders of the Gosikhurd project were cancelled, even contract for the bund was scrapped. Now, four to five leftover patches (LOPs) of 60 to 70 metres remain in the bund as work on the pump house continues. The LOPs can’t be filled till the pump house is ready. If the bund is completed before that, it can lead to flooding if there is no system to pump out the water flowing from inner side, the source said. Covid had put a ban on fresh tenders. “Now as permission has been granted a week ago, tenders will be issued to complete the LOPs,” said the officer. Mahajan has stressed that the earlier tenders of Gosikhurd should not have been cancelled as it has led to delays in other works too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-bund-in-time-could-have-helped-bhandara/articleshow/77955875.cms||Shishir Arya
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Chanumolu flyover bumpy despite collector’s orders||VIJAYAWADA: Even a month after a surprise inspection by Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz, the situation at the Chanumolu Venkata Rao Flyover has not changed. While travellers are having a difficult time manoeuvring through the bumpy flyover and the inner ring road, repair works are going on at a snail’s pace. The Chanmolu Venkata Rao Flyover and the BR Ambedkar Inner Ring Road play an important role in cutting down traffic snarls in Vijayawada. Vehicles coming in from Hyderabad and going towards Kolkata are diverted through this road. Thousands of vehicles pass through this road every day. The road has suffered significant damage over time. The top layer of the flyover has got washed away and the still bars have got exposed. An increased number of vehicles passing through are causing further damage. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas and Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz inspected the flyover a month ago and directed officials to take up the works on war footing. But the instructions don’t seem to have moved officials. K Koteswara Rao, a resident of Kabela area, said, “It seems as if the officials have turned a blind eye to our problems. The road has become bumpy and causing mishaps frequently. Police filled the potholes with gravel, but the recent rains washed away the top layers. R&B authorities should take up the work immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chanumolu-flyover-bumpy-despite-collectors-orders/articleshow/77953973.cms||Venu Lanka
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Indrakeeladri shrine gears up for Dasara||VIJAYAWADA: The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams is gearing up for 10-day long Dasara celebrations at the Indrakeeladri shrine starting October 17. Temple authorities have started making the necessary arrangements for the festival which will follow the prescribed Covid-19 protocols. The Laksha Kumkuma Archana and other festive rituals will be streamed online to avoid large crowds at the temple. Dasara is the most prestigious festival celebrated in the city with the state government declaring it the state festival in 2015 and conducting festivities on a grand scale. Around 10 lakh devotees from across the country visit the temple during the festival every year to offer special prayers. However, this number is estimated to be at least ten times lower this year as officials are mulling issuing permits to limit crowds. Temple trust board chairman Paila Sominaidu has been involved in a series of meetings with the temple’s engineering wing and VMC authorities. He has directed officials to prepare action plans for queue management in line with social distancing norms. “Both devotees and temple staff should be very cautious in during celebrations this year. Proper care is being taken in permitting devotees to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” Sominaidu said and added that officials are making special arrangements to accommodate maximum devotees for Moola Nakshatram on October 21. Executive officer MV Suresh Babu said that they will perform all holy offerings as per the Aaghama Sashtra. “Time slot darshans will continue during Dasara festival days. Devotees should book their darsham early. We are in touch with higher authorities over (rules on) prasadams and other offerings. We hope everything goes well this year as per schedule,” Babu said and added that Hamsa Vahana Theppotsava Seva will be performed on October 25 evening with limited number of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/indrakeeladri-shrine-gears-up-for-dasara/articleshow/77954022.cms||Venu Lanka
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: In another high, 1,006 test Covid +ve in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: In the biggest single-day spike, the city recorded 1,006 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours till Saturday evening, indicating that Lucknow might be heading towards community transmission stage. With this, the total number of positive cases in the city is now 31,502. Of these, 22,869 (73%) have recovered and 8,213 (26%) are under treatment in hospitals or home isolation. Total 420 (1.3%) patients could not survive. Notably, the first 1,000 cases were reported in 109 days. According to experts, one cannot take consolation in the number of recoveries because each positive patient, on an average, infects four others. This means cases as well as casualties will continue to increase. Since monsoon is abetting the spread, extraordinary effort is required till mid-October, they added. “Daily numbers may touch 2,000 by the end of this month, but we can flatten the curve. Rather than panicking, people need to follow safety strictly. Each person can check passing of infection to four others,” a KGMU professor said. He said aggressive contact tracing by the district administration was the key to break the chain of virus. “The thousand patients reported today might have infected 4,000 others. If all primary contacts are tested within 36 hours and those found positive are isolated, it will check further spread,” he added. The professor said that considering each patient had been in close contact with five others, the administration will have to launch a drive to test 10,000 people within two days. Fresh cases included two faculty members of the department of biostatistics and health informatics at SGPGI. There were reports of more KGMU doctors and employees testing positive, but the authorities remained mum. “We cannot ignore that there is community spread but it is also the community’s responsibility to check it. Entire families are getting infected,” said head of SGPGI’s microbiology department Prof Ujjala Ghosh. “Besides authorities doing their part, people need to fall in line,” said head of microbiology department, RMLIMS, Prof Jyotsna Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-another-high-1006-test-covid-ve-in-24hrs/articleshow/77955951.cms||Yusra Husain
September 6, 2020||Hubballi||Online campaign launched on Gauri Lankesh’s 3rd death anniv||Hubballi: Various women’s groups, and human rights as well as LGBTQ rights organisations from across the country organised an ‘If We Do Not Rise’ online campaign on Saturday to mark the third anniversary of the murder of activist-journalist Gauri Lankesh. Many actors, activists and writers from Karnataka also joined in the event using the hashtag IfWeDoNotRiseKarnataka, and shared videos, posters, animation, songs, dramas with the group of 5-10 people, by maintaining social distance, on online platforms. Vidya Dinker, one of conveners of #IfWeDoNotRiseKarnataka, told TOI that the the campaign was aimed at raising voices against the sustained, targeted and planned attacks on constitutionally guaranteed rights of the citizens in general and the downtrodden in particular. “Many women and like-minded citizens took out various modes of creative protests like kolata procession, walked in the streets, presented dramas and songs and held placards in over 20 districts. Most of activists were grassroots workers who bridged the gap between street protests and online platforms, and demanded their rights like getting jobs under MGNREGA. Woman approached local authorities like the gram panchayat, and even sensitised members and officials there on the issue. “Though we did not seek support from any politicians and parties, opposition leader Siddaramaiah voluntarily and spontaneously expressed his support to the campaign,” she added. Kavya Achyut, one of organisers, said that over 50 organisations fighting for the rights of women, children, labourers, sex workers, transgenders and other downtrodden sections, participated in the campaign. “Many silent protests were staged in Bengaluru and other cities of the state. With this they all proved that one could murder Gauri Lankesh but not her thoughts. Such a campaign was the need of the hour when fascist forces are trying curb the rights of one and all,” she commented. Theatre personality Prasanna Heggodu said that the if we do not rise today, this country will descend into hell. “As of now, 80% of the population is largely living in rural and semi-rural areas and in slums in cities. They are jobless, don’t have a voice and are going hungry. Hence, this movement should happen at the panchayat level on a regular basis,” he said. Dinker added that such events will be held in the coming days on a weekly or monthly basis. This campaign got support from film directors B Suresha and Mansore, actors Chetan, Neethu Shetty and Anita Bhat and activists K Neela and Sharada Dabade, transgender activist Akkai Padmashali and many more personalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/online-campaign-launched-on-gauri-lankeshs-3rd-death-anniv/articleshow/77953377.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Nitte research centre working on Covid-19 test kit that uses saliva||Mangaluru: Although Covid-19 may have pushed the brakes on several activities the world over, the pandemic has certainly opened hitherto unexplored vistas in the field of research, particularly when it comes to medical technology. In one such instance, the Nitte University Centre for Science Education and Research (NUCSER) has been endowed with a grant for developing a Covid-19 test kit that will work equally effectively with nasal swab and saliva samples. Director for research and development at NUCSER Dr Indrani Karunasagar admitted to TOI that researchers in several countries were working on the development of similar test kits. “Collection of swabs from the nasopharynx – the upper part of the pharynx that runs up to the nasal cavity – may entail some problems. This procedure entails sticking a 10cm-long stick along the floor of the nasal cavity, all the way up the back wall, where it is swirled to get the swab to stick, and drawn out after a few seconds. This procedure is not very comfortable neither is the experience pleasant to either the patient or those conducting it. Collection of saliva is easier,” Dr Indrani said. “We understand that last month, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted emergency use authorization for two tests that sample saliva instead of nasal swab, and more innovations are likely after FDA relaxes rules to allow new tests to be adopted more quickly. They also confirmed that saliva tests will give a better indication of who is most contagious. The saliva sample would be collected and tested for PCR analysis. Researchers in Hong Kong and China could identify a good association between detection of the virus from saliva and nasal swabs with the virus. The Israeli scientists have come up with a saliva testing kit,” she said. Prof Iddya Karunasagar, senior international food safety consultant, too batted for testing with saliva, which he said would be economical and was logistically more feasible. “The grant for the project has been given from the department of science and technology to Dr Biswajit and Dr Praveen Rai of NUCSER to develop a nucleic acid-based test that, if successful, will cost Rs 300 per individual. The RT-PCR test costs ten times as much. Moreover, the equipment required for conducting tests with saliva is minimal compared with what is necessary now,” said Prof Karunasagar, adding that, with the support of Nitte (deemed to be University) chancellor Vinay Hegde, vice-chancellor Dr Satheesh Kumar Bhandary and the scientists, they were looking to present the test kit to the Indian Council of Medical Research for validation in six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nitte-research-centre-working-on-covid-19-test-kit-that-uses-saliva/articleshow/77953450.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Supernumerary seats for martyrs’ kin at AU||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra University (AU) has issued an order to all constituent colleges to create supernumerary seats for those disabled in battle, dependants of battle casualties of the Indian armed forces and paramilitary forces. As part of its order, two seats in doctoral programmes and five seats in undergraduate or postgraduate programmes will be created under such categories in each constituent college of the university. The supernumerary seats will be rotated across departments/courses based on their demand. Dependants of martyrs across the country will be eligible for these seats. In a letter to the university earlier, the Department of Sainik Welfare had mentioned that it was the responsibility of civil society to provide all possible assistance to families of martyrs and those disabled in war. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/supernumerary-seats-for-martyrs-kin-at-au/articleshow/77953928.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University in the fray to host Indian Science Congress ’22||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra University (AU) is in the fray to host the Indian Science Congress (ISC), 2022. The state government has asked AU officials to take responsibility for the event. Indian Science Congress is conducted annually from January 3 to 7. According to AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy, the university is willing to host the event. “The varsity will write a letter to the general president of the Indian Science Congress regarding the same,” Professor Reddy said. The university had previously hosted the Indian Science Congress in 2008 with then-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh inaugurating the event’s 95th edition which was themed on knowledge-based society using environmentally sustainable science and technology. Then Union minister for science, technology and earth sciences, Kapil Sibal, had delivered the keynote address. Former chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy had also graced the event. Meanwhile, the university is also planning to set up food testing and drug testing laboratories on the campus. A gene testing lab is also in the pipeline. According to the AU vice-chancellor, the labs will work in an integrated manner with the industries. “This will help improve research outcomes in the university. The varsity is also planning to initiate a series of measures to improve academic and research environments on campus,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-university-in-the-fray-to-host-indian-science-congress-22/articleshow/77953865.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||2,500 new Covid cases in T, 11 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 2,511 new cases of Covid-19 and 11 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the state over 1,38,000. The total number of deaths so far stand at 877. There are a total of 1,04,603 people in the state who have so far recovered from the infection. The case fatality rate in the state has dipped further from 0.65% to 0.63% as per the latest records. The recovery rate, which has been low in the state, is slowly improving. It increased to 75.5% from 72% last month, but remains lower than the country average of 77.2%. On Saturday, 62,132 samples were tested in the state taking the total number to 16,67,000. With this, the number of samples tested per million population stood at 44,918. Of the samples tested on Saturday, 45% were primary contacts and 14% were secondary contacts of patients, who have tested positive over the past couple of day, while the remaining were new suspected patients. Of the 2,511 new cases in the state on Saturday, 305 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits — the highest among districts. This was followed by 184 cases in Ranga Reddy district, 170 in Nalgonda, 150 in Karimnagar, 142 in Khammam, 134 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 96 in Suryapet and 93 in Bhadradri Kothagudem. Meanwhile, all the remaining districts in the state recorded between 12 and 90 cases on Saturday, continuing with an upward trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2500-new-covid-cases-in-t-11-deaths/articleshow/77955004.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Covid test reports to be available online from tomorrow||JAIPUR: Health department has developed a system through which online Covid-19 test reports will be provided to the person to whom the sample belongs. The system will come into effect from Monday. Health department principal secretary Akhil Arora issued a circular directing officials to upload test sample report on https://health.rajasthan.gov.in/RTPCR. People can also get the test report through ‘Raj COVID Info Mobile App’.Earlier, patients used to complaint that they were not getting information about their test reports on time to find out if they tested positive for the virus. Currently, for the test report, the sample is taken and information is filled in RT-PCR, an ID is generated and the report is uploaded on the ICMR portal. The corona test report is also sent to the hospital concerned and to the office of the Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO). This process led to delays in sending the test report besides increasing workload at the laboratories and at the office of CMHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-test-reports-to-be-available-online-from-tomorrow/articleshow/77955003.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Festivities in Vizag to be kept low-key this year||Visakhapatnam: Durga Puja and Karthigai Deepam celebrations will be low-key affairs in the city in the wake of Covid-19. The two festivals, taking place in the months of October and November, are usually celebrated with pomp across the beach city. While the administration has not yet enforced any restrictions on celebrations, it is understood that organisers will not be taking any risks, especially after the government enforced checks on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations earlier. “Considering the Covid-19 situation, we don’t think Durga Puja will be possible this year. While the puja is still over a month away, we don’t want to continue with organising the festival because if restrictions are enforced at the end, all our efforts will go in vain,” said West Visakha Cultural Association secretary Subhasish Chandra. A 25,000-strong Bengali community organises celebrations in various parts of the city. Meanwhile, the city’s Tamil community is also planning to keep Karthigai Depam celebrations indoors this time around. “Karthigai Deepam is a family festival and we celebrate together. This year it would be restricted indoors ,” said Tamil Kalai Mandram treasurer Siva Raman. Tamils and Bengalis are the most populous communties in Vizag after Telugus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/festivities-in-vizag-to-be-kept-low-key-this-year/articleshow/77954038.cms||Arpit Basu
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two members of burglar ring nabbed||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Saturday held two members of the Irani Gang of burglars. Those arrested are Jafar Syed, 30, and Wasim Siraj, 35, both from Thane in Mumbai. Syed used to stay for a short period at Fatehwadi in Sarkhej to recce the targeted areas and then call the rest of the gang members to execute thefts. ACP B V Gohil said police have recovered gold jewellery worth Rs 5.91 lakh, a wrist watch and a scooter from the accused. “Syed, his accomplices Irfan Jafri and Mazlum Jafri have committed thefts in the Airport area, Meghaninagar, Amraiwadi, Khadia, Vatva, Ranip, Narol, Khokhra and Kagdapith areas of the city. The accused used to target closed houses, gold jewellery shops and senior citizens. While Syed has been arrested for the first time, Siraj was arrested at Ambewali in Thane for theft and assault cases,” added Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-members-of-burglar-ring-nabbed/articleshow/77955012.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man kills son over argument||Hyderabad: A drunk daily wage worker killed him 32-year-old son after the latter refused to give him Rs 30 to purchase more liquor in Gondigua on Mancherial district on Friday. According to police, an argument ensued between the father Parsa Kari, 59, and his son Parasa Gangadhar. As the son refused to give more money, the father attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. At the time of murder, the victim’s mother was at her daughter’s residence. When she returned to her home, she found Gangadgar in a pool of blood. Upon questioning her husband, she came to know that Kari had attacked Gangadhar. By the time police reached the spot, the accused had fled the house. Police registered a case under section 302 (murder) of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-son-over-argument/articleshow/77955000.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Teaching via tech making teachers students again||This Teacher’s Day was the most unique ever and has probably seen teachers learning new skills and pedagogies to deal with the new normal. Online classes don’t simply mean picking up technical knowledge, but also adapting to a new style of teaching which reaches out to the proverbial ‘back benchers’. School teacher Soma Datey said getting attention of all students in the virtual classroom is a different ball game altogether. “Whenever I see a camera off, that student’s name is called out immediately. Strict warning is given to not switch off the camera. I also randomly call out names to check whether they are just present or involved in the class or not,” said Datey. Panini Telang, who has his own coaching institute, said “The only problem I realize is that the liveliness in the class has gone because of the virtual interface. But still, a few jokes, a bit of fun and of course the curiosity and questions of students is seen during class.” He added that this year he thanked students for ‘teaching’ him. “I told them that by asking questions and helping me to adapt to new teaching techniques they have helped me learn a lot,” said Telang. Principal of a state board school, Resmi Umesh, said it’s important to keep students engaged non-stop. “To test their attention, a teacher calls out to any child to read a paragraph or to answer a particular question. Teachers take attendance and ensure that their audio is off to maintain proper discipline,” she said. “All our teachers, too, meet through the Webex platform and clear each others’ doubts. We have also made separate groups for teachers where they can send queries and share their experiences,” said Umesh. Another teacher Kshama Yadav said that they, too, have to put in a lot of effort before every class. “We are making planning lessons in detail for every subject. Also, any class activity has to be done by teachers using articles or props which are easily available at home. Even after school hours, a lot of coordination with other teachers is required,” said Yadav. Swagatika Das Sharma feels that teaching now also involves a lot of ‘presentation’. “There has to be some audio-visual element. Every teacher presents chapters using PPT, images or education videos to make the session interesting for students,” she said. One of the biggest challenges is not getting instant feedback from students, feels Damodar Thombre, a teacher. “Earlier one look at students across the classroom and we could make out who has understood the concept and who hasn’t. In a virtual classroom that’s very difficult. Teachers are also learning to adapt to text messages or WhatsApp chats to respond to students’ queries,” said Thombre. The transition from blackboard to digital screen was definitely challenging, says teacher Prashansha Dlima. “We teachers had to learn a lot of new things about technology. At times, it was stressful. Being a Maths teacher we had to research more about various tools like the Google Jamboard or the Equato app to help in writing equations. Many more apps were needed to teach Maths,” said Dlima. Shubra Roy constantly keeps tab on her students to ensure that everyone stays focused. “I keep asking a lot of questions to any random student to keep a check if they are paying attention. Any student is asked to answer the question or show what they are writing,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teaching-via-tech-making-teachers-students-again/articleshow/77955849.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Overall state count nears 90,000, Jodhpur leads in total cases||JAIPUR: Jodhpur continued to lead the districts reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases as it crossed 13,000 mark on Saturday with 205 new infections. The district’s current tally stands at 13,106. However, out of 13,106 cumulative cases, 10,800 have already been cured while 2,199 are undergoing treatment and 107 persons have lost their lives to the virus. The entire state is witnessing a spurt in new infections as the overall state count stood at 89,363 riding on 1,566 fresh cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives too taking the state’s fatality count to 1,122. “In districts where cases are constantly increasing, we have directed officials to ensure that patients get proper treatment,” said a health department official. The health department has taken initiative to create more space for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals and roped in hotels to develop as covid care centre with the help of private hospitals. In Jaipur, the situation is getting worse as active cases rose to 4,442, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (2199), Kota (2184) and Alwar (788). Besides, the number of recovered cases has increased to 73,245 with 1,346 persons recovering on Saturday. Active cases stand at 14,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (205), Kota (170), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Sikar (68), Bikaner (62), Jhalawar (56), Pali (36), Jaisalmer (35), Baran (34), Nagaur (32), Chittorgarh (29), Tonk (29), Bundi (26), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (23), Bhilwara (22), Dholpur (20), Bharatpur (17), Barmer (16), Karauli (16), Churu (16), Banswara (16), Sriganganagar (15), Dausa (15), Udaipur (13), Sirohi (12), Jalore (5), Rajsamand (3), Dungarpur (2) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/overall-state-count-nears-90k-jodhpur-leads-in-total-cases/articleshow/77957445.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Overall state count nears 90,000, Jodhpur leads in total cases||JAIPUR: Jodhpur continued to lead the districts reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases as it crossed 13,000 mark on Saturday with 205 new infections. The district’s current tally stands at 13,106. However, out of 13,106 cumulative cases, 10,800 have already been cured while 2,199 are undergoing treatment and 107 persons have lost their lives to the virus. The entire state is witnessing a spurt in new infections as the overall state count stood at 89,363 riding on 1,566 fresh cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives too taking the state’s fatality count to 1,122. “In districts where cases are constantly increasing, we have directed officials to ensure that patients get proper treatment,” said a health department official. The health department has taken initiative to create more space for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals and roped in hotels to develop as covid care centre with the help of private hospitals. In Jaipur, the situation is getting worse as active cases rose to 4,442, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (2199), Kota (2184) and Alwar (788). Besides, the number of recovered cases has increased to 73,245 with 1,346 persons recovering on Saturday. Active cases stand at 14,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (205), Kota (170), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Sikar (68), Bikaner (62), Jhalawar (56), Pali (36), Jaisalmer (35), Baran (34), Nagaur (32), Chittorgarh (29), Tonk (29), Bundi (26), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (23), Bhilwara (22), Dholpur (20), Bharatpur (17), Barmer (16), Karauli (16), Churu (16), Banswara (16), Sriganganagar (15), Dausa (15), Udaipur (13), Sirohi (12), Jalore (5), Rajsamand (3), Dungarpur (2) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/overall-state-count-nears-90k-jodhpur-leads-in-total-cases/articleshow/77957447.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vadodara||50% prisoners escaping from custody in country from Gujarat||VADODARA: The prison escape sequence of Hindi film Sholay is one of the most-liked, where the characters of Jai and Veeru threaten the jailer using a wooden stick as a pistol. But the prisoners in Gujarat do not have to plan so meticulously for escaping as jail is not their favourite place in case they want to escape. Most of the prisoners, last year, fled from the judicial custody when they were taken outside the prison. The report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on prison statistics in the country reveals that Gujarat tops when it came to prisoners escaping from judicial custody when taken outside the jail for legal proceedings or medical check-up. In 2019, of the 329 prisoners, who fled from judicial custody, in the entire country, 163 prisoners (49.5%) were just from Gujarat, showed NCRB data. In fact, the state has been left red-faced consistently since 2016 as the numbers of prisoners escaping from judicial custody in the state have always been the highest in India. In 2018, 437 inmates had managed to flee from judicial custody. In 2017, 92 inmates fled and 134 inmates escaped in 2016 taking the total numbers of escapees in four years to 826. In four years up to 2019, just 235 of these inmates were apprehended again. “The escort party provided by the local police takes the inmate out to the court or for medical assistance and there is no role of the prisons department in that,” said Dr K L N Rao, additional director general of police (prisons). “It is not the responsibility of the police yet they are burdened with it,” said Dr P P Pandey, former director general of Gujarat police. He added that a judicial police force should be raised for this purpose. “In the past I had also made a suggestion in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/50-prisoners-escaping-from-custody-in-country-from-guj/articleshow/77953986.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Cocaine use in Karnataka doubles in five years, Bengaluru new transit point||BENGALURU: Gone are the days when ganja was druggers’ most lethal dope. Cocaine, more sinister and costlier, has taken over the party scene, stealing a march on its more popular rival, thanks to growing nightlife destinations. According to home department officials, cocaine use in Karnataka has doubled in the past five years though its prohibitive price ranges between Rs 6,000 and Rs 12,000 per gram depending on quality. “Bengaluru is now a new transit point in the drug’s route to South Asian countries, which is one of the reasons for its easy availability here,” a senior police officer said. Coke or cocaine, a white powder extracted from cocoa, is fallaciously termed the king of drugs. It can be snorted, smoked or injected. Read AlsoBengaluru: Peddlers used code words for drugs to avoid suspicion, say copsInvestigation into the drug racket that has rocked Sandalwood and the city’s social circles has taken an interesting turn with cops claiming the peddlers communicated with each other in code language to avoid coming under police radar.Cocaine is also considered a drug of showbiz. It’s no surprise then that some Kannada actresses are under the police scanner. “Traditionally, rich college students were cocaine customers, but now the clientele is predominantly from cinema, real estate and IT industries and allied services. “Earlier, substance abuse was limited to rave parties. Now it happens in every other party. Resorts and homestays in Malnad districts of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru are emerging destinations for cocaine parties,” police sources explained. The drug that stimulates the nervous system is finding many takers among affluent pub-goers. A senior home department official said the cocaine business has been growing but not to the extent as is being made out. “Cocaine use has grown mainly among the elite as it’s expensive. On the whole, usage of synthetic drugs like ecstasy, a derivative of amphetamine, is on the rise because they are stimulants and everyone now wants to live a fast life,’’ he added. Read AlsoBengaluru: Jeevaraj Alva’s son among 12 booked in drug scandalThe Central Crime Branch, which is probing drug peddling by Sandalwood stars and celebrities, has charged 12 persons, including late politician Jeevaraj Alva’s son Aditya, under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.According to police figures, around 500kg of drugs, including heroin, opium, ganja, hashish, morphine, ephedrine and poppy husk, were seized in 2015-2016. But of late, the amount has grown to 1,500-2000kg and the increasing use of cocaine, a new phenomenon, has made a significant impact. The number of narcotics cases booked in Bengaluru jumped to 768 from 286 in 2019. It’s expected to go up this year too since the drug trade thrived even during lockdown. Police said the presence of multiple dealers makes detection difficult; the drug is smuggled into the state from West African countries like Nigeria through Goa and Mumbai. “Synthetic drugs like cocaine are brought by foreigners from cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Goa. Celebrities are generally targeted by the mafia to travel to these cities and collect the parcels personally as they are least suspected,” said another senior police officer. “BJP is committed to ensuring that Karnataka becomes drug-free. This menace must be eliminated, lock, stock and barrel. Those involved must be brought to book, irrespective of their social and political standing, connections and contacts with the high and mighty,” said Nalin Kumar Kateel, state BJP president. Watch Alarming! Cocaine use in Karnataka doubles in five years, Bengaluru new transit point||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cocaine-use-in-state-doubles-in-5-yrs-bluru-new-transit-point/articleshow/77954524.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to get 5 lakh rapid antigen kits||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has invited tenders to procure five lakh rapid antigen test kits on an emergency basis. These kits will be used to further scale up testing for Covid-19 in Delhi, sources said. The Delhi government plans to offer Covid tests at all its mohalla clinics and polyclinics. "A Test-Track-Treat strategy has been adopted to ensure early detection and containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. In continuation of measures undertaken by the Government of NCT of Delhi to augment Covid-19 testing and to ensure that it is more accessible, it has been decided that rapid antigen detection tests will be offered by all Delhi government dispensaries and polyclinics from 9am to 12 noon on all days to all eligible individuals (as per Annexure). This comes into effect immediately," a recent order by Directorate General of Health Services, Delhi government, stated. As many as 29,333 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in Delhi, while 9,562 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were carried out during the same time, an official in the state government health department said. "Since June 18, when the novel coronavirus testing through the rapid antigen method started, more than three lakh tests have been conducted in Delhi," he added. The official said testing is being scaled up to further isolate positive cases and prevent the spread of the disease. Watch Covid-19: Delhi government to get 5 lakh rapid antigen kits to scale up testing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-to-get-5-lakh-rapid-antigen-kits/articleshow/77956451.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Power loom players seek loan waivers||Coimbatore: Power loom associations in the state have come together as a federation to press for their demands, including exemption from Electricity (Amendment) Bill. They have also sought loan waivers to the tune of Rs 65 crore for power looms, which were unable to pay loans back, and scrapping of anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre. A total of 45 power loom associations in the state have come together under the banner of Tamil Nadu Federation of Powerloom Associations. Its representatives said power looms were now given 750 units of power free for two months. “If the Electricity (Amendment) Bill is brought in, we wouldn’t get the benefit. Also, there is a high chance to privatize the power generation and distribution.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/power-loom-players-seek-loan-waivers/articleshow/77955032.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: Tally close to 5L, 4M tests||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh achieved the four million Covid-19 tests milestone on Saturday, while the state reported 10,825 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 4,87,331. The toll jumped to 4,347 with 71 more deaths on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh has tested about 75,568 people per every million population, the highest among all states in the country. While the national average of tests per every million population is 34,419, Assam (69,595 tests per million) and Tamil Nadu (66,633) stand at the second and third places after AP. Starting with zero testing facilities in February, the state government has established 89 testing laboratories as of date, including the private ones. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-tally-close-to-5l-4m-tests/articleshow/77955033.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer temples to open from Sept 7, Barmer to wait||Jaisalmer: Two major temples of Jaisalmer, Tanot and Ramdeora, are gearing up to open from September 7. However, in Barmer, after discussions with officials of temples, the administration has decided against opening shrines from September 7 due to spike in Covid cases. The temples are likely to be opened from October 1.A meeting of Baba Ramdev Samadhi Samiti at Ramdeora took place on Friday to to discuss the preparations in this regard. The meeting, which was chaired by samiti president Rao Bhom Singh Tanwar, discussions were held on security aspects, social distancing norms and crows management. On the other hand, BSF has decided to open 1,200-year-old Tanot Temple at the Indo-Pak border on Sept 7. District collector Ashish Modi has directed SDM, tehsildar, officiating magistrates of Jaisalmer, Pokhran, Fatehgarh, Bhaniyana, deputy SP Jaisalmer, Pokaran, Nachna and all police station in-charge officers to ensure the prevention of pandemic and maintaining law and order situation.Meanwhile, in Barmer, collector Om Prakash Vishnoi chaired a meeting along with SP Anand Sharma regarding opening of temples. Sharma invited suggestions from representatives of various religious places and after discussing with the representatives, it was unanimously decided that it would not be fair to open religious places till September 30 because devotees will gather and there could be spread of corona infection.It has been decided to form a committee which will inspect religious places in the district and will submit its report by September 25 about the necessary arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-temples-to-open-from-sept-7-barmer-to-wait/articleshow/77955006.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Health sector being neglected||Hyderabad: On completion of its 10-day tour of government hospitals in the state, Congress on Saturday said the TRS government’s failure to control the spread of coronavirus was due to the neglect of medical and health sector in the last six years. The party said the public health care sector is in a pathetic state with shortage of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff. All the government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients do not have sanctioned staff. Vacant posts of doctors, nurses and other staff have not been filled and the existing staff have not been provided required infrastructure and support to effectively treat Covid-19 patients, it said. “If the government fails to act on our report, we will approach the high court. Congress members will also raise the issue in the forthcoming assembly session,” the party said. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and Vikramarka along with MLAs D Sridhar Babu and T Jagga Reddy charged government with misleading people on Covidsituation by not revealing the number of deaths and by not conducting enough tests. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-health-sector-being-neglected/articleshow/77955025.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Metro skywalk at NDLS to be ready by year-end||NEW DELHI: By the end of this year, passengers exiting Airport Express Line or Yellow Line at New Delhi metro station on the Ajmeri Gate side won’t have to navigate through traffic and would be able to access the stations directly via a 210m state-of-the-art skywalk. The project, being executed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) along with Northern Railway, was scheduled to finish by the first half of 2020. However, it was delayed due to a ban on construction during winter and then the lockdown owing to the pandemic. Railway officials said construction work resumed in June. Among the plans of decongesting the Ajmeri Gate side of the railway station was a 30-metre access road from Bhavbhuti Marg, which was completed last year. The project resulted in a considerable reduction in traffic outside the railway station. Apart from a dedicated green area and new parking lots for visitors and cab aggregators, autos and taxis were also allotted space to pick up passengers. SC Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi division, said once the skywalk was complete, it would further decongest Ajmeri Gate side. “Earlier, commuters had to exit the metro station and navigate their way through three lanes of rickshaws, taxis and autos. They would also have to queue up outside the station for checking,” he added. Work on the project, even with reduced labourers, was progressing fairly well. “The Ajmeri Gate side is not as congested as it was before the lockdown. This has allowed the project to move at a good pace. We hope to complete it by December,” Jain told TOI. “At present, the Ajmeri Gate side is handling close to 60% of the station load. This figure is expected to rise further in the coming months. The skywalk should be ready once operations normalise. This will allow more people to enter the station without causing traffic congestion or long queues. We are also looking at ways to decongest the Paharganj side,” said Jain. DMRC’s design plans show that the skywalk will have a sleek, contemporary design and use metal and glass fittings. The structure will be open to allow passengers a better view of the surroundings as well as ensure ventilation. However, it will be covered from the top to protect people from adverse weather conditions. “The final design is quite modern and will be on a par with any skywalk seen at airports or railway stations abroad. This is a part of our plans to provide airport-like facilities at railway stations,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-skywalk-at-ndls-to-be-ready-by-year-end/articleshow/77955979.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: With no travel curbs, expressway traffic doubles||PUNE: Thousands of people took to the Pune-Mumbai expressway on Friday and Saturday for the first weekend after the e-pass system was scrapped. Highway Safety Patrol officials said the rush started building up since Friday evening and stayed that way till Saturday morning. They are now bracing for the return traffic from Sunday evening. A National Highways Authority of India official said traffic was heavy even on NH4 on Saturday, with congestion at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza and certain other patches along the Pune-Satara highway. Assistant inspector (HSP) Anil Hagavane of the Urse division said the traffic was heavier on the Mumbai-Pune lane of the expressway. “Despite the heavier traffic, no major congestion was noticed. We saw queues of small vehicles at the Urse toll plaza during the peak hours in the morning,” Hagavane said. He further said interceptor vehicles have been deployed to ensure people do not stop along the expressway. “Since it has stopped raining in the past few days, not many people stopped their vehicles along the road to take pictures or enjoy the waterfalls. We are conducting regular patrols at spotsto ensure that no vehicles are illegally parked,” he said. Police inspector Sudam Pachorkar said, “Only 20-30% of the vehicles entered Lonavla, while the rest drove towards Pune. We expect heavy return traffic on Sunday evening and deployed four two-person teams along the ghat,” he said. The residents of Lonavla were gripped by panic by the sudden influx of tourists. “Till Saturday evening, we punished over 100 tourists for violating social distancing norms or not wearing masks. The action will continue on Sunday. The huge inflow of tourists at Lonavla has created panic among the locals, who fear catching Covid-19. We appeal to tourists to avoid visiting any tourist spots and instead stay indoors at the hotels or villas. We cannot stop people from coming to the markets to purchase essentials, but they must avoid crowding and follow safety protocols,” assistant inspector Vaibhav Swami of Lonavla (city) police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-no-travel-curbs-eway-traffic-doubles/articleshow/77955029.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Education society’s ex secretary, office staffers booked||AURANGABAD: Former secretary of an education society, principal of its college and clerical employees of the Chitepimpalgaon-based college have been booked for issuing bogus appointment letters to 27 aspirants by preparing and submitting forged records to the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu). Based on a complaint lodged by 62-year-old Baburao Pawar, who took over as president of Nisargdeep Shikshak Prasarak Mandal (the education society) in 2019, the Jinsi police have booked the suspects on the charges of criminal breach of trust, cheating, forgery, forgery for cheating and common intention. Pawar, in his complaint to the police, stated that after he took charge of the education society, he sought details of the 27 appointments made in the Tuljabhavani Arts and Science College, Chitepimpalgaon. However, the former secretary did not share the details. The joint secretary of the education society then obtained these appointment documents from Bamu, under the Right To Information Act, only to find a series of violations of recruitment norms, apart from forgery and cheating committed by the suspects. On July 30, 2019, Bamu granted permission to this college to fill up 27 posts of assistant professors on permanent non-grant basis. The suspects allegedly forged an advertisement calling for applications for the openings in the college and falsely claimed that it was published on August 1. The suspects allegedly prepared the records showing that the interviews were conducted at one of the houses situated in the Sanjaynagar area of the city. On August 26, the suspects sent a list of shortlisted names to Bamu for getting approval for their appointment. However, close scrutiny of the documents revealed that before getting the approval, the assistant professors were already appointed by the college. The shortlisted names also included names of two assistant professors currently serving as full-time employees in other colleges of Aurangabad. Taking cognizance of the complaint, the suspects have been booked by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/edu-societys-ex-secretary-office-staffers-booked/articleshow/77953330.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pvt school teachers observe black day over non-payment||HYDERABAD: Private teachers in Telangana have declared this year’s Teachers’ Day as a black day and staged a protest in front of District Education Officer (DEO) on Saturday. “We neither getting salaries nor recognition for our services. Despite making several representations to officials and managements, we are not being paid salaries,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. They said that despite state government starting digital classes from September 1, private school managements are using the services of only a few teachers and left others to their fate. “Ninety percent of teachers, if not more, are not even sure whether or not they still have jobs as managements are using services of only 10 percent teachers. Among these, 10 percent, hardly half of them are being paid about 50% of their salaries. Remaining are paid depending on the fees collected,” said B Shiva Raj, a private teacher. Their other demands include formation of a committee to regulate private schools, giving EPF, ESI and insurance to all teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools. Meanwhile, members of the Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association observed Teachers Day as a black day and demanded that the state pays Rs 7,000 for the lockdown period to each teacher working in private budget schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-school-teachers-observe-black-day-over-non-payment/articleshow/77955039.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Demand for workers spikes as Chennai opens||CHENNAI: When Express Avenue reopened after lockdown, chief revenue officer Munish Khanna had a major problem when it came to staff requirement. Of the 500 employees, only 200 returned to work. The mall had to get a vendor specifically for housekeeping as most original workers had returned to their native places. “Replacing housekeeping staff is relatively easy. We managed with local workers, but the shortage persists. We are hopeful that all our employees will return by January,” Khanna said. Nearly four months ago, the civic body sent two lakh workers back to their native places via special trains. Now, with restrictions eased, the city is seeing a spike in demand for workers. Companies, including contractors for civic agencies, textile companies, hotels and restaurants, are applying for e-passes to bring workers back. The corporation has received requests for more than 20,000 such passes. While a few companies have booked flights for workers, many have arranged special buses. “We spent Rs 2 lakh to bring 30 workers from West Bengal last week in buses. Many construction companies are also flying them down. In fact, flights are cheaper. Over these expenses, workers are demanding a pay hike of at least 15%-30%,” said K Venkatesan, state secretary of Builders Association of India. Local workers from southern TN are in demand now. Corporation contractors are the most affected with deadlines for many projects looming. Urbaser-Sumeet even put up an advertisement seeking 10,000 workers for solid waste management jobs, but hasn’t received a good response. Most guest workers are willing to resume work but fear a second wave of the pandemic in the offing. Manickam Mahalingam, chairman and MD of Sakthi Sugars, said the firm is willing to spend more at the moment as it believes this demand will die down soon. “We are taking care of all expenses. But, our business is just 15%-20% of what it was five months ago. By the time the market returns to its usual state, workers will also return,” he said. In the meantime, many industries are also considering automation. Offices in Chennai that require a minimum of 100 workers to clean, sanitize and maintain the space are now operating with a shortage of 80% . “We manage by continuing work from home for most employees. Only new recruits come to the office,” said Lionel Charles, founder and CEO of India Filings. “By January, the business and work force will be back on track. Salaries will also be regularised,” said Venkatesan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-for-workers-spikes-as-city-opens/articleshow/77954077.cms||Komal Gautham
September 6, 2020||Business||Andhra Pradesh tops ease of business rankings again||NEW DELHI: Andhra Pradesh topped the list of states in the ease of doing business rankings 2019 followed by Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, a report released on Saturday showed. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman released the report which ranks states based on 180 reform points covering 12 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour, environment among others. Gujarat was among the top 10 states while West Bengal was at the ninth spot. Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh took the fifth and sixth places while MP was placed at number four. Assam was among the top performers among northeastern states. Maharashtra was ranked 13th in the list for 2019, retaining the same spot for the second successive year. Himachal Pradesh moved up to the seventh place in 2019 from 16 in 2018. In the overall ranking, Delhi moved to the 12th spot in 2019 from the 23rd place in 2018. The rankings for 2019 were to be released in March this year were postponed due to the Covid-19pandemic. The government had launched the ease of doing ranking for states to trigger a competition among states to reform their business and approval processes to attract investment. The sustained progress of India’s rankings in the World Bank’s ease of doing business had also had an impact on states to shore up their approval and regulato ry processes and increase their potential to attract investors. “India is seen taking the reform process seriously which showed when foreign direct investment in India increased even during the Covid-19 pandemic. Some states have shown extraordinary energy in putting together action plans and making sure that reforms happen. States have embraced the true spirit behind State Business Reforms Action Plan,” said Sitharaman while releasing the rankings. “The ease of doing business rankings, released on Saturday, are a reflection of the efforts made by the states. India is among the very few nations which has state-specific rankings,” Union minister Piyush Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/andhra-pradesh-tops-ease-of-business-rankings-again/articleshow/77956457.cms||Surojit Gupta
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Vanathi: BJP will reward newcomers, if talented||Coimbatore: BJP state vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan on Saturday said the party rules were not broken to make former IPS officer K Annamalai another vice-president of the party. She said there were exceptions to the party’s structural rules and Annamalai was given the post through such an exception. “The president can decide on changing the party’s rules. There is nothing wrong in this,” she said. Pointing out that the party had in the past made a non-member a minister, she said people such as Suresh Prabhu and S Jaishankar were given party postings as soon as they joined the BJP. “There might be some changes in the party. Vice-presidents can be given other postings. Only party members need to be concerned if a rule has been broken. But now, it’s the outsiders who are raising the issue.” All vice-presidents would have unique responsibilities and people shouldn’t think that because of a newcomer, existing representatives have lost power, Vanathi said. “Everyone is carrying out their responsibilities. Annamalai’s arrival has energized youngsters. It is a strength to the party. He would be given responsibilities soon.” She said Annamalai’s posting has sent out a message that the BJP would recognize talented newcomers. Annamalai was made the BJP vice-president on August 29, four days after he joined the party. This makes the total number of BJP’s state vice-presidents to 11. Replying to a question that reporters posed she said, “If actor Rajinikanth starts a party, we will support it. Let him come as an additional soldier to the field. After that we can decide who the captain is.” Earlier in the day, Vellore M Ibrahim, state president of the Tamil Nadu Ekathuva Prachara Jamaat and a BJP supporter, had met Vanathi and sought her support for his state-wide tour to explain the Centre’s schemes to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vanathi-bjp-will-reward-newcomers-if-talented/articleshow/77955052.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Realtor accused of rape held||Ahmedbad: Sunil Bhanderi, a real estate agent against whom a complaint of rape was lodged by a builder’s wife last week, was arrested by crime branch. Bhanderi was first detained by Krishnanagar police and was found to have Covid-19 and was admitted to Civil Hospital last Thursday. He escaped from there and got himself admitted at a private hospital. An FIR was filed against Bhanderi for violation of Covid-19 rules and two cops, Dineshkumar Jivaji and Vanrajsinh Vinusinh, who were to guard him were booked for negligence. Meanwhile, the accused through his lawyer submitted an application to the city police chief that the then inspector of Krishnanagar police station, J K Rathod, had demanded a bribe from him to get him out of the case. “After that the case was transferred to city crime branch. Crime branch officials said after Bhanderi tested negative for Covid, they arrested him on Saturday. We will summon everyone, including the then police inspector, against whom the accused has levelled allegations of demanding bribes,” said a top crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/realtor-accused-of-rape-held/articleshow/77955050.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed teachers demand permanent appointment||AURANGABAD: Teachers in Beed, employed on a temporary basis for years, on Saturday registered a protest against the government by wearing black outfits. They have been seeking permanent appointment. The teachers also cut a black-coloured cake and burst balloons on the school premises. A teacher, requesting anonymity, said she had served as a temporary teacher for the past 20 year in the hope of getting a permanent job. Her colleague, who has been working on a temporary basis for the past five years, said consecutive governments have just made promises from time to time. Unions representing these teachers claimed that the condition of thousands of non-permanent teachers across the state is very grim and needs urgent attention. The state government, in its communication dated June 8, 2020, stated that out of all the eligible schools, around 10% will be randomly checked and verified by the finance department. Thereafter, approval of additional 20% grant will be disbursed to schools and teachers. In the education department’s GR dated September 13, 2019, around 2,417 eligible schools and 4,561 blocks were approved for the 20 per cent grant. Also, 28,217 teachers were eligible for this grant based on the fulfillment of certain criteria, verification, checking and approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-teachers-demand-permanent-appointment/articleshow/77953336.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: With no workers, teacher cleans toilet||HYDERABAD: A school teacher in Jagtial district cleans toilets. It isn’t that he has lost his job but has been put in a situation where he has no option but to clean toilets at the Mandal Parishad Primary School at Markandeya street in Korutla. This is the situation not just in his school but in all MPP schools across the state as Swachh workers, who were engaged for sanitation work in the schools, have been removed.  This year, the local gram panchayats have taken the responsibility to keep the schools clean but precious little was done. In this scenario, teachers like Tunduri Sathish Goud who have started going to school for the last one week to 10 days are forced to clean the toilets in their schools themselves. Sweeping is also done by the teaching staff. “In some schools, teachers have contributed from their salaries to engage a person to come and clean the school premises, including toilets,” Sathish Goud told STOI. Women teachers particularly have been finding it difficult because of the unclean toilets in the schools. There are 1.6 lakh teachers across the state. In Kortula division, there are 60 schools, including four upper primary schools, 12 high schools and primary schools. While online classes have begun for the new academic year since September 1, students will find it difficult once they start coming to schools with unclean toilets. As many as 20,000 Swachh workers were said to have been discontinued from this year. Their responsibility was to take care of Haritha Haram plants and sanitation at schools||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-workers-teacher-cleans-toilet/articleshow/77955054.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Chandrababu Naidu safe in convoy vehicle mishap: Cops||HYDERABAD: A vehicle in the convoy of former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh N Chandrababu Naidu met with an accident at Choutuppal of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district on Saturday afternoon. According to the police, no injuries were reported and Naidu, who was seated in one of the other vehicles, was immediately given clearance to leave the place. Naidu was returning to Hyderabad from Vijayawada at around 3.30 pm when the incident took place. A stray cow appeared in the middle of the road while the convoy was on the move, after which the driver of the first vehicle had to suddenly apply brake. Following this, the driver of the jammer vehicle (2nd in the convoy) too aplied brake. However, the third vehicle a bullet proof car hit the jammer vehicle as the driver was unable to control the speed. “Naidu was in one of the subsequent vehicles. Our team, which was part of the bandobust duty, immediately swung into action,” a senior official of Rachkonda police told TOI. Naidu enjoys a very high security cover since he has threat from Naxalites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-safe-in-convoy-vehicle-mishap-cops/articleshow/77955085.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||12 hours? ‘Covid-19 suspects’ not being tested for several days in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Aliganj resident Arun Mishra tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He got a call from control room to inquire about his health, but nobody came home for contact tracing and testing his family members. Calling private labs for tests bore no result as all refused citing administration’s order that bars them from collecting samples from homes. “A few days ago, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered that all Covid suspects must be tested within 12 hours to break the infection chain. The district magistrate, however, seems to have its own set of protocol,” said Mishra, who had to send his family, including his father with cormorbidities, to a private lab. Times ViewDelay in testing of primary contacts is not only traumatising for them, but also a threat. Late diagnosis increases the risk. Further, if they move out, there is a risk of them passing the infection to others. If private labs are allowed home collection, those who can afford can avail of their services. This will also reduce load on government agencies. Not to forget, timely testing can break the chain of the virus.“It was a harrowing experience for them, particularly my 68-year-old father who has chronic kidney disease and diabetes. We are waiting for reports,” said Arun, who is in home isolation. On the one hand, district administration and health authorities are taking days in contact tracing and taking samples of family members and primary contacts of a patient, and on the other hand they have restricted private labs from collecting samples from homes. This is causing harassment to the elderly, kids and pregnant women who have to go to private labs or hospitals for test, though the government order is to trace primary contacts within 24 hours and test them in next 12 hours. While this exposes them to risk of contracting Covid-19 and other infections, primary contacts are also suspected cases and should remain in self isolation till tested. Vishambhar Pandey of Aminabad tested positive on Wednesday, but got a call from control room on Friday. The caller told family members to isolate and promised sampling next day. “When nobody came, my family members went to Balrampur hospital on Saturday to get tested. My 71-year-old father is a cancer patient and prone to infections as he takes immuno-suppressants,” he said. A Gomtinagar resident who tested positive on Tuesday got a call within an hour from control room for hospital allotment and was shifted to a private facility, but nobody came to test his family for two days. His wife told TOI, “On Thursday, we went to a private lab for test. All of us tested positive and are in home isolation. Later, a team from control room came for contact tracing.” District magistrate Abhishek Prakash was not available for comments. His assistant took the call and said he is in a meeting. (Names of patients changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12-hours-covid-19-suspects-not-being-tested-for-several-days-in-city/articleshow/77955987.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra may review RR rates by the end of September||PUNE: The state government may review the ready reckoner rates by the month-end, focusing on their rationalisation. Senior officials dropped hint that the state government might reduce the ready reckoner (RR) rates wherever they were on the higher side. The RR rates have remained unchanged for the past two-and-a-half years. A source in the state revenue said the rates had been reviewed and the fresh RR rates could be issued shortly. “With the second quarter of the financial year ending in September, the announcement is expected by the end of this month for implementation from the third quarter,” the source said. The RR rates are prices of residential or commercial properties, and plots for a given area, based on which their market value and stamp duty is charged. It is usually declared on March 31 every year. But this year, the state government delayed its announcement because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Developers stressed that new rates would hold no significance if the review was done before the Covid-19 outbreak. A property consultant of the city said, “On one hand, the government has announced a reduction in the stamp duty. On the other, it cannot announce any increase in the RR rates. Against this backdrop, the government should reduce the rates, which it can do.” The national vice-president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), Shantilal Kataria, told TOI that the RR rates were kept constant for the past two years while it was supposed to be decreased because of the sluggish real estate market over the state both in urban and rural areas. “The Covid-19 worsened the situation and the realty sector scenario will not improve till March 2021. Hence, no question arises about any increase in RR rates anywhere in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-may-review-rr-rates-by-theend-of-september/articleshow/77955055.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Covid death toll at GMCH rises to 560||AURANGABAD: The government medical college and hospital (GMCH) reported four deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the death toll in GMCH to 560. Of the 278 patients undergoing treatment at the dedicated Covid care centre on the hospital premises, 174 are in critical condition.  The hospital administration said the number of deaths is more at the GMCH as critical cases are being referred to the hospital. The administration said the deceased included a-30-year-old woman from Aurangabad, two 60-year-old women from T V centre, Hudco and a 70-year-old man from Paithan. Meanwhile, the district reported 409 fresh Covid cases by Friday, taking the total number of cases to 24,889. A total of 19,128 have recovered so far and there are 5,030 active cases. The death toll in the district stands at 731.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-death-toll-at-gmch-rises-to-560/articleshow/77953353.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Baramati traders to observe closure for two weeks||PUNE: Traders and shopkeepers in Baramati have voluntarily decided to close their shops for the next two weeks in view of increasing Covid-19 cases in the town. Elected members of Baramati Municipal Council held a meeting with members of traders’ associations on Friday and unanimously took the decision. Kiranraj Yadav, chief officer of the municipal council told TOI, “We have not issued any order regarding the closure. People themselves have decided to shut their business voluntarily. We will ensure that people do not face any inconvenience and if we receive any complaint, we will take action against those concerned. Local representatives, including president of the council, informed us on Friday that they have appealed to the people to observe a curfew in view of the increase in Covid-19 cases.” Yadav said he categorically told the representatives that there will not be a lockdown but if people shut their shops voluntarily they will not have any issue. The town has recorded 771 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic of which 326 have been cured, 26 died and 419 are active cases till date. “We have declared 156 micro containment zones across the town to contain the spread of the virus,” Yadav added. Pournima Taware, president of the council, said, “Baramati has been recording over 100 Covid-19 cases for the last three days. All 19 wards in the council have over 30 positive cases. If we don’t take precautionary measures, the cases will go beyond control. As a result, we appealed to people to observe a closure. We have not forced our decision on anyone.” All medical shops, hospitals and shops selling milk will remain open, she said. Narendra Gujrathi, president of Baramati Traders Association, said, “We held a meeting with the tehsil administration on Saturday and informed them that our members will shut shops for seven days starting from Monday. Closure is the need of the hour considering the rise in cases.” He added that tehsil and council administrations must work on enhancing health infrastructure in Baramati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baramati-traders-to-observe-closure-for-two-weeks/articleshow/77955048.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid tally zooms past 18,000-mark||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 tally in the district crossed the 18,000-mark on Saturday, when it recorded 545 fresh cases. The count now stands at 18,410, of which 4,729 are active cases. Among the new cases is 22-year-old staffer with the resident medical officer’s office in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). While Podanur logged 47 new cases, neighbouring Chettipalayam reported nine cases but they were spread across the area. Rathinapuri and Veerakeralam saw 12 and 13 cases, respectively. At least 366 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment in the day. With this, 13,358 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 323 with the state including one more death that occurred in the district in its bulletin. In a bid to bring down the number of new cases and reduce the positivity rate, the district had tested 7,125 people, the highest number so far, for Covid-19 on Friday. The positivity rate in the city had climbed to nearly 13%, prompting the health department to slowly increase the number of samples to around 5,800 a day. Of the 7,125 samples, 4,746 were lifted from the city corporation and municipal areas and the remaining from villages. As on Saturday, 938 of the 4,729 active cases were undergoing treatment in four main hospitals - 388 in the ESI Hospital, 221 in CMCH, 65 in Pollachi district headquarters hospital and 264 in the PSG Hospitals. Another 64 patients are getting treatment in the Hindusthan Hospital, 38 in Madukkarai government hospital, 828 in 21 private hospitals and 1,398 in Covid care centres. The remaining 486 are in home quarantine. Officials are racing against time to set up more Covid care centres. The centres at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam (330 beds), Karunya College in Madhampalayam (600 beds) a wedding hall in Pollachi (280 beds), another wedding hall in Mettupalayam (100 beds) and Sri Ramakrishna’s hall (250) are already ready. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We are focusing more on tracing contacts of positive cases and testing them, instead of trying to identify the source of infection, to contain the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-tally-zooms-past-18000-mark/articleshow/77955109.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Ratan Tata-backed fuel-delivery firm registers 150 startups in one month||PUNE: City-based Repos Energy has registered 150 fuel startups across the country in less than a month. This is part of its latest programme to nurture startups that would door deliver fuel to different establishments. Some of these startups are, Easy Diesel from Pune, Nuvera Energy from Mumbai, Auro Fuels from Bengaluru, AMA Fuels from Kolkata, Echological Fuels from Guwahati and Future Fuel Services from Mirzapur, among others. The company, which raised an undisclosed amount from industrialist Ratan Tata, said that it now aims to raise its Series A funding. Under the programme, the company will provide Repos Mobile Petrol Pumps (RMPPs) to these startups along with the complete infrastructure, which is pegged to garner over Rs9,000 crore in investments. Repos Energy co-founder Chetan Waluj said that the tie-up with the startups will be on a revenue-sharing basis. “Right from the time of enrolment, Repos will provide these new startups with end-to-end solutions for buying the mobile petrol pumps and the know-how. These startups will be registered with us and feature on our app,” Waluj said. “We will also provide them with the necessary infrastructure. This will include a back-end team to build their entire brand identity. We will make sure that they become successful,” Waluj added. Co-founder Aditi Waluj said the RMPPs were being designed at their IoT facility in Chakan and comply with the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation norms. During the lockdown, the company ended up selling 35-40% more than in pre-Covid days.  The daily average sales through its platform total 5 lakh litres. Accoring to its official website, Repos was established with the aim of “delivering diesel at the doorstep to all those who find it difficult to procure diesel from the retail outlet”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ratan-tata-backed-fuel-delivery-firm-registers-150-startups-in-one-month/articleshow/77955093.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Triple talaq case: Man gets anticipatory bail||AURANGABAD: A 28-year-old man from Nanded got respite after the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted him bail in the triple talaq case for orally giving talaq to his wife in 2019. Seven people, including the married sisters and parents of appellant Shaikh Altaf Nawab, a worker staying in Old Ganj, Nanded, were booked by the Kalamnoori police, Hingoli, under sections 498-A, 323, 504 r/w 34 of the IPC and section 4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. Apprehending arrest, they had earlier approached the additional sessions judge, Hingoli, who had granted an interim bail on condition that they reach an amicable solution when Shaikh Altaf told the court that he hadn’t given the triple talaq orally and was ready to live with his wife. However, the negotiations failed when the woman insisted that the couple stay at her parents’ house in Kalamnoori. The man refused and, therefore, his wife and in-laws proceeded with the case. The additional sessions judge allowed the bail applications of six other co-accused but “rejected the bail to the extent of present applicant only for the reason that the offence u/s 4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, attracted against the applicant and is punishable with imprisonment for three years.” Altaf then approached the HC through lawyer Saeed S Shaikh stating he was willing to cohabit with the informant (his wife) under his roof. Since the applicant is required to take care of his parents, he refused to submit to the demand of the informant, which led to filing of false complaint against the applicant, the lawyer argued. While allowing the conditional anticipatory bail application on September 3, Justice V L Achliya observed: “Possibility of complaint with exaggerated allegations on account of matrimonial dispute cannot be ruled out. The fact that the complaint has been lodged against the entire family of the applicant exposes the tendency of the informant to rope in all the family members on account of matrimonial dispute. In that view, the possibility of the applicant being falsely implicated in the case cannot be ruled out. Grant of anticipatory bail would not hamper the investigation. Custodial interrogation of the applicant is not required for investigation.’’ Justice Achliya ordered: “In the event of arrest of the applicant in connection with offence registered u/s 498-A, 323, 504 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 vide Crime No.379/2019 with police station, Kalamnoori district, Hingoli, the applicant be released on furnishing bail in the sum of Rs. 15,000 with one surety in the like amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/triple-talaq-case-man-gets-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/77953366.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tribunal asks insurer to pay Rs 64 lakh to kin of accident victim||CHENNAI: An accident claims tribunal in the city directed an insurance firm to pay Rs 63.6 lakh as compensation to the family of an advocate who was killed in a road accident three years ago. The deceased was a panel advocate with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation and was killed due to the rash driving by the driver of the car he was travelling in. According to the petition moved by G Karpagavalli, her husband was travelling in a car from Tiruvannamalai to Vellore, when the driver of the car lost control of the vehicle due to his rash and negligent driving and rammed the vehicle into a tamarind tree off the road, at Munivanthangal near Polur in Tiruvannamalai district. The petitioner’s husband, Gopalakrishnan, suffered head injuries and multiple fractures, leading to his death. The insurance firm contended that the driver of the vehicle was not in possession of a valid driving license at the time of the accident and stated that it cannot be held liable to pay compensation. The tribunal, after perusing the documents including the FIR copy, autopsy certificate, the license records of the driver, held that the accident was due to the rash and negligent driving of the driver and stated that there was a valid driving license and hence, the insurance firm is liable to pay compensation. It was submitted to the tribunal that the deceased was a practising advocate and was also a panel advocate with TNSTC, Kumbakonam. After computing various factors such as loss of dependency for his family, the tribunal arrived at an amount of Rs 63.6 lakh to be paid as compensation. Of the total amount, the wife of the deceased is entitled to get Rs 22.6 lakh, while their two minor sons, aged 3 and 2 at the time of the accident will be entitled for Rs 20 lakh each and the widowed mother of the deceased Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tribunal-asks-insurer-to-pay-rs-64-lakh-to-kin-of-accident-victim/articleshow/77954086.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||On a social drive: Once in misery, they now act as street kids’ guides||NEW DELHI: In her early years, Jyoti was a drug addict, roaming on the streets, asking people for money to buy her dose of narcotics. She also faced constant harassment at the railway station where she lived with her family. It was after five years of this torment that Jyoti was noticed by an NGO worker, a teacher, transformed her life and turned her into a teacher. There are many educators like Jyoti, who have devoted their time to street children. Their motivation is their own belief that such children should not have to spend their lives uneducated or as child labourers. That is why Teachers’ Day on Saturday was so significant for these special individuals. Sonia, who teaches street children near Dilshad Garden, is associated with NGO Chetna (Childhood Enhancement through Training and Action). She has never felt the desire to teach in private schools or somewhere where she would be paid more for her work. Sanjay Gupta, director, Chetna, said, “We reach out to 4,000 street and working children in Delhi every year. Last year, we managed to put 1,000 children into government schools. Teaching at pavements or under trees is not easy with passers-by, stray animals and inclement weather presenting problems to the street educators.” That is why what Sonia has accomplished is astounding. “I have helped more than 50 street kids get enrolled in government schools,” she said. “These children are already earning money as ragpickers and beggars and so are least interested in going to schools. It takes a lot of convincing to get them to opt for schooling. We also have to monitor whether they are going to school or not, whether they have resumed begging, etc. So many parents have thanked us for opening their eyes and getting their children into schools. Hearing them express their gratitude is an unmatched feeling. That is what every teacher teaches for.” Ravi, a dance teacher, was a street child before realise his calling in dance. “As a child, I used to see videos on YouTube and dance along,” said Ravi. “But life was tough. One day someone noticed me and asked me why I didn’t teach dancing to others. That was the time I realised I could children like me.” Ravi started attending school and after completing his education, started teaching street children. “My education and my passion for dance were the only things that got me here. Today, I teach more than 30 children and encourage them to study too,” he said. “Teachers’ Day is significant to me because every time a child wishes me on the day, I feel overwhelmed at having taken the correct decisions for my life in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-a-social-drive-once-in-misery-they-now-act-as-street-kids-guides/articleshow/77955996.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 6, 2020||Kozhikode||One arrested in Kannur blast||Kozhikode: One person has been taken into custody in connection with the explosion of country bombs at Ponniam, in Kannur district, on Friday in which three persons were injured. Aswanth, a local, was picked up by police from his house. He is suspected to have escaped from the site after the explosion. Aswanth is an accused in the attack on CPM rebel C O T Nazeer last year. Thalassery DSP Moosa Vallikkadan is heading the investigation. The site where the blasts occurred is under Kathirur police station and is b suspected to be a hub for manufacturing country bombs. A temporary shed with seating arrangements made of wood and a tarpaulin roof is what remains there. Its proximity to the river was probably to ensure easy transportation. Steel bombs were recovered from the site. Remnants of crude bombs were also found, sources said. Even as fingers are pointed at the CPM, the party said it has nothing to do with the blasts. CPM Thalassery area secretary M C Pavithran said the incident is condemnable. He demanded a probe to bring out the truth. Addressing media in Thiruvananthapuram, BJP state president K Surendran said a hurriedly arranged burial nearby, of a person who is said to have committed suicide, adds to the mystery. Meanwhile, another bomb exploded at Kariyad, near Mahe, on Saturday. A family that had returned from Bengaluru found a steel container in their house. They drove to a nearby river to dispose of the container, which exploded on impact with water. Chokli police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/one-arrested-in-kannur-blast/articleshow/77954090.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mysuru||Celebrations in Mysuru||Mysuru: Disrict minister S T Somashekhar on Saturday called upon teachers to strive for the overall personality development of their students. He was speaking after inaugurating the Teachers’ Day celebrations jointly organised to commemorate the birth anniversary of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan by the district administration, the ZP and the department of public instruction at Teresian College auditorium here. The minister expressed gratitude for the remarkable contributions of teachers in grooming the future citizens of the country and their role in nation-building. “Teaching is the noblest of all professions. It always finds a prominent place in Indian history and culture. They not only impart knowledge, but also life lessons,” he said. District-level best teachers award were conferred on 26 teachers on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/celebrations-in-mysuru/articleshow/77953350.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Erode dist panchayat vice-chairman dies of Covid||Erode: District panchayat vice-chairman M Velusamy died of Covid-19 infection in Erode on Saturday.PMK founder S Ramadoss, in a statement, remembered Velusamy’s work as a cadre of the party and his subsequent growth in the party through his tireless work. “He reached several posts, including state deputy general secretary post in the party,” he said.Velusamy had participated in various demonstrations, protests and events conducted by the party, including ‘Cauvery Kappom’ and Athikadavu-Avinashi water project awareness rally, Ramadoss said. Velusamy was elected as Erode district panchayat vice-chairman in the local body election. His death is a great loss not only to the party but also to the Erode district, Ramadoss said. He also expressed his grief to Velusamy’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/erode-dist-panchayat-vice-chairman-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77955092.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Healthy uptick in production and labour in 100 cos: MCCIA survey||PUNE: An industrial survey in the district has found that many companies have ramped their production levels from 40% in July to 50% last month. The survey, the fifth carried out by Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in Pune district, covered 100 companies. On an average, the respondents stated said that the number of employees working has gone up from 47% in July to 56% in August. “The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to be the same as they were in January,” MCCIA said in a statement. MCCIA director-general Prashant Girbane said uncertainty of demand was still a major challenge. “The government should make fiscal and non-fiscal interventions to boost demand and the ecosystem of economic activity. On the fiscal front, large infrastructure investments should be made by the government and executed via the private sector. This will boost demand as well as create jobs. On the non-fiscal front, the government must focus on the ease of doing business,” Girbane said. Two-wheeler makers across the country have reported that sales were back at nearly 80-90%. Real estate data from the registrations department show that sales are back at 70% of last year’s level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/healthy-uptick-in-production-and-labour-in-100-cos-mccia-survey/articleshow/77955075.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Air India to restart Coimbatore-Mumbai flight on Wednesday||COIMBATORE: Air India is all set to resume direct flight services between Mumbai and the city from Wednesday (Sept 9). The flight will take off from Mumbai at 10.55am and arrive in the city at 12.40pm. It will then depart from the city at 1.30pm and reach Mumbai at 3.20pm. Air India officials said they would operate Airbus A 320, which could accommodate 162 passengers, on the route. An official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Not many people know the first flight that was operated between the two cities some 30 years ago was AI 657 (AI 658 on return journey). It still continues to receive good support from passengers. So, we have reintroduced the flight, which will have 12 business class seats.” This would be the only direct first flight to Mumbai from the city for now. All the other airlines only offer connectivity with Mumbai with a single stop and a flying time of around 4.5 hours. Indigo had briefly scheduled a flight between the city and Mumbai when flight operations resumed in May-end, but only to discontinue that later. Air India’s move has brought cheers to many passengers, who have been planning to fly abroad later this month for studies and work. For many, Mumbai is a preferred connection point to take international flights to Europe. Adhrith M, a postgraduate student who is planning to fly to Amsterdam in October, said, “I was planning take a flight to Chennai, from there to Abu Dhabi and then to Amsterdam. Now, I have a direct flight to Amsterdam from Mumbai, reducing my flying and transit time by seven hours and an entire night.” City-based C Devanathan, who has to fly to Kenya where he works as a factory manager, said, “From Mumbai there is direct flight to Nairobi, which is much faster and cheaper than options from Chennai.” Air India had earlier resumed direct flights to New Delhi and Hyderabad from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ai-to-restart-mumbai-flight-on-wednesday/articleshow/77955083.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Sigur forest range offers safe haven for vultures||Udhagamandalam: The International Vulture Awareness Day was observed in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone in the Nilgiris on Saturday to create awareness among the field staff of the forest department and residents.The Sigur range, which falls under MTR-buffer zone along the Thengumarahada region, is the largest dwelling place of vultures in the Nilgiris. The open forest and scrub jungles of the range, spread over 18,000 hectares, offer vultures a safe sanctuary. Due to its proximity to the migratory paths of predators such as tigers and leopards, the range has enough carcasses for the scavenging birds.“With open forests, the range offers easy visibility for spotting carcasses. There is no food scarcity for vultures,” Sigur forest range officer Murali said.There are no vultures in the thick and canopied forests of MTR core-zone and other forest ranges in the Nilgiris. “There is no food scarcity in the MTR-core zone also. But the core-zone is a shrub forest that offers low visibility. Hence there is not many vultures there. The birds determine their prey by sight and not through smell,” Murali told TOI.In the last 10 years, there has been no decline in vulture population in the region, though it has been declining in other parts of the country. “In fact, there is a slow growth in vulture population here,” said the official.Of the nine types of vultures in India, five, such as white-rumped vulture, long-billed vulture, red-headed vulture, Egyptian vulture and cinereous vulture can be spotted in the Sigur range, which accounts for as many as 200 vultures, mainly white-rumped vultures.Asked about the conservation measures taken, Murali said, “No special measures have been taken. As it is a tiger reserve, by taking measures to conserve the predators and the prey, we can make vultures survive. Also, with no livestock carcasses, vultures here fare safe from diclofenac, which is toxic to them.”Vultures also play an important role in preventing spread of epidemics and curbing water pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sigur-forest-range-offers-safe-haven-for-vultures/articleshow/77955134.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Kin of Covid warrior to get Rs 25L relief||Hyderabad: The state government approved Rs 25 lakh ex-gratia to a Covid-warrior for the first time since the pandemic broke out. While there was an official announcement of Rs 25 lakh ex-gratia to be paid to families of healthcare professionals who die from coronavirus, the first approval came for Dr G Naresh Kumar, who was the deputy district medical health officer of Bhadradri Kothagudem. The 35-year-old doctor was the sixth healthcare professional in the state to succumb to the virus. So far over 16 healthcare workers have succumbed to Covid in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kin-of-covid-warrior-to-get-rs-25l-relief/articleshow/77955104.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||Sitapur farmer’s son tops Uttar Pradesh BEd entrance exam||LUCKNOW: Power supply reached his village Nagwa Jairam in Sitapur only last year, but his dedication to attain the light of learning was such that dearth of resources never proved to be a hurdle in his studies. Son of a farmer, Pankaj Kumar, who bagged the first rank in the Uttar Pradesh Joint Entrance Examination of Bachelor in Education scoring 299 marks out of 400 among 4.31 lakh candidates, believes hardwork i sthe most important trait of a successful man. Elated to top the state-level exam conducted by his alma mater Lucknow University, Pankaj said, “Come to my village in Sitapur, a hinterland where electricity supply was a dream till last year, only a handful of youngsters are graduate and I am the only one to go for further studies despite all odds.” He said studying without electricity not only proves to be challenging in the night, but weather extremes also test once patience. He said living in an area with poor internet connectivity is another challenge as you don’t have the luxury of having access to online study material and even the model papers that play a crucial role in preparation. Kumar said: “My farmer father Shyam Sunder is the only earning member, he toiled hard in fields and asked me just to focus on studies so that the picture of our village can change, where English medium schools, roads and other basic are no luxuries.” He graduated from LU in 2015. Due to lack of resources, Kumar couldn’t afford expensive professional courses and hence decided to prepare for various entrance tests and qualifying BEd was one of his dreams. “I will get an admission in a government college that is affordable and it will help me fulfil my dream of becoming a teacher. My only wish is to empower the education system in my home town,” said Kumar. The top three ranks of UP BEd were clinched by male candidates — Ajay Kumar with 295 marks stood second, while Amar Singh scored 294 marks and stood third.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sitapur-farmers-son-tops-state-bed-entrance-exam/articleshow/77956003.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 6, 2020||Puducherry||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957904.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Salem||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957912.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: From homes to gold, teachers sell all to survive Covid crisis||HYDERABAD: A private Mathematics teacher by profession, V Nagesh is now spending his days selling dal, aata, chawal to locals turning up at his small kirana shop. He sold his one-room house to set up this store in Nalgonda. The MSc and BEd degree holder, with 16 years of work experience, had inherited the home from his father. “But I had to clear loans that I had taken to get my three sisters married,” said 34-year-old Nagesh. “I was confident of clearing my loans with my salary. But since the school management has stopped paying since February-March and lenders were calling incessantly, I had to sell my house for Rs 2.2 lakh,” added the teacher who used Rs 60,000 from his corpus to start a kirana store. “I am not being able to sell goods worth even Rs 5,000 -- the amount I have to pay towards shop rent. I have no money to buy my daughter books or pay her fee,” said Nagesh. If some have given up their homes, others have been forced to sell vehicles, gold and other belongings to run their households amid crisis. “After lockdown started, I sold my bike for Rs 25,000 to clear EMIs. I was hopeful that I would get my dues soon. But it’s been six months and I have still not been paid. I even pledged my gold for Rs 30,000,” said Md Feroz Salman, a Telugu pandit working as a language teacher in a private school in Medak. Maths teacher with a private school in Balapur, R Ramu Naik too had to put up his bike for sale, to meet his daily expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/from-homes-to-gold-teachers-sell-all-to-survive-covid-crisis/articleshow/77955136.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 6, 2020||Madurai||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957908.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Erode||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957905.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers ‘bridge the gap’ to enrol students||Coimbatore: A group of teachers and educational officials had to cross the Gandhaiyaaru river on a coracle to ensure students get enrolled in the Panchayat Union Middle School at Lingapuram. The bridge connecting Lingapuram with Gandhavayal and other villages in Mettupalayam taluk is submerged for the third consecutive year due to heavy flow in the 300-metre wide river that separates Lingapuram from Gandhavayal, Mokkamedu, Alur, Melur and Uliyur. Of the two primary schools in Gandhavayal, one is a residential school for tribal kids, said Karamadai block education officer M Ramesh Babu. “They needn’t cross the river to reach school. But kids who get promoted to Class VI have to cross the river to reach the middle school in Lingapuram. They couldn’t come to the school for admission as the bridge is submerged. So, we decided to visit the villages to admit students. On Thursday, the school’s headmistress and a teacher went to the village. On Friday I went along with the HM and three other teachers. We admitted seven students in Class VI,” he said. The team made the students fill application forms and handed over books, notebooks and bags. Headmistress P Gajalakshmi said on Thursday, they could admit only two students. “The villagers asked us to come early to meet other parents. So, we crossed the river at 7.30am the next day and admitted five more students.” Students, who don’t have TVs to watch Kalvi TV or internet to participate in online classes, have asked teachers to visit the village every week. “We have formed two teams of two teachers each. They will visit the village on Mondays and Thursdays. They will spend two hours with the students, teach them and give them course work,” Babu said. To reach the villages from Lingapuram, one could either take a coracle across the river or has to take a roundabout though the Sirumugai forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-bridge-the-gap-to-enrol-students/articleshow/77955132.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Indrakeeladri shrine gears up for Dasara||Vijayawada: The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams is gearing up for 10-day long Dasara celebrations at the Indrakeeladri shrine starting October 17. Temple authorities have started making the necessary arrangements for the festival which will follow the prescribed Covid-19 protocols. The Laksha Kumkuma Archana and other festive rituals will be streamed online to avoid large crowds at the temple. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indrakeeladri-shrine-gears-up-for-dasara/articleshow/77955160.cms||Venu Lanka
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||1,200 cops get protective kits||Coimbatore: City police commissioner Sumit Sharan on Saturday distributed Covid-19 protective kits to more than 1,200 police personnel at a function that was organized on the police recruitment school premises. He asked them to compulsorily wear face masks, hand gloves and spectacles while on duty, besides washing hands often.“Around 16 cops tested positive for the virus today (Saturday). Cops who are having body pain, fever and headache should inform their superiors, remain in isolation at their residences and take Covid-19 testing,” he said. Pointing out that cops on leave were not following precautionary measures properly, he said many of them had contracted virus while they were away on leave. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1200-cops-get-protective-kits/articleshow/77955130.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Makna elephant enters STF camp||Coimbatore: Frontline staff of the forest department chased away a tuskless male elephant (makna) that entered the special task force (STF) temporary camp at Mangarai in the Coimbatore forest range on Saturday. The elephant, aged about 30 years, has injuries on its mouth. “It is known as Bulldozer in Mannarkad in Kerala, where it damaged 21 houses while searching for food,” an official said.Officials with the Mannarkad forest department had tranquilized the animal last month to treat the wounds. After it entered the Tamil Nadu forest limits, three teams have been closely monitoring its movements. It ate the fruits and rice flour mixed with medicines placed by the officials. The elephant was spotted at Kanuvai two days ago and near Mangarais on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/makna-elephant-enters-stf-camp/articleshow/77955120.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957909.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77957906.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Not reopening schools in Tamil Nadu anytime soon’||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan once again confirmed that the department is not even thinking of schools reopening in the state. Recently, Kerala government mentioned they would reopen schools next year. He reaffirmed that it's Kerala government’s decision and Tamil Nadu has not taken any such decision yet. The minister inspected various developmental activities in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment on Saturday. After his inspection, he met the newsmen and said that his department will take stern action against the private schools if they collect 100 % school fees. “We have already instructed all the schools through chief educational officers in their respective districts in connection with this,” he said. Many of the private schools in the state haven’t paid salary to their teachers citing lockdown and other issues. Answering to this, Sengottaiyan assured he will look into this issue if private school teachers or their associations give petitions with the school education department. During the presser, the minister said that, currently the state has 7,500 excess government teachers in schools across the state. “The school education department will consider jobless private teachers temporarily after filling all vacancies with excess government teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/not-reopening-schools-in-tn-anytime-soon/articleshow/77955099.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals blame NGO for delaying housing project, stage protest||Coimbatore: Over 100 inmates of the Kallankuttu thammampatti tribal settlement in Vettaikaranpudhur panchayat staged a protest on Saturday seeking the intervention of the district administration to complete construction of their houses. Of the 232 families that were issued pattas to reside in the settlement, 114 were selected as beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMGAY) during 2016-17. Under the scheme, the government will provide Rs 2.10 lakh to construct concrete houses. “Vagai Sevai Trust promised to help us to construct the house. The house plans they showed us were impressive and we agreed to accept their help,” said C Saritha, a resident. Members of the trust collected their bank passbooks, ATM cards, Aadhaar and pan cards apart from collecting the first instalment amount of Rs 40,000 credited under the scheme, Saritha said. “It has been three years since the construction work started and only the basements are constructed. Whenever we asked them, they gave an excuse or another.” Believing the assurance given by the trust, the families spent close to Rs 10,000 and erected huts, said district president of Tamil Nadu tribal people association V S Paramasivam. “The huts have been damaged after three years. Now, they had covered the huts with tarpaulin sheets.” Denying the allegations, founder of Vagai Sevai Trust M Ravichandran said the NGO is only guiding the tribals and the work is carried out by Anaimalai Tribal Women Welfare Association. “We collected bank passbooks of the beneficiaries to stop them from spending the credited amount. Contrary to what the protesters claim, the work had commenced only in 2019 and was delayed due to the pandemic situation. In between, the contractor had withdrawn from the work as the initial instalment was delayed. We have found a new contractor to carry out the work,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, revenue officials conducted talks with the protesters and assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-blame-ngo-for-delaying-housing-project-stage-protest/articleshow/77955167.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||CAU to conduct trials for team selection soon||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) has confirmed that they will select the teams to represent the state on the basis of trials this year as well. The trials are set to take place after September 21 and the board will follow the SOPs released by the BCCI while holding the trials. The CAU was earlier planning to conduct an intra-state league and based on the performance in the tournament, players would have been selected. However, the Covid-19 lockdown played spoilsport. The CAU is going to release SOPs to conduct events to the cricket associations of respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-to-conduct-trials-for-team-selection-soon/articleshow/77953382.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teachers do ‘double’ shift, at classes and as Covid checkers||NEW DELHI: After working at quarantine centres and relief distribution centres, teachers of Delhi government schools are also standing on roads, issuing fines to those not wearing masks or not practising social distancing norms. Finding time before and after the eight-hour shift, many are also conducting online classes. Neeraj Kadam, a mathematics teacher at a school in Ghazipur in east Delhi, finishes his classes before 10am, which is when he is supposed to report at Yamuna Sports Complex. “I am part of a team that works in east Delhi. There are usually 2-3 members in a team. We make rounds of the areas allotted and catch hold of people not wearing masks. We also check shops and showrooms to see whether social distancing norms are being followed,” said Kadam. The teachers undertook the duty on August 28 and are not aware till when it will continue. Another teacher who has been working in Vivek Vihar stated that they work closely with the police station. Each team has a member of the police staff. “It is an eight-hour shift, from 10 am to 6pm. So we usually stand on the roads with Civil Defence volunteers. It is tiresome and difficult work. But every day we catch hold of around seven people violating norms,” he said on condition of anonymity. Earlier, he was assigned work at a Covid-19 containment zone. Though another teacher is substituting for his teaching duties, he said that he keeps in touch with his students through WhatsApp to clarify their doubts. Another teacher hoped that this duty did not last for much longer. “Standing in the heat all day is really tiring. The government should let teachers just focus on teaching,” said a science teacher. Other teachers on duty shared that many violators do not listen to them, and pick up fights. “Violators do not listen to us and even argue with the Civil Defence volunteers about paying the fine. If the police undertake this job, it will be better as people will listen to them,” said the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teachers-do-double-shift-at-classes-and-as-covid-checkers/articleshow/77956015.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals blame NGO for delaying housing project, stage protest||Coimbatore: Over 100 inmates of the Kallankuttu thammampatti tribal settlement in Vettaikaranpudhur panchayat staged a protest on Saturday seeking the intervention of the district administration to complete construction of their houses.Of the 232 families that were issued pattas to reside in the settlement, 114 were selected as beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMGAY) during 2016-17. Under the scheme, the government will provide Rs 2.10 lakh to construct concrete houses. “Vagai Sevai Trust promised to help us to construct the house. The house plans they showed us were impressive and we agreed to accept their help,” said C Saritha, a resident.Members of the trust collected their bank passbooks, ATM cards, Aadhaar and pan cards apart from collecting the first instalment amount of Rs 40,000 credited under the scheme, Saritha said. “It has been three years since the construction work started and only the basements are constructed. Whenever we asked them, they gave an excuse or another.”Believing the assurance given by the trust, the families spent close to Rs 10,000 and erected huts, said district president of Tamil Nadu tribal people association V S Paramasivam. “The huts have been damaged after three years. Now, they had covered the huts with tarpaulin sheets.” Denying the allegations, founder of Vagai Sevai Trust M Ravichandran said the NGO is only guiding the tribals and the work is carried out by Anaimalai Tribal Women Welfare Association. “We collected bank passbooks of the beneficiaries to stop them from spending the credited amount. Contrary to what the protesters claim, the work had commenced only in 2019 and was delayed due to the pandemic situation. In between, the contractor had withdrawn from the work as the initial instalment was delayed. We have found a new contractor to carry out the work,” he told TOI.Meanwhile, revenue officials conducted talks with the protesters and assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-blame-ngo-for-delaying-housing-project-stage-protest/articleshow/77955170.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Train, bus bookings resume as life limps back to normal||Coimbatore: Five months after suspending passenger trains as a Covid-19 containment measure, the Southern Railway will operate five trains from the district from Monday.Only a few passengers were found buying tickets at the railway station here on Saturday. Most of the bookings were done online, railway officials said.The Southern Railway had announced operation of 02675/02676 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast intercity special, 02084/02083 Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore janshatabdi special, 02679/02680 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast express special, 02673/02674 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast express special and 02671/02672 Dr MGR Chennai Central – Mettupalayam – Dr MGR Chennai Central superfast daily special. While all trains to Chennai will be operated on a daily basis, those to Mayiladuthurai will be operated on all days except Tuesday. “None of the trains will have general compartments. It is a step taken to ensure social distancing. Passengers in AC compartments will have to bring pillows and blankets as we will not provide them. Passengers will have to wear masks throughout the journey and follow physical distancing norms,” an official with the Salem division of Southern Railway said.Only those with confirmed tickets will be allowed inside the station after screening. Passengers have to reach the station at least 90 minutes before departure.Meanwhile, the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC), which will resume bus service within the state from Monday, started booking on Saturday. “We will operate only non-AC ultra-deluxe buses. We have obtained permission to operate only on some routes like Coimbatore to Chennai, Villupuram and Pondicherry and from Nilgiris to Nagarcoil and Kanyakumari. We are accepting bookings only for thee approved buses. There was good response for the buses operated to Chennai and southern districts like Nagarcoil and Tirunalveli,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/train-bus-bookings-resume-as-life-limps-back-to-normal/articleshow/77955164.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||DYFI twin murder: One more held||T’puram: Police arrested Ansar (28) of Mammood on Saturday in connection with the twin murder at Venjaramoodu. He is arraigned as the second accused in the case. Attingal deputy SP SY Suresh said that Ansar was nabbed from a hideout at Maruthammood near Venjaramoodu. “Now, all accused identified in the case have been arrested,” he said, adding that it was yet to be verified whether Ansar had membership in Congress or its affiliated organizations. On Saturday, Congress leadership alleged that DYFI state secretary AA Rahim could be involved in the conspiracy behind the crime. Addressing media, MM Hassan said Rahim’s statements in the case contradicted the statements of CPM district secretary Anavoor Nagappan. While Nagappan said Midhilaj and Haq Muhammed carried arms for self-protection, Rahim had claimed that they were unarmed. However, surveillance camera visuals, available on public domain, showed that Nagappan was right, Hassan said. Congress leaders showed the video and alleged that there were 12 persons at the scene. Police report said four persons carried out the attack on three persons and two died. Police have not said anything about the remaining persons on the scene, he said. Hassan added that Midhilaj (deceased), was involved a few murder attempt cases, but none of the complainants in the cases are from Congress. Some of the complainants are DYFI workers. So, this attack could be a result of infighting within CPM. MLA KS Sabarinadhan said, “Rahim went to the police station straight from hospital at midnight and spoke with the witness for almost two hours.” That might have been to coach the witness of the case should be, he added. Meanwhile, Congress MP Ramya Haridas was shown black flag by CPM activists at Venjaramoodu.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dyfi-twin-murder-one-more-held/articleshow/77954119.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Pranabda mourning casts shadow on fete||Hyderabad: Teachers’ Day celebrations were low profile this year as several schools in the city had only concentrated on speeches and celebrated it virtually on Saturday. Many schools have also postponed and decided to have virtual celebrations next week as the state mourning is in place due to the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee. “We had a low profile virtual celebration on Saturday, where students performed dance and read messages of gratitude. However, some of the programmes, including watching the videos made by students for their teachers, will be conducted on Tuesday,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal.  School managements and principals said that it was a little confusing as they got two different orders from the government and the CBSE. While the state asked to withhold celebrations during the mourning period, CBSE gave a green signal to have them on Saturday. They said that many schools affiliated to CBSE had a low-key celebration on Saturday, while those affiliated to other boards postponed the celebrations. “We actually had several programmes lined up _ felicitation of teachers, performances by students, among others, as part of Teachers Day celebrations on Saturday. However, on Friday, after receiving the orders from the state, we have postponed all programmes to next Saturday,” said Minu Salooja, assistant director, Glendale Academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pranabda-mourning-casts-shadow-on-fete/articleshow/77955168.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Probe on in Salem fire accident||Salem: Forensic experts are trying to find the exact reason for the fire accident that claimed five lives at Nagaramalai Adivaram area in Kuranguchavadi in the city on Friday.Preliminary investigation revealed that an electrical short circuit caused the fire.“The house has two separate lines for which they had installed four fuse carriers,” said J Nagarajan, police assistant commissioner – Salem west range.One of the fuse carriers was not installed while the other three was working well. Short circuit happened in the unused fuse carrier was connected to the TV and air conditioner line,” he said.The assistant commissioner also brushed aside the claim of victims’ relatives that the incident was planned by a person over a land deal. “The claim is baseless. We inquired the landowners and they are innocent in this issue,” the officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/probe-on-in-salem-fire-accident/articleshow/77955146.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Current Covid-19 infected ratio high in state||Hyderabad: Telangana boasts of Covid-19 recoveries of over one lakh, but the state cannot afford to breathe easy, warn health experts. Among the top 10 states in the country with a high number of Covid-19 cases, Telangana has the highest number of currently infected people. For every 100 confirmed cases, Telangana has 24 persons currently infected along with Maharashtra, which is the worst pandemic-hit state in the country. Many states having more number of positive cases, however, have less number of currently infected people for 100 confirmed cases. Public health experts said this was an indication that the pandemic is still in acute stage though numbers are not doubling. Uttar Pradesh and Assam have 23 currently infected persons for every 100 confirmed cases, while neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which is also reeling under the Covid-19 onslaught, has the figure at 22. Dr Himanshu Negandhi, additional professor, Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Delhi, said the number of currently infected cases reflects the pattern of increase in the last one week. “Whether it is Telangana or any other state, an increase in Covid-19 testing will definitely showcase more number of people currently infected. In other words, it means there is more possibility of the virus spreading. For this very reason, all the guidelines prescribed for containing the spread, including social distancing, must be strictly maintained by people,” he told TOI. Stressing that the way forward is to look at currently active numbers and not the cumulative data, Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director of Centre for Health Care Management, Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), said: “The increased testing by the state augurs well. Even if the rising numbers appear to be causing concern, they will stabilise as it happened in the case of Delhi.” Meanwhile, in a press communication on Friday, Raj Bhavan said President Ram Nath Kovind had an interaction with governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Covid-19 situation in Telangana and asked about measures being taken to contain the pandemic. “The President wished the people of Telangana to stay safe and to be in good health and help prevensst the spread of Covid-19,” the press release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/current-covid-19-infected-ratio-high-in-state/articleshow/77955204.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||BEd graduates bang utensils to protest against unemployment||Dehradun: The BEd graduates who had cleared TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) years back in Uttarakhand banged utensils on Saturday to protest against employment. They said that despite clearing the exam, they were not appointed by the state government as teachers. There have been many protests off late by youngsters for not getting appointed as teachers in Uttarakhand government schools. Notably, this was part of the nationwide protest conducted by unemployed youth against the government for not giving them their due employment. The protest which was backed by a social media campaign at 5 pm on Saturday and lasted for five minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bed-graduates-bang-utensils-to-protest-against-unemployment/articleshow/77953393.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Private buses to resume operations in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The district administration and the regional transport authorities have issued a set of instruction while allowing the private bus operators to resume bus services with conditions like maintaining social distancing among passengers. In a statement, the regional transport office has listed a set of precautions to be taken by the private bus operators for interdistrict movement of their vehicles. Clarifying that the transporters no longer required permission, their owners, drivers and other staff had to take utmost care to ensure there is no spread of the contagion. The drivers have been asked to keep their vehicles clean, sanitize it after each trip, ensure that their offices remained clean, and the staff wore masks. They have been advised not to allow passengers without masks and keep sanitisers ready at the entrance of the bus. Passengers’ temperature has to be checked with a thermal gun and in case a passenger has Covid symptoms he or she should not be allowed to board the bus. The private bus operators also have to ensure the passengers are seated in alternate seats and for sleeper buses, only one passenger is allowed in a double berth. They have also been asked to avoid unnecessary rush of the passengers. The RTO office has warned of appropriate action if the norms are not followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-buses-to-resume-ops-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77953402.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP 112 to map crime in all police stations||LUCKNOW: On the lines of policing in the US and UK, emergency service of the state UP 112 has decided to begin crime mapping at police station level in each district. The mapping would be based on data of street crime and road fatalities available with UP 112 in the past four years for each police station in the state. ADG UP 112 Asim Arun said this would be an exercise to analyse crime pattern of incidents or trends in a particular area and then use the information to deploy police resources in a more effective manner to identify and apprehend suspects. Arun further added that crime analysis also plays a role in devising solutions to crime problems, and formulating effective crime prevention strategies. Regarding this, a five-day training was organised by two additional superintendent of police officers of UP 112, in which two police representatives from each district participated. “They were taught how to comprehend the data shared and what strategies can be adapted. For example, in police stations where chain snatching is frequently reported, police on bike can intensify patrolling during a specific time period. For robbery, a different deployment could be done,” the ADG said. He also said that geo-tagging using maps can also be used to show a police station area as a hotspot for a particular crime. Now, commisioners and SPs in districts will take a call on implementation, he said. The pattern of road accidents has also been analysed as per police station areas. A UP 112 official who was part of the team which collected and analysed the data said that they had information on events and incidents reported during 2017 state elections, 2019 general elections and host of festivals from January 2016 till date. “We have also prepared data of crime on the basis of seasonal shift,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-to-map-crime-in-all-police-stations/articleshow/77956022.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||AU to add seats for kin of martyrs||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra University (AU) has issued an order to all constituent colleges to create supernumerary seats for those disabled in battle, dependants of battle casualties of the Indian armed forces and paramilitary forces. According to the order, two seats in doctoral programmes and five seats in UG or PG programmes will be created. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/au-to-add-seats-for-kin-of-martyrs/articleshow/77955199.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Fatalities cross 1,800 in Punjab; 1,515 +ve, tally rises to 61,527||CHANDIGARH: With 69 fresh Covid-19 deaths, the number of fatalities due to the deadly virus in Punjab touched 1,808 on Saturday. The state also recorded 1,515 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 61,527. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 fatalities on Saturday, followed by 10 in Ferozepur, eight in Amritsar, and four in Patiala, three each in Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Pathankot and Ropar, two each in Barnala, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur, and one each in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Jalandhar registered the highest number of 254 cases on Saturday. It was followed by Ludhiana (208), Mohali (146), Patiala (138), Amritsar (132), Gurdaspur (113), Hoshiarpur (105), Bathinda (100), Mansa (49), Kapurthala (41), Faridkot (38), Pathankot (33), Tarn Taran (31), Muktsar and Fazilka (27 each), Barnala (16), Ropar and Sangrur (15 each), Fatehgarh Sahib (14), Nawanshahr (five), and Ferozepur and Moga (four each). Also, 1,306 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state after recovery, and the number of patients who have been cured of the virus rose tto 43,849. Of the total 15,870 active cases in Punjab on Saturday, 2,693 were in Jalandhar, followed by 2,084 in Mohali, 1,976 in Ludhiana, 1,296 in Patiala, and 854 in Bathinda. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of 486 Covid deaths till now, followed by 200 in Jalandhar, 191 in Amritsar, 187 in Patiala and 102 in Mohali. Of the total 1,515 patients who were tested positive on Saturday, 15 were health care workers, 14 were prisoners and 10 frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fatalities-cross-1-8k-in-punjab-1515-ve-tally-rises-to-61527/articleshow/77956937.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||Govt school teachers take ‘safety attendance’ so kids don’t drop out||Chennai: “We didn’t hear from her for five days, she didn’t attend any class nor did she or her parents respond to any calls from us. When we finally went to her place to inquire what had happened, we found that her family was planning to get her married and wanted her to drop out of school. She is only 14 years old,” said a teacher from a government school near Red Hills. After hearing this, the teachers with the district child welfare officer counselled the parents and the girl has been attending her classes since. “They said they couldn’t afford to educate her online and were already struggling to make ends meet. They felt that getting the girl married was the best way, as she was already unable to attend classes. We are happy the family didn’t rush into anything,” said the child welfare officer. To prevent such incidents and ensure that all students attended classes regularly, several teachers in government schools have now started taking ‘safety attendance’. Unlike the usual roll call, for a safety attendance, the teachers call or go directly to the students’ homes if they are absent for even a day. The teachers said lack of access to online facilities has forced many parents to find alternatives and many schools have witnessed at least a 20% drop in attendance. “The children are more vulnerable during this time, hence we have to be extra vigilant,” said Jeeva Rani, a senior teacher at the T Nagar Government Girls High School. She said since the classes began, teachers have been regularly following up on each student, even if they are absent for a day. “Every subject teacher has created a group, and it is their duty to ensure that all the children attend the classes. If they are absent and don’t answer our call, we do not hesitate and go to their houses directly,” she said. Mary Fathima, a teacher from the Government Primary and High school in Puzhal said if the parents complain of no online access, they even go to their houses with the study material to teach. “Since most children live nearby, it’s not difficult to teach them,” she said. “The parents say unlike before, they are finding it hard to provide for their children, especially girls, due to loss of jobs. But we keep counselling them about the importance of education. While a few cooperate, the others are still in two minds,” said Mary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-school-teachers-take-safety-attendance-so-kids-dont-drop-out/articleshow/77954129.cms||Aditi R
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Fatalities cross 1,800 in Punjab; 1,515 +ve, tally rises to 61,527||CHANDIGARH: With 69 fresh Covid-19 deaths, the number of fatalities due to the deadly virus in Punjab touched 1,808 on Saturday. The state also recorded 1,515 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 61,527. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 fatalities on Saturday, followed by 10 in Ferozepur, eight in Amritsar, and four in Patiala, three each in Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Pathankot and Ropar, two each in Barnala, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur, and one each in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Jalandhar registered the highest number of 254 cases on Saturday. It was followed by Ludhiana (208), Mohali (146), Patiala (138), Amritsar (132), Gurdaspur (113), Hoshiarpur (105), Bathinda (100), Mansa (49), Kapurthala (41), Faridkot (38), Pathankot (33), Tarn Taran (31), Muktsar and Fazilka (27 each), Barnala (16), Ropar and Sangrur (15 each), Fatehgarh Sahib (14), Nawanshahr (five), and Ferozepur and Moga (four each). Also, 1,306 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state after recovery, and the number of patients who have been cured of the virus rose tto 43,849. Of the total 15,870 active cases in Punjab on Saturday, 2,693 were in Jalandhar, followed by 2,084 in Mohali, 1,976 in Ludhiana, 1,296 in Patiala, and 854 in Bathinda. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of 486 Covid deaths till now, followed by 200 in Jalandhar, 191 in Amritsar, 187 in Patiala and 102 in Mohali. Of the total 1,515 patients who were tested positive on Saturday, 15 were health care workers, 14 were prisoners and 10 frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fatalities-cross-1-8k-in-punjab-1515-ve-tally-rises-to-61527/articleshow/77955205.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Fatalities cross 1,800 in Punjab; 1,515 +ve, tally rises to 61,527||CHANDIGARH: With 69 fresh Covid-19 deaths, the number of fatalities due to the deadly virus in Punjab touched 1,808 on Saturday. The state also recorded 1,515 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 61,527. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 fatalities on Saturday, followed by 10 in Ferozepur, eight in Amritsar, and four in Patiala, three each in Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Pathankot and Ropar, two each in Barnala, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur, and one each in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Jalandhar registered the highest number of 254 cases on Saturday. It was followed by Ludhiana (208), Mohali (146), Patiala (138), Amritsar (132), Gurdaspur (113), Hoshiarpur (105), Bathinda (100), Mansa (49), Kapurthala (41), Faridkot (38), Pathankot (33), Tarn Taran (31), Muktsar and Fazilka (27 each), Barnala (16), Ropar and Sangrur (15 each), Fatehgarh Sahib (14), Nawanshahr (five), and Ferozepur and Moga (four each). Also, 1,306 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state after recovery, and the number of patients who have been cured of the virus rose tto 43,849. Of the total 15,870 active cases in Punjab on Saturday, 2,693 were in Jalandhar, followed by 2,084 in Mohali, 1,976 in Ludhiana, 1,296 in Patiala, and 854 in Bathinda. Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of 486 Covid deaths till now, followed by 200 in Jalandhar, 191 in Amritsar, 187 in Patiala and 102 in Mohali. Of the total 1,515 patients who were tested positive on Saturday, 15 were health care workers, 14 were prisoners and 10 frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/fatalities-cross-1-8k-in-punjab-1515-ve-tally-rises-to-61527/articleshow/77956938.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Now, Kolkata has only one containment zone||KOLKATA: In an indication that the rampant spread of the novel coronavirus could, at least for the time being, be arrested to some extent, the Kolkata Municipal corporation has earmarked only one area in the city as a containment zone. In its latest update and the first one this month, the civic officials dropped all the earlier seven “hot spots” across Beliaghata, Barisha, Amherst Street and Chetla from the list and tagged only Umesh Dutta Lane in central Kolkata’s Girish Park, a new entrant. Umesh Dutta Lane initially reported six Covid cases, though the number of active cases has decreased. Cops from Burtolla and Girish Park police stations pointed out they had specific reasons for keeping the zone under check despite the low number. “People from the adjoining slum on Ramesh Dutta Lane and the trading hub of Lohapatti would often move into the containment zone. But more dangerously, the family members of those in home isolation tried to sneak into either Beadon Street or Lohapatti. The area, which is close to Minerva, is also a busy segment. It won’t be possible to check the virus spread without setting up a containment zone,” said a police officer. KMC executive health officials also insisted on a containment zone tag after spot visits. Police said KMC officials told them they were not ready to take any chance. For the first time, no flat or housing complex is on the list, the lone zone being a mixture of houses and shops.  For a city that had started with 18 containment zones about two-and-a-half months ago and reached 31 in July, Bhowanipore, Ballygunge and Alipore in the south and Beliaghata-Kankurgachi in north were a tough challenge. “Not only have we decreased the numbers, we have stopped its spread, too,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-kol-has-only-one-containment-zone/articleshow/77955230.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Services terminated ‘illegally’, private school teachers protest in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A group of five teachers protested outside a private school campus on the occasion of Teachers’ Day. They claimed that their services were terminated abruptly in the times of the coronavirus pandemic in violation of rules. Among the protesters were a western music teacher, a tabla teacher and a nurse. Anthony Basildes D Costa, who had been teaching at The Indian School for the past 12 years, got his termination letter in June. “I am a permanent teacher but they told me that there are no students willing to take the class anymore and there was no space. The school management did not even listen to us. How can we be removed from our services during the pandemic?” asked D Costa. Grace Harrison, who was a nurse at the school, said, “I have worked here for 11 years. They have given me a notice stating that I have turned 60, which is not the case. I demand that justice is done.” The teachers say that their termination letter is against Section 8(2) of the Delhi School Education Act, 1973. During the protest on Saturday, they used tabla, flute and guitar to play the “Hum Honge Kamyaab” tune. The protest was organised by Kranti Against Corruption, an NGO, and supported by parents. Sharing their story, Rishi Raj Goel tweeted, “Symbolic protest by the teachers of The Indian School on the occasion of Teachers’ Day. All the teachers sitting here are permanent teachers and were illegally sacked by the school management during the pandemic.” The AAP MLA of Malviya Nagar, Somnath Bharti, also extended his support and sought deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia’s help. “Government has been insisting that employers should not let go of their employees during the pandemic. On one hand, the teachers are being terminated for baseless reasons and on the other, immense pressure is being mounted on parents to submit fees within the deadline,” claimed Hitesh Kaushik, president of Kranti Against Corruption. The school principal, Tania Joshi, did not respond to calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/services-terminated-illegally-pvt-school-teachers-protest/articleshow/77956016.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||HP toll crosses 50 as 4 more die, tally hits 7,018||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported four Covid-19 deaths and 188 new cases on Saturday, while 21 patients recovered. A Congress MLA and an additional chief secretary were among the new patients. The state’s tally for the virus reached 7,018 cases, of which 1,978 were active, 4,941 had recovered, 52 had died and 45 had migrated out of the state. Kangra, Mandi, Solan and Una districts reported a death each. In the state, 2,26,268 persons had been tested till Saturday, of which 2,17,745 persons had tested negative and results of 1,505 samples were awaited. The new patients include nine from Chamba district, 22 from Hamirpur, 28 from Kangra, one each from Kinnaur and Kullu, 12 from Mandi, five from Shimla, 11 from Sirmaur, 71 from Solan, and 28 from Una. Patients who have recovered include five from Chamba, one from Hamirpur, 10 from Kangra, and five from Una. Bilaspur has reported 381 cases, of which 130 are active. Chamba has got 484 cases, of which 115 are active and four have died. Hamirpur has recorded 640 cases, of which 166 are active and five have died. In Kangra, of the total 1,031 cases, 335 are active and 10 patients have died. Kinnaur has reported 103 cases, of which 33 are active and 70 have recovered. In Kullu, of the total 291 cases, 47 are active. Lahaul-Spiti has recorded eight cases, of which one is active. In Mandi, of the total 447 cases, 57 are active and eight have died. Shimla has got 389 cases, of which 114 are active and four patients have died. In Sirmaur, of the total 1,024 cases, 359 are active and three patients have died. Solan has recorded 1,639 cases, of which 409 cases are active and 14 patients have died. Una recorded 581 cases, of which 212 are active and four have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-toll-crosses-50-as-4-more-die-tally-hits-7018/articleshow/77955237.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||MLA praises govt hospital, then shifts out||Patiala: MLA Shutrana Nirmal Singh, who got himself admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala after testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, left the hospital after posting a “promotional video” on social media singing paeans for the hospital and its staff. Nirmal Singh was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. From there, he sent out a video message to media in which he was seen making an appeal to the people to use government medical facilities and spoke highly of the hospital. In the video, the MLA praised Capt Amarinder Singh for having a new building of the hospital constructed and lauded the efforts being put in by hospital staff and doctors. Surabhi Malik, an IAS officer who is in charge of Covid care at the hospital, said, “The patient was admitted last night and stabilised at RH. He appreciated efforts of RH and left today for personal reasons.” On Friday, MLA’s video was soon shared by public relations officers across Punjab. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur also posted the same on her social media profiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mla-praises-govt-hospital-then-shifts-out/articleshow/77955209.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Highest daily figure of 2,300 cases, 22 fatalities in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Saturday witnessed 2,289 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest for a day in the state, and maximum 22 deaths, taking the nCov tally to 74,272 cases with 781 deaths. The worst-ever spike, which pushed the infection rate to 5.89%, also pulled down the recovery rate to 78.87%, even as the highest-ever 1,409 patients were discharged during the day, pushing the count of cured patients to 58,580. Now, there are total 14,911 active cases in the state, which include 241 serious patients. The health officials claimed that rapid antigen testing across the state has pushed the Covid figures. The testing rate until Saturday was 50,040 tests per million per day, with total 12.68 lakh persons tested so far. The NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Karnal dominated the figures, as these four districts reported over 200 patients. Faridabad topped the chart with 284 new cases, where the total has gone up to 13,622 with 176 deaths and 1,034 cases are active. Gurugram recorded 265 new cases and two deaths, taking the total to 13,029 with 137 deaths. There are 1,519 active cases in the district. Karnal reported its highest spike in a day with 238 new cases, while two patients died. This took the district’s case tally to 3,713 with 41 deaths. Panipat reported 226 new patients and here the count has gone up to 4,430 with 51 deaths. While Ambala reported 160 patients and two deaths, Panchkula saw 142 new cases and three deaths. Rohtak reported 132 new cases and one death, followed by 125 cases in Sonipat. Hisar saw 112 cases and two deaths, and Kurukshetra 100 patients and three deaths. Yamunanangar saw 73 cases and two deaths, and Kaithal 68 cases and one death. While 59 cases each were reported in Mahendragarh and Fatehabad districts, the latter also reported one death. Sirsa reported 49 new cases and one death, Rewari 43 cases, Bhiwani 42 cases and one death. Jind recorded 42 cases, Jhajjar 35, Palwal 21 cases and one death and Nuh 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/highest-daily-figure-of-2-3k-cases-22-fatalities-in-hry/articleshow/77956961.cms||Manvir Saini
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Parents seek 50% waiver in tuition fee of Nashik school||NASHIK: Parents of students studying in a private school carried out a protest on Saturday demanding 50% waiver in tuition fees. The agitation comes after the school did not allow the students, whose fees where pending, to attend online session and also retained the results of their recently conducted tests. The members of the parents teachers association (PTA) gathered outside the private school at DGP Nagar in Nashik city demanding that the students be admitted to online classrooms as they were ready to pay 50% tuition fees. The parents argued that they are facing financial crisis and the school must consider the same.“Most of the parents are either working part time somewhere or have lost their jobs,” said one of the parents preferring anonymity. “The school was conducting online classes and our children were part of it. They also conducted tests and children appeared for them, but all of a sudden after the five-month period, the school management has decided not to allow our children into the online classrooms,” the parents said. “We gathered outside the school placing our demand of waiving 50% tuition fees and 100% of the other fees so that we can continue our children’s education,” the parents added. The school management, however, said that the decision about allowing students in online classrooms was done centrally and, hence, the local school authorities did not have any say in the matter in case the students have not paid the fees. “The private schools have already filed a petition for collection of fees from parents. The decision of the judiciary will prevail,” a member of the school authority said on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parents-seek-50-waiver-in-tuition-fee-of-nashik-school/articleshow/77953418.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||T announces state awards for lecturers||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday issued a government order (GO 144) announcing state awards to junior college lecturers and principals for 2020. The government listed 16 members, including four principals, six junior lecturers, one vocational junior lecturer and four EDP section of Board of Intermediate Education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-announces-state-awards-for-lecturers/articleshow/77955233.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Highest daily figure of 2,300 cases, 22 fatalities in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Saturday witnessed 2,289 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest for a day in the state, and maximum 22 deaths, taking the nCov tally to 74,272 cases with 781 deaths. The worst-ever spike, which pushed the infection rate to 5.89%, also pulled down the recovery rate to 78.87%, even as the highest-ever 1,409 patients were discharged during the day, pushing the count of cured patients to 58,580. Now, there are total 14,911 active cases in the state, which include 241 serious patients. The health officials claimed that rapid antigen testing across the state has pushed the Covid figures. The testing rate until Saturday was 50,040 tests per million per day, with total 12.68 lakh persons tested so far. The NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Karnal dominated the figures, as these four districts reported over 200 patients. Faridabad topped the chart with 284 new cases, where the total has gone up to 13,622 with 176 deaths and 1,034 cases are active. Gurugram recorded 265 new cases and two deaths, taking the total to 13,029 with 137 deaths. There are 1,519 active cases in the district. Karnal reported its highest spike in a day with 238 new cases, while two patients died. This took the district’s case tally to 3,713 with 41 deaths. Panipat reported 226 new patients and here the count has gone up to 4,430 with 51 deaths. While Ambala reported 160 patients and two deaths, Panchkula saw 142 new cases and three deaths. Rohtak reported 132 new cases and one death, followed by 125 cases in Sonipat. Hisar saw 112 cases and two deaths, and Kurukshetra 100 patients and three deaths. Yamunanangar saw 73 cases and two deaths, and Kaithal 68 cases and one death. While 59 cases each were reported in Mahendragarh and Fatehabad districts, the latter also reported one death. Sirsa reported 49 new cases and one death, Rewari 43 cases, Bhiwani 42 cases and one death. Jind recorded 42 cases, Jhajjar 35, Palwal 21 cases and one death and Nuh 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/highest-daily-figure-of-2-3k-cases-22-fatalities-in-hry/articleshow/77956962.cms||Manvir Saini
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Highest daily figure of 2,300 cases, 22 fatalities in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Saturday witnessed 2,289 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest for a day in the state, and maximum 22 deaths, taking the nCov tally to 74,272 cases with 781 deaths. The worst-ever spike, which pushed the infection rate to 5.89%, also pulled down the recovery rate to 78.87%, even as the highest-ever 1,409 patients were discharged during the day, pushing the count of cured patients to 58,580. Now, there are total 14,911 active cases in the state, which include 241 serious patients. The health officials claimed that rapid antigen testing across the state has pushed the Covid figures. The testing rate until Saturday was 50,040 tests per million per day, with total 12.68 lakh persons tested so far. The NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Karnal dominated the figures, as these four districts reported over 200 patients. Faridabad topped the chart with 284 new cases, where the total has gone up to 13,622 with 176 deaths and 1,034 cases are active. Gurugram recorded 265 new cases and two deaths, taking the total to 13,029 with 137 deaths. There are 1,519 active cases in the district. Karnal reported its highest spike in a day with 238 new cases, while two patients died. This took the district’s case tally to 3,713 with 41 deaths. Panipat reported 226 new patients and here the count has gone up to 4,430 with 51 deaths. While Ambala reported 160 patients and two deaths, Panchkula saw 142 new cases and three deaths. Rohtak reported 132 new cases and one death, followed by 125 cases in Sonipat. Hisar saw 112 cases and two deaths, and Kurukshetra 100 patients and three deaths. Yamunanangar saw 73 cases and two deaths, and Kaithal 68 cases and one death. While 59 cases each were reported in Mahendragarh and Fatehabad districts, the latter also reported one death. Sirsa reported 49 new cases and one death, Rewari 43 cases, Bhiwani 42 cases and one death. Jind recorded 42 cases, Jhajjar 35, Palwal 21 cases and one death and Nuh 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-daily-figure-of-2-3k-cases-22-fatalities-in-hry/articleshow/77955229.cms||Manvir Saini
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||CS inspects Kedarnath, directs authorities to remove 3 GMVN cottages within 10 days for helipad expansion||Dehradun: A day after the state cabinet gave nod for the expansion of the Kedarnath helipad, chief secretary Om Prakash and his team inspected the site on Saturday and directed the officials concerned to ensure that the three GMVN cottages obstructing the work were removed within a period of 10 days. For the Chinook helicopter to land, the present helipad, which is 50 metre by 40 metre, needs to be extended to 100 metres by 50 metres. The Chinook aircraft would help in ferrying heavy machinery for Kedarnath development works. Prakash also instructed the agencies involved in the construction to expedite the work without compromising the quality. Similarly, the CS directed the authorities to complete the works on the Shankaracharya’s tomb and passage by December 31. He also directed the DDMA executive engineer Praveen Karnwal to complete the construction of the bridge in the area by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-inspects-kedarnath-directs-authorities-to-remove-3-gmvn-cottages-within-10-days-for-helipad-expansion/articleshow/77953419.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lakshmi-Ganesh idols of UP to stop Dragon’s entry||LUCKNOW: This Diwali, our desi Lakshmi-Ganesh will take on their Chinese counterparts with a ‘devatulya’ (divine) expression and a pleasant smile. Not to forget their pitch perfect anatomy which artisans would ensure without compromising on the ‘mukhmandal ki aabha’ (facial glow) by even an ounce. The detailing of the idols would be such that buyers may not have to hop from one shop to another to find Lakshmi with symmetrical facial features and Ganesh having trunk bent to the right direction. Additional chief secretary of khadi and village development board, Navneet Sehgal said that the Maati Kala Kendra has started distributing mechanized moulds to potters to produce the idols in a bid to counter Chinese aggression in Indian markets. Potters have already started work in chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home district, Gorakhpur, which has been traditionally famous world over for its terracotta models and statues. Apart from clay idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Lakshmi, which are worshipped during Diwali all over the country, potters would also manufacture lakhs of diyas (earthen lamps). The Yogi government has brought on board empanelled artists of UP Institute of Design, Maati Kala Board and ministry of textile handicraft to make the moulds, using which the artisans will produce made-to-order idols for Diwali puja. It would strengthen the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan which aims at promoting local products. “I am confident that the statues made by potters in Gorakhpur would be appreciated by the markets and will be purchased in large numbers for being better than Chinese products in quality and also because people are against Chinese products in view of the tension on the border”, Sehgal said, adding that the Maati Kala Board is distributing machines in five districts including Gorakhpur and Varanasi. Sehgal, who is the chief executive officer of the Board, said that initially 100 electric moulds have been distributed free of cost to potters, but soon this campaign would be expanded in most of the districts. Krishna Kant Srivastava, an empanelled artist and based on whose design the Maati Kala Board got the moulds readied in Kolkata, said, “When it comes to the idols of God, it has to go by what is already mentioned in our religious texts, their ‘rang, roop, astra, shastra’ is defined.” “Ganesh and Lakshmi idols will be made of black clay. Idols made of clay when worshipped also generate positive vibes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lakshmi-ganesh-idols-of-up-to-stop-dragons-entry/articleshow/77956034.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Whodunit? Forest team on hunt for man-eater stumped on encountering 10 leopards in 5 sqkm area||Dehradun: On Saturday, a team of forest officials trying to capture the leopard that killed a mentally-challenged man a week ago in Devprayag, stumbled upon a leap of 10 leopards – eight adults and two cubs. Of these, the eight adults are believed to be ‘active leopards’, a term used for big cats that venture out of their territories in search for food or water. This has led the forest team to be confused on which one of the eight could be the man-eater. Incidentally, leopards, otherwise fiercely territorial animals, are being increasingly forced to share resources and even appear to be hunting in packs due to their dwindling habitat. The trend, discovered only recently, makes it difficult to identify the man-eater in an area. It was highlighted by TOI in its report titled ‘Lone ranger to hunting in packs: Are leopards changing their spots?’ in its August 28 edition. Joy Hukkil, the sharpshooter spearheading the hunt in Devprayag, told TOI that “this peculiar predicament indicates that leopards are growing in numbers and for them, livestock and human beings are becoming easy kills.” He added that “we are using all possible clues that we can get by examining the pug marks left by the killer feline, CCTV footage from a nearby petrol pump as well as hospital and shops in the area for any evidence of the animal.” Meanwhile, barely 25 km away in Maletha, another forest team faces the same challenge — tracking down an active man-eater among five-odd big cats. TOI had reported earlier that forest officials including shooter Lakphat Singh Rawat — who has a record of putting down over 50 man-eaters — were perplexed that a large number of leopards were operating within a kilometre from where a woman had been killed in Maletha village on August 8. Forest officials though have their own explanation of this trend. Dharam Singh Meena, DFO, Narendera Nagar forest division, under whose jurisdiction the Maletha and Devprayag areas fall, told TOI that in Maletha, the reason the forest team saw so many active leopards in the same home range (the area where big cats roam) could be because “all of them use the same route to go to the nearby Ganga river for water.” “There’s also an abundance of stray cows roaming in the area. Usually, it is the weakest among a leap of leopards that attacks cattle or humans, as they are the easiest to hunt down,” Meena added. To recall, over a dozen leopards have died this year in Uttarakhand with three of them shot dead after being tagged ‘man-eaters’. “The population of leopards is on the rise, as is the intolerance against them. Instead of asking the forest department to eliminate a leopard after every fatal encounter with the animal, it is important that humans learn to co-exist with the animals and take precautions. The landscape belongs to them too,” said a forest service officer, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/whodunit-forest-team-on-hunt-for-man-eater-stumped-on-encountering-10-leopards-in-5-sqkm-area/articleshow/77953441.cms||Shivani Azad
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar area reports two ‘hotspots’||Kolkata: The virus spread in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area also seems to have been controlled to some extent as the civic body in its revised list earmarked only two neighbourhoods as containment zones. The two areas that will remain under watch are Desbandhu Nagar BF-6 and BF-7 lane and Duttabad, bordering Salt Lake, both of which were on the list from earlier. Salt Lake has no containment zone. The number of active Covid cases has been coming down in the Bidhannagar civic body area, with more people recovering from the disease than the number of new cases being reported. Duttabad and a few pockets of Kestopur and Baguiati, however, remain a worry for the civic body, which is continuing with its preventive steps, like holding sanitization drives. The neighbouring South Dum Dum municipality area, too, now has only two containment zones, one at Green Park Gully between Agradoot Club and Upasana Apartment and the other at Bangur Avenue ‘C’ Block, both under Bidhannagar sub-division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-area-reports-two-hotspots/articleshow/77955243.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Do-gooder educator talks of learning from his students||By: Tarun RawatNEW DELHI: You could not see the smile on Satyendra Pal Shakya’s face because of the mask he was wearing. But you knew he was happy as he handed a packet to a grinning boy. As a teacher, Shakya would expect to receive gifts on Teacher’s Day. Instead, here he was on Saturday, giving Class III student Gautam a smartphone to ensure the bright kid would not miss out on online classes. But this focus on students has been Shakya’s way since he began tutoring children of daily-wage earners under a Delhi Metro girder some years ago. “I am not just their teacher. I have learned things from them as well,” said Shakya about his generous Teachers’ Day gesture at the classroom in Yamuna Khadar near Mayur Vihar I, where Shakya has now set up his Panchsheel Shikshan Sansthan. In most schools across Delhi, students had arranged virtual programmes to honour their teachers, but Shakya’s students were outside their class, in front of a blackboard brightly announcing the occasion. Some primary schoolchildren began with a sung performance, their hand gestures in sync with the music seeming to signal defiance at the novel coronavirus. Some locals joined in and gave the students pep talks. It then turned into a debate and discussion on the attributes of a guru, during which there were testimonies from the students on their teacher, Shakya’s qualities. There was no escaping the digital aspect of Teachers’ Day. Some students from Kerala joined the proceedings via video conferencing and interacted with Shakya’s economically disadvantaged students, encouraging them to talk about how important their teacher was in their lives. Some of the pupils spoke in good English language, proof of the hard work Shakya has put in over the years. The teacher himself turned the limelight back on his students. “Most of them work in the mornings, in the farms, delivering milk, doing household chores, etc.,” Shakya said. “But they still find to attend classes and perform well in their studies. They have taught me it is possible to manage hardship in life and achieve success.” That was spoken like a true teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-teachers-day-do-gooder-educator-talks-of-learning-from-his-students/articleshow/77956039.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Man in PPE tries to break into ATM, fails||BHOPAL: In a shocking theft attempt in the early hours of Friday, three unidentified masked accused tried to break into an ATM booth in Chunabhatti area. The three accused, one of them reportedly wearing a PPE kit, broke the two locks of the closed ATM booth and gained entry inside. The accused allegedly sprayed black paint on the CCTV cameras and tried to cut the ATM cabinet with a gas cutter. Bank officials told police the ATM cash box contained Rs23 lakh when the incident took place. They also said that cash box was refilled just two days before the theft attempt. Fortunately, on Friday, before the robbers could reach the ATM cash box, the Hyderabad office of the bank received a message of break-in and started an alarm after which the accused fled the spot. Police teams from Chunabhatti and Kamla Nagar police station also reached the spot within five minutes and found the ATM cabinet half cut by the accused. Chunabhatti police acting on a complaint filed by the bank manager registered a case against the unidentified accused on charges of attempt to rob the ATM and started investigations. Police said that by looking at the modus operandi of the accused it seems that they were professionals. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota confirmed that one of the accused was wearing a PPE kit or some kind of a raincoat and was caught on CCTV camera. Chunabhatti police said that complainant Yogesh Pandey, who is posted as general manager at the bank, told police that two ATMs are located side by side outside the boundary wall of Khushilal Ayurvedic College. The ATMs were closed by the ATM maintenance staff around 9.30pm on Thursday. Police said that the three unidentified masked accused barged into the ATM booth after breaking the locks of the shutter and then sprayed black paint on the CCTV cameras inside the booth. The accused started cutting the ATM cabinet with a gas cutter. As they tried to break the ATM, surveillance message was sent to Hyderabad head office around 2.37am on Friday. The head office immediately informed police control room and security officials about the break-in. SHO Chunabhatti SI Shivraj Singh said that he was on night patrol duty near Kolar trisection in Chunabhatti on Friday when he received a message from the control room that unidentified accused were trying to rob the ATM booth. Acting on information, he immediately reached the spot within five minutes along with patrolling teams of Kamla Nagar police but the accused had fled the spot by then. He said that the bank’s head office set off the alarm as soon as they got the surveillance message after which the accused fled. SI Singh said that judging by the modus operandi of the accused it can be said that they were professionals. Police have registered a case in the matter and search was on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-in-ppe-tries-to-break-into-atm-fails/articleshow/77955242.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||DMK opposes governors’ meet on NEP, flays Centre||Chennai: DMK leader M K Stalin on Saturday demanded that the Centre cancel the governors’ conference scheduled for September 7 as it undermines parliamentary democracy. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to facilitate a healthy and democratic debate on the new education policy (NEP) in the Parliament. The Centre’s decision to hear the governors’ views on NEP ahead of the parliamentary session was improper, he said. He charged that before publishing the draft of NEP, the Centre did not discuss the policy at the central advisory board on education, attended by the education ministers from all the states. On the contrary, it now seeks to hear its own representatives’ views on the issue, he said adding that it is undermining democratically elected governments in the states. He slammed the Edappadi K Palaniswami government for not showing willingness to fight for the rights of the state. Stalin said the expert panel constituted by the Tamil Nadu government was an “eye-wash”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-opposes-governors-meet-on-nep-flays-centre/articleshow/77954134.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Rush of people at tourism spots across Nashik district||NASHIK: The first weekend after the government scrapped the e-pass system witnessed many tourists going to picnic spots in and around the city and district. However, the police in these areas ensured strict bandobast was in place. Police inspector Ashok Ratnaparkhi of the Igatpuri police station, under which there are tourist spots like the Bhawali dam, said “The system of e-pass may be revoked but we are not letting people gather at these places as they have not been opened yet.” “Considering the increase in the flow of people in the coming days, we are planning to increase the bandobast at these places,” added Ratnaparkhi. Ram Karpe, the assistant police inspector of Trimbakeshwar police station, said a lot of people were going towards Paine, Amboli, Dugarwadi waterfall, Pegalwadi and other scenic areas around Trimbakeshwar, however, the police ensured they were not going for picnics. Trimbakeshwar police said however some people managed to sneak into these areas. Many Nashik city residents were going towards Gangapur dam area and the Someshwar waterfall area. Anchal Mudgal, the senior police inspector of Gangapur police station, said, “Gathering of people at such spots is not allowed. Though we have not put up full-time bandobast, our patrolling teams make visits in the Someshwar waterfall area to clear out the people.” The highway police at Kasara said people regularly come to the ghat section along the highway to see the scenic beauty during the monsoon. Though the flow of people has increased after the scrapping of the e-pass system, highway police were not allowing people in the ghat sections nor are they letting people to move to the tourist spots from the highway without knowing their reason for the visit there. “The rush of people at these tourist spots will only increase. There are many places all across the district and the police cannot be present everywhere. The trekkers’ group of Nashik is also active on social media and we have been regularly posting photos of the tourists spots and trekking spots, where people who do not understand the gravity of the situation are going,” said Prashant Pardeshi, a trek leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rush-of-people-at-tourism-spots-across-nashik-district/articleshow/77953438.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 6, 2020||India||No ban or curbs on filling up govt posts, says finance ministry||NEW DELHI: The Union ministry of finance clarified on Saturday that there is no restriction or ban on filling up of posts in the government. Normal recruitment through various agencies such as staff selection commission, railways recruitment board will continue as usual without any curbs. The clarification puts at rest any apprehension over a blanket ban on government jobs. “The Dept. of Expenditure circular dated 04 Sept, 2020, deals with internal procedure for creation of posts and does not in anyway affect or curtail recruitment,” the finance ministry said on microblogging site Twitter. CLARIFICATION:There is no restriction or ban on filling up of posts in Govt of India . Normal recruitments through… https://t.co/3eA4YvpYJo— Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) 1599304601000The clarification was in response to a department of expenditure order to all ministries and departments calling for a ban on creation of new posts in ministries and departments, attached offices, subordinate offices, statutory bodies and autonomous bodies except with approval of the department. The ban, according to the order, will cover all cre ation of posts under powers which have been relegated to any organisation regardless of the source of such authority or power. If any posts have been created after July 1, 2020 under delegated power or authority without approval from the department of expenditure and have not yet been filled, then such posts shall not be filled, the department of expenditure had said while unveiling fresh austerity measures on Friday. The order had triggered apprehension that there would be a ban on recruitment for government jobs at a time when there is a need to create employment. Watch No ban or curbs on filling up govt posts: Finance ministry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-ban-or-curbs-on-filling-up-govt-posts-says-finance-ministry/articleshow/77956459.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid proves boon for Hyderabad’s health startups||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 outbreak that adversely hit most businesses, has proved to be a boon for Hyderabad’s health tech startups — many of them faring better than before now. Among those that saw a significant jump, in demand and revenues, in Huwel Lifesciences that has been associated with developing molecular diagnostics since 2017. “The pandemic has given great impetus to the business. We are basically into developing PCR (polymerase chain reaction) based diagnosis and are currently supply the RT-PCR kits to Telangana as well as many other states. At present, we deliver roughly 20 lakh kits to seven states across India,” said Shesheer Kumar, director of the firm. He shared how funding from venture capitalists, philanthropic foundations and other grants for startups that can offer ready solutions for the pandemic, have gone up significantly. Designocare Solutions Private Limited, a startup that came up in March, is a beneficiary of this shift in trend. While its founders initially had a tough time raising funds or convincing distributors about the medical products that it was developing, it’s now a much smoother ride. “Before Covid-19, companies were not keen on putting their resources in health techs unless one had an app or a software. Since we were more into hardware, we kept being asked about what the need for creating it was. The standard response was: why do we need to buy an expensive product from you when we can get it from China? That attitude has changed now,” said Kanika Bansal, founder director of the company that has come up with a wearable medicine dispenser, which dispenses medicines in a timely manner, and also a ventilator. Apart from new entrants, many existing ventures too have picked up pace after they tweaked their business — like moving from building physiotherapy hardware to online consultations or transition from prototyping to developing medical products — to keep themselves relevant. Case in point: Startoon Labs which was dabbling in physiotherapy pre-Covid. “The firm was looking at scaling up just before the pandemic. When they realised that their service — since physiotherapy is a contact-based solution — would take a hit, they repositioned themselves. Now, they offer clould-based medical consultations, which is in demand,” said Deepti Ravula, chief operating officer, We-Hub while citing the example another startup, Adiro, incubated at the facility. Involved in analysing genetic material earlier, it has now moved base to trading medical equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-proves-boon-for-hyds-health-startups/articleshow/77955255.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Bineesh’s money exchange dealings dubious: Firos||Kozhikode: Muslim Youth League state general secretary P K Firos has raised more allegations against CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri, saying that the latter has significant role in the Bengaluru drug trafficking case and the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Firos told a news conference in Kozhikode on Saturday that fresh evidence has come out to prove the strong link between the members of the drug racket and Bineesh. In 2015, Bineesh started a money exchange company named B Capitals Forex Trading Pvt Ltd in Bengaluru. The operations of the company were mysterious as it had not submitted annual returns. “It has been proved that a major area of operations of the drug racket was Goa. It is suspected that Bineesh started the company to exchange currency with foreign drug customers,” Firos said. It is again mysterious as to how Bineesh started a forex company when the BJP government was in power. There are reasons to suspect that there is an unholy nexus between the CPM and the BJP leaders, he said. “Abdul Latheef, who is one among the partners of UAFX, the firm through which Swapna Suresh received commission for gold smuggling from UAE Consulate, is the benami of Bineesh. The car being used by Bineesh is owned by Latheef. All these prove that he was the middleman in the gold smuggling,” Firos added. Firos said what Bineesh said after the expose were lies. He had claimed that he had spoken to Anup Muhammad, who was arrested in the Bengaluru case, occasionally. “It was proved to be a lie after the call lists became public. Things will become clear if Bineesh’s WhatsApp calls are examined,” he said. The MYL leader said it is learnt that Anup had destroyed his other mobile phone. All these have strengthened the doubt about Bineesh’s role in the gold smuggling case. He said the chief minister’s assertion that there will not be any probe from the part of the state government is an open challenge to the people of the country. There are reasons to suspect that the CPM will get the support from the BJP in the probe by the Karnataka government. Firos said Bineesh’s number was found in the call list of an accused in the drug trafficking case earlier. After that the investigation in the case did not proceed further. “There is a strong doubt that the present case will also end with Anup,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/bineeshs-money-exchange-dealings-dubious-firos/articleshow/77954152.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||1.5 times rise in Presi applications||Kolkata: The number of applications to undergraduate courses at Presidency University shot up to 52,698 this year, almost 55% more than last year’s figure of 34,000. After the entrance tests, earlier slated for April, was put on hold for the pandemic, the university restarted the process from scratch from August 18 even though the first window for submitting UG application forms was shut in February. “After the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board cancelled their earlier notification, we issued a fresh circular, notifying the fresh beginning of the application process. Aspirants could apply in not more than two subjects. The total number of applications received was 52,698, almost double the 2019 figure,” said registrar Debajyoti Konar. Applications were received till Friday. “The twin reasons for the massive rise in applications were the waiving of the application fees and the deluge of marks that students got in Plus-II under the formula framed to accommodate suspended papers,” said a teacher. The university published its first merit lists for 16 UG departments on Saturday. Nodal officer of admission Arobindaya Nayek said if during verification, any discrepancy was found in the Academic Score (determining the ranks) or the identity of an applicant, the candidature should be cancelled. “The fees submitted for provisional admission may be forfeited by the university,” Nayek said. The payment portal will be open from 5pm on September 6 to September 12 and the admissions portal from September 6 to 13. The tentative date for publication of the second merit lists is September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-5-times-rise-in-presi-applications/articleshow/77955251.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Casteist slur on JU prof sparks outrage||Kolkata: Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (JUTA) on Saturday condemned the “vicious trolling and hate attacks” on social media against a JU academic for questioning the Centre’s decision to hold terminal semester exams. Maroona Murmu, a Presidency University and JNU alumna, was attacked by a college student over her caste and even questioned her qualifications. JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Ray said, “Her abusers have challenged, among other things, her qualification to teach at one of India’s premier universities. Such an attack, questioning the qualifications and integrity of Professor Murmu, is an attack on every teacher, not just in Jadavpur University, but anywhere in the country, and it is particularly shocking that such abuse was hurled against a teacher when the entire country is celebrating Teachers’ Day.” Iterating JUTA’s stand to support Murmu, JU history department said, “The undersigned teachers of the Department of History, Jadavpur University strongly and unambiguously condemn the vilification and the rancorous trolling on social media platforms of our colleague Dr. Maroona Murmu.” Murmu was not available for comment. She took to social media to express her gratitude to JUTA for standing up for her. On Friday, Bethune College Students’ Committee condemned the incident. In a statement, Subarna Mustari, its outgoing secretary, said, “It is extremely disheartening and condemnable that a student of our college is still unaware of caste dynamics in India... ” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/casteist-slur-on-ju-prof-sparks-outrage/articleshow/77955296.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||FICN conviction||A special NIA court in Kolkata on Saturday convicted Malda residents Habibur Rahman (24) and Fakirul Seikh (22) of circulating fake notes smuggled in from Bangladesh. They were sentenced to four years in jail, an official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ficn-conviction/articleshow/77955267.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Affair attack leads police to interstate arms gang, 7 held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A few days ago, a west Delhi-based trader was fired upon by a bike-borne man. The victim had a close shave. Cops caught the shooter who revealed that the businessman’s wife had an affair with him and they hatched the plot to get married. The wife was arrested too. The case, that of an attempted murder, could have closed here with the accused in custody. However, the Rajouri Garden police went ahead to track the source of weapon used in the shooting and after a week-long operation, they have arrested seven people and busted an interstate weapons syndicate running from Firozabad. Seven weapons and 51 cartridges have been seized. The arrest list includes a wanted killer as well, who was on the run after murdering a bookie in southwest Delhi. According to DCP (west) Deepak Purohit, they started an investigation after being informed about the shooting incident that occurred on the night of September 1. The victim, Babu, was returning to his Raghuvir Nagar home from a temple at 10.45pm, when he was shot at. He ducked and ran for cover after which the assailant fled. He rushed back home and narrated the whole incident to his mother who called PCR. A team led by ACP Sudesh Ranga and SHO Anil Sharma was formed to track the shooter. “The entire Raghubir Nagar area was sealed and a massive manhunt was launched covering every rooftop, every house and surrounding Woodland area and after three hours of rigorous efforts the accused, Manoj, was identified and arrested,” a senior official said. Manoj led cops to Babu’s wife Sumita, who was also arrested. Two pistols were recovered from them. However, keeping in mind police commissioner S N Shrivastava’s directive to crackdown on weapon supply by finding the source in cases of arms usage, police started digging deeper. Manoj then revealed the role of one Tarun, who was wanted in the case of murder of a bookie in Nihal Vihar. He was arrested from Shalimar Bagh. He then told cops about a weapon supplier, Sabir Mulla, who was also arrested from Raghuvir Nagar alongwith two pistols and 20 cartridges. Mulla, a history-sheeter with 29 cases registered against him at different police stations in Delhi, was a blacksmith and manufactured and supplied country-made weapons. He told cops about his two associates, Bobby and Ajay, who had recently bought pistols from him. He also revealed that he worked for a UP-based arms supplier who goes by the name of Mamu. Police arrested two more gun-runners — Ajay and Bobby — who had bought weapons from this syndicate. While Bobby worked as a manager at an Oyo hotel, Ajay was an e-rickshaw driver, police said. Bobby told cops that he had bought two pistols from Mulla and sold to Sunny from Tagore Garden. Sunny, who was connected with a local gang in Haryana, was arrested as well and the pistol seized. Cops are now looking for Mamu and his associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/affair-attack-leads-police-to-interstate-arms-gang-7-held/articleshow/77955532.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers burn copies of agriculture ordinances||Ambala: Farmers protesting against three agriculture ordinances burnt copies of the said ordinances in Ambala, Kurukshetra, and Yamunanagar districts on Saturday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) has given the call for a state-wide rally against the Centre’s farm ordinances at the grain market in Pipli, Kurukshetra on September 10. During the protest held on Saturday, farmers burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and raised slogans against the Central and state government. BKU (Charuni) media coordinator Rakesh Kumar Bains from Shahabad said, “Farmers are aware of the Centre’s policies to bring about privatisation and capitalism in the agriculture sector. On Saturday, a symbolic protest has been held in Haryana and farmers have burnt copies of three agriculture ordinances passed by the government. A state-wide rally is being organised at Pipli in Kurukshetra on September 10.” Congress leader Ashok Arora from Thanesar has extended support to the BKU for its upcoming rally on September 10. Box: BKU Tikait group to post 1.01 lakh postcards to PM BKU Haryana (Tikait) group president Rattan Mann said, “Our union is going to post 1.01 lakh postcards to the Prime Minister at his New Delhi address in September demanding a law ensuring procurement of crops on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and guaranteeing payment of the procurement. This law will overpower three ordinances brought by the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-burn-copies-of-agriculture-ordinances/articleshow/77955270.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Smart city proposes cycle track in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd. (NMSCDCL) has proposed a 13 km-long cycle track in the city on both sides of roads from Ashok Stambh to Papaya Nursery via Trimbak Naka on Trimbak Road. The project has been undertaken with the aim of enabling people to use eco-friendly way of travelling to their destinations and thus making Nashik a cycle-friendly city. “We have initiated a survey of the route to check for the possibilities of developing the track between Trimbak Naka to Papaya Nursery on Trimbak Road of the city,” said a smart city official. “Plans are also afoot to connect both Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) with cycle tracks so that workers can use cycles to reach the workplaces,” said an official. The NMSCDCL has already developed cycle tracks on both sides of roads on 1.1 km stretch of smart road between Ashok Stambh and Trimbak Naka. Nashik smart city has participated in the ‘India cycles for change challenge’ launched by the ministry of housing and urban affairs along with smart cities mission and the institute for transportation and development policy (ITDP) to support Indian cities to quickly implement cycling-friendly initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/smart-city-proposes-cycle-track-in-nashik/articleshow/77953480.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 6, 2020||Nashik||2 bodies accidentally swapped at Jalgaon hospital||NASHIK: The bodies of two elderly women, who had succumbed to Covid-19 in a private dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) in Jalgaon, were accidentally swapped before being handed over to the relatives on Friday. The incident came to light when the daughter of one of the deceased women sought to see her face before cremation. This is the second case of accidental “body swapping” in northern Maharashtra. The first one took place at the Nashik civil hospital where the bodies of two deceased men — who died of non-Covid issues —were handed over to the relatives after postmortem. However, the bodies were accidentally exchanged by the relatives. In Jalgaon, the mix-up happened before the bodies were handed over to the relatives. One of the deceased women belonged to a minority community. One of her relatives said: “We identified the body before it was wrapped. That is why we did not have any reason for doubt when the wrapped body was handed over to us. We took it straight to the crematorium. Had my cousin not asked to see her mother’s face, we would have cremated the body of the other woman as per our rituals.” The relatives immediately called up the hospital and the local police and the body was taken back to the hospital. Incidentally, the relatives of the other deceased woman — unaware that they had the wrong body in their possession — were still at the hospital waiting for transportation to take the body to Bhusawal. The hospital sources did not go on records, but a senior officer admitted that there was an error in the packaging and delivery of the bodies. “We have noted the issue. We have now decided to hand over one body at a time, instead of keeping multiple bodies together for discharge,” the officer said. “The government should be accountable. It cannot wash its hands off the issue claiming that this is a time of emergency and there can be mistakes,” one of the relatives added. MLA Sanjay Savkare raised the issue with Jalgaon collector Abhijit Raut demanding action against those responsible for the body swap. When contacted, the collector said: “As per the government guidelines, it is mandatory to confirm the identity of a body before the last rites. The hospital administration claims that the identification was done by the relatives. We are inquiring into the incident accordingly. Instructions have been passed to all the DCHs to follow the guidelines in totality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-bodies-accidentally-swapped-at-jalgaon-hospital/articleshow/77955318.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 6, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Inquiry into discovery of 4,000 ration kits by Ashu a sham’||Describing the inquiry ordered into the discovery of 4,000 ration kits meant to be distributed among the poor from a private school belonging to a Congress councillor as mere whitewash, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon claims that an FIR should be registered and a vigilance inquiry be conducted into the incident. In an inerview with Mohit Behl, the Akali leader also blamed local Congress leaders and district authorities for their ‘failure’ in containing the spread of Covid-19 cases in the district Q. How do you respond to the claims of Congress leaders that it distributed free ration among lakhs of people during this lockdown and the needy had been helped? This is another bundle of lies by the Congress leaders who are expert in befooling people by making false promises and claims. The ground reality of their ration distribution programme was exposed when thousands of people had to stand in long queues for hours and days for collecting ration. Many of them were turned away by saying that their family members had already been given ration. There was total mismanagement in the ration distribution as their helpline number proved to be a big failure as several families could not connect to the number and get ration whereas some families got the ration multiple times by calling the helpline from different numbers. A majority of the ration kits did not reach the right beneficiaries and there is a high probability that thousands of such kits could have been usurped by some elements who are close to the ruling party. Q. When cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has himself marked an inquiry into the incident of stocking of 4,000 ration kits by a Congress councillor, how are you claiming that the Congress wants to suppress this case ? The inquiry has been marked by Ashu, who also is the food supply minister. How can you expect the inquiry to be fair when his own department and then a Congress councillor is involved in this case. What was the need for inquiry when the matter is quite clear. What were 4,000 ration kits of the state government doing in a school of ruling party councillor. Instead of getting an FIR registered an inquiry has been marked in this case which is just an eyewash. If Ashu or Congress government is really serious about this case, then why not let the vigilance bureau (VB) probe this matter. Since there is no doubt that government officials are also involved in this case because it’s not possible for the councillor to stock thousands of kits without knowledge of government officers, registration of an FIR and a VB probe is a must in this case or else it will be hushed up for sure. Q. What is your take on the current situation of Covid-19 in Ludhiana and what is your take on handling of the situation by the government? The current situation is very alarming when there is such a big spurt in the cases of Covid-19 and the death rate as well. Both authorities and the ruling party leaders have done nothing to contain the situation and remained mute spectators. Due to the half-hearted response of the departments concerned and Congress leaders limiting themselves to mere photo ops in this situation, the Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana not only reached such dangerous levels, but hundreds of innocent lives too were lost. Now, because of their response the situation has reached such a point that there is shortage of beds and equipment in city like Ludhiana, which has the most developed medical infrastructure in north India. Q. Do you think the current restrictions like weekend curfew and 6.30pm deadline will yield any result in controlling the Covid-19 cases? I think these are the decisions which have been taken without proper planning and therefore such restrictions are not going to yield any results on ground and instead these are leading to harassment of the business fraternity which is already reeling under huge pressure due to mounting losses. What is the logic behind shutting shops and offices at 6.30pm? Does this mean that Covid-19 cases do not spread after this time. Rather than passing such draconian laws, which are hitting economy so badly some sensible decisions should be taken to combat the stuation, like ensuring proper social distancing, sanitisation of markets, shops, offices, factories at government expenses, free distribution of masks among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inquiry-into-discovery-of-4000-ration-kits-by-ashu-a-sham/articleshow/77954193.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM: KPCC chief instigating revolt||T’puram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan accused KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran of prompting government servants to revolt against the government. Vijayan said this on Saturday, referring to the reports that the KPCC chief had convened a secret meeting of pro-Congress government employees and sought their cooperation in the fight against the government. “It has come out that KPCC president had asked government employees to leak government information. Government employees are supposed to work for the government. Asking them to thwart government schemes is nothing but a call for revolt against people and the state,” he said in reply to a question raised in this regard at his news conference. There were allegations that KPCC president had addressed an online meet of officers and service organization cell on August 19 and urged them to leak government information to KPCC. As many as 40 government employees were alleged to have attended the meeting in which several Congress leaders also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-kpcc-chief-instigating-revolt/articleshow/77954196.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Here, printed jackets remind workers of social distancing||Thiruvananthapuram: To ensure that social distancing is maintained at the workplace, management of Family Plastics at Manvila has introduced a Covid-warning jacket as part of the uniform for employees. More than 400 employees at the company, from workers, machine operators, administration staff, quality controllers, supervisors, managers to company MD, wear the jacket. The brain behind the idea is Simson Fernandez, MD of the company, which manufactures plastic household products. Warning messages in both Malayalam and Hindi are printed on the jackets as the staff comprises people from other states too. The factory was struck with a massive fire in October 2018 and half of their facility was destroyed. The company had started refurbishing last year. They constructed a new building and shifted the warehouse to Kinfra. “We were on the path of revival when this global pandemic struck us. After lockdown, we resumed our operations in May by strictly adhering to Covid protocols, but soon found out that maintaining social distancing is a big task in the real work scenario. We can’t afford yet another shut down after the massive fire and extended lockdown. When our MD suggested the idea, we immediately stitched the jackets in a raincoat-type material (water proof) and printed the warning images on it,” said Denny Kuriakose, senior manager at Family Plastics. The jackets were distributed to the staff members when the company reopened after Onam holidays on Wednesday. The management is making another set of jackets for the employees. “Masks were also distributed to staff and sanitizer is provided at the workplace. Temperature of the staff is checked with thermal scanner before they enter for duty,” Kuriakose added. Sanitizers are provided at all areas of the factory so that workers frequently do hand sanitizing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/here-printed-jackets-remind-workers-of-social-distancing/articleshow/77954204.cms||Anasooya.S
September 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen object to constant hike in steel prices||Ludhiana: City businessmen are up in arms against the central government for overlooking their demand for setting up a steel regulator who could keep an eye on the unnecessary price hike of steel raw material of various kinds and regulate the prices. According to the businessmen, the steel companies are hiking prices unnecessarily and steel prices have soared by Rs 8,000-10,000 per tonne during last two months despite the fact that there is no demand as the production in factories has reduced by 50% compared with the pre-lockdown period. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), “We strongly oppose the irrational hike in prices of steel. During the last two months, the rates of various types of raw materials have been hiked by Rs 8,000-10,000 per tonne without any reason. For years, we have been requesting government to set up a regulator to keep a strict watch on the rates and take action on the companies or dealers who unnecessarily hike the rates of steel and are hell bent on destroying the micro small and medium scale industries.” According to Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “The prices of various steel raw materials have risen by Rs 3,000 per tonne from September 1 without any logic. Steep hike in steel prices is being observed every month and due to this the local factories like bicycle, sewing machine and auto parts, to name a few, are facing huge losses. Frequent price hike is proving to be fatal for the micro and small scale units. The situation has also made the local industry incompetent when it comes to selling our products in international markets. We do not understand when India is so rich in iron ores why the steel prices are being drastically increased so frequently.” According to K K Seth, leading bicycle manufacturer and exporter, “With the lifting of lockdown, the industry is operational only at around 40% of its installed capacity. Some factories despite demand have not been able to increase the production capacity due to various reasons. Meanwhile, the steel prices have increased up to Rs 10,000 per tonne in the last 45 to 60 days, which is totally unacceptable. How can the steel companies and government expect us to revise our rates every month in accordance with the new rates of steel raw material? Therefore, steel prices should be regulated through regulatory authority, so that MSME industries can be saved. The setting up of regulatory committee will also provide stability to the MSME sector and we will be able to compete with countries like China in the international markets. Moreover, if the rates of our products are competitive, this will also fulfil the vision of central government of Make in India and Atamanirbhar Bharat”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-object-to-constant-hike-in-steel-prices/articleshow/77954201.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Better management sought in containment zones||NASHIK: The health teams of the Central government which reviewed the Covid-19 situation across districts asked the state government agencies on Saturday to ensure the protocols to be observed in containment zones were strictly followed by the residents living in such zones. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “Health ministry officials of the Government of India pointed out that residents in the containment zones were walking in and out of the earmarked areas, without paying any heed to the fact that they may spread the infection.” Mandhare said that he has directed the concerned authorities to keep close tabs on the containment zones so that the residents do not venture out needlessly. The secondfactor to have cropped up in the meeting was that people were not following the Covid-19 health advisory which included wearing masks, observing social distancing, washing hands with soap among a host of other safety protocols. The local agencies have to take up information, education and communication (IEC) campaign among people with the message of strictly following the safety norms, whether in the house or in a public place. The health officials further instructed the district collectors and commissioners of local bodies during the meeting to increase testing and contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. Mandhare also stressed on increasing the number of contacts traced per Covid patient to find out the asymptomatic cases, who may have pread the infection to others. Currently, there are 1,456 containment zones in the city, most of which are drawn up in residential buildings or bungalows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/better-mgmt-sought-in-containment-zones/articleshow/77955334.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Farmers burn copies of electricity bills||NASHIK: Farmers from Niphad taluka carried out a protest against the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) at Pimpalgaon Baswant of Nashik district on Friday demanding complete waiver in electricity bills. The farmers also burnt copies of their electricity bills while staging the protest. The Adivasi Shakti Sena carried out the agitation claiming that the MSEDCL had issued wrong bills to farmers and that the power company must withdraw the excessive bills immediately. Prabhakar Fasale of the Adivasi Shakti Sena, who led the agitation, said that the farmers were vexed with the process of presenting memoranda to the authorities demanding that bills be reviewed from time to time. “We have presented a large number of requests for reviewing of bills and now we have stepped up our demands of waiving off the bills for the farmers. This is the reason that we created a bonfire of the electricity bills,” said Fasale. Despite demand for revising the bills, no measures were taken by the MSEDCL. “Not only were the units above the average, the tariff also has been increased at very high levels and hence we demand the review of the bills,” Sanjay Wankhede, another farmer from the area said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-burn-copies-of-electricity-bills/articleshow/77955353.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||LRS may spell doom for properties near def units||Hyderabad: The new layout regularisation scheme (LRS) may create hurdles for people living near defence establishments and airport. As per the ministry of defence (MoD) rules, no-objection certificate (NOC) by local military authority (LMA) is required only if the plot/layout or structure falls within 10-metre radius of a defence establishment, but as per the LRS, issued by the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department, even plots in 500-metre radius need NOC from LMA. In Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, several areas in Marredpally, Secunderabad, Golconda and Mehdipatnam are in the vicinity of defence establishments. Hundreds of properties in these locations now need NOC from LMA for LRS and future property registrations. A memo recently issued by the registration and stamps (R&S) department has made it mandatory for either layout approval or building permission for property registrations. “Yadgiri, a resident of Ramdevguda, Golconda, was served a notice by LMA though his house was not in the 10-metre radius. The LMA asked him to comply with the government norms,” CPM Greater Hyderabad city committee secretary M Srinivas. Forum For Good Governance (FGG) members said the new LRS would tamper with the city’s master plan. “The master plan was prepared in 2001 with a 20-year vision, but the new LRS rolled out will regularise land that fall under different zones, including forest,” FGG secretary M Padmanabha Redd said. The R&S department memo would also hit the poor, who want to sell their properties. As per the Telangana Building Rules, houses built in plot area less than 75 square yards do not require building permission, but ironically the new memo bans property registrations sans building permission, Harish Daga, a civic activist, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lrs-may-spell-doom-for-properties-near-def-units/articleshow/77955350.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||Ease of doing business ranks: Uttar Pradesh jumps 10 spots to finish second||LUCKNOW: In a huge boost for the Uttar Pradesh government’s efforts to build an investor friendly environment in the state, the state ranked second in the national State Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 — the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ annual rankings released on Saturday. The state jumped 10 positions since the 2017-18 rankings, when it had ranked 12th. Andhra Pradesh retained its top position while Telangana slipped from second to third position. Additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said that as part of this year’s parameters, UP implemented 186 out of 187 reforms suggested by the Centre. “Since the final evaluation of this year’s ranking is based on ‘users’ feedback’, the feedback received from entrepreneurs on the state’s single window portal ‘Nivesh Mitra’ played an instrumental role in UP leaving behind several leading states like Gujarat, Telangana, Maharashtra, Rajasthan,” he said. Crediting chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the improvement in the state’s ranking, industries minister Satish Mahana said: “The CM has been emphasizing on the need for transparency, adoption of best practices and business-to-government interactive procedures through use of technology. Our government has been successful in improving ease of doing business by introducing various IT driven modules, of which Nivesh Mitra is one”. Chief secretary RK Tiwair also congratulated the CM for his gigntic efforts which has improved the investment atmosphere in the state. The industries department said that over the past two years, the Nivesh Mitra portal received 2,29,936 applications this year for no-objection certificates and out of that, 94% applications had been already been disposed of. At present, 146 services under 20 departments are being provided through the portal and by October 31, another 46 services under 10 departments will be available on it. RK Singh, who was principal secretary (industries) till 2019, said that Nivesh Mitra was launched during the UP Investors’ Summit in 2018 with 69 services from 20 departments. “By 2019, we had managed to take the services offered to 120 with the aim of bringing about ease of doing business in the state,” he said. An official said that the ‘user feedback’ module of the portal had received 62,286 investor-feedbacks till July out of which around 73% users had rated services as “satisfactory”. In May this year, chief secretary RK Tiwari had announced that to improve the overall performance of the state in ease of doing business rankings, the state would assess each district in how efficiently they were able to handle complaints and issues raised on the Nivesh Mitra portal. Rankings were issued in June in which Unnao came first. The services which have been included under the reforms include labour regulation, access to information and transparency, land administration, construction permit, commercial disputes, inspection enablers etc. Departments which are part of the project include Udyog Bandhu, labour, pollution control board, commercial tax, power, stamp and registration, excise and food safety and drug. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner Alok Tandon said that initiatives like the monthly ranking of all 75 districts on ease of doing business parameters shall further pave the way for creating a conducive business environment in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ease-of-doing-biz-ranks-up-jumps-10-spots-to-finish-second/articleshow/77956100.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Infant among three injured in transformer blast in Bhosari||PUNE: Three persons, including a five-month-old girl, suffered serious burn injuries when a transformer of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) exploded at Indrayaninagar in Bhosari on Saturday evening. The injured were rushed to the Sassoon General Hospital, where their condition was reported to be critical. Senior police inspector Rajendra Kute of MIDC Bhosari police station told TOI, “Sharada Dilip Kotwal (50), Harshada Kakade (32) and her five-month-old daughter suffered serious injuries in the incident. They have been admitted to the Sassoon General Hospital. All the three have sustained over 70% burn injuries.” Kute said that both Kotwal and Kakade families live in a small house at Indrayaninagar. The MSEDCL’s transformer is located near the house, which is Kakade’s maternal home. He said that the transformer developed a technical snag on Friday and was replaced by MSEDCL officials on Saturday morning. “The new transformer burst into flames due to overheating,” he said. “Harshada was bathing her baby in the front yard of the house when hot liquid from the transformer fell on them as well as on Kakade, who was sitting nearby,” he said. “We have contacted the MSEDCL officials to probe the incident,” he said. In a similar incident in June 2016, a 55-year-old man was killed in an MSEDCL transformer explosion in Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/infant-among-three-injured-in-transformer-blast-in-bhosari/articleshow/77955351.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Krishna Prakash takes charge as Pimpri Chinchwad top cop||PUNE: Senior IPS officer Krishna Prakash, who took charge as the new Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner on Saturday, said pre-emptively stopping petty crimes was the key to preventing more serious offences. Prakash took over from the outgoing commissioner, Sandeep Bishnoi. Prakash’s transfer was part of a major reshuffle of senior police officers carried out by the state government on Wednesday. The new commissioner, a 1989 batch IPS officer, was earlier posted as special inspector-general of police (administration) in Mumbai. He is the third commissioner of the newly created Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate — carved out of the Pune police commissionerate and the Pune rural police limits in 2018 — after maintaining law and order became a challenge due to the population surge in the industrial town. “There will be zero tolerance towards petty crime during my tenure, as such incidents could eventually lead to more serious offences. I would study the types of crimes that are on the rise in the limits of all the 15 police stations under the commissionerate and take corrective measures for controlling them,” he told TOI over the phone. The police chief did not elaborate on the types of crimes that will require immediate attention. He said that he would soon prepare a roadmap after understanding the people, the nerve of the area and the crime rate before chalking out his priorities for the force. “I will not tolerate malafide acts committed by those within the force. Those acting as per the law would be supported,” he said, adding, “I would work without any fear and favour and with only the interest of people at heart.” The outgoing commissioner Bishnoi, who was transferred before he could complete his tenure, refuted the reports that he had moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Mumbai against his transfer. “I have not challenged my transfer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/krishna-prakash-takes-charge-as-pimpri-chinchwad-top-cop/articleshow/77955391.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Deadline row likely to delay slaughter house rendering plant||Ludhiana: The issue of rendering plant at the slaughter house of the civic body on Hambran Road is not going to get resolved easily as Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials claimed that for this plant the civic body had time till December end. But the MC officials say it is not possible to meet this deadline because they have not started anything right now. They claimed that they had demanded at least six months for the same. However, the PPCB officials claimed that they could give the consent to operate this slaughter house on temporary basis, that too if the civic body would give undertaking that they they would make suitable arrangements for the waste. The civic body had completed the modernisation of the slaughter house in January and since then it has been waiting for its inauguration. At first the civic body took time in finalisation of a contractor for operation and maintenance and then due to Covid-19 they could not start the same. Now, when they were in the process to start it, the issue of a rendering plant came up. The rendering plant is a must for the management of waste being generated from the slaughter house. On this issue the PPCB and MC officials are already blaming each other. The PPCB claims that it was mentioned initially that the plant was a must while civic body officials had said they had no information about any such plant since the beginning of the process. Member secretary of the PPCB, Karunesh Garg, said, “The MC will have to complete the installation of the rendering plant in the slaughter house by December end. They can run the slaughter house but before that they will have to give in writing that the waste will not be disposed of in the sewerage and will be done awqy with in a proper way.” He said the civic body would have to ensure that the waste being generated from the slaughter house should not pollute the environment in any way. However, on the other hand senior veterinary officer Dr YP Singh said, “We are waiting for the letter from the PPCB over this issue but three months are not sufficient for the plant. As of now it is not decided who will install the plant, whether the MC or the contractor, who has been hired for its operation and maintenance.” He said, moreover, they were yet to sign an agreement with the contractor and its functioning would also take at least one month to start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/deadline-row-likely-to-delay-slaughter-house-rendering-plant/articleshow/77954205.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||77,000 seats vacant after round 1 of FYJC||PUNE: About 77,000 seats have remained vacant after the first round of online centralized admissions to First Year Junior College (FYJC). Currently, the total number of admissions to all seats is 29,427. The second merit list will be declared on September 10. Of 19,575 students, who were allotted their first preference of college, only 16,304 took admissions. The students, who have not taken admission even though the college allotted to them was their first preference, would not be considered for the next regular rounds. Of over 1.06 lakh seats available for admissions at 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, admissions of 23,602 students have been done under common admission process (CAP) round 1. The total admissions (along with quota entries) is 29,427 at the end of round 1. With almost all junior colleges showing a huge increase in cut-off marks this year as compared to 2019, assistant director of education Meena Shendkar has once again appealed to students to ensure that they refill their preference forms after checking the first round cut-off marks for each college that is available on the official website. “The marks that the student has scored must match with the cut-off marks of the college in that particular quota/subdivision. If there is a huge difference, then the student must choose another college so that they have a higher chance of getting allotted a college at least in the next round. They have time till September 7, 6pm, to make the necessary changes to their forms,” said Shendkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/77k-seats-vacant-after-round-1-of-fyjc/articleshow/77955368.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor among two booked for killing welder||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old man was allegedly stabbed by a minor and his associate after a tiff between them at Falaknuma on Friday night. After the victim succumbed while undergoing treatment, a murder case was registered against the duo. The victim was identified as Mohammed Jawed, a welder and resident of Achireddy Nagar. Around 3pm on Friday, Javed reportedly stole a packet of ganja from the accused, a 17-year-old, which led to a tiff between the two, police said. Bearing a grudge against Jawed, the minor in conflict with law along with his associate, Syed Baba, 21, waited for the victim on Ansari Road and attacked him. The victim sustained injuries on his hands, chest and other parts of the body. “Jawed was returning after attending a function when the duo stabbed him multiple times. The incident occurred around 9.30 pm and locals alerted us,” Falaknuma inspector R Devender said. The victim was rushed to Osmania General Hospital, but succumbed to injuries. The duo was nabbed within hours and booked for a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-among-two-booked-for-killing-welder/articleshow/77955385.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold smuggling case: NIA sleuthssearch in capital||Thiruvananthapuram: The NIA team investigating the gold smuggling case conducted a search at the apartment held by IAS officer M Sivasankar in the capital on Saturday. The NIA team is also learnt to have interrogated the caretaker and the security of the apartment. The NIA and the Customs had conducted searches at the apartment earlier too.  Even though Sivasankar has been questioned multiple times, the agencies have not clarified his role in the whole matter. Neither has he been given a clean chit nor has he been named as one of the accomplices of those arrested till now in connection with the case. It is learnt that the NIA, customs and ED will continue to probe Sivasankar further. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gold-smuggling-case-nia-sleuthssearch-in-capital/articleshow/77954208.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||50 Covid deaths in Ahmednagar in 72 hours||NASHIK: Ahmednagar district has reported 50 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 72 hours, taking the total number of casualties to 356. These deaths had an adverse impact on the case fatality rate (CFR) which has crept to 1.47% at present from 1.35%. According to district health officials, some patients passed away even before the lab reports of their swab tests arrived. “Hence these deaths were updated in our portal. But these 50 deaths have swelled the district’s CFR,” added the officials. The officials claimed that at present, the Covid-19 deaths in the district are less than 10 a day unlike earlier which was over 15-20 when the pandemic started spreading in the district. “The administration is undertaking aggressive testing in all talukas of the district. This is enabling us to detect positive patients early and offer timely treatment to them, thus lowering casualty rate. We are confident that the CFR would improve within the next few days,” added officials. The officials said that at present 2,500-3,000 tests are being undertaken in the entire district. According to officials, district collector Rahul Dwivedi has instructed concerned authorities of each taluka to ramp up the tests to zero in on the positive patients. At present Ahmednagar has 2,793 active patients. While the recovery rate is 87.03%, the positivity rate is 26.03%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-covid-deaths-in-ahmednagar-in-72-hrs/articleshow/77955363.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Pocket-friendly eateries near educational institutions stare at grim future||Mangaluru: Students constituted the bulk of the patrons at Abdulla Musba’s ‘Utada Mane’ restaurant on Light House Hill Road, but the prolonged closure of colleges and educational institutions has pushed this small establishment to the brink of ruin. Musba’s is one of the scores of small and pocket-friendly eateries in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada, which were frequented by students looking for a hearty meal at a modest price, that have taken a severe beating in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. On the one hand, dozens of such eateries have already closed, while that prospect is seeming more inevitable with each day that colleges remain shut longer. The times have compelled the owners to reassess their priorities, among which ‘takeaway’ and ‘deliveries’ had never been very high. Musba, for one, has decided to shift to a considerably smaller establishment to Balmatta, where he said there will only two tables for diners, while the bulk of the resources will be diverted towards deliveries and takeaways. “Given the uncertainty over reopening of schools and colleges, I have decided to shift to a smaller place to avoid having to pay a hefty rent,” said Musba, whose eatery was a haven for Bhatkal dishes, particularly the biriyani that was served was a favourite among students from MAHE, St Aloysius College and SDM College among others. Snack-Shack is a 30-year-old eatery in Manipal and its owner JP Suvarna seldom even a moment’s rest between 12pm and 2pm when the small town, synonymous with education, was brimming with students. But the pandemic has dealt a huge blow to his business. “We used to serve American, Italian and Asian dishes, which were hugely popular with NRI students. But most of them have returned home, and we had to curtail our menu to mostly Indian delicacies to cut costs. Students used to throng our hotel during lunch break but there are hardly any students in the town now. It will take some time before activity picks up. We are incurring a loss of Rs 2.5 lakh per month but I do not want to close the outlet since that will be irreversibly final,” said Suvarna, who had his cook trained by a Chinese chef from Kolkata in order to ensure that his customers were served authentic dishes. The deserted streets surrounding the college campuses give one a vague idea of the impact that the pandemic has had on grassroots economy. Raj, who owns an eatery cum stationery opposite St Aloysius College, opened his store when the lockdown was lifted but was compelled to down the shutters after a fortnight owing to poor patronage. Raj is sceptical about business witnessing an upswing even when the colleges reopen. “Students come to my store for photocopies, stationery and food, which means that our business is heavily dependent on their patronage,” he said. Owner of another eatery on MG Road near SDM College, summed up the situation succinctly, “When schools and colleges remain shut, it is a de facto holiday for us as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pocket-friendly-eateries-near-educational-institutions-stare-at-grim-future/articleshow/77953347.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Civil contractors mull protest non-availability of sand in DK||Mangaluru: Hit by the non-availability of sand for construction for the past 10 months, Civil Contractors’ Association (CCA, Mangaluru) is contemplating to stage a protest shortly. With elected representatives and authorities giving lip sympathy to the issue, the stage has come for CAA members to raise their voice in the best interest of stakeholders. CCA president M Purushotham Kottary told reporters that total the collapse of arrangement to book sand using ‘DK Sand Bazaar’ app has hit contractors hard. Sand that was available for Rs 30/cubic feet or Rs 6,000 per truckload of 200 cu.ft is now ‘available’ in the black market upwards of Rs 10,000 per truckload. Continuing confusion over mining of sand in CRZ/ non-CRZ areas has only added to the present chaos,” he said. Elected representatives and the district authorities have been promising on addressing the issue for the past 10 months, he said, adding: “With the pandemic forcing the majority of labourers to return to their home states and non-availability of sand a persistent problem, contractors are not able to meet their licence condition on project completion.” CAA vice-president Dinkar Suvarna said the contractors are facing the heat of delays in construction from RERA, the regulator that imposes monetary fines for default. “We are consistently appealing to all those concerned — right from the district minister to the DC — to address the issue,” he said, adding bodies in the realty sector like CREDAI, ACCE (I), Kanara Builders’ Association are with the CCA on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/civil-contractors-mull-protest-non-availability-of-sand-in-dk/articleshow/77953709.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thief who escaped from custody nabbed||Thiruvananthapuram: A notorious thief, who had managed to escape from Covid first-line treatment centre at Varkala four weeks ago after being arrested for a theft case, has been caught again. Babu alias Theevetti Babu, 61, of Puthankulam in Kollam district is the accused. According to police, Babu was caught again on Friday evening by a team led by Pallickal sub-inspector Aji G Nath and Varkala station-house officer inspector G Gopakumar when he was travelling on a stolen motorcycle. Babu was arrested last month in connection with a burglary case in Kallambalam police station limits. He was remanded in judicial custody by court. Following this, his Covid-screening test was taken and he was sent to the CFLTC at Varkala as remanded prisoners would be moved to prisons only if their result is negative. But, Babu managed to escape from the centre. He had the help of another accused, Rajesh alias Makkan Rajesh. He too was arrested for theft by Fort police in the city. Rajesh is yet to be traced. Varkala SHO inspector G Gopakumar said Babu went to Kottayam district after escaping and committed a series of thefts there. These include the theft of two motorcycles and two burglaries – one in a shop and other in a house. “When caught, he was riding one of the stolen motorcycles that belonged to a person at Thalayolaprambu,’’ the inspector said. Following his arrest, the other stolen vehicle, which incidentally belonged to a policeman in Kottayam, has also been recovered. Babu is a notorious thief who is involved in more than 100 theft cases in and outside the state. He has been actively doing crimes for more than 30 years. Despite getting arrested numerous times, he always resumed his criminal activities soon after getting released every time. He is also notorious for injuring himself in a bid to commit suicide whenever he is caught red handed during theft attempts. A few years ago, Parippally police in Kollam had booked him and his son for allegedly extorting money from guest workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thief-who-escaped-from-custody-nabbed/articleshow/77954212.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cook murdered for not greeting rowdy-sheeter||Hyderabad: A rowdy-sheeter, who got offended after a 28-year-old cook ignored him and greeted his friend, stabbed the cook to death at Ansari Road in Mailardevpally,on the wee hours of Saturday. According to Mailardevpally police, Javed, a resident of Falaknuma was walking on Ansari Road when he came across four persons — Azar, Anan, Syed and Kamran —near a hillock. Javed greeted Kamran as he was his acquaintance. On noticing this, Azar entered into an heated argument with Javed. Azar along with Anan attacked Javed and stabbed him. Later, the victim was shifted to a hospital and died while undergoing treatment. The incident took place around 12.30 am on Saturday. Police arrested Azar, Anan along with two others and are investigating the case. Only a few days back, Cyberabad police counselled rowdy-sheeters and Azar attended that session. Azar wasalso accused in the murder of his acquaintance. Recently, he was released on bail. Meanwhile, police decided to invoke PD Act against repeat offender Azar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cook-murdered-for-not-greeting-rowdy-sheeter/articleshow/77955398.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Noida||Noida student attacked by carjackers dies||NOIDA: A 25-year-old BTech student succumbed on Friday night to injuries sustained earlier in the week in an attack by a gang of suspected carjackers, who had repeatedly hit him on the head with a blunt object, possibly a pistol butt, to incapacitate him and drive away with his SUV. It’s the second fatal attack by suspected carjackers in the area in seven months – on January 6 this year, Gaurav Chandel, a private executive returning home from his office in Gurgaon, was attacked by a gang at Parthala Chowk, less than 10km from the spot in Sector 62 where the student was attacked last Wednesday night. Akshay Kalra, who studied in fourth year at Amity University, was said to have lost a lot of blood by the time he was wheeled into the hospital by police. A thalassemia patient, he had undergone blood transfusion just two days before the attack on him. Although hospital authorities were tightlipped about the cause of death, police sources said Akshay had deep gashes on the head and ribs. Akshay had left his Sector 62 home in his Hyundai Creta around 10.30pm on Wednesday and told his mother he would be back soon after a short drive. A couple of hours later, his father received a call from police – Akshay was found injured on the road on a desolate stretch near Varun apartments on an internal Sector 62 road, just 200 metres from his house. Police said that just before he lost consciousness, Akshay had told them he was attacked by a group of men with the butt of a pistol. They drove off with his Creta, the modus operandi bearing stark resemblance with the attack on Chandel, who was found dead on the road. His brand new Kia Seltos was taken by the gang. Notorious gangster Ashu Jaat, the main accused in this case, was arrested on Saturday. Police said they were scanning CCTV footage sourced from cameras installed in housing societies that line the road Akshay had taken. The cops claimed they had come across a Creta in one of the clips but are yet to verify if it was the one that Akshay was driving. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh agreed that the case had become challenging with no one left to identify the accused. “He had suffered a serious head injury. Yes, he had thalassemia too, but it was the head injury that caused his death. He had been attacked with a hard and blunt object,” Singh added. Police have not ruled out an iron rod or a stick being used in the attack. DCP (Noida) Rajesh S said four teams were trying to identify the accused. “We have got some clues in the case. But it has to be seen if the investigation is proceeding in the right direction,” he added. Akshay’s father Gulshan Kalra, a senior LIC executive working in Kanpur, told a news conference the culprits needed to be arrested and given exemplary punishment. “I couldn’t save my son,” he sobbed. “But I want those responsible for his death to be brought to book. The authorities should ensure exemplary punishment for them so that other youths in the society do not meet the same fate as my son,” Gulshan said. Akshay was as an intelligent student who would come up with innovative ideas for not only his father but also his sister, who is based in the US. “He had an idea for everything, every profession. He was very bright and maintained good relations with everybody. He was extremely focused on his studies,” Gulshan said. Watch Noida: 25-year-old student attacked by carjackers dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/student-attacked-by-carjackers-dies/articleshow/77955464.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 6, 2020||Pune||Man attacked with sharp weapons on Tilak Road||Pune: A 43-year-old man was attacked with sharp weapons by three unidentified men on Tilak Road on Friday night. The Vishrambaug police have registered a complaint against the trio. Umesh Arun Nangare from Dhayari sustained serious injuries in the incident and was admitted to a private hospital. He works as a recovery officer with a bank, police said. Nangare’s friend, Prasad Dhumal, lodged a complaint with the police in this regard following which action was taken. Nangare was walking on the footpath when the suspects suddenly attacked him with sharp weapons. “The trio fled the scene following the attack,” an officer from the Vishrambaug police .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-attacked-with-sharp-weapons-on-tilak-road/articleshow/77955401.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Man attacked with sharp weapons on Tilak Road||PUNE: A 43-year-old man was attacked with sharp weapons by three unidentified men on Tilak Road on Friday night. The Vishrambaug police have registered a complaint against the trio. Umesh Arun Nangare from Dhayari sustained serious injuries in the incident and was admitted to a private hospital. He works as a recovery officer with a bank, police said. Nangare’s friend, Prasad Dhumal, lodged a complaint with the police in this regard following which action was taken. Nangare was walking on the footpath when the suspects suddenly attacked him with sharp weapons. “The trio fled the scene following the attack,” an officer from the Vishrambaug police .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-attacked-with-sharp-weapons-on-tilak-road/articleshow/77955418.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mysuru||BJP has no connection with Ragini Dwivedi: CT Ravi||Chikkamagaluru/Mysuru: Tourism minister CT Ravi denied any links between the BJP and actress Ragini Dwivedi, who was arrested by CCB police in Bengaluru on Friday. “She has not been given any responsibility in the party. The party doesn’t have any connection with her,” he said here on Saturday. Ragini was a star campaigner for the BJP in the bypolls held in 2019. She had campaigned for BJP KR Pet candidate KC Narayana Gowda along with party vice-president BY Vijayendra. He said if the probe points to a new angle in the nexus between Sandalwood and the drug mafia, we may seek the Centre’s assistance. District minister ST Somashekar said the state will deal strictly with those involved in drug peddling. Speaking to the press after flagging off the ambulance service for livestock ‘Pashu Sanjeevini’ at the zilla panchayat premises, Somashekar said that the BJP is not embarrassed by Ragini’s arrest. “It is not about BJP, JD(S), Congress or any party. Youths are influenced by film actors. If film actors are involved in such illegal activities, it sends a wrong message to the youths. We will eliminate the drug mafia in the state,” he said. Reacting to former CM H D Kumaraswamy’s recent allegations that the money from the drug mafia, dance bars, cricket betting and pubs were used to bring down the Congress-JD(S) government, Somashekar questioned why Kumaraswamy did not act against the drug mafia when he was the CM in the coalition government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bjp-has-no-connection-with-ragini-dwivedi-ct-ravi/articleshow/77952816.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Act against contractors for poor work: Ashu to MC||Ludhiana: Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday directed the MC commissioner to take action against contractors who are not working properly leading to the delay of development works. Ashu gave the orders after councillors from Ludhiana west constituency held a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal in his presence. The councillors briefed the commissioner about the issues in their respective wards and claimed that contractors were not working even after taking payment from the civic body. The councillors discussed the condition of roads, street lights and other development works in their wards. Earlier, a presentation was given to find solution to the old garbage lying at Jainpur where the sports park project has been proposed under the Smart City Mission. The company that gave presentation claimed that they had conducted the soil testing at the spot and there was no need to lift old garbage from the site because it was over 15 years old and in such long duration its impact reduces. However, the final decision is to be taken next week. Ashu had proposed this sports park at Jainpur for all types of outdoor sports activities. But the consultants of Smart City had estimated that they will have to lift the old garbage from the site which will cost around Rs 20 crore. Last week, the minister had taken two independent experts at the site who were asked to submit their report in 15 days. On Saturday, one such expert gave the presentation. The firm has offered to establish the sports parks even without lifting old garbage from the site except for a few sports like cricket or tennis. Ashu said they have seen the presentation, but final decision will be taken in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/act-against-contractors-for-poor-work-ashu-to-mc/articleshow/77954210.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mysuru||Mother, granny & step-father held for killing 6-year-old||Mysuru: Ten days after a 6-year-old girl died, police have arrested the mother, grandmother and the step-father for suffocating the girl with a pillow to death. Police have arrested mother Pavithra, 23, grandmother Gouramma, 55, and step–father Surya, 23 for murdering Jayalakhmi, 6, at their house in Shyadanahalli. The trio killed the girl fearing troubles in taking care of her. Jayalakshmi was born to Pavithra and Siddesh who tied knot eight years ago. Pavithra had abandoned Siddesh for Surya and started living with him four years ago. She then had a daughter with Surya. Recently, Pavithra and Siddesh decided to eliminate Jayalakshmi and also involved Gouramma in the crime. As planned, the trio killed Jayalakshmi while she was asleep on August 25. After Siddesh learnt about his daughter’s death, he lodged a police complaint on September 2. Police then took the trio into custody for questioning and uncover the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mother-granny-step-father-held-for-killing-6-year-old/articleshow/77952653.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||‘People should volunteer for testing’||NASHIK: Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut on Saturday appealed to the citizens to step forward and get tested for Covid-19 to cut community spread of the contagion. Raut, who conducted a press briefing in view of the district registering 1,063 cases on Friday for the first time, said, “It was important to note that testing of people was ramped up and, hence, a large number of people were tested positive for coronavirus in a single day. This has helped us in detecting those who are carriers of the infection, most of them being symptomatic.” “Instead of panicking, people must be brave and get themselves tested for the infection so that we will be able to cut down the rate of the infection spread and also provide early treatment to those testing positive,” he added. Raut further pointed out that most of the Covid-19 deceased were aged 60 and above along with having co-morbid conditions. Therefore, people should not worry about treatment and come forth for testing. “We have well-built and up-to-date infrastructure in place. Also, all the necessary medicines are available. The quicker people get tested, lower will be the strain on the community and health department,” the officer noted. Meanwhile, resident deputy collector of Jalgaon Rahul Patil said that the administration had collected Rs 30.5 lakh penalty from people who failed to adhere to Covid norms. “Action was taken against people who did not wear face masks or for spitting in public places or keeping shops open beyond the stipulated hours or, at times, without permission as well as overcrowding in places without paying respects to Covid-19 health advisories,” Rahul Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-should-volunteer-for-testing/articleshow/77955397.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Farm bodies to protest outside Parliament when agri ordinances are debated’||Bathinda: Eleven farm organisations from Punjab have decided to protest aganst the three ordinances passed by the Centre when Parliament would be in session later this month. The organisations have also decided to boycott MPs who vote in favour of the ordinances or do not attend sessions for taking part in the debate on the ordinances. They will not be allowed to enter villages, the organisations have decided. Parliament session will start on September 14. BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said a meeting of the state heads of 11 farm organisations, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and BKU Sidhupur president Jagjit Singh Dallewal, was held in Jalandhar on September 4. He said it was decided that a day before the ordinances would be discussed n Parliament, roads in Punjab will be blocked as a mark of protest and the day the ordinances are tabled for discussion or voting, all leaders of farm organisations will reach Delhi and participate in the protest outside Parliament. MPs who vote in favour of the ordinances or those who are absent will be boycotted and will not be allowed to enter villages. He said meetings of all district units will be held on September 8 and another meeting of district heads and office-bearers will be held in Ludhiana on September 10. Farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan have planned protests from September 15 to 20. Earlier, tractor rallies have been organised against ordinances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-bodies-to-protest-outside-parliament-when-agri-ordinances-are-debated/articleshow/77955423.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven peddlers held, ganja worth Rs 2.1 crore seized||Hyderabad: Seven peddlers were arrested and ganja worth Rs 2.1 crore was seized from them in three separate incidents in the state since Friday. In the first incident, prohibition and excise department’s enforcement team intercepted a Mahindra Bolero goods carriage at Doulatabad Crossroads in Sangareddy on Friday and found 425 packets of ganja, concealed behind gunny bags containing groundnuts. Rathod Bansilal and Rathod Shankar, both from Chillapally thanda of Jharasangam, were nabbed with 850kg ganja , worth Rs 1.5 crore. The duo was transporting ganja from Andhra-Odisha border area to Maharashtra. Police booked the duo under the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. In another incident, the Bhadrachalam Town police intercepted a Swift Dzire car at a forest check post and found 201kg ganja, worth Rs 30 lakh, concealed inside the vehicle. Vilas Barakuji Jadav from Sultanpur and his associate Milind Shinde from Nagpur, both in Maharashtra, were arrested. The duo was transporting ganja from Sileru village of Visakhapatanam in Andhra Pradesh to Maharashtra. They were booked under the NDPS Act. In the third incident, Medchal Prohibition and Excise sleuths caught narcotic peddlers for transporting 326kg ganja to Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-peddlers-held-ganja-worth-rs-2-1-crore-seized/articleshow/77955474.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC dismisses ex-IGP’s plea for oral hearing before Lokayukta||PANAJI: The high court dismissed a petition filed by then Goa Inspector General of Police, Sunil Garg seeking oral arguments before the Goa Lokayukta in an application asking for stay on proceedings and challenging an alleged corruption case filed against him. The Lokayukta had directed Garg to make a written submission due to the pandemic, while declining his request for oral arguments through video link from Delhi. Garg, who is posted in Delhi, had approached the high court expressing fear that proceedings before Lokayukta may affect him adversely if he is not given opportunity of oral arguments to refute the corruption allegations. Rejecting his petition, Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu observed, “Based on the gravity of the problem and intricacy of the issues, a tribunal may modulate its procedure. That apart, when a statute is clear, this court exercising its supervisory jurisdiction ought not to dictate to any tribunal the nitty-gritty of day-to-day proceedings”. In 2016, Munnalal Halwai, a businessman from Vasco had alleged that the IGP had allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 5.5 lakh to register a first information report (FIR). The complainant had also approached the Lokayukta. In 2019, the anti-corruption branch (ACB) had closed its preliminary inquiry against the IGP. In 2016, Garg sfiled an application under Section 27 of the Goa Lokayukta Act seeking stay on the proceedings. The matter was adjourned several times, and on June 23, 2020, Garg’s counsel received an email regarding the order passed by Lokayukta dispensing oral arguments in the case with a direction to file written submissions. Subsequently in July, the Lokayukta declined to review its order of written submissions. Hence, Garg filed the petition in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-dismisses-ex-igps-plea-for-oral-hearing-before-lokayukta/articleshow/77955439.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Students uncertain as Pb yet to decide on final exams||Patiala: The exiting students of Punjab universities are facing uncertainty over the terminal examination, as the state government is yet to announce its decision about the exams. Haryana has already announced that it will conduct the terminal exams by September-end and the results will be announced by the end of October. The future of around 78,000 exiting students is at stake. Punjabi University is also awaiting the state government’s announcement after the Supreme Court made it clear that final exams are a must in order to promote students. University authorities are also waiting for the government to make it clear if the exams will be offline or online. Around 70% of the students in the university and its campuses allegedly hail from rural Punjab and are said to be not so tech-savvy. Many do not even have proper internet access. On the other hand, if the exams are conducted offline, the university will face issues accommodating students in hostels, which are overcrowded. “Earlier, the government said there will be no examinations. Now, we are waiting for the instructions of the state government. If it is online, the rural belt students will face problems whereas if it is offline mode, we will have to make extensive arrangements to cater to students in the hostels. Around 15% of the students are from other states, including Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Jammu Kashmir. We also need time to prepare date sheet for the exams,” said Punjabi University examination controller Jaswinder Singh Khattar. When contacted, cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said, “I would be able to tell by Monday evening or Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-uncertain-as-pb-yet-to-decide-on-final-exams/articleshow/77955438.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 6, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling a form of financial terror: Union min||Thrissur: Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Saturday termed gold smuggling a form of “financial terrorism” and demanded resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan against the backdrop of the recent exposes. Inaugurating a fast organized by the BJP Thrissur district president K K Aneesh, demanding resignation of Vijayan, through an online platform, the Union minister said Kerala was facing an unprecedented situation where the chief minister’s office itself is leading anti-national activities and smuggling. He said this gold smuggling was as serious as other forms of terrorist activities. The minister alleged that the Kerala government has indulged in gross violation of laws by accepting funds for the Life Mission housing project from a foreign agency without the concurrence of the central government. He said the external affairs ministry would probe in detail about these violations and will take appropriate actions. The UAE Red Crescent is funding the housing project. Muraleedharan pointed out that the state’s higher education minister K T Jaleel was trying to justify his mistakes in accepting gifts from the UAE, through Facebook posts. Instead, Jaleel must behave like a responsible minister and abide by the laws prevailing in the country, Muraleedharan said. The Union minister also warned that the CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan need not hope that his son Bineesh Kodiyeri would be able to get away with his illegal activities always, and the BJP wants a thorough probe into the Bengaluru drug trafficking case. The BJP central zone secretary Ravikumar Uppath, who presided over the programme, said the party state unit would continue the agitations till Pinarayi Vijayan quits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-a-form-of-financial-terror-union-min/articleshow/77954251.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Transmission dynamics shift post Onam||Thiruvananthapuram: If pre-Onam was about community and institution clusters, the dynamics of transmission seem to be shaping around family clusters post Onam in the state capital. In Kalady, around 35 active cases have emerged from three families and more than 11 cases were reported from single family. Karimadom, Kuriathi and Manacaud have over 90 active cases at present. Karimadom colony had a family in which 11 members tested positive for Covid-19. The pattern of outbreak earlier detected in Karimadom colony and similar highly-populated colonies has undergone a shift. The health team was able to prevent spread of infection among family members after one member tested positive earlier, however, now almost all family members are testing positive soon after an index patient is identified, evidently pointing at the transmission within the family. Kalady had hardly recovered from a recent outbreak that another burst has been reported now which is mostly coming from families. The health officials said the spread has been spotted mostly in families residing closely either within a same compound or amongst members of a joint family. Rajaji Nagar, where sporadic cases were being reported and spread among contacts was effectively checked, has now given into family spread. There are around 30 live cases at present and the chain involves mostly family members. It also presents painful situations for the family. In one instance, a mother of a three-month-old baby was tested positive and now the baby and mother have been isolated under home care and other family members have to stay away from mother and baby. Karimadom colony, which has averted a random spread earlier, has reportedly hosted family gatherings as part of Onam, health officials have learnt. The team is now probing whether such occurrence led to spread of disease among family members. Within the past one week, 300 tests have been done at Karimadom. More tests are being scheduled in Mancaud region on Sunday which also includes an orphanage and a residential colony. The officials said they are getting conflicting reports of positive patients taking part in family gatherings as part of Onam festivities. While index patients have mostly been symptomatic, rest of the family members are mostly asymptomatic. Closely populated residential colonies had posed the biggest challenge in curbing the spread in coastal clusters during July and August. If the present outbreak in colonies of similar nature spills over to the community, the worst nightmare would come true for health officials. The team had painstakingly managed to check the spread of disease from coastal areas to other parts of the district with extended lockdown and it had come at a huge price of soaring public dissent on losing means of livelihood. The authorities are keen on averting a similar situation within the city and are trying to keep family clusters under check. Kallikadu panchayat, which has been in the thick of disease transmission, is now reporting cases mostly from Mylakkara and Chamalappuram. The officials call it a case of delayed peak as many of the neighbouring wards had already gone through the peak and are on a downward slide. A total of 46 cases have so far been reported at Chamalappuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/transmission-dynamics-shift-post-onam/articleshow/77954255.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, IMA tie up to offer free online med service||Kolkata: Have got health issues but apprehensive to visit a hospital or a doctor’s chamber for consultation because of the pandemic? Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have come up with a web-based solution to help with your health issues. A panel of specialist doctors from both government and private hospitals will offer video consultation over the app at no cost. All that one needs to do is register at https://kmc.janupchaar.com with your e-mail ID. The platform will show the panel of doctors and the time and the day when a particular specialist is available. A patient can book her/his slot according to his/her requirement. Named Daktarbabu, the service will enable patients who register themselves to speak to the doctors via video conference, unlike most online/telemedicine medical consultation services.“Patients are still afraid of going to hospitals or visiting doctors’ chambers unless it is an extreme emergency. Our initiative is to help patients come out of that situation,” said Firhad Hakim, KMC chairman board of administrators, while launching the app on Saturday.Doctors like medicine specialist Soumitra Ghosh, surgery HOD Makhan Lala Saha, ENT head Arunava Sengupta, cardiologist Saroj Mondal and nephrology head Ranjendra Pandey from SSKM hospital, tropical medicine specialist Bivuti Saha of School of Tropical Medicine, orthopaedic surgeon Sandip Ghosh MSVP Calcutta National Medical College, Dental surgeon Raju Biswas of R Ahmed Dental College and Gastroenterologist Mahesh Goenka of Apollo Hospital figure in initial panel of 35 doctors. “More doctors will be joining the panel. Their names will be uploaded later,” said Rajya Sabha MP and IMA state secretary Santanu Sen. Patients will get prescription online. They can also upload investigative reports for doctors to examine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-ima-tie-up-to-offer-free-online-med-service/articleshow/77954247.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro e-pass gets mixed response from commuters||KOLKATA: The thought of downloading the e-pass is putting off several Metro commuters who were looking forward to their favourite mode of transport reopening at last. After five months, Kolkata’s lifeline is gearing to resume services on September 14, albeit with a host of new protocols, including the use of QR code-based e-passes. These passes have been mandatory for boarding a Metro train. LIC employee Pratap Das, who currently takes a bus from Bhowanipore to reach his office at Hindustan Building on CR Avenue, said, “I thought my smart card would be enough. But now, I have learnt about the mandatory e-pass. The process is complex. I think I shall continue to take the public bus.” The 55-year-old added, “The bus ride is uncomfortable, but at least it’s simple.” Das’s feelings were echoed by Salt Lake resident Amitava Das, who goes through a lot of hassle to reach his office at Esplanade thrice a week. “I first take an auto or a bus to Ultadanga, from where it is a long and tedious journey to Esplanade. I was really eager for the Metro service to restart. But now, I don’t think I want to go through all that trouble.” College lecturer Paramita Chatterjee, a regular Metro commuter from Kalighat to Dum Dum, said: “Thank god, we are taking online classes from home. I don’t know how I would have downloaded the passes twice a day. What if I did manage to download it for the Up journey, but something went wrong when I was returning home? ” However, not everyone is averse to the concept of the e-pass. Tollygunge resident Prashant Joshi, who now takes an app cab to his Park Street office, is willing to give it a shot. “I think it will be worth a try because with only 400 people allowed to board, the Metro will not be crowded and commute will be comfortable,” the 30-year-old corporate executive said. Some, like Arunima Mukherjee, another office-goer from New Alipore, said they would wait for a few weeks to see how the new system pans out. “If procuring e-passes is smooth and physical distancing is followed properly, I may just give up taking a hired car,” the 28-year-old said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-e-pass-gets-mixed-response-from-commuters/articleshow/77954245.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 6, 2020||Pune||Repairs choose repairs over replacement amid Covid||PUNE: Salary cuts and job losses have made people wary of buying new appliances, with many preferring to get their malfunctioning gadgets repaired, instead of replacing them with new ones. “Earlier, people used to think twice about spending money on something that has broken down. But since money has been tight for everyone, people have been opting for repairing their malfunctioning appliances. I have had a few clients who booked my services to fix a fan or install switch and then asked me to also repair their toaster or their induction,” said Dhananjay Shelar, an electrician. With people curbing spending on non-essential items, the business of repairs has received a boost, creating small jobs for those who have lost their livelihood during the pandemic. “I used to run a business of renting sound and light equipment but have been out of work for a while since no gigs are being held now. I tried waiting it out, but realised I need to find an alternative means of income. So, I have taken up repairing speakers, sound systems, DJ equipment etc. The income is not much, but it makes me feel less helpless,” said Moin Ahmed, a repairman from Sinhagad Road. Tejas Ratnakar, owner of a second-hand appliances and furniture shop, has also taken providing repair services. He has noticed a change in consumer behaviour in the last few months. “Earlier, people used to hardly bother about repairing small appliances, but this has changed of late. Customers have been calling me to repair their appliances that have broken down, instead of selling them. I have repaired a number of food processors,” he said. “The bright side of the pandemic is that it has prompted people to make more sustainable choices. Many are trying to help those who have been hit the hardest. My maid’s husband lost his job as a server in a local eatery and went back to accompanying his electrician father on repair jobs. I also had them over to fix a few things around the house,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/repairs-choose-repairs-over-replacement-amid-covid/articleshow/77955445.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: August sees 83% spike in PUC checks amid transport department drive||NEW DELHI: In the month of August, the Delhi government’s transport department had cracked the whip on polluting vehicles and those found without valid Pollution Under Control Certificates (PUCC) ended up paying a hefty fine of Rs 10,000. The crackdown resulted in the number of vehicle owners getting PUC checks done going up by 83% in August compared with July. Though PUC centres were opened in May as part of Unlock 1, the number of vehicles on both roads and at PUC centres was negligible. As many vehicle owners landed up at PUC centres to get their vehicles checked in June, the number of checks done was 5,18,948 but in July, the number dipped to 4,04,570. In August, however, total 7,40,698 vehicles were checked in Delhi, which appears to be a direct result of a special drive carried out by the department’s enforcement wing. The special drive started from August 11 and 40 teams were deployed across Delhi to check and penalise polluting vehicles. From August 11 to August 24, total 27,656 vehicles were checked and 2,680 were penalised, including 2,450 for not carrying PUCC and 230 for being ‘visibly polluting’. The focus of the drive was on the 13 pollution hotspots of the city. Out of the total 2,680 vehicles penalised, 1,216 fines were issued in these hotspots. On August 1, 11,057 vehicles were checked for pollution and the number slowly increased to more than 20,000 checks by August 11. However, within three days since the drive began, this number started crossing 25,000 PUC checks a day and the highest number of PUC checks was carried out on August 25 – 37,309. “Validity of documents, such as driving licence and other permits, has been extended by the union ministry of road transport and highways till December 31. While PUCC should also come under these such documents, we cannot make an exception keeping in mind Delhi’s fight against pollution,” said a source in Delhi government. With the rush at PUC centres increasing following the enforcement drive, many vehicle owners have been complaining of non-functional centres due to cloud server issues. The Delhi government, however, is taking action to rectify the problem of frequent snags in the server.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aug-sees-83-spike-in-puc-checks-amid-transport-dept-drive/articleshow/77967805.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Striped keelback rescued from Ghoteli residence||KERI: A striped keelback, a non-venomous snake that feeds on poisonous toads, was rescued from a house in Haddecho Kano in Ghoteli, Sattari. Goa has a rich species diversity of the snakes which is locally refereed to as ‘hevale’. “The snake was in our backyard and was swallowing a toad. We were scared on seeing it and called in a snake rescuer who caught it released it in its natural habitat,” said Maitrayee Ghogale, from whose house the snake was rescued. The striped keelback has a slender body with a long tail and is generally found in damp places, grasslands and fields. It lives on frogs, toads and lizards. The snake attacks when provoked by expanding its neck laterally displaying a blue to red colour between the scales. Herpetologist Gerry Martin, who was informed about the rescued reptile, said, “This snake loves feeding on toads and frogs. Many snakes are immune to bufotoxin.” Bufotoxins are toxic steroid lactones that occur in the parotoid glands, skin and venom of many toads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/striped-keelback-rescued-from-ghoteli-residence/articleshow/77955487.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 6, 2020||Lucknow||AAP MP Sanjay Singh accuses Uttar Pradesh govt of graft||LUCKNOW: Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh accused the state government of corruption in purchase of oxymeters and thermometers, alleging they were bought for much higher than their market price. Showing documents on purchase of oxymeters and thermometers in Jhansi on Saturday, Singh said one oxymeter worth Rs 800 was purchased for Rs 4,000 while a thermometer worth Rs 1,800 was purchased for Rs 4,500. “On Friday, I had shown documents showing a similar scam in Sultanpur. We have now found another one in Jhansi. This equipment has been purchased for Covid-19 monitoring. In Jhansi, different gram panchayats purchased the same equipment from different companies at varying costs,” he said. He demanded a probe by a high court judge monitored SIT and said AAP would launch a protest in the state if this is not done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-mp-accuses-govt-of-graft/articleshow/77956114.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Kolkata learns from Delhi mistake, to have RT-PCR follow-up tests||KOLKATA: The health department has started ramping up the number of rapid antigen tests (RAT) that now account for about 50% of the Covid tests conducted in the state daily. But taking a lesson from Delhi, which came under the scanner for relying on RAT tests with health experts fearing suppression in the number of positive cases, state health officials say they were re-checking negative samples of each symptomatic patient to ensure that not a single case is missed out. Though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved RAT for containment zones and hospital settings on June 14, Bengal started using RAT kits only on July 28 with 1,183 tests out of the 10,000 kits it had procured in the first lot. These were distributed mostly among hospitals to use them on patients who needed immediate diagnosis. RAT takes just about 30 minutes to throw up a result in comparison to six to eight hours by RT-PCR, which is regarded as the gold standard for Covid tests. But the number of RAT tests shot up majorly in August. Out of the total 9,13,460 tests done in the month, 4,01,402 were RAT. “At present, the ratio of RAT and RT-PCR tests in the state is 50:50. But the health department is taking all steps to re-confirm negative cases of symptomatic patients by RT-PCR so that we don’t miss out positive cases,” said Pradip Mitra, former director (medical education), who is now the coordinator of Bengal’s Covid management and containment committee. The number of RAT in the first four days of September was 92,150 against 86,619 RT-PCR tests. The state government has already procured 10,000 lakh RAT kits and is on the way of procuring more. “RAT kits are useful in cases where results are required immediately. While a positive sample is to be taken as positive, negative samples, especially those of symptomatic and highly suspicious cases, need reconfirmation by RT-PCR,” said Pratip Kundu, director of the School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. Health care experts said that while a testing strategy combining RT-PCR and RAT was a good decision, they warn that RAT should be restricted to containment zones and specific cases. “Meticulous use of RAT, especially in containment areas and on highly suspicious patients like that of SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza-like illness) could prove useful in containment strategy. But deploying RAT for mass screening is debatable because the chance of kits throwing up negative results in asymptomatic patients is high,” said Debkishore Gupta, infectious disease control specialist. Currently, some civic bodies, including KMC, is using RAT to test residents of housing complexes. Health department officials claim that history of each patient who is tested by RAT is taken to mark if it is a case of a highly suspected Covid patient. And if the result of such a patient is negative, the person’s sample being tested by RT-PCR again. “Along with RAT, we have also ramped up RT-PCR tests. The number of testing labs has gone up to 71. We will be scaling up the number of RT-PCR labs further,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-learns-from-delhi-mistake-to-have-rt-pcr-follow-up-tests/articleshow/77954256.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Darjeeling hotels get govt nod to reopen for tourists||KOLKATA: Hotels and restaurants in Darjeeling and Kalimpong will finally start opening from next Tuesday, after remaining shut for over two months. Tourists from Kolkata, who have slowly started moving out of their homes, even amid the pandemic were elated at the news. In a late-evening circular, the district administrators stated that operation of hotels and restaurants will be allowed outside containment zones. “We held several meetings to pave a way for reopening of the hotels. With people slowly leaving their homes and opting for short vacations, we are hopeful to see tourists return to the hills. Once trains become operational, tourists are likely to increase,” said Pradip Lama, secretary of Darjeeling Association of Travel Agents. As Covid-19 forced people indoors, hotels in Darjeeling had decided to shut down from July 1 as it was not feasible to operate. The decision left nearly 10,000 people associated with 400-odd hotels in Darjeeling without jobs. “The peak tourism season, mid-March to mid-June, is over. But we are getting many queries for the next season that starts in October. We have now got a few bookings for September,” said Debanjan Bose of Spring Brook Homestay in Darjeeling. Saibal Pathak, who runs a chain of homestays in the hills added: “We will start sanitization operations from Sunday. We hope bookings soar after the three lockdown days next week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/darj-hotels-get-govt-nod-to-reopen-for-tourists/articleshow/77954252.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 6, 2020||Goa||No NOC for road work on Baga hill: Panchayat||Calangute: A Calangute-based NGO recently complained to the Arpora-Nagoa panchayat that a road is being constructed illegally atop the Baga hill. In its complaint, the Calangute Constituency Forum (CCF) stated that a part of the area has been identified as private forest and no development activities could be permitted there. When contacted, Arpora-Nagoa sarpanch Rajesh Morajkar said the local body had not issued an NOC for the construction of the road. “We can only issue an NOC if someone comes with the approved plan from the departments concerned, but nobody has approached us so far,” he said. In January 2019, after some trees had allegedly been cut and vegetation cleared to create an access road to private properties atop the hill, residents of the area, along with the CCF, had filed a writ petition in the high court of Bombay at Goa. “It has come to our knowledge that development work and clearing of trees and vegetation have resumed on top of the Baga hill in survey numbers 267, 270, 265 and 253 in order to construct a road. You are well aware that survey numbers 267 and 270 have been identified as private forest and in view of the same, no such construction or development work can be permitted here,” the NGO stated in its recent complaint to the panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-noc-for-road-work-on-baga-hill-panchayat/articleshow/77955479.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hot & humid weather spurs intense rain in some areas||PUNE: The high temperature and humidity paved the way for heavy showers and thunderstorms in some parts of the city, especially the western side, on Saturday evening, while the other areas received scant to no rainfall in the same period. Residents in the western and the south-western parts of the city, such as Sinhagad Road, Sahakarnagar, Warje and Kothrud, among others, reported heavy showers with thunder and lightning. There was waterlogging in some places because of the intensity of the rainfall. Areas like Pune Cantonment, Koregaon Park, Kondhwa and NIBM Road received traces to no rainfall in the same period. The IMD said such rainfall and thundery activity would continue over the next 48 hours. “This weather is a part of the monsoon itself, although the status of the monsoon winds in the region is currently weak. The high temperature and the high supply of moisture in the south-western parts of the state triggered such local weather activity, including spells of rain. After the next 48 hours, the intensity of rain will reduce,” Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI. The IMD could not provide the rainfall figures for the evening. Till 5.30pm on Saturday, neither of the three stations of the IMD in the city recorded any rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hot-humid-weather-spurs-intense-rain-in-some-areas/articleshow/77955485.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Galwan col’s wife gets posting in CCLA||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Saturday appointed Bikumalla Santhoshi as deputy collector in the Telangana civil services cadre, which will come into effect from the date of her joining duty. Santhoshi, widow of Col Santosh Babu, who died during a clash with China’s PLA forces in Galwan Valley a couple of months ago, was offered a job by the state government. She has been allotted to the chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA) and will work under commissioner of CCLA. The revenue department issued a GO in this regard. She will undergo training in the department and would be on probation on two years. She should be in continuation of service for three years, including probation period. Santhoshi has to pass the tests prescribed in rules of Telangana civil services (executive branch) within the period of her probation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/galwan-cols-wife-gets-posting-in-ccla/articleshow/77955529.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kochi||Moideen to sue Akkara for defamation||Thrissur: CPM leader and minister A C Moideen has sent legal notices against Congress MLA Anil Akkara alleging that the latter had made defamatory statements against him. He has demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore. Notices have also been issued against Mathrubhumi News channel anchor Smrithi Paruthikkad, editor Unni Balakrishnan, and printer and publisher of Mathrubhumi daily M N Ravi Varma. According to the notice issued through advocate K B Mohandas, Akkara had made a false allegation that Moideen had indulged in corrupt activities by acting as a middleman for the apartment project being constructed by the UAE Red Crescent at Wadakkanchery. Akkara had alleged that there was a corruption of Rs 4 crore in the project, and Moideen had allegedly received Rs 2 crore from this, the notice said. The notice demanded that all four accused must unconditionally withdraw the defamatory reports within a week after receiving the notice.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moideen-to-sue-akkara-for-defamation/articleshow/77954267.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Band parties fall silent in Kolkata in Covid season||KOLKATA: Brass bands synonymous with festivities and celebrations have fallen on bad times due to the pandemic. Dressed in long colourful shirts and fitting trousers, brass bands playing peppy — sometimes bordering on boisterous — tunes have been a must-have at Indian weddings, festivals and even political functions. The artists who would play instruments like trumpets, drums, saxophones and clarinets are now looking for alternative means of livelihood, with some even driving auto-rickshaws and working in small eateries. Owing to the pandemic, the government has put curbs on all celebrations, including weddings and festivals, fixing the upper limit of guests to implement social distancing and preventing the virus from spreading. Brass bands, which were a part of these celebrations, have been omitted from the priority list. The lanes off MG Road strewn with small shops where brass instruments and silken tunics hang from the walls have fallen completely silent. “We missed out on a big part of the wedding season. There are no orders from puja organizers, who themselves are uncertain about the festival. Between March and June, we were scheduled to play for at least 15 weddings that got cancelled. Many of my musicians have left for their homes in UP and Bihar while some others are doing odd jobs in Kolkata, working for small eateries or driving auto-rickshaws,” said Mohammad Nishat Khan, owner of Classic Band. Brass bands came into existence in India during the early days of British rule by the coming together of the British military bands and the royal Indian procession. In independent India, these bands become an integral part of any festive occasion, from weddings, festivals and even birthdays. Away from the bright lights of the wedding processions and carnivalesque festivals, it was always a tough life for the musicians, with lots of travel to the suburbs and neighbouring districts, long hours and inconsistent pay. The pandemic has just hit the last nail in the coffin. Modern day couples now prefer hiring DJs for their weddings. Similarly, even puja committees engage DJs for the immersion ceremonies. But there was still some work for the brass bands. “The pandemic has crushed all our hopes of getting work in immediate future. Earlier, we would at least be hopeful that the wedding season and Pujas would bring some work for us. But this time, even we know that’s impossible,’ said Shaheen Ahmed of Bharat Band on MG Road. Mohammad Shamim has been playing the shehnai for over 22 years, the mellifluous tunes of which are synonymous with Durga Puja, is now working in a hotel in Mechua as a waiter. “I have a family to look after. If I say no to this work just because I am an artist, we will have to go hungry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/band-parties-fall-silent-in-covid-season/articleshow/77954266.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Bhagwan Kataria steps down as vice president of CBD||NASHIK: Corporator Bhagwan Kataria of the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has resigned as the vice-president of the board. Kataria said he resigned as per the decision of senior party functionaries in the city. A new vice-president would be elected from the existing corporators of the BJP-RPI alliance during a meeting of the party seniors. Currently, in the CBD, five corporators are from the BJP, one is from the RPI. All the corporators in the alliance have been given the opportunity to hold vice-president post over the past five years. Kataria held the post for the past 14 months. The term of the corporators were extended in August as the election could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhagwan-kataria-steps-down-as-vice-president-of-cbd/articleshow/77955500.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: First-time flyers drag web check-in ratio below 20%||KOLKATA: The city airport has acquired the dubious distinction of the worst web check-in ratio with less than 20% flyers completing the formalities before reaching the terminal. While the national average for web check-in, which was made mandatory to minimize contact after domestic flight services resumed on May 25, is around 94%. “An explosion in first-time travellers, mostly skilled workers returning to their workplaces, has led to a slump in web check-in figures from over 90% in June to under 20%. An airline reported that only 5% of its passengers had done web check-in,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said. This, along with the failure to furnish one’s status on the Aarogya Setu app and e-pass required to travel to states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu, are the primary reasons for flight delays and no-shows as passengers require to complete these formalities before they can step into the terminal. After Tuesday’s fiasco, when a couple of hundred passengers missed flights because they could not complete the documentation on time, the airport operator and airlines have deputed manpower to help the blue-collar workers — masons, plumbers and electricians —most of them on tickets sponsored by labour contractors or large construction firms. “Many flyers don’t have smartphones. So they can’t download the Aarogya Sutu app and are required to fill up a declaration form. Filing for e-pass is time-consuming as it requires a lot of details to be filled up,” an airline official explained. On Thursday, operations were a lot smoother but a few dozen passengers still missed their flights. That, security persons said, was owing to a second stumbling block at the security check. While cabin baggage X-ray earlier detected the odd Swiss knife, nail cutter or scissor, a plethora of banned items are being detected in handbags. “Many migrant workers are travelling with the tools of their trade such as hammer, chisel, trowel, screw driver, wrench, plier and even a drill machine in the cabin bag. We have to again send them to the airline counter to deposit the bags. Some are resisting it as they never let go of their tools. Explaining the problem to them and convincing them that the tools will not get lost is taking time,” a CISF officer pointed out. Among those who had to be persuaded was Saikat Pal of Tarakeshwar, who was heading to Surat with a stack of gold jewellery metal dice in his handbag. “This is the first time I am travelling in a flight and I had no clue that such metal items are banned,” recounted Pal. Sk Gahir, who was heading to Bangalore with a group of other construction workers, not only had small metal tools in his backpack but also cooking utensils. “We always carry our belongings with us. When we used to travel in a train, even a stove. It didn’t know we can’t do that in a plane,” said Gahir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-time-flyers-drag-web-check-in-ratio-below-20/articleshow/77954261.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 6, 2020||Pune||Nine booked for dumping debris on Pavana riverbed||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Friday registered a case against nine people, all residents of Kasarwadi, for dumping debris on the Pavana riverbed at Phugewadi in June this year. The civic authorities filed a case after repeatedly asking them to remove the debris from the riverbed. Police said the nine people dumped the debris during the wee hours of June 4. Rajendra Dumbre, officer, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), lodged a complaint in this regard with the Bhosari police. According to the FIR, the suspects dumped the debris within the flood line/ blue line area of the river. They brought the debris from a construction site in Kasarwadi. Many trucks loaded with the debris were emptied at the spot. During the survey of the flood line, the PCMC staffers noticed the debris within the blue line of the river and alerted senior PMC officials, police said. Following this, the PCMC authorities issued notices to all the nine people, asking them to remove the debris from the river site. They also warned them of legal action. Despite this, the suspects did not remove the debris from the site following which the PCMC authorities decided to file a criminal complaint against them, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-booked-for-dumping-debris-on-pavana-riverbed/articleshow/77955509.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kochi||MLA’s mother writes to Yechury||Thrissur: Lilly Antony, mother of Congress leader and MLA Anil Akkara, on Friday wrote a letter to CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury condemning the description of her son as “Satan’s son” by the CPM Kerala secretariat member, Baby John. John had reportedly made these remarks during his speech at a programme organized by the CPM to counter the allegations levelled by Akkara against the Life Mission housing project coming up at Wadakkanchery with the financial support from UAE Red Crescent. She recalled that her late husband and Akkara’s father Antony was a CPM activist, and said no party leaders should describe their rivals with debasing terms as Satan’s son. “These are words which no mother would like to hear about her son. As a mother, I used to always pray to God to keep my children away from the temptations of Satan. I believe children are the gift of God, and not of Satan. Baby John was in fact describing my husband, who was a CPM activist till his death about 16 years ago, as Satan. Can a Communist leader describe another party activist as Satan?” she said. She said she was not planning to file a case or to request to take any action against John. “I’m only hoping that no other mother would be forced to go through such experiences,” Lilly said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mlas-mother-writes-to-yechury/articleshow/77954276.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Rural hospitals converted into dedicated covid care centre in district||NASHIK: The district health department has converted 16 rural hospitals, trauma care centres and other medical facilities into dedicated covid health centres (DCHCs) to streamline treatment for Covid-19 and non-covid patients. Anant Pawar, the resident medical officer of Nashik civil hospital, said the decision was taken as rural hospitals and trauma centres were not getting too many non-covid patients. Pawar added there are at least two good medical facilities — like a sub-district hospital or a rural hospital and a trauma care centre — in every taluka of the district. In bigger talukas, there are three such facilities. “Some new facilities, inclyding the building of the Sinnar rural hospital, which was not thrown open to public prior to the pandemic, were also converter into DCHCs after the outbreak,” he said. Out-patient departments have been set up at places that have been converted into DCHCs. Pawar said a majority of the cases in the rural hospitals are related to maternity/delivery issues or diarrhoea, snake bite, road accidents etc. After the medical facility is converted into a DCHC, a non-covid government medical facility is identified within a 20-km radius. He said all works like setting up centralised oxygen pipleline at the DCHCs have been completed. There are 540 beds at the DCHCs across the district. However, not all are filled to capacity as the number of cases is low in some talukas, said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-hospitals-converted-into-dedicated-covid-care-centre-in-district/articleshow/77955523.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid situation out of control due to poor implementation of SOPs: Doctors||Nagpur: Covid-19 crisis in Nagpur seems to be spiralling out of control. Nagpur district alone accounts nearly 56% of cases in the entire Vidarbha region and 65% of deaths due to Covid-19. With situation turning scary, doctors who are treating Covid as well as non-Covid patients in the district have some observations and possible solutions on the current situation. TOI spoke to leading doctors in city to know about the crisis and its solutions. Doctors blamed poor implementation of the SOPs released by the central government in city/district and in state at large. Government facilities don’t have health care professionals, and recruitment drives by authorities have failed poorly. Irresponsible behaviour by people is also a major reason behind uncontrolled spread of infection. “No authority would be able to provide health care backups if people remain irresponsible and careless,” said Dr Anup Marar, director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) adding that it is imperative that strict enforcement sanitization guidelines be done. “Government should give total liberty to all doctors for treating incoming Covid patients. Monopoly, penal actions, terror games and stringent notifications by non medical authorities have put the medical fraternity in defensive which is detrimental and against public health interests,” he added. Many Covid Care Centres (CCCs) are lying unused and NMC hospitals can’t admit patients as they don’t have doctors and health care workers. Now, they have started recruitment drives but these efforts are also likely to get poor response like previous drives. “The advertisement by authorities clearly mentions that the recruitment is on temporary basis for Covid crisis period of some three months. Government should at least recruit health care providers for a year or two,” said Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). “Authorities are trying to attract staff from private hospitals to work in government facilities. This will result in crisis situation at private hospitals and our bed capacity will fall. Ultimately, people will not get services,” said Dr Sameer Paltewar, director of Meditrina Institute. According to doctors most advanced facilities, infrastructure is useless if there is no manpower and proper planning. “Dynamic Covid dashboards, and centralized bed allotment system is in place but not in use in Nagpur. Such dashboards must be updated on real-time basis,” said Dr Rughwani. “Instead of asking hospitals to turn themselves into dedicated Covid center, authorities need to use Covid Care Centers (CCCs), most of which are lying vacant and unattended,” said Dr Paltewar adding that the ‘no listen attitude’ of the government is not allowing doctors to work properly. Doctors also criticized the proposal of Mumbai specialist teams which suggested that IAS officers should manage the hospitals and doctors should concentrate only on treatment part. “Government Babus hardly have medical knowledge and understand nuances of the profession. Doctors should be a part of decision-making process,” said Dr Rajesh Swarnkar of Getwell Hospital. More testing is the key in fight against Covid-19. For this, more labs in private sector should get license to conduct RT-PCR tests. “As per government policy, all private hospitals are seeking RT-PCR test before surgery of all patients. In Nagpur, there are only two private-sector labs having RT-PCR test and one lab with Tru-Nat test facility. They have a fixed number of tests possible per day. There are thousands of non-Covid patients say, heart, brain, cancer, TB, kidney disease along with infections, accidents etc who are in need of admission and are suffering due to delay in treatment. More private labs are must for such patients,” said Dr Prashant Onkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-situation-out-of-control-due-to-poor-implementation-of-sops-doctors/articleshow/77955536.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 6, 2020||Pune||Connectivity problems hobble efforts to work from home||Pune: Working from home might have become the new normal for many, but connectivity issues have made the experience far from smooth. According to the portal, ‘istheservicedown.in’, over 60% of the complaints lodged during any 24-hour period pertain to poor internet connectivity in different areas of the city. The portal compiles a few thousand complaints per day, which show a pattern — the resolution is neither swift nor complete, and follows a script. “I am facing unprecedented network issues for the past six months now. I knew nothing much could be done during the lockdown, hence did not highlight the issue. However this has now gone way beyond and I am literally not reachable, nor can I access data smoothly. Please resolve,” one Vipul Jain posted online recently.He was met with a standard assurance of a call back, but nothing happened.While there is scant data on city-specific porting requests, nationwide data from the telecom regulator show it to be as high as four million subscribers per month. “The connectivity is so bad that I often overshoot my daily deadlines. Working from home is a struggle with such poor internet connectivity. I was offered all help but then nothing came through and so I ported. Many people in my area have two numbers,” an Undri resident said. Telecom providers Vodafone Idea, Airtel and Jio did not respond to queries on poor connectivity. A BSNL spokesperson said their network cannot be classified as bad. “Due to certain technical reasons — optical fibre cable break due to external agency, power failure due to natural calamity, etc — the network quality gets affected. We are continuously improving the issues by optimizing the existing network. We are maintaining a high up-time in city area in Pune. Also now due to high density of sites in peripheries of the city, we are not able to expand the network the way we want,” the spokesperson said. BSNL has 1,649 cell towers (only 2G and 3G) and provides fibre-to-the-home Internet services by tying up with 190 third-parties across the city. During lockdown, it has provided over 3,000 connections across the city. Vodafone-Idea, Jio and Airtel together have over 30,000 towers in Pune and its peripheries. About 22,000 of these are 4G sites, according to an official in the public sector telecommunications office. While Vodafone-Idea’s official communication was awaited, a company executive said that the network integration is complete and they will check where network is poor. People are, however, unhappy. “It was a struggle to convince clients to allow work-from-home. The government says that it needs to be encouraged where possible, but I have to call 50% of my staff in phases so that work does not suffer,” said a vice president of leading multinational firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/connectivity-problems-hobble-efforts-to-work-from-home/articleshow/77955526.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 6, 2020||Pune||3 booked for harassing woman on social media||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police have filed a case against three men for outraging the modesty of a 41-year-old woman after she lodged a complaint on Friday, alleging that they had posted objectionable text messages on her social media page in last two days. The woman, a resident of Sinhagad road, had uploaded a message on her social media page after listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme. The three men did not like the message and publicly posted vulgar and abusive comments in reply, police said. Senior police inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police said, “The woman is affiliated to a political party. In her message she had urged people to adopt dogs of Indian breeds and take selfies with them.” “Many people objected to the message but the three men posted vulgar comments and also bullied her,” he said. “Prima facie, the three social media accounts were found to be fake and misleading. The details of the three accounts have been noted and we have written a letter the social media site’s office seeking details. We will take action after locating the respective IP addresses of the accounts,” Shelke said. “We have invoked provisions of the Information Technology Act and sections 354 (A) (Outraging modesty of a woman) and 354 (D) (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-booked-for-harassing-woman-on-social-media/articleshow/77955533.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city registers 724 Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||NASHIK: Nashik city a registered 724 fresh Covid-19 cases and four casualties on Saturday. With this, the death toll of the city stands at 518, civic officials said. According to civic officials, 842 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various Covid-19 treatment facilities which was highest since August 20. At present, there are 4,428 active cases in the city. Meanwhile, the rural areas of the district reported 137 cases with 107 being discharged from various facilities after recovery. In addition, five people succumbed to the infection in rural areas on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-registers-724-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/77955531.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||G-23 letter-writers, Congress leadership to meet on Tuesday||NEW DELHI: The Congress leadership, including leading members of the G-23 “letter writers”, will meet on Tuesday to discuss parliamentary strategy, the session being important because it will be the first time that the two groups will come together since the stormy CWC meeting over the dissenters seeking organisational overhaul. Sources said Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, veterans like AK Antony and possibly Rahul Gandhi will be on the virtual platform to brain storm on issues to be taken up in the coming Parliament session starting on September 14. While the letter writers have complained that there has been no communication from the party brass since the CWC meet on August 24, there is expectation that the Congress chief should meet a group to discuss the issues raised by them. While it is said that the invite may come through soon, some AICC managers question the public comments from, and private gatherings of, what is known as G-23, and are counselling restraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-23-letter-writers-congress-leadership-to-meet-on-tuesday/articleshow/77956477.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||NHAI ties up with four engineering colleges in coastal Karnataka||Mangaluru: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has tied up with four engineering colleges of coastal Karnataka to collaborate and adopt nearby stretches of the NH as part of Institutional Social Responsibility (ISR). The objective is to leverage the intellectual prudence of students and faculty towards improvement of the road infrastructure ecosystem. Shishu Mohan, project director, NHAI, Mangaluru, told TOI that NHAI has approached four institutions including Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), MAHE, National Institute of Technology, Karnataka (NITK) Surathkal, Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering (MITE) Moodbidri and Karwar Engineering College and signed an MOU with the directors. They will give suggestions for the development of the highways. The highway stretches have been divided accordingly among the four institutions. “We hope to depute one student each for every five kilometers. This will provide an opportunity for the students to get field experience and will act as a helping hand for NHAI,” he said. The institutes will have a better knowledge of local requirements, topography, and resource potential, and these vital inputs can be utilized by NHAI during different stages of construction and operation of the highway. This decentralized approach, besides building a sense of participation, also provides an opportunity to students for hands-on-learning, internship, and future areas of research. Adoption of the NH stretch by an institute will facilitate stakeholder engagement and help to mitigate the routine local problems such as traffic movement, congestion, and immediate identification of accident-prone sites. The highway users become more empowered in resolving local problems through the institute and the authority. Such instances will help NHAI in understanding the local needs, improve maintenance and riding comfort, and develop wayside amenities for enhanced user experience. The overall outcome shall be a commuter-friendly and enjoyable ride, stated NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nhai-ties-up-with-four-engineering-colleges-in-coastal-karnataka/articleshow/77952910.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mysuru||Untreated sewage being released to 17 rivers in K’taka: Pollution board||Mysuru: Untreated sewage water and effluents are being released directly to rivers in the state, reveals a letter by the Karnataka Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department. According to the letter, 17 rivers considered the lifeline for crores of people, are severely polluted. According to the authorities, in its letter to the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department, KSPCB has listed 17 rivers — Cauvery (Mysuru), Kabini (Kapila) in Mysuru, Lakshmana Tirtha (Mysuru), Tunga (Shivamogga/ Chikkamagaluru), Bhadra (Shivamogga/ Chikkamagaluru), Yagachi (Hassan), Shimsha (Hassan), Arkavati (Bengaluru), Kali (Uttara Kannada), Netravati and Kumaradhara (Dakshina Kannada), Malaprabha (Belagavi), Tunga Bhadra (Shivamogga, Davanagere, Ballari), Krishna, Bhima, and Kagina river in Kalaburgi district. The pollution control board has advised the rural drinking water supply and sanitation department to set up Sewage Treatment Plants ( STPs) in areas where these effluents are being directly released to rivers. Based on the communiqué, the department has asked the district panchayats concerned to take immediate action. Speaking to TOI, rural drinking water supply and sanitation department commissioner R Vishal said the chief executive officers (CEOs) of districts where this problem has been reported by KSPCB are advised to come up with Liquid Waste Management (LWM) plans to treat the effluents. “We are working on this issue,” he told TOI. According to the KSPCB report, 50km stretch of Cauvery river is polluted in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts while 9km stretch of Kabini (Kapila) river is polluted due to the sewage water in Mysuru district. The report pointed out that several town and rural administrative bodies are releasing the untreated effluents directly to the rivers causing water pollution. The KSPCB has shared drain locations, drain length and other details with the department which requires immediate attention to ensure untreated water is not released into the rivers. The board has also asked the department to submit a time bound action plan to resolve the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/untreated-sewage-being-released-to-17-rivers-in-ktaka-pollution-board/articleshow/77953106.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 6, 2020||Goa||Sawant broke home isolation to visit private hospital: Cong||Panaji: Continuing to needle chief minister Pramod Sawant, Congress claimed that he visited a private hospital on Thursday, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Sawant violated home isolation norms to visit the private hospital at Dona Paula early morning without a police escort. Congress’s latest salvo comes after Sawant tweeted his Covid-19 test results done on September 2 to prove that he got tested at a government facility. “I never said that the CM did the Covid test in a private hospital,” Chodankar said, adding, “I had asked for information and my tweet on September 4 is very clear about it.” On Friday, Chodankar had questioned Sawant about his Covid-19 test to which Sawant had asked Chodankar to stop wasting time. Chodankar has thanked Sawant for releasing the Covid-19 test result but followed up with a pointed question asking why Sawant visited a private hospital on September 3. “I now want the chief minister to kindly let us know why he visited a private hospital and inform the people of Goa whether he had gone there to do his own tests or test someone else. Let the truth come out,” he said. Meanwhile, state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar has called on Sawant to focus on recuperating from Covid-19 and hand over temporary charge to deputy chief ministers Manohar Agjaonkar and Chandrakant Kavlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-broke-home-isolation-to-visit-private-hospital-cong/articleshow/77955584.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Two phone snatchers held||Hyderabad: Two snatchers were nabbed by Malkajgiri police on Saturday for stealing phones from people. The accused were identified as I Raju Sai from Maruthi Nagar, and Ragati Pavan from Neredmet. According to police, Raju would drive the bike, while Pavan would be pillion rider and snatch phones from people on road and escape. Police recovered five mobile phones from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-phone-snatchers-held/articleshow/77955546.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Teachers miss the one day when they are celebrities||Mangaluru: Chandrika Sandi, an arts teacher at Yenepoya School, would turn into a celebrity on every Teachers’ Day with children wishing her with flowers, greeting cards, chocolates and other gifts. Nut this year’s celebration is sombre. She says that just like classes, even wishes have gone online. Schools across the district have remained shut due to the pandemic. Like Chandrika, all teachers got wishes from their current and former students only through Whatsapp messages, videos, phone calls, collages and voice messages. “Every year on this day, there was a serpentine queue of children eagerly waiting to wish us. However, the pandemic has taken away the little joy of being a celebrity for the day. There would also be cultural programmes from children dedicated to teachers,” recalls Chandrika. She said despite difficulties, some children did come to the school and wished her personally. A government teacher from Belthangady said whenever they went to visit children under Vidya Gama programme, they shot small videos of children wishing teachers. The videos were uploaded on whatsapp groups on Saturday. Another teacher said just like education having gone online; the celebrations too were restricted to videos, audio and picture messages. “What we learn from them (children) is they are eager to return to classes,” said another government schoolteacher. A teacher at a private school said, “This year’s Teacher’s Day is quite different but for wrong reasons. We have seen a paradigm shift in teaching and education due to the pandemic. Teachers who are not used to the new online system are getting tuned and it comes with a lot of hardships. We have also faced awkward moments and in the worst scenario students trolling us on social media when teaching methods go wrong. Whatever may be hardships, we are trying our best so that children are not deprived.” DK District Headmasters’ Association president Jayashree GS said, Today is not a happy day for many teachers, who have lost jobs, or are unpaid and whose salaries have been cut due to the pandemic. Scores of teachers working in private schools have been laid off and forced to take up other professions. The government must come up with policies, especially financial packages to help them,” she urged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/teachers-miss-the-one-day-when-they-are-celebrities/articleshow/77953740.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Racket supplying fake notes busted, 3 arrested in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The anti-terror cell of Delhi Police has busted a racket supplying fake currency notes to the city. The cops recovered notes worth Rs 1.3 lakh from the accused. All the fake currency notes were of Rs 100 denomination. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that the accused identified as Mohammad Azeem Khan, Akil Ahmed and Nitin Patel ran the racket from their hideout in Pilibhit.  “We recovered colour printers, paper and tracing paper. Fake notes with face value of Rs 20,000 that were partially printed were also recovered from the factory,” added Yadav. Akil and Azeem Khan were caught when they had come to deliver the notes to a contact near Anand Vihar ISBT. During interrogation, they revealed the role of Patel who was later tracked down to the hideout. During interrogation, they revealed that they had been printing fake notes since 2012. Akil was the mastermind of the racket and would print the notes from a secret hideout. He was also known as a doctor in the village as he treated patients at the office outside his factory. Police said that Akil did not have a medical degree, but he had worked as a compounder earlier. Akil had roped in Patel and helped him set up a manufacturing and printing unit at his house in Pilibhit. In 2018, Akil introduced his childhood Azeem to Patel for supplying fake notes to Delhi and set up a distribution network in the capital. They chose to print FICN in small denominations of Rs 100 or 200, as nobody would pay much heed to these small amounts and they would easily circulate them in the market. Interrogation further revealed that this syndicate has already circulated fake notes having face value of over Rs 25 lakh in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/racket-supplying-fake-notes-busted-3-arrested/articleshow/77955576.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Woman jumps into canal with 2 kids, hubby held||NASHIK: A 30-year-old man was arrested by Nashik Road police late on Friday night after his wife’s brother lodged a complaint stating that the man harrassed his sister over the last four to five years which forced her to end her life along with her two children. The arrested accused has been identified as Kamlesh Chandar Padwi, a resident of Shide village which falls under the jurisdiction of Nashik Road police station. Initially, villagers from Chandgiri near Shinde village informed police about the body of a six-month-old boy that was found floating in Kadwa canal around 8:30am on September 2. Police had appealed to citizens through Whatsapp messages to come forward and give them any information they knew about the boy. Late in the night on the same day, Padvi came to Nashik Road police station. He claimed that the boy who was found was his own child and that he must have crawled towards the canal in front of their house. Padvi also said that his wife Deepali (26) and daughter Rajashri (5) were also missing. On the afternoon of September 3, both Deepali and her daughter’s bodies were also found afloat in the canal. Police suspect that the woman may have died by suicide. Later, Deepali’s brother Mahendra Gavli from Peth taluka approached Nashik Road police and lodged a complaint against Padvi for abetting his sister’s suicide. According to Gavli, Deepali ended her life, along with her daughter Rajashri and son Krushna alias Sai, by jumping into Kadwa canal near her house after facing continous harassment from Padvi. Gavli alleged that Padvi was harassing Deepali for the last five years for not bringing money from her parents. He also doubted her character, did not allow her to meet her parents and harassed her on one or the other pretext. Police have also lodged a murder offence against Deepali for killing her two children. The case is being investigated further by Nashik Road police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-jumps-into-canal-with-2-kids-hubby-held/articleshow/77955540.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 6, 2020||Nashik||Man robbed of cellphone worth Rs 10,000||NASHIK: A 20-year-old youth was robbed of his cellphone worth Rs 10,000 in the Vihitgaon area of Nashik Road on Thursday night. Siddharth Jadhav, a resident of Samartha Nagar, lodged a complaint in this regard with the Upnagar police station. Jadhav told police that he and his friend Roshan Sharma were walking near the Mathura Road in Vihitgaon on Friday at around 8.30 pm. As they passed by a flour mill, an unidentified biker approached them from behind and hit Sharma on his back with a heavy weapon. The biker then forcibly snatched the Sharma’s cellphone and escaped from the scene. The Upnagar police said that they are investigating the case. Cases of chain snatchings and other robberies have been continuously occurring in the city despite city police claiming that they have intensified patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-robbed-of-cellphone-worth-rs-10000/articleshow/77955545.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Village banks on namesake Agastya tree for nutritional security||Kozhikode: The Agastyamuzhi ward in Mukkam municipality in Kozhikode has made a commendable step in attaining nutritional security during the Covid-19 lockdown by having all houses in the ward raise an Agastya tree (Sesbania grandiflora) with which the place shares its name and which is also a powerhouse of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. The planting of the tree in all 326 houses of the ward was undertaken as a step towards attaining household food and nutritional security. The plant is believed to be named after Sage Agastya who was a master of ancient medicine. The small tree is mostly grown for its leaves used as vegetables and have high nutritional and medicinal value. It flowers are in white the red colours. Ward councilor and convener of the health standing committee of the municipality P Prashob Kumar said that having a tree which can be a perennial source of nutrients was mooted before the Covid-19 pandemic struck. “When we came to know about the nutritional value of indigenous plants during a talk by award winning organic farming expert KBR Kannan and that the Agastya tree was a dependable source of nutrients and vitamins, we zeroed in on that Agastya tree as it also shared the name with our place. Also the ability of the tree to supply leafy vegetables for years together made us go for it,” he added. He added that the initiative became all the more relevant after the Covid-19 pandemic with food and nutritional security emerging as a major focus area. “The seeds to raise the saplings were sourced from Kannur. People are now tending the plants with care and some have even started using leaves of the plant for various recipes,” Prashob said. The municipality is now mulling expanding the project to other wards too, utilizing the Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS) The state government had devised a special scheme ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ to ensure food security as a massive people’s campaign to achieve self-sufficiency in food production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/village-banks-on-namesake-agastya-tree-for-nutritional-security/articleshow/77954344.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid situation in Nagpur more challenging than Mumbai: Doctors||Nagpur: When Mumbai faced the peak of Covid-19 cases, there was strict lockdown in the state which helped to check spread of infection there. In case of Nagpur, doctors and administration are struggling on two fronts — complete unlock policy as well as surge in cases. So, the Covid situation in Nagpur is more challenging than Mumbai, felt doctors from the two cities who held a discussion on Friday. TOI has got inputs from the meeting which was exclusively between doctors, and not with political leaders or bureaucrats. Heads of government medical college (GMCH), Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC), AIIMS Nagpur, doctors from Wockhardt, Alexis, KRIMS Hospitals and other private practitioners from the city attended the meeting. “Doctors from Nagpur decided to learn from the experience of Mumbai and Pune. Similar community spread like situation was experienced in Mumbai,” said Dr Sameer Arbat of KRIMS hospital. Dr Mufazzal Lakdawala, Dr Gaurav Chaturvedy, Dr Hemal Shah and Dr Rahul Pandit from Mumbai shared valuable inputs about their experience in the state capital. One of the suggestions was to establish independent Covid health facilities for patients with severe comorbidities like chronic kidney disorder (CKD), heart ailments and blood disorders to reduce death rate. “Most deaths of patients with severe comorbidities happened because they failed to get the medical facilities on time. For example, Covid-19 patients on dialysis must get both Covid and kidney facilities,” said a senior doctor who participated on behalf of the government. Doctors from Mumbai supported the plan of having a Jumbo Covid Hospital with 1,000 beds but made it a point that the said medical facility must have enough number of health care workers and oxygen beds too. Dr Radha Munje, head of pulmonology department at IGGMC, Dr Prashant Joshi from AIIMS Nagpur, Dr Mohd Faizal from GMCH, Dr Tushar Gawad from Alexis Hospital and many others gave suggestions. Increasing number of ambulances with oxygen facilities, ensuring early results of testing, better contact tracing and taking regular follow-up of home isolated patients were some more other suggestions. Doctors also called for responsible public behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-situation-in-nagpur-more-challenging-than-mumbai-doctors/articleshow/77955580.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||TSREDCO mulls solar power for new sectt||Hyderabad: After helping Raj Bhavan to switch to renewable energy, Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDCO) is exploring the possibility of installing rooftop solar power systems for the upcoming secretariat building. The recently demolished old secretariat used to consume around 3,000 kilowatts of electricity per month. As all the blocks were entirely dependent on conventional electricity, the government paid around Rs 30 lakh-Rs 40 lakh each month to the TSSPDCL. “As the government is all set to build a new secretariat, TSREDCO is also working on the feasibility of solar power for the new building. So far we have not received any communication in this regard from the state government. Once they approach us we will prepare a plan,” TSREDCO sources told TOI. Thanks to TSREDCO, Raj Bhavan has shifted to solar energy. The new secretariat can also save lakhs of rupees to the exchequer if renewable energy is used. Till now, 23 government departments are using solar power. “There is no need to acquire land for installing solar systems as we can use the rooftop. We many need around two to four megawatt solar power to run the entire secretariat,” a TSREDCO official said, adding solar power supply cannot be interrupted even during the rainy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsredco-mulls-solar-power-for-new-sectt/articleshow/77955606.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman, three daughters missing||Hyderabad: A 38-year-old housewife left home along with her three daughters without informing anyone. When they did not return even after two days, the woman’s husband, a private employee, lodged a missing complaint. The missing woman was identified as B Sunitha, a resident of Safilguda, Malkajgiri, along with her daughters B Shivani (11), Chandana (7), and Sravani (8), left the house on Thursday around 9am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-three-daughters-missing/articleshow/77955603.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Prakash Javadekar prescribes more Covid tests, strict no-mask fines||PUNE: Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday said testing across containment zones in the city and nearby areas needs to be ramped up to control Covid-19 in the region. The minister was speaking at a press conference after a situation review meeting he had held with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state health minister Rajesh Tope and senior civic officials. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar also participated in the review. Javadekar asked civic officials and the police force to crack down on people not wearing masks in public and demanded the anti-spitting rule and no-facial cover fines be strictly imposed by the city administration. “During my discussion with the deputy chief minister, we agreed that fines for not wearing masks and spitting on the roads should be strictly imposed. Organisations like Ganesh mandals and other citizens’ groups can play a big role in boosting awareness on facial covers and hygiene,” he said. The minister added that the Centre is ready to fill gaps in the supply of medical equipment to the region. He said, “There should be more coordination between agencies to get such things done. There are areas where the Centre can take initiative — such as ensuring adequate number of ventilators for serious Covid patients and PPE kits for doctors. I will make sure supply gaps in these areas are filled. The Centre has stepped in with funding under various schemes and we will continue to do so if the state government asks for assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/javadekar-prescribes-more-tests-strict-no-mask-fines/articleshow/77955624.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records highest single-day spike in Covid cases & deaths||Dehradun: With 950 people testing positive for coronavirus infection and 18 more fatalities on Saturday, Uttarakhand reported its highest-ever single-day spike in cases of the virus and deaths due to it. The state's Covid-19 tally now stands at 23,961 and the death toll has climbed to 330. Among the fresh cases, the maximum of 226 were reported from Dehradun. For the fourth time in the last five days, the state capital has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases. “Udham Singh Nagar also reported 175 fresh cases on Saturday, followed by 133 cases from Haridwar, and 113 from Nainital. Among hill districts, Pauri alone reported 71 cases while 69 cases were reported from Uttarkashi. Similarly, 55 cases were reported from Tehri, 32 from Almora, 30 from Chamoli, 14 from Champawat, and eight from Pithoragarh,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the 18 deaths, six each were recorded at AIIMS Rishikesh, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, added Tripathi. Till date, 162 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported from Dehradun, followed by 62 from Nainital, 53 from Haridwar, and 32 from Udham Singh Nagar. The remaining deaths were recorded in the nine hill districts of the state. In view of the surge in the number of cases, health watchers have predicted that the state will touch the mark of 40,000 Covid-19 cases by the month end. Their estimate is based on the fact that an average of more than 800 cases are being reported everyday in September. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said, “As we have just stepped into a new month that is reporting over 750-800 cases per day on an average basis, it won’t be incorrect to conclude that the Uttarakhand will cross 40,000 mark by the month end. It is worth mentioning that the doubling rate of cases here is 20.30 days. Hence, we can say that the estimate of 40,000 cases by September end is a conservative one.” He added that 23 out of the past 30 days reported more number of cases than that of recoveries. Meanwhile, 535 patients recovered from the virus on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 15,983 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-deaths/articleshow/77953625.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 6, 2020||Goa||Human welfare must have priority over economy revival: Khaunte||Panaji: The rate at which Covid-19 cases are doubling in Goa is worrisome and is proof that the state government has mismanaged the strategy to minimise the spread of the pandemic, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte said that disadvantages outweigh the benefits of opening up the state’s borders, particularly for tourism. “We’re talking about human lives in comparison to economic revival,” said Khaunte. “Human welfare should always have priority over economic welfare and more so in the wake of a pandemic.” Goa’s Covid-19 patient count has increased sharply over the last few days and the state has already crossed 200 Covid deaths, which, said Khaunte, is “far too high and sad” for a state like Goa. “Worst still is the decision to do away with the Covid negative certification from air travellers and at road borders. When these tourists, whose Covid antecedents are not known, conduct their revelry at bars and restaurants, all caution will be thrown to the wind and all the sacrifices made by our local population will be nullified as more and more Corona virus carriers keep landing in Goa,” said Khaunte.  He also expressed concerns over the nod granted to bars and restaurants to open up and serve alcohol. Khaunte pointed out that medical professionals have said that the best form of defence is social distancing. The MLA asked locals to stay at home and venture out only in case of necessity. “While it’s true that the tourism sector needs to be reopened along with everything else to revive the economy, it’s equally important to understand that simply opening up sectors for business without putting in place proper restrictive protocols to ensure the safety of people will only do more damage than good in the long run,” said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/human-welfare-must-have-priority-over-economy-revival-khaunte/articleshow/77955691.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||Run all trains, offices by November 1, schools in January: TIFR to BMC||MUMBAI: November 1 could be the scientific date to fully open up Mumbai’s offices and transport networks. This is the crux of a mathematical projection on the Covid-19 pandemic worked out by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and submitted to the BMC. Schools should reopen in January 2021, said the report penned by Sandeep Juneja, dean of School of Technology and Computer Science, with Prahlad Harsha and Ramprasad Saptharishi. On herd immunity in the city, the team has said that by December or January next year, almost 75% of the people living in slum pockets and in 50% of non-slum pockets would have antibodies. However, the model hasn’t accounted for the threat of reinfection, which has emerged as a concern across the world in the past fortnight. The TIFR team has said the city should open up by 30% in September in terms of attendance in offices and capacity of transport systems. This could be increased to 50% in October. “The city should be further opened up gradually and become fully operational by around November 1,” said Dr Juneja. However, social distancing norms should be observed in public transport and hygiene measures should be followed such as mandatory use of masks, hand-hygiene and regular disinfection of surfaces in trains and workplaces. Given the sharp economic decline, there has been a demand to open up Mumbai (as well as the rest of the country) soon. The TIFR team hence studied various scenarios and found the November 1 date would lead to least amount of hospitalisations and deaths. Opening up mid-September, they said, could lead to a second wave of hospitalisations and rise in critical cases in Mumbai, which hit a plateau as far as Covid cases go in the May-June period. Incidentally, the city recorded higher-than-usual number of cases (1,737) on Saturday, mainly as a fallout of the increased outings during the recently-concluded ten-day Ganpati festival. As per BMC’s update, Mumbai’s overall tally now is 1,53,712, with 7,832 deaths. “Our key observations are the second wave of hospitalisations and critical cases is much higher with the September 16th opening compared to the November 1 opening,” said the TIFR report. Dr Juneja said the projected hospitalisations increase from around 3,000 a day to a peak of about 4,200 a day with the September 16 opening, while the increase would be from about 1,600 a day to around 2,100 a day with the November 1 opening. “Our conclusion, based on our simulations, is that the impact of fully opening up the economy on November 1 is easily manageable with the current medical infrastructure. Schools and colleges opening in January do not lead to excessive increase in infections,” the report said. The TIFR team partnered with the BMC to conduct the three-ward sero-surveys in Mumbai. The first such survey in July indicated that 57% of the slums and 16% of the non-slum pockets had developed antibodies. The TIFR analysis of the second sero-survey is likely later this month. The TIFR simulations suggest that by around December 2020 and January 2021, the prevalence (fraction of the population infected) can be seen to be stabilising close to 75% in slums and 50% in non-slums. “This stabilisation and high prevalence indicates that Mumbai city may have more or less reached herd immunity by then and further new infections in the city will be substantially reduced,” the paper added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/run-all-trains-offices-by-nov-1-schools-in-jan-tifr-to-bmc/articleshow/77956158.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||‘City-specific sero-surveillance a must’||PUNE: Both Union minister Prakash Javadekar and state health minister Rajesh Tope have called for more sero-surveys in the region to determine Covid-19's spread. “There has been only one sero-survey for Pune. More should be carried out to determine the extent of Covid-19 spread in the region,” Javadekar said. In August, a PMC-led study had found that over half of 1,664 surveyed residents from five city zones had already had Covid-19. A second national survey is set to cover Pune soon. Tope said even if the Centre has planned a second study for the country, there should be a Pune-specific survey too. He said that since cases are on the rise, the next antibody survey in Pune should cover a larger portion of the city population. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-specific-sero-surveillance-a-must/articleshow/77955632.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Kochi||One more tribal infant dies in Attapadi||Palakkad: One more tribal infant death was reported from Attapadi, taking the total number of infant deaths to seven since January this year. The infant of a tribal couple of Pakalayur died at Kozhikode government medical college on Friday. The infant weighted only 1.5kg at the time of birth. The mother was under treatment at Kottathara Tribal Specialty Hospital in Attapadi. She was referred to EMS Memorial Hospital at Perinthalmanna on Wednesday for specialized treatment. The mother was shifted to the medical college for a caesarean delivery on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/one-more-tribal-infant-dies-in-attapadi/articleshow/77954347.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||1L PMAY forms pending with GHMC: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy has said over one lakh applications pertaining to the people, who came forward to construct their houses under PM Awas Yojana (PMAY), are pending with GHMC and directed the officials to clear them at the earliest. He said the Centre wants all the poor families in the country should be benefited and get their homes. The minister held a meeting with officials on street vendors, Mudra loans, and implementation of central government schemes on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1l-pmay-forms-pending-with-ghmc-kishan/articleshow/77955631.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Health survey to screen all homes from September 15 to October 25 in Maharashtra||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope, who was part of the review meeting with Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday, said from September 15 to October 25, residents of all homes in the state would be screened for signs of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) and Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI). He said the survey will help authorities monitor residents’ health and arrest spread of infection. As part of the Epidemic Act, Tope said he has also asked oxygen manufacturers in the region to equally split their industrial and medical supply. “These units were supplying more to industries. I have asked them to reserve 50% of their supply for medical needs,” he said. The health minister added that he has demanded an increase in contact tracing levels in the city. Currently, contact tracing in Pune stands at 1:12 — just 12 contacts of a patient traced and tested. Tope said he has urged civic officials to improve the ratio to 1:20. He also warned hospitals treating Covid patients against overcharging and said flying squads formed by the administration would continue to verify bills generated at all care hubs in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-survey-to-screen-all-homes-from-sept-15-to-oct-25/articleshow/77955628.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: For now, DMRC will go fully cashless, even for penalties||NEW DELHI: In case you are apprehensive about the balance amount in your Delhi Metro Smart Card, which has remained unused since March 21, there is absolutely no need to worry. "Validity of a smart card is 10 years from the date of last recharge so no one should feel worried about the validity of their existing smart cards once they come back to Metro after a gap of so many months," said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. "As DMRC resumes its operations from Monday after a gap of over five months amidst the ongoing pandemic, everyone will be required to use smart cards for travel as there won't be any tokens available at the stations for the time being. Those travelling by the standalone Airport Express Line can also pay fare through QR code," added Dayal. He said that the move to stop the use of tokens is aimed at discouraging any form of human intervention, which can spread the virus. "Smart cards are contactless and can be read from a distance by the reader at an Automatic Fare Collection gate. In addition, they are easily rechargeable digitally and don't involve handling by multiple persons," he explained. Even for penalties like overstaying on station premises, DMRC will only accept payments through debit or credit cards, or e-wallets. While commuters can use Delhi Metro smart cards to travel by the high-speed Airport Express Line, DMRC also issues special discounted travel cards for this corridor, which are pre-loaded with 30 to 45 trips and are valid for a month. Commuters who couldn't use their monthly passes due to suspension of Metro services, will get travel value money equivalent to unused trips. DMRC has also extended the validity of the monthly passes for parking of vehicles at metro stations. DMRC wants to encourage online recharging of smart cards too. The cards can be recharged online through www.dmrcsmartcard.com or through e-wallets. At customer care counters, transactions will be only through credit or debit cards. DMRC has also introduced a new type of smart card with an 'auto top-up' feature, which will get automatically recharged at AFC gates at stations. Whenever the value of the smart card goes below Rs 100, it will automatically get recharged with Rs 200 at the AFC entry gate and the amount will be debited from the commuter's linked card or bank account the next working day. For these cards, commuters need to download the mobile application 'Autope' and register at autope.in to link their bank, credit card or UPI account to the card. About 9,000 people have registered till date and 2,200 have bought the new card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-for-now-dmrc-will-go-fully-cashless-even-for-penalties/articleshow/77956484.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Data shows over 500 docs, nurses Covid-19 +ve in city||Nagpur: While a separate count of officials, prisoners, and citizens had been managed by respective departments and agencies, no separate record for the front line workers — doctors, nurses and health officials — seems to have been maintained. On Saturday, the civil surgeon shared data following TOI queries. As per the data, 506 doctors, nurses and health officials have tested positive in the city till date. However, the civil surgeon clarified that the data may not match actual numbers of infected professionals. Among the other compiled data, the administration maintained record of Central Jail where 200 prisoners and around 60 staffers were hit by Covid. Similarly, as per police department, 248 cops have been infected with two of them dying. Hence, the number of health workers seems quite high even though it may not be actual figure. Also, the revelation suggests not much importance has been accorded on protecting the health workers despite they playing the most crucial role during the pandemic. The development comes in the wake of a nurse dying amid allegations of negligence from a hospital in city. A government doctor said such data is crucial in better management of the pandemic and must be maintained. TOI spoke to some doctors regarding the high prevalence of Covid infection among health workers despite they following strict precautionary measures. Consultant pulmonologist Dr Vikram Rathi said doctors and paramedics are the most exposed. “But somewhere a few of paramedics get a bit casual because maybe they fail to gauge the intensity of the disease. If one health care worker is infected, he is likely to spreads it to many others. Also, during the gap between OPD and ward hours, they don’t wear PPE kits. Community spread only worsens it,” he said. Dr Anshul Chadda, director of Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “The viral load health workers face at workplace is quite high in addition to the risk outside. ICU critical patients coughing and sneezing will emit higher level of load. The exposure of common people is basically to asymptomatic persons. Yet, there are certain factors like extreme caution to be taken while removing PPE kits and doffing technique need to be followed strictly,” he said. Dr Chadda also said health workers are tested early and frequently. Dr Sadashiv Bhole, one of the directors of Seven Star which is a DCH, said whatever precautions are taken, there is still risk. “PPE kit is not 100% full proof. Globally there have been cases where people took all precautions, but got infected,” he said. General and paedearitc surgeon Dr Pradeep Arora said health care workers can’t distance themselves from patients. “It is an occupational hazard,” he said. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) secretary Dr Alok Umre said they had pointed out this issue during the meeting with Mumbai experts led by BMC chief IS Chahal. “We reiterated our demand that one or at the most two big cover centres are needed. Here, maximum inputs with limited doctors and nurses, can be provided. If all human resource is used everywhere across the city, then the health care system will collapse. Instead of spending crores on jumbo hospital, the amount can be invested in existing hospital like GMCH,” he said. Dr Umre added that the job prospects too are not encouraging. “Who will risk their life and work for 3 to 4 month tenure at the salary the administration is offering. Again, I would say Mumbai’s Nair Hospital was successful because it converted all beds in Covid management,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/data-shows-over-500-docs-nurses-covid-19-ve-in-city/articleshow/77955643.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 6, 2020||Goa||Margao murder plot hatched 6 months ago, waited for Unlock||MARGAO: The conspiracy to kill Margao jeweller Swapnil Walke was hatched almost six months ago, and the culprits were waiting for an opportune time to strike and execute the heinous plot. The recent lifting of the lockdown, enabling commercial establishments to reopen and facilitating travel across borders, allowed them to purchase the country-made pistol from outside Goa, with which the assailant eventually did him in on Wednesday. Although South Goa police have been maintaining a stiff silence over their investigation in the case so far — the case was handed over to the crime branch on Friday — TOI has confirmed this finding through sources closely associated with the probe. Once inter-state travel restrictions were eased by the government, a gang member travelled to Bihar and procured the pistol with the sole objective of killing Walke. What’s more, the accused had even conducted a recce, which enabled them to escape through scarcely-used pathways through residential areas instead of the busy thoroughfares of Margao after killing the jeweller. It was a well-planned, macabre murder. The intruder who fired the shot at Walke and later stabbed him was known to the latter, police investigation has revealed. The autopsy report has confirmed that Walke died of bullet and stab injuries. Sustained interrogation of the accused has also revealed the motive behind the murder, sources said, but the police are waiting for the custodial interrogation of one more of their accomplices to corroborate the findings. Nevertheless, investigators are now fairly convinced that robbery wasn’t the sole motive behind the murder. While South Goa police have maintained total secrecy, avoiding any interaction with reporters so far, it has now come to the fore that meticulous gathering of evidence and clues post-murder under the supervision of South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh ensured that police obtained crucial leads, and the accused were trapped into the police dragnet within 24 hours of the incident. Eleven teams, each headed by an officer of the rank of inspector, all from South Goa, were formed soon after the murder to nab the accused identified in CCTV footage that was obtained from several surveillance cameras across town. The movement of a two-wheeler used by an accused to flee from the spot after committing the murder was tracked by police, and that led them on the trail of the culprits. Sources said that the scooter was identified as the one that was used to commit another crime earlier, which enabled the cops to link the murder to the Santa Cruz gang. This information was shared with all divisions of Goa Police, and it was at this juncture that crime branch sleuths nabbed Omkar Patil from his Santa Cruz hideout. The abandoned SUV near the site of the crime was another vital clue that led to the police nabbing another suspect, also from the same locality. As for the third, Mustafa Shaikh, sources said, he realised his game was up after he boarded the Margao-bound bus from Panaji to give the police a slip, with crime branch sleuths hot on his trail on one hand, and Margao town police waiting to ensnare him on the other. With no other escape route in sight, he walked into Margao town police station and surrendered, after alighting at the Margao bus stand. SP Singh, when contacted, refused to offer any comment, maintaining that the investigation is now being handled by the crime branch. And with the crime branch nabbing another key accused on Saturday, sources said it would finally help unravel the mystery of the motive behind the murder. As reported by TOI earlier, Patil admitted to having robbed the SUV. The vehicle was later identified as the one stolen from Dona Paula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-murder-plot-hatched-6-mnths-ago-waited-for-unlock/articleshow/77955645.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Two industrial units in SIDCUL booked for Covid-19 negligence||Haridwar: The officials of two industrial units in SIDCUL area of Haridwar were booked late on Friday night for allegedly concealing information regarding Covid-19 cases in their factories. Pradeep Rawat, in-charge of SIDCUL police station, told TOI, “A case has been registered against the management of Arvind Chemi Synthetic Private Limited and that of Muscat Health Series Private Limited. It has been found out that a Covid-19 infected employee of Muscat Health Series died in AIIMS but the management of the factory did not share this information with local authorities in time. Similarly, Arvind Chemi Synthetic also did not share the details of its Covid-19 positive employees.” The cases have been lodged against the two units under the Disaster Management Act and section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the district administration once again warned all industrial units of district Haridwar to conduct Covid-19 tests of at least 10% of their employees and follow the guidelines strictly. Earlier on July 20, Haridwar police had registered a case against the management of the company where 288 employees had tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-industrial-units-in-sidcul-booked-for-covid-19-negligence/articleshow/77953644.cms||MS Nawaz
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Incubators to boost women entrepreneurs||Hyderabad: Women’s incubator WE HUB on Saturday said it has joined hands with NutriHub, an incubator that caters to the needs of startups in the nutricereals sector, to promote virtual co-incubation for women-led startups in the agripreneurship space, especially millet processing. NutriHub is supported by the Department of Science & Technology (DST), government of India, and hosted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Indian Institute of Millet Research, ICAR-IIMR, Hyderabad. Through its existing R&D facilities, NutriHub will support WE HUB startups with technical advice, testing, product development, access to laboratories, equipment, and technical staff. WE HUB, on the other hand, will offer technical and product development support as well as technology transfer and cross-learning for women entrepreneurs. According to Telangana IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan, the partnership will lead to further strengthening and enhancement of the existing roles of these incubators in the emerging small millet value chains and agripreneurship for rural and urban entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incubators-to-boost-women-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77955647.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Beggar found dead||Hyderabad: A beggar, whose identity could not be established, was found dead near bushes in Malkajgiri limits on Friday night. Suspected to be 30-35 year-old, he was lying unconscious near the compound wall of a bar. It is suspected the he died of ill health. His body was shifted to OGH mortuary for an autopsy, and a case of suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beggar-found-dead/articleshow/77955635.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR’s 24-hour tally hits 4,050, over 3,000 recover||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday added 4,050 new cases, its second highest single-day tally so far, pushing its case burden above 1.88 lakh. Besides, as many as 3,043 recoveries were recorded in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the cured count above 1.5 lakh. Coincidentally, the region had added more than 4,000 cases last Saturday as well. The 24-hour tally then stood at a record 4,070. Among the new cases, the PMC areas recorded 1,736, the PCMC limits added 941 and the rural as well as Cantonment parts added 1,373. A report released by district health officer Bhagawan Pawar said the PMC areas have reported over 1.03 lakh cases so far, while the case count in rural and Cantonment areas has increased to 30,524. The region recorded 79 more deaths on Saturday due to Covid-19. With this, the death toll in PMR has increased to 4,495. As per the district report, PMR had 33,050 active cases till Saturday evening, including 22,926 undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 10,104 in home isolation. The region continued to conduct over 13,000 tests even on Saturday. As many as 13,084 tests were conducted in the region in the last 24 hours, including 6,704 in the PMC areas and 2,458 in Pimpri Chinchwad. A report released by the PMC said 910 patients were in critical stage, of whom 520 were on ventilator support, while 3,201 were on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-24-hour-tally-hits-4050-over-3000-recover/articleshow/77955637.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 6, 2020||Agra||5 days to go but Agra univ yet to finalize exam centres||Agra: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University is scheduled to conduct annual exams for final-year students from September 11 but so far, examination centres have not been determined. More than one lakh students of various colleges in Agra and seven districts are eligible to appear for the exams but they have no idea where to go for writing their tests.Varsity’s examination controller Rajeev Kumar said, “The exams for final-year students will be conducted from September 11 to October 6. The process of determination of exam centres is in final stages. Details in this regard will be updated on the official website of the university soon”. The university authorities have Issued the schedule of the exams along with directions to prevent spread of Covid-19 to the colleges, he added. According to university officials, this time, students will have to answer multiple choice type questions on OMR sheet. The exam duration will be of two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-days-to-go-but-agra-univ-yet-to-finalize-exam-centres/articleshow/77953650.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||NMC starts process to recruit staff for its 5 Covid hospitals||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Friday started the process to hire 218 health care staff including doctors, paramedical staff, ward boys and computer operators to start its five dedicated Covid hospitals having capacity to admit 500 patients. The administration submitted the proposal to the standing committee which is scheduled to meet on September 8. Agenda for the meeting was released on September 4. As per the proposal, the NMC will appoint 11 specialist doctors against the approved strength of three doctors. The appointment of additional eight specialists will put an additional burden of Rs21.50 lakh. NMC will also recruit 37 medical officers, five hospital managers, 115 staff nurses, five x-ray technicians, five ECG technicians, 10 data entry operators and 30 ward boys. Apart from incentives, the NMC will also pay an additional Rs10,000, Rs7,000 and Rs3,000 to doctors, nurses and other contractual workers if they wear PPE kits. For this, the NMC will require Rs32.66 lakh per month. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said the process was started with the panel’s permission. “With alarming situation of Covid-19 in city, I gave post facto approval to recruit doctors, paramedical staff and ward boys so that facilities at NMC’s five upgraded Covid hospitals could be utilized,” he said. Zalke said that in May five hospitals and health centres which were in a shambles were converted into Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) with a capacity of 450-465 beds, including 50 in the ICU. “Unfortunately, NMC could not start these hospitals,” he said. Three hospitals — Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) at LAD Square, Pachpaoli Maternity Home and Isolation Hospital at Rambagh — have been converted into DCHs with a bed capacity of 130, 110 and 60, respectively. The NMC also converted its health centre at KT Nagar into a 130-bed DCHC. Here, the civic body has also developed an ICU facility. Besides this, the NMC had also converted Ayush Hospital in Sadar into 35-bed facility. These five hospitals, located in different parts of the city, would come handy in case of further spike in cases. During the five-day long marathon meeting of general body held in July, corporators from both ruling and opposition parties in the NMC had raised the issue of these hospitals remaining a non-starter despite NMC spending Rs2 crore on their development. Senior corporators including Dayashankar Tiwari had accused the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe of irregularities in converting the hospitals into five dedicated Covid hospitals. Mundhe had admitted that the NMC could not start these hospitals due to lack of manpower. Later, the administration started the process and informed mayor Sandip Joshi and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-starts-process-to-recruit-staff-for-its-5-covid-hospitals/articleshow/77955677.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Covid cases up due to more tests: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal attributed the consistent surge in Covid cases in Delhi to the government increasing daily tests from 20,000 to nearly 40,000. He also said on Saturday that around 1,700 residents of other states were among the 5,000 patients currently occupying Covid beds in city hospitals, meaning only around 3,300 infected people are from Delhi. On why there were so many non-Delhiites in city hospitals, Kejriwal said at the press conference that in the last five years, Delhi government had improved healthcare services, attracting people from outside needing good treatment. “It is a matter of pride for us,” Kejriwal said, adding that there were enough Covid beds available. “We have also made other preparations in case the number of beds falls short,” he said. The CM said that he had consulted experts on the surge in cases in recent days. “Some say, this is a second wave and others said it wasn’t,” Kejriwal said. “I have reviewed everything and say there is no need to worry. The situation is under control. Only, we shouldn’t be complacent.” Kejriwal pointed out that on June 27, when Delhi had reported 2,900 new cases, 66 people had died. On Friday, the city logged 2,914 cases, but only 13 deaths. Claiming that Delhi government’s interventions had curbed Covid deaths, Kejriwal, without directly naming the Centre, said there had been opposition to plans to double the number of tests, but everyone had finally been made to agree to it. “If I reduce the tests to 20,000 per day again, the number of new cases reduces from 2,900 to 1,500. But if we carry out more tests, we will be able to identify more people. If possible, I would want every citizen in Delhi to get tested,” Kejriwal declared. The CM said daily death rate in the city is not only the lowest in the country, but also across the world. Delhi’s fatality rate was 1.4% against 1.7% nationally. Explaining that the state government took several steps to bring down the toll, Kejriwal said, “Separate teams of doctors and experts inspected every Covid hospital in Delhi. We conducted audits at the hospitals to determine why a particular hospital was reporting increased deaths.” He admitted that people were getting infected, but were also recovering swiftly. “Against the national recovery rate of 77%, around 87% patients have recovered in Delhi,” the chief minister said. Delhi government is setting up testing camps in weekly markets, bus stands and mohalla clinics. “There was huge opposition to our home isolation model, but now the whole world is adopting it. There was opposition to our plans to double the number of daily tests. We explained things to all those who were opposing us, and now there is no resistance,” Kejriwal said. Reiterating a resolve against any complacency, Kejriwal said, “In the last few days, I have been witnessing people in Delhi becoming complacent. They do not wear masks when going out of their homes and they do not maintain social distancing in public places. This is not right. We have to go to work, earn a living, run the economy and look after our families, but we should not be careless about the coronavirus. We must wear masks and ensure physical distancing whenever we have to leave our homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-cases-up-due-to-more-tests-cm/articleshow/77955667.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 6, 2020||Pune||Fire breaks out in Pune Cantt Board hospital OT, none hurt||PUNE: A fire broke out in an operation theatre of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital because of a suspected short-circuit on Saturday morning, but fortunately no one was injured. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB)-run hospital is a designated Covid care centre and had 91 patients on its premises when the fire broke out around 11am in the operation theatre (OT) on the ground floor. The officials stated that the Covid intensive care unit (ICU) ward, adjacent to the OT, was unaffected, but all the cables, furniture and few instruments inside the OT were gutted. “The fire broke out in the OT section of the hospital, which was closed. A short-circuit or a boiler burst could be the reason behind the fire,” the PCB’s chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, said. The four hospital staffers present in the OT when the blaze erupted raised an alarm. “We received an emergency call around 11.15am. The situation was brought under control within 10 minutes after three fire tenders reached the spot,” station duty officer Prakash Hasbe of the PCB fire brigade said, adding, that the fire broke out because of a short-circuit in the electricity cables near the OT roof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-breaks-out-in-pune-cantt-board-hospital-ot-none-hurt/articleshow/77955656.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Agra||Three held for harassing kin of senior Air Force official in Agra gym||AGRA: Agra police arrested three persons on Saturday for harassing a woman inside a gym in Kamlanagar area one day ago. The woman is a distant relative of a senior Air Force official. According to police, three persons who were named in the FIR – Babloo Pandit and his two sons Ayush Sharma and Pratyush Sharma – have been arrested. However, two others – Shashank Gupta and Abhishek Yadav – are still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-held-for-harassing-kin-of-senior-air-force-official-in-agra-gym/articleshow/77953643.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Get ready for the new Metro normal||With the Hyderabad Metro set to resume services from September 7, TOI visited Ameerpet station and took a ride up to Miyapur station on Saturday to get a first-hand view of how Metro travel will look like||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/get-ready-for-the-new-metro-normal/articleshow/77955686.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board to soon add 10 ICU, 40 oxygen beds at its facility||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board has decided to add 10 ICU beds and 40 oxygen- supported beds at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment Board General hospital in the coming weeks. The board has taken the decision in view of the increasing need for oxygen and ICU beds. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, said, “We will provide new beds at a new building where we have already provided 10 ICU beds last month. Making available ICU and oxygen beds is our priority at the moment. We will rope in doctors and hospitals staff attached to Covid care centres.” Two such centres are vacant at present as most asymptomatic patients prefer home isolation, he said. The cantonment currently has 10 ICU beds and 80 oxygen-supported beds at the hospital. The army authorities have kept 10 ICU beds reserved for Pune cantonment at the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS), a dedicated Covid health centre for Pune and Khadki garrisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-soon-add-10-icu-40-oxygen-beds-at-its-facility/articleshow/77955648.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 6, 2020||Goa||Ease of business rankings: Goa slips 5 places to 24||PANAJI: Instead of making significant progress in the ease of doing business (EODB) rankings, which placed Goa at no. 19 in 2018, the state slipped fives places to 24 in a year, as it failed to bring in much-needed reforms to improve the investment environment. Union minister for finance and affairs Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday released the fourth edition of the business reform action plan (BRAP) ranking of states, where Andhra Pradesh emerged as top performer in terms of reforms, followed by Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. Goa, which had in 2018 climbed two places after being at 21st position the previous year, did not bring in construction-enabling reforms and labour regulations. The announcements on Saturday were made in the presence of minister of railways and minister of commerce & industry, Piyush Goyal, and minister of state for housing and urban affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri. “I would urge states to undertake steps to minimise the regulatory burden by removing renewal of licenses or extending their periodicity, simplifying application forms, introducing risk-based inspections or introduction of third-party inspections, digitizing approvals and undertaking measures to rationalize the regulatory regime,” said Puri. In 2019, the department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) identified 187 reforms which states had to implement. The reforms covered 12 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour, and environment. Ranking of states based on the implementation of BRAP started in 2015. Unlike earlier exercises, where states could claim to have implemented reforms based on an official declaration, this time around, the Centre gave weightage to feedback from over 30,000 industry stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ease-of-biz-rankings-goa-slips-5-places-to-24/articleshow/77955664.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Constable, ASI beaten up in Saket court complex||NEW DELHI: A group of men, including lawyers, allegedly assaulted a Delhi Police constable and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) on Friday night at Saket court complex in south Delhi. Police said one of the accused, who works as a munshi for a lawyer, and his associate have been arrested. Two other advocates involved in the crime have been identified and will be caught soon. The accused have been booked for assault, disrupting a public servant from discharge of duty and theft as they also fled with the ASI’s mobile phone. The accused have been identified as Anuj Gaur (27) Hitesh (22), Vinay Nagar and Chinmaya Sejwal. Gaur works as a munshi while Nagar and Sejwal are lawyers and were arrested earlier for thrashing two men in Lado Sarai. Cops said a call was received at Saket police station about a quarrel at gate number two of Saket court complex, where constable Hitesh was on duty. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that around 8.30pm a car tried to enter the complex, which was stopped by guards. The occupants of the car told Hitesh they had come to visit an advocate. On this, Hitesh allowed the car to go in,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, south. When the car was on way out, there was a new occupant inside who got out and started assaulting Hitesh. Hitesh then called ASI Kailash, who was also pushed by the accused. During the scuffle Kailash dropped his mobile phone, which the men picked up and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/constable-asi-beaten-up-in-saket-court-complex/articleshow/77955692.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Areas witnessing coronavirus spread in Dhayari & Hingne sealed||PUNE: Areas in Dhayari and Hingne, which have 500 active Covid-19 cases, have been declared as micro-containment zones in the latest revision. Both these areas are part of the Sinhagad Road ward office. Dhayari has reported over 1,700 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, while Hingne has recorded over 600 Covid-19 casesand has over 70 active patients. A senior official attached to the Sinhagad Road ward office said more areas from Dhayari were likely to come under micro-containment zones. “We have proposed some areas for Dhayari gaothan, which have more Covid-19 cases, to be declared as MCZs. The proposal will be finalized in the next three to four days,” he said. “There are smaller houses. Buildings are located next to each other. There is hardly any open space in the vicinity. The authorities must put restrictions on roadside vendors,” said Ranjit Ovhal, a regular to Dhayari. Local corporator Haridas Charvad said awareness drives were being conducted to make people wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/areas-witnessing-virus-spread-in-dhayari-hingne-sealed/articleshow/77955683.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 6, 2020||Agra||Maharashtra woman raped by retired cop’s son after being invited to party at his home in Agra||AGRA: A 26-year-old woman, who hails from Maharashtra’s Nanded district, has alleged that she was raped by the son of a retired policeman at his house in Agra where she was invited to a party by her friend, who was also there with her boyfriend. In her police complaint, she said that her friend “forced her to share a room with” the policeman’s son Rajdev Sinsinwar and beat her up when she refused. She added that she was then raped by Rajdev after which she approached police. Based on her complaint, police registered an FIR of rape, wrongful confinement, criminal conspiracy and voluntarily causing hurt, and arrested the three accused. All of them are in their mid-20s. Talking to TOI, additional superintendent of police Saurabh Dixit said that the woman’s medical examination has been conducted and her statement is being recorded. The matter is being investigated. The woman had shifted from Maharashtra’s Nanded to Agra just a year ago. She along with her mother run a business in the city. Talking to TOI, the survivor said that she tried to get out of the house but they locked her inside. “Rajdev threatened me with dire consequences if I tried to contact anyone. He broke a bottle in front of me and threatened to stab me with it,” she said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/maha-woman-raped-by-retired-cops-son-after-being-invited-to-party-at-his-home-in-agra/articleshow/77953663.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||Three killed, five others hurt in two separate accidents in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: Three people died and five others sustained injuries in two separate accidents which took place in Dunda and Purola regions of Uttarkashi district on Saturday. According to TOI sources, an earthmover machine engaged in construction work fell into a nearly 32-feet-deep gorge from Bhramkhal Aulya road of Dunda region on Saturday morning. The machine operator, identified as 27-year-old Manish Negi, died on the spot. He was a resident of Patara village. Three other workers — Deepchand, 50; Saurabh Singh, 23; and Uttam Panwar, 33 — all residents of Uttarkashi district sustained injuries in the accident. “All the injured persons have been admitted to a primary health centre in Bhramkhal. The doctors have declared them out of danger. The body of the deceased was sent to the district hospital for postmortem examination,” said Pratap Singh Chauhan, revenue officer of Dunda. Meanwhile, in another accident which took place at Purola town of the district, three Nepalese were buried under a house after an uncontrolled loaded truck fell over it. Soon after the accident, police forces reached the spot and pulled out all three persons identified as 70-year-old Jiya Lal, his 50-year-old wife Nanda Devi, and 22-year-old son Sukhdev from the debris. However, Nanda Devi and Sukhdev were later declared dead by the doctors. Severely injured Jiya Lal is still undergoing treatment at the community health centre in Purola. Sub-inspector Sahil Vashishth, in-charge of Purola police chowki, said, “Truck driver Kuldeep has also sustained minor injuries and is undergoing treatment at a health centre. Bodies of both the deceased persons have been sent for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-killed-five-others-hurt-in-two-separate-accidents-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/77953659.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Girl says harassed by cops in park, police have different version||NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old girl out for a walk with her male friend has alleged that they were harassed by policemen at a park in Krishna Nagar in east Delhi and her friend was beaten up by the cops. However, Delhi Police rebutted her allegations, claiming that the police had gone to the park after receiving a complaint from a man who claimed to have had an altercation with the two after they allegedly brushed past each other during the walk. The incident happened around 8.30pm on Thursday. However, no complaint was lodged by either the girl or her friend. The man who had called the cops also didn’t file any complaint. The local police had, however, recorded the incident in their daily diary register around 11pm that day. The girl posted her version of the incident through a video on Instagram and Twitter at 6.30 pm on Friday. She said she filed a complaint on Saturday evening. The police said that the man who had called them had also filed a complaint and they were looking into it. In her video message and while speaking to TOI, the girl said they were grabbed by a man while taking a walk in the park. This man then called some policemen who allegedly abused the girl and hit her friend with lathis. “The cops questioned us about being out late. Around four to five cops thrashed my friend and harassed us,” the girl told TOI. “They were asking us to come to the police station but no woman officer was called in or was present. When I questioned them for not wearing their badges, they threatened me instead.” She said after the man allegedly grabbed them, they tried to free themselves and struggled. “Then the cops came one by one and thrashed my friend. When I tried to intervene, they hit me too. They later started telling my friend’s parents that we were the ones who were fighting with some stranger which was not the case,” she claimed. The police statement said that a constable was on evening patrol at Lal Quarter Market in Krishna Nagar on September 3 when a man approached him complaining about a couple having assaulted him because they had collided while walking in the park. The constable then went to the park. “The couple then started arguing with and abusing the constable and even pushed him several times,” the police said. He then called his superior, a head constable, to the spot. “The couple continued to hurl abuses and were physically engaging with the staff too. The lady in fact was the main aggressor as she used unparliamentary language and even threatened the police staff by claiming that she will file a false complaint against them,” said the police statement. Only after the boy called his father to the spot and he apologised for his son’s behaviour did the matter end, claimed the police. The father cited his young age and his studies as a Class XII student. “We are at the police station and we are also giving a complaint to the police. I don’t even know who this other man is. We were harassed and now we are being blamed as well,” said the girl on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/girl-says-harassed-by-cops-in-park-police-have-different-version/articleshow/77955682.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Containment zones shoot up to nine in Aundh-Baner||PUNE: The micro-containment zones in the Aundh-Baner ward limits have shot up to nine with the addition of eight such areas in the latest review, showing a rapid Covid-19 spread in localities like Bopodi and Aundh-Pashan. The ward had the lowest number of cases and containment zones in Pune till recently. However, it now appears among the worst-affected civic wards, with a much higher case burden. Even Karvenagar-Warje ward is witnessing rapid rise in cases. The situation is such that all the 11 lanes in the Karvenagar area are now in the containment zone. The latest order on the micro-containment zones was issued on September 3, which increased the restricted areas from 66 to 74. Civic officials said the spurt in cases was due to high concentration of population in these areas. Santosh Varule, ward officer of Warje-Karvenagar, said in addition to the lanes in Karvenagar, areas in Shivne and Uttamnagar had also been brought under micro-containment zones. “The areas with more cases and dense population will be sealed first to minimise hassles for residents,” Varule said. An official from the Aundh-Baner ward office said testing in the micro containment zones had been increased. “From Monday, the administration will deploy more manpower and begin rapid antigen tests too. We are telling local residents to strictly use masks and step out only if necessary,” he said. Jaydeep Pawar, ward officer at Aundh-Baner, said, “Spread of the virus in Aundh has been brought under control. Parts of Bopodi and Pashan-Sutarwadi have more cases now. We are putting additional efforts to avoid the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zones-shoot-up-to-nine-in-aundh-baner/articleshow/77955674.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 6, 2020||Agra||Child marriage rising in pandemic, UP women’s panel asks govt for SOP to counter practice||AGRA: Citing the continuing cases of child marriage in the pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh State Women’s Commission has written to the government seeking a standard operating procedure (SOP) for prevention of the practice. In India, Odisha has an SOP along these lines but most states don’t. “There are no procedural frameworks in place to prevent child marriage. It is a priority for the government. I believe taking action on the (following) steps will help counter the practice,” Nirmala Dixit, member of the commission, wrote to the principal secretary (woman and child welfare) S Radha Chauhan earlier this week. The panel, in addition to seeking an SOP, has suggested a review of child marriage cases in lockdown and the work anti-child marriage task forces, anti-human trafficking units and NGOs working to stop child marriage did. It has also asked for monitoring committees at the state and district levels, introduction of awareness material in schools and a tracking system. “So far, there is no defined SOP to prevent child marriage … It is shameful that child marriages continue in our society even seven decades after Independence. Authorities need to play a proactive role as directed by the Supreme Court to ensure complete stop on the evil practice,” Dixit said. The latest available data on child marriage, from the National Family Health Survey 2015-16, show that 28% of women had been married off before they reached legal age across the country. The highest prevalence was in West Bengal (44%), Bihar (42%), Jharkhand (39%), and Andhra Pradesh (36%). In Uttar Pradesh, it was 21%. Nearly 4% of children who had been married off were already mothers. And the median age at which women got married was a borderline 19. The problem, already persistent, was magnified in lockdown. In June, Childline had said it had received over 5,500 calls during the lockdown about forced marriage of children in the country. Of the girls, 39% were younger than 15 and of the boys, 19% were. “I found 12 cases of child marriage in just one village that I surveyed, Nainana Jat, during lockdown … Imagine the scale then,” said Naresh Paras, a child rights activist whose report the women’s commission took cognizance of and wrote to the government. “One family had solemnised the marriage of three minor daughters in one go. This is a new pattern since the pandemic broke out. Poor families are marrying off all their daughters on one day to cut down on expenses.” The procedural gaps, in most instances, are where the cases fall through. “In most cases, police only act after there is a formal complaint. But in most cases, there isn’t one — who will file? The state government had ordered a task force in each district to prevent child marriage. But these teams remain inactive because there is no SOP,” said Paras. The law holds marriages in which at least one person is a minor as illegal and voidable, but not void. The minor bride or groom has to move for an annulment in a court. In 2017, however, the Supreme Court had ruled that a man having sex with his minor wife, with or without consent, would amount to rape. It had also cited Karnataka, which was the first state to declare all child marriage automatically void, as an example for other states to follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/child-marriage-rising-in-pandemic-up-womens-panel-asks-govt-for-sop-to-counter-practice/articleshow/77953654.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Ease of doing business: Himachal Pradesh, Punjab improve ranks as Haryana slips||SHIMLA/CHANDIGARH: Himachal Pradesh has notched nine points more than previous year rankings, securing 7th position among all states and Union territories in the ease of doing business report released on Saturday. Punjab too managed to move a slot up to 19th, but Haryana has slipped by 13 positions to be ranked 16th. Union minister for finance and corporate affairs, Nirmala Sitharaman released state rankings for implementation of ‘Ease of doing business reforms action plan’ for 2019. The rankings, which started in 2015, were brought out by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), ministry of commerce and industry at New Delhi on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh continued to retain the top position in the ranking chart this year followed by Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur attributed the performance to measures like online approval for Section 118 cases, reforms in labour law, strengthening of the single window system, effective use of CM Helpline 1100 and easy availability of land for potential entrepreneurs, among others.  He said industrialists willing to invest in the state were being provided with approvals at the earliest, without any hindrance.  Himachal industries minister, Bikram Singh said successful implementation of ease of doing business norms has reduced footfall in offices, besides making the system more transparent. Haryana however, was not that optimistic. Leader of opposition and former CM Bhupinder Hooda said, “The ranking has now completely exposed the alliance-led Haryana government. This has come at a time when Haryana has topped the chart in ranking of unemployment figures. Now, this ranking of EODB has justified the unemployment rate in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ease-of-doing-biz-hp-punjab-improve-ranks-as-haryana-slips/articleshow/77955694.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Pune||ZP teachers begin community classes in remote villages lost to online learning||PUNE: Tears greeted Mohammed Azam Mohammed Ilyas when he visited the residence of two school students to conduct community classes. The mothers wept as they thanked Mohammed Azam, a Mangdewadi school teacher in Haveli taluka. Their children were holding pencils and books in their hands after a six-month break, and they were overcome with emotion. Mohammed Azam said he went on Wednesday last week to Mangdewadi to conduct the face-to-face class for a couple of houses, but came back teaching six community classes in the entire day in different areas of the village. It was immensely satisfying, he added. All ZP school teachers were given the work-from-home option in the prevailing Covid-19 situation since the academic year began. Realising that online education for government schools is patchy, teachers from the Pune zilla parishad have started reaching out to students and conducting face-to-face classes in small groups. During a video conference meeting with all education officers on August 11 conducted by the officials of the state education department, the teachers of the government schools were told to resume work from schools. Education officer of Pune ZP Sunil Kurhade said, “During this meeting it was decided that the teachers must identify open spaces, temples, village halls, open areas in schools, playgrounds and collect the students in those areas in groups of 5 to 10 and teach them face-to-face. This is particularly in areas where there is a network issue and students do not have access to online education.” A circular to all schools in Pune district from the ZP education office was issued on August 18 to start implementing this system. Many started teaching students in open areas practising social distancing, Kurhade said. All the block education officers have been told to seek a report from all the teachers reaching out to students in this manner. Mohammed Azam said, “I stay in Kondhwa and decided to do a small survey of the village on Wednesday to bring a few students together and see their progress in online classes. I went to a lane in the village and told the students to sit in a group and bring their work. Very little was done. So, I decided to take a small orientation class and guide the students on some topics. After about two hours, I wrapped up the session when the mothers of two kids came up to me and thanked me with tears in their eyes. It was moving for me too. My visit to teach the children had touched them. They were happy that their children had started writing again after so many months.” It was enough encouragement from the first community class conducted in a parking space. Mohammed Azam moved to another lane and reached out to more children and reviewed their progress. During the day, he conducted a total of six such community classes, some at the open space on a construction site, the backyard of the students’ homes or even large living rooms in the village. He plans to go back every three days. Bhimrao Shinde, another teacher, has been in the profession for 27 years, and is currently teaching at the ZP school in Balwadi village in Bhor. He identified students struggling with online classes due to poor connections, lack of android phones or no cellphones at all. “I went to Balwadi village and found the backyard of a student’s house conducive and grouped the children from the nearby houses and started teaching from scratch. The students were happy to see me back and learn face-to-face,” he said. All ZP school teachers were given the work-from-home option due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation since the academic year began. However during a video conference meeting with all education officers on August 11, by the officials of the state education department, it was instructed that all teachers of the government schools must resume work from schools. Education officer, Pune ZP, Sunil Kurhade, said, “During this meeting it was decided that the teachers must identify open spaces, temples, village halls, open areas in schools, playgrounds and collect the students in those areas in groups of 5 to 10 and teach them face-to-face. This is particularly in areas where there is network issue and students do not have access to online education.” A circular to all schools in Pune district by the Pune ZP education office was issued on August 18 to start implementing this system. Many teachers started teaching students in open areas practicing social distancing, said Kurhade. All the block education officers have been asked to seek a report from all the teachers who are reaching out to students in this ma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-teachers-begin-community-classes-in-remote-villages-lost-to-online-learning/articleshow/77955689.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 6, 2020||Shimla||Ease of doing business: Himachal Pradesh, Punjab improve ranks as Haryana slips||SHIMLA/CHANDIGARH: Himachal Pradesh has notched nine points more than previous year rankings, securing 7th position among all states and Union territories in the ease of doing business report released on Saturday. Punjab too managed to move a slot up to 19th, but Haryana has slipped by 13 positions to be ranked 16th. Union minister for finance and corporate affairs, Nirmala Sitharaman released state rankings for implementation of ‘Ease of doing business reforms action plan’ for 2019. The rankings, which started in 2015, were brought out by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), ministry of commerce and industry at New Delhi on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh continued to retain the top position in the ranking chart this year followed by Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur attributed the performance to measures like online approval for Section 118 cases, reforms in labour law, strengthening of the single window system, effective use of CM Helpline 1100 and easy availability of land for potential entrepreneurs, among others.  He said industrialists willing to invest in the state were being provided with approvals at the earliest, without any hindrance.  Himachal industries minister, Bikram Singh said successful implementation of ease of doing business norms has reduced footfall in offices, besides making the system more transparent. Haryana however, was not that optimistic. Leader of opposition and former CM Bhupinder Hooda said, “The ranking has now completely exposed the alliance-led Haryana government. This has come at a time when Haryana has topped the chart in ranking of unemployment figures. Now, this ranking of EODB has justified the unemployment rate in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ease-of-doing-biz-hp-punjab-improve-ranks-as-haryana-slips/articleshow/77957082.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Agra||Unidentified woman’s body found from canal in Mathura||AGRA: Mathura police have recovered body of an unidentified woman from Gang canal on Saturday morning. The woman was allegedly murdered. A police official said that it is believed that the woman had been thrown into the canal after being murdered. The body has been kept for identification for the next 72 hours and the post-mortem will be conducted post that, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/unidentified-womans-body-found-from-canal-in-mathura/articleshow/77953678.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: In times of Covid pandemic, students, parents and schools innovate to celebrate teachers||PANAJI: Even as students are away from their schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Teachers’ Day on Saturday saw students, parents and schools across the state improvise to give their teachers a day they wouldn’t forget. When teachers of Sharada Mandir school, Miramar, arrived at the campus on Saturday, they found the school gate decorated with flowers and messages. They were then asked to stand outside the gate in a line, and a motorcade of their students’ parents drove by in 35 cars. Video: Students, parents & schools innovate to celebrate teachersTeachers of Sharada Mandir school, Miramar were… https://t.co/iYqTvdiAQh— TOI Goa (@TOIGoaNews) 1599367278000Students, sitting inside, rolled down the windows to wish their teachers as they passed by. “The parents decided to surprise the teachers by celebrating Teachers’ Day in a very unique and touching manner,” said a parent, Niwedita Dwivedi. “The teachers were delighted to see the parents participating in a car rally in their respective vehicles, with their children holding placards with emotional messages dedicated to the teachers.” The parade was held ensuring that social distancing norms were followed. Another parent, Vanita Khanna, said, “The parents felt the need to express their gratitude to the teachers, who have been working tirelessly during this time of crisis, to ensure that the students do not miss out on their learning”. At Our Lady of Divar high school in Divar, the school held a prayer service, and students joined in via Google Meet. Without students around, teachers used the time to bond with their colleagues over some games and cake. Unique celebrations were witnessed across the state. “As I am retiring in October, another teacher, Umer Muttawali, hosted a 45-minute interview, discussing with me different aspects of my career,” said Kisan Phadte of Marina English high school, Verna. “The audience was made up of other teachers. The recorded interview was later shared with students via different online platforms.” Some members of the unaided schools association in the state observed black day on Teachers’ Day, in solidarity with teachers across the country who were retrenched during the pandemic. “It was a call given by the national independent schools alliance (NISA) to observe the day as black day, as a lot of teachers have lost their jobs due to fees not coming in,” said Deepak Khaitan, founding president, all Goa government recognised unaided schools association (AGGRUSA). Sunshine Worldwide school, where Khaitan is a director, saw students wishing teachers online on the day, with many sending across cards to recognize their teachers’ efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-times-of-pandemic-students-parents-schools-innovate-to-celebrate-teachers/articleshow/77955693.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 6, 2020||Agra||Printing press owner among 2 held for publishing ‘anti-Yogi posters’||AGRA: Lucknow police have arrested two persons, including a printing press owner from Agra, for allegedly publishing an "offensive poster" of CM Yogi Adityanath. The FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station on August 26 under various sections of the IPC. The posters, which emerged on the walls of the official residences of MLAs in Darul Shafa area of Lucknow, show SP chief Akhilesh Yadav as “Rakshak Akhilesh” with a “chakra” in one hand next to the picture of Lord Parshuram. Brahmins are shown standing with folded hands and Adityanath wielding a sickle sword. Later, the posters were removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/printing-press-owner-among-2-held-for-publishing-anti-yogi-posters/articleshow/77953675.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Virus of cybercrime: Over 3,000 cases every month||NEW DELHI: Not only have infections risen during the Covid-19 pandemic, but cybercrime cases have also witnessed a steady upward movement. From 1,895 cases in March, the figure jumped to 3,367 in April and rose by 24% to hit 4,184 in May. In the subsequent months, the figure was 3,205 cases in June, 4,113 in July and 3,821 in August. These cases were reported on the cybercrime portal that was launched in August last year. A total of 28,988 complaints were received on the portal from August 30, 2019 till September 4, 2020. A detailed study of the data led Delhi Police to map the areas from where cybercrime was executed. While the OLX-based QR code fraud originated from the Mewat tri-junction, KYC/UPI frauds were conducted from Jharkhand, West Bengal and Bihar, job fraud from Delhi-NCR and conning through fake government websites from north Rajasthan. It was also found that online financial fraud comprised 59% and social media-related incidents 24% of such crimes. The maximum number of complaints were received in May and most pertained to debit card and SIM clone fraud. Out of 4,184 complaints, 880 were related to debit card fraud and 590 to e-wallet scam. A senior police officer said that more people, especially the middle-aged, adopted the digital mode of payment during the pandemic. “Crooks found it easier to target senior citizens, women or the middle-aged as it was easier to convince them to share their bank details or OTP,” he added. The cybercrime unit also conducted a study, which revealed that criminals spoofed emails asking people to make contributions for front line warriors and the needy during the pandemic. A fraud in the name of PM Cares fund and assistance offered by the government also saw a rise. DCP (Cybercrime) Anvyesh Roy said, “We found two fake websites of the central government. The accused established a network from the district to the state levels. They claimed to cover benefits for government school students and offered bogus monetary benefits for education and health-related schemes. Since many people became unemployed during the pandemic period, fraud in the form of asking people to pay for job registration were also reported.” A new trend noticed in 2020 was the shift of fraudulent activities from e-commerce websites to social media. An investigating officer said that earlier crooks would target people trying to sell things on e-commerce websites, but they shifted to promoting advertisements on social media. “These days, if people want to sell a particular item and don’t wish to post it on an e-commerce website, they can easily do it through Facebook or any other social media platform. Fraudsters took this opportunity and started advertising products being searched by users. Many fake websites of high-end brands and portals were created and pushed through social media,” the officer said. Another emerging trend was increase in cases of online harassment. Many extortion cases involved using private or intimate content captured on video calls. During the lockdown, many people went on online dates and even engaged in intimate acts over video calls. Later, the fraudsters demanded money for not releasing such content in public. “In such crimes, the fraudster comes in contact with the victim through Facebook or a matrimonial platform and develops a relationship quickly. After chatting for a few days, there is an exchange of numbers. Just like sextortion, in these crimes, too, the fake profiles created by the criminals are designed to look extremely attractive,” said Roy. The DCP added, “The numbers used by the fraudsters are mostly VoIP obtained through several dozen applications. They show ISD codes, giving the impression that the caller is based in Europe or America. The fraudsters claim to send gifts through courier and the victims are asked to pay customs fee or GST charges to get them released. They demand small amounts of money multiple times to dupe the victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virus-of-cybercrime-over-3000-cases-every-month/articleshow/77967994.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||State govt employees wear black armbands to protest probe against employee body chief||Dehradun: The state government employees in several districts turned up for work wearing black armbands and ribbons on Saturday to protest the probe which was recently ordered against Deepak Joshi, the president of Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association. The employees have warned to intensify the protests if the probe was not withdrawn by September 9. This was a part of the symbolic protest, which the association had announced on Friday. Employees in districts, including Chamoli, Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Pauri, Haridwar, Champawat, Almora, Bageshwar and Nainital, participated in the protest. On Sunday, the employees of each district would meet their respective Member of Parliament (or legislator) and oppose the government decision to conduct a probe against Joshi, who has been accused of violating service manuals by speaking against the plans and policies of the state government. The employee association has also decided that all the district magistrates would be given a memorandum after a token protest on September 7. Additionally, they would observe a one-day fast on September 8 and stage a one-day work boycott on September 9. Meanwhile, Virendra Gosain, the provincial general secretary of Uttarakhand General OBC Employees Association, has said that it was just a start of the protest. “Since February, our organisation has held a number of protests after the Supreme Court gave directives in favour of the state government on the issue of reservation in promotions. When the state government failed to comply with the orders of the apex court, we had to stage protests to make our voices heard. It appears that the government has targeted Joshi as he led the campaign,” said Gosain. He added that the employees will continue with their protest till the time “justice is delivered”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-employees-wear-black-armbands-to-protest-probe-against-employee-body-chief/articleshow/77953692.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New secretariat to have church, temple, mosque||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday said a mosque, a temple and a church will be built on the premises of the proposed secretariat complex at government cost. Foundation for the religious structures will be laid after the assembly and council sessions and construction would be started immediately. Construction will be completed at the earliest, he added. A delegation of Muslim religious elders, led by home minister Mohd Mahmood Ali and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, met the chief minister on razing of two mosques at the old secretariat complex and construction of new places of worship on Saturday. The chief minister said a temple and two mosques, which were damaged while demolishing the old secretarial buildings, would be constructed with all the facilities. “The two mosques, each in 750 sq yard, including an imam quarters. The new mosques will come up at the same location where they were at the new secretariat. After the construction, they will be handed over to the State Waqf Board,” KCR informed the delegation. Since Nalla Pochamma temple, also damaged in the demolition of old buildings, a temple would also be constructed in 1,500 sq yard, which would be handed over to the endowments department, he said. As there was a demand from the Christian community that they should also have church at the new secretariat, the government would construct the place of worship for them too, the CM said. He said due to widening of roads in Narayanpet an Ashoorkhana was damaged. And, he instructed the collector to identify land and construct a new one. KCR said the government would expedite the construction of Anees-ul-Gurbah, the institution which gives shelter to orphaned Muslim children and gives them education. “Already 80% of construction work was done and Rs 18 crore more is needed, which will be released and construction works will be completed soon,” he informed. He said an Islamic centre in Hyderabad with international standards was coming up and land was allotted for it. There was some delay in construction of the centre due to Covid-19 and works would be put on fast-track, he added. Saying the government was committed for welfare of Muslim minorities, the CM said as there were lack of graveyards (khabrastans) around the city, the government directed the collectors of Rangareddy and Medchal district to identify parcels of land. Nearly, 150 to 200 khabrastans would be identified, KCR said. Chandrasekhar Rao also said as the government recognised Urdu as the second official language of the state, promotion programmes for the language would be taken up and a vice-chairman for Urdu language commission would be appointed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-secretariat-to-have-church-temple-mosque/articleshow/77955717.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||No Covid hospital for positive kids, parents in the lurch||Nagpur: The ongoing bed shortage at government and private hospitals has also left parents of infants and kids in the lurch. A family of six from Mahal is worried as their 13-month-old had been inactive for last one day but they are unable to get her admitted in any private or government hospitals. The family includes her chartered accountant father, his MTech wife, and grandparents. While others are mild symptomatic, the condition of 63-year-old grandmother too is critical as she is suffering from liver crishosis. The CA said his toddler daughter had fever since all of them tested positive on September 2. “No NMC official has yet come. We can’t go out to get admission in hospital on our own as the norms may not permit it. I am trying on phone but doctors say they can’t admit a positive kid as they don’t have an exclusive Covid-19 hospital either for adults or kids, infants,” he said, adding he is planning to send his daughter to a hospital in Amravati. The 34-year-old CA said he was also ready to spend any amount on hospitalization of his mother and daughter, both of whom need urgent tertiary care. “It is a helpless situation in the city now. You got money but there is no bed. I even tried at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) but they told me there was no separate facility for kids,” he said. He also posted his plight on social media tagging the chief minister’s office, city MP Nitin Gadkari and NMC. “It’s a pathetic situation regarding Covid Patients and Toddler Covid Patient in Nagpur, no availability of beds, no strict rules, no attention by doctors etc. I don’t know this situation will improve or not with current administration not paying required attention…”, his tweet read. Some paediatrics had expressed similar concerns about lack of facilities for infants, toddlers and kids above 2 years of age. GMCH officials admitted that they had no separate ward for kids as they were already burdened with severe patients and VIPs. “Beside generally Covid has not affected kids much. We have separate ward for ante-natal care which caters to pregnant women and newborns,” they said. IGGMCH officials said they have a combine ward for newborns and positive pregnant women also has Covid kids of different ages. “We have observed very less number of kids needing hospitalization for Covid. Yet, we have sufficient beds for kids who are accompanied by a guardian,” said IGGMCH spokesperson. The CA said he lost hope after refusal by GMCH and around eight big private hospitals including dedicated Covid hospitals and children’s hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-hospital-for-positive-kids-parents-in-the-lurch/articleshow/77955710.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 6, 2020||Agra||87 new Covid cases in Agra, Bareilly DM tests positive||AGRA/BAREILLY: At least 87 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 3,291. A 60-year-old man also passed away while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Agra. The resident of New Agra locality was a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with diabetes. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 109 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Moreover, 53 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 3,291 cases reported in the district, 2,584 [78.5%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 598 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Significantly, Bareilly's district magistrate (DM) tested positive for Covid-19 and he has quarantined himself at home. He has requested the people who have come in contact recently to undergo Covid tests as well. Overall, 143 people tested positive in Bareilly on Saturday. At least 111 tested positive for Covid-19 and three persons died during treatment in Shahjahanpur on Saturday. So far, 3,741 cases have been reported from here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/87-new-covid-cases-in-agra-bareilly-dm-tests-positive/articleshow/77953686.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa merchants want civic body to ban vending around municipal market area||Saligao: The Mapusa Merchants Association has demanded that no vending activity be allowed in and around the periphery of the municipal market as lack of social distancing will be detrimental to business activity in the market. A delegation of merchants, led by the association’s president, Asish Shirodkar, met Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) chairperson Ryan Braganza on Friday and handed over a memorandum consisting of their demands. The members stated that the present system of allowing vendors in demarcated spots in the market vide a rotating basis, should be maintained and followed strictly. “We also demand that at these vending spots, first preference be given to local Goan vendors who come with home-made or home-grown produce,” Shirodkar said. Further, they requested that the pay parking in the municipal market should continue as free parking will lead to chaos as the public will take undue advantage of the situation. One of their requests is that the area around the Shakuntala fountain should be notified as a ‘no vending zone’, and that the fountain and the surrounding area should be beautified at the earliest. They also requested the MMC chairperson to allow shopkeepers some space in front of the respective shops to display their own goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-merchants-want-civic-body-to-ban-vending-around-municipal-market-area/articleshow/77955740.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi sees highest spike in 72 days||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,973 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the highest single-day spike in 72 days. The tally in the city mounted to over 1.88 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 4,538. This is the fifth successive day in September when over 2,000 new cases have been reported in a day. Twenty-five fatalities have been recorded in the past 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. On June 26, Delhi had recorded 3,460 cases, the highest single-day spike before September 5. The active cases’ tally on Saturday rose to 19,870 from 18,842 the previous day. “If the trend of increasing Covid-19 cases continues, Delhi may need more ICU beds,” doctors say. According to a senior doctor at Lok Nayak hospital, the demand for general Covid beds has now gone down as most persons suffering from mild symptoms are recovering at home itself. “Most patients visiting the hospital require ICU care. Influx of patients from other states is another major concern,” the doctor said. One of the major changes in the novel coronavirus management strategy of the state government in the recent past is an increase in testing. Delhi conducted a record 38,895 tests — 9,562 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 29,333 rapid antigen — for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, officials in the state health department said. “The cases have gone up mainly due to increased mobility in NCR. Also, many people aren’t wearing masks,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine department at Max Saket. The director of AIIMS, Dr Randeep Guleria, has suggested levying hefty fines to ensure people wear masks while moving around in public places. Lok Nayak Hospital says they have been getting 80 to 90 new admissions for Covid-19 daily over the past few days. In July, this number had reduced to less than 30, said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital. Overall, data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app showed that 4,985 (35%) out of 14,163 Covid beds were occupied at 10 pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-sees-highest-spike-in-72-days/articleshow/77955702.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Dwarka seeks solutions in TOI’s town hall||NEW DELHI: As part of the #MySocietyPride initiative, TOI on Friday evening organised its first virtual town hall in the capital where Delhi Development Authority principal commissioner (horticulture) Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, chief engineer (Dwarka) Ajay Kumar Agarwal and commissioner (housing) Rajiv Gandhi answered several questions related to civic and infrastructure issues in Dwarka during an hour-long session. The following are some of the major issues that Dwarka residents raised during Friday’s town hall:  Pruning of trees has not been done for the past many years. The branches are covering streetlights and causing safety concerns. —Sudha Sinha, president, Federation of CGHS Societies Tiwari: A pruning exercise is conducted twice a year. But this year, due to the coronavirus pandemic, we were unable to undertake the drive in April. However, an action plan has been made and points have been identified. From October 15, we will carry out the work. If residents have any queries or specific requirements, they can write a mail to us. We will verify the trees, write to the forest department (if required) and include them in the plan after getting permission.  Service lanes and footpaths are often dug up but seldom repaired. The service lane between Vishwas Apartment and DDA SFS flats in Sector 23, which was re-carpeted around a year back, was also not spared. Who is responsible for this neglect and waste of funds? —Surender Malik, president of Vishwas Nagar CGHS, Sector-23 Agarwal: In most of the cases, service lanes get damaged due to laying of wires by utility agencies. The agencies, however, apply for permission online and pay restoration charges. But we can restore them only after completion of the task. We try our best to get the roads repaired as soon as possible.  Vacant lands and corner parks of DDA have turned into dumping zones. One such site is near the Sector 12 metro station. —Vidhu Vohra, Sector-12 resident Tiwari: We have introduced an adoption policy in January wherein residents can take up to three acres of parks for maintenance purposes. But these are restricted to parks and green areas notified in the master plan. As far as vacant plots in the market are concerned, these are not part of the policy. Without checking the ground status, it may be difficult to comment. It will be better if residents can WhatsApp their concerns.  Why is the quality of roads not checked? They get damaged soon after carpeting and repair.—Lokendra Ghera, president, Mahavir Apartment, Sector-22 Agarwal: We have a system to check the shortcomings. Our junior engineers inspect the roads and accordingly take action against the contractors. We act on complaints from residents too.  Hundreds of societies are being asked to conduct a structural audit but there are no details about the process to be followed.—Surender Malik, president of Vishwas Nagar CGHS, Sector 23 Gandhi: Structural audit of the societies that have come up before 2000 is mandatory and MCD has already shared a list of empanelled engineers who can do the job. There may be some provisional charges involved.  Since cooperative societies are managing the common services at their own cost, can the horticulture department help the smaller societies maintain greenery? — Ghera Tiwari: It is a policy decision and we can’t comment. But we can consider taking over it if a proposal is sent to us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-seeks-solutions-in-tois-town-hall/articleshow/77955716.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Dehradun||New wards in Doon to get 60,000 new LED lights||Dehradun: The new wards of Dehradun will soon get over 60,000 LED street lights as the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has signed an MOU with a private company for installing the new LED lights. According to the officials, the work will be completed by April 2021. The installation of street lights is among the major projects lined up for the new wards where residents have often complained of the unavailability of basic infrastructure. According to officials, a Delhi-based company has been roped in for the project which had installed LED street lights in the old wards of the city a few years ago. The company will be carrying out surveys in all the new wards over the next two months to ascertain the exact number of street lights required in the wards. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said, “The project will enhance the infrastructure for the residents of the areas which were included as municipal wards under the notification of 2018. Once the survey is completed, the company will start the bidding process for hiring contractors for the work. The installation work will begin by December and be completed by April 2021.” Anup Kandpal, a resident of Nathanpur ward, said, “At night, the entire area remains dark and people avoid walking or driving two-wheelers. The installation of LED street lights will make people feel safe on roads and reduce accidents during night time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-wards-in-doon-to-get-60000-new-led-lights/articleshow/77953703.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute: Dengue drive resumes today in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is going to relaunch its anti-dengue campaign—10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute—on Sunday under which an extensive awareness campaign against dengue and chikungunya will be carried out for 10 weeks. Soon after the outbreak of monsoon season, cases of vector-borne diseases start rising and timely action plan is required to keep them under control. The first 10-week-long anti-dengue campaign was launched last year, which substantially reduced the number of dengue cases and only two deaths were reported. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will kickstart the campaign on Sunday (September 6) by inspecting his own residence for stagnant clean water. He will inspect his house for 10 minutes for 10 weeks at 10am. Last year, ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ campaign garnered the support of many celebrities as well as government officials and other autonomous bodies. Under it, citizens are supposed to inspect their homes for any possible source of stagnant clean water, which can lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that spread vector-borne diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Kejriwal has appealed to ministers, MLAs and the citizens to begin the mega-campaign from their own homes and spend 10 minutes every Sunday to make sure there is no stagnant water in their homes and surroundings. A doctor will share the dos and don'ts to prevent dengue in the second week of the campaign. The campaign also seeks to engage the residents to pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue. The RWAS will be asked to come together and help in the fight against dengue. Many celebrities and social media influencers are also expected to take part in the campaign. Health minister Satyendar Jain said that last year, the government was able to defeat dengue because of the collective efforts of Delhiites. The fatality rate due to dengue was negligible. Due to the campaign in September 2019, there were only 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths in Delhi compared with 2015 when the dengue cases were 15,867, with 60 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-hafte-10-baje-10-minute-dengue-drive-resumes-today/articleshow/77955718.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Demand for employment and financial aid on Teachers’ Day||Ranchi: Even as schools across the state celebrated Teachers’ Day on Saturday, some aggrieved teachers marked the occasion by staging protests across the city to press for their pending demands, ranging from jobs to financial aid. At Morhabadi, the Jharkhand Teacher Eligibility Test (JTET)-qualified aspirants demonstrated to highlight their demand for jobs. Holding placards and shouting slogans, dozens of teachers under the banner of JTET Uttirn Sikshak Bahali Morcha burnt copies of their JTET certificates to register their agitation over the delay in their appointment. Morcha president Parimal Kumar said the certificate is valid for five years and they just have a year left till its validity expires. He added, “We had met chief minister Hemant Soren with our demands, but no step has been taken in this regard yet. The teachers will be forced to stage an even more aggressive agitation if the government neglects us any further.” Around 53,000 people had qualified for JTET in 2016. The Morcha wants its members appointed in the primary schools, including on posts lying vacant. Meanwhile, some private schools’ teachers staged a demonstration at Morhabadi Ground to highlight their deteriorating economic condition. The teachers said that due to the closure of schools owing to the outbreak, many parents have not paid the fees, which has resulted in acute financial problems for the school management, which has been is unable to pay their salaries. The protestors sought aid from the state as “they are unable to meet even the basic needs of their families”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/demand-for-employment-and-financial-aid-on-teachers-day/articleshow/77954787.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Teachers lauded for work during pandemic in online celebrations||Ranchi: Although schools remained shut and all programmes were held online, both teachers and students did not lack enthusiasm on Saturday on the ocassion of Teachers’ Day. Delhi Public School posted a video in which principal Ram Singh paid tribute to Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan saying the former President of India wanted to be remembered as a teacher. He said, “Teachers give the right direction to a person in his/her formative days.” He added, “I thank parents for making online teaching a success.” The video also contained a short cultural programme. Principal of Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamali, Samarjit Jana, in his online address praised the efforts of teachers during the pandemic. “I hope the situation improves soon and may senior students start coming to school at least once a week.” Teachers of Bishop Westcott Girls school, Namkom, held online interaction with students where the latter sang songs, recited poetry and showed cards prepared by them for the occasion. The school also circulated a compilation of videos of cultural programmes performed by students at their respective homes. Students of Sarla Birla Public School posted videos of songs and dance items performed by them and also held a quiz contest. Meanwhile, former students narrated their experience of Teacher’s Day at school. Principal Paramjit Kaur said since teachers are fighting to impart education to students amid an outbreak of Covid-19, they should be accorded same respect as other Corona warriors. Guru Nanak School felicitated a teacher and a staff who completed 20 years in service. A programme was held at DAV Kapildeo School during which several teachers were awarded. Don Bosco School held an online drawing competition for its students on the occasion. St Columba’s School felicitated 17 teachers in a function while the founder of the school, Madan Singh, said the school will not charge admission fee from parents in view of a fall in the income of parents. Teachers were also greeted by the students individually through messages and WhatsApp chats. Some students also prepared sweets for teachers who visit their homes for tuition. Meanwhile, two teachers from Garhwa — Alok Kumar of Meral High School and Mamta Kumari of Tandwa (Garhwa) Upgraded Girls Middle School — have been selected for corona shiksha warriors award for their outstanding works amid Covid-19 pandemic. Alok and Mamta were instrumental in teaching rural children, spreading awareness among villagers about the dangers of Covid-19 and others. The teachers will be felicitated in Ranchi. District education officer Ram Prasad Mandal said, “The teachers started teaching online through a YouTube channel. They took online tests of students and provided them free books.” Mamta Kumari said, “I did every possible thing so that there is no difficulty for children when it comes to studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teachers-lauded-for-work-during-pandemic-in-online-celebrations/articleshow/77954737.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Fake social media ID of BJP MLA seeks money||CHATRA: BJP’s Chatra unit on Saturday accused “rival parties” for creating a fake social media account of its Simaria MLA Kishun Kumar Das with an aim to defraud the lawmaker’s friends and tarnish the image of the party and its legislator. While the MLA’s real account on Facebook is active with 4,986 friends and showcases his work, the fake account, which uses Das’s photograph, has only 66 friends. Das, who has been informed of the fake account, said he has informed the police and posted a cautionary update on his account to stop people from getting cheated. Das said, “Somebody is trying to tarnish my image. I have informed Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha and asked him to conduct an inquiry into the case and arrest the person behind it.” Jha said, “Our technical cell is investigating the various aspects of the cybercrime and the person behind it will be sent to jail.” Without naming any party or individuals, BJP leaders said people upset by Das’s popularity are now using unfair means to target him. ABVP functionary Ashish Das said since Das is a popular figure and his detractors are running a smear campaign. He said, “Why should an MLA demand money from anyone? I hope the police catches the culprits soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fake-social-media-id-of-bjp-mla-seeks-money/articleshow/77954833.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||With 6 teams, Jharkhand T20 League to kick off on Sep 15||Ranchi: The Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) is gearing up to host the first tournament in the country in nearly six months from September 15. The IPL-styled T20 series — with six teams fro zones of the state — will be held at at the JSCA International Stadium Complex without spectators, but it will be telecast live across the country. The Board of Cricket Control of India (BCCI) has given its approval for the tournament after the state government agreed to JSCA’s proposal last month. JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay said as many as 100 cricketers from Jharkhand will take part in the tournament. “The Jharkhand T20 League will have six teams representing different zones of the state. Ranchi Raiders, Dumka Daredevils, Dhanbad Dynamos, Singhbhum Strikers, Jamshedpur Jugglers, and Bokaro Blasters will play 33 matches over 17 days. Only players registered/affiliated to JSCA will be part of these teams and there will be no team owners or franchises,” he said. As a precautionary measure, all the players and sports officials will stay at the stadium from September till October 2, when the tournament is scheduled to end. “Before entering the stadium, everybody will be tested for Covid-19,” a JSCA official said. Sahay said work for hosting the league have begun at the ground and arrangements for accommodating the cricketers, sports officials are being made. He added that JSCA will script history by hosting the first live cricket tournament following the lockdown in March and they have tied up with TCM Sports for its live coverage. “TCM Sports will be responsible for all the commercial rights, end-to-end operations, management of the league and live coverage related to the tournament,” he said. JSCA president Nafees Akthar Khan said they plan to make their home-grown league into an annual affair. “The state government’s decision to allow us to host this tournament will kickstart other sporting activities in Jharkhand. We will abide by all the safety norms while hosting the tournament.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-6-teams-jharkhand-t20-league-to-kick-off-on-sep-15/articleshow/77954343.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Amid rise in cases, East Singhbhum plans health check-up from Sept 7- 14||Jamshedpur: With no let-up in coronavirus infections in East Singhbhum, the district health unit will conduct a special awareness and check-up drive in urban, suburban and rural areas between September 7 and 14 for early detection of cases. On Saturday, civil surgeon R N Jha said from September to 10, an awareness drive on Covid safety measures will be conducted among the residents. A survey will also be held during that period in which the respondents will have to share their health history and inform the visiting teams about any complications that they may have been experiencing for the past few years. “Along with the Covid-19 suspects, we have to keep data of the people who are suffering from cardiac ailments, diabetes, liver or kidney diseases, obesity, among others,” an official at civil surgeon’s office said. He added that the health check-up will focus on those above 35 years of age. In the next three days (from September 11-14), door-to-door tests will be conducted by the health teams. Meanwhile, the health department will now convert the JRD Tata Sports Complex to into Covid care centre. “The number of beds in the centre will be finalised soon,” the civil surgeon said. Jha added that either the halls or the separate tents within the complex will be converted into Covid care rooms. The district health department is also scouting for new treatment facilities for the virus patients. Presently, the district has four Covid care centers — Professional college (in Sidhgora), Constable Training Centre (in Musaboni) and two graduate trainee hostels of Tata Steel in Kadma. As of Saturday morning, East Singhbhum had 8,238 cases, of which 2,687 were active. As many as 207 have succumbed to the virus while 5,344 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amid-rise-in-cases-east-singhbhum-plans-health-check-up-from-sept-7-14/articleshow/77954430.cms||B Sridhar
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Samples for third sero-survey collected in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Sample collection for the third serological survey in the capital was completed on Saturday with 11 districts collecting over 17,000 samples. The survey is designed to find out the prevalence of Covid antibodies in people, which will help the government micro-analyse the Covid situation and take steps for effective containment of the coronavirus. The samples have been collected from people of all age groups. The samples were divided into three different categories - below 18 years of age, between 18 and 49 years of age and above 50 years of age. The highest percentage of samples has been collected from 18 to 49 age group. The third sero-survey was launched from the first day of the month and samples were supposed to be collected till 7th day of the month by frontline health workers in the districts. They have completed the target of sample collection before time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/samples-for-third-sero-survey-collected-in-delhi/articleshow/77956503.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Delhi||AQI slips into ‘moderate’ zone before evening rain in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A spell of evening showers on Saturday brought down the mercury with most parts of the capital recording light rainfall. The short but intense spell also led to waterlogging in parts of the city, slowing down evening traffic. IMD has forecast light to moderate spell of rain for Saturday, with the intensity expected to go down post that. It was also after nearly two months that Delhi's air touched the "moderate" category again, with the Air Quality Index recorded at 101, according to CPCB's daily bulletin. "Short but intense spells of rain were recorded on Saturday. The intensity, however, is likely to go down from Sunday onwards with a chance of a light spell of rain," said a met official. A drizzle has been forecast for Monday, with no rain expected from Tuesday until Friday. "The monsoon trough has shifted again, with the next two days only expected to bring drizzle activity. After that, no rain is expected for a few days," the official added. Delhi's base station - Safdarjung - recorded 1.8mm of rainfall till 5.30pm, while Lodhi Road and Ridge stations recorded 2.4mm and 1.2mm of rainfall during the same period, respectively. The maximum temperature in the capital was 36.8 degrees Celsius - three notches above normal. Relative humidity also stayed on the higher side, oscillating between 57% and 100% in the past 24 hours. While Delhi’s AQI deteriorated to “moderate” on Saturday, agencies forecast a drop to “satisfactory” once again after the spell of rain. The last time Delhi’s air was in the “moderate” range was on July 15, when it recorded an AQI of 124. Since then, the AQI has been below 100 on all days, with four “good” days being recorded in August, when the AQI was 50 and lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aqi-slips-into-moderate-zone-before-evening-rain-in-delhi/articleshow/77956505.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||NU likely to conduct online exams for final yr students||Nagpur: Close on the heels of university chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari’s directives followed by an endorsement by the state higher and technical department, the Nagpur University is all set to conduct examinations of final year students online. The decision in this regard is likely to be made at an emergency meeting of the Academic Council convened on Sunday by the university administration as per directives by higher education director Dhanraj Mane to decide on methodology of conducting examinations.The move will bring respite to aggrieved parents, who are otherwise worried over risk of their wards being exposed to the Covid-19 virus at exam centres. It will be a historic move as the NU would be conducting such an experiment for the first time since its inception for its nearly 75,000 final year students.“If the Academic Council takes a decision in this regard and the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) upholds it, we will have to abide by that. Though it will be a bit difficult initially, it will help us in the long term. The objective type exams are not new to students and they’re likely to adopt it easily as it will be convenient to them,” BOEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI.According to him, the students will be able to solve papers from comforts of their home either on computers or even on mobile handsets without any risk of getting infected of the virus. On chances of manipulation in absence of any monitoring mechanism, the director said the university will use the “Procter” method implemented successfully by Pune University during one of its examinations.“This software keeps a close track on students and their movements when they are solving papers. It immediately reports any suspicious activities,” he said.Speaking on the fate of students from rural areas, who lack mobile phones or Internet connectivity, Sable said the NU will invite them to one of the nearby exam centres and hand over Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheets to them for physically solving question papers. Alternatively, the university may also take help of colleges in those areas having computers for helping such examinees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-likely-to-conduct-online-exams-for-final-yr-students/articleshow/77954585.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Water logging puts 90 beds at GMCH out of use||Nagpur: Even though the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has 600 beds, only 510 are available as the remaining cannot be used on account of water logging in the ward, located in the basement, after incessant rains on August 21. This was informed by dean Dr Sajal Mitra, in his affidavit submitted to the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Saturday. Collector Ravindra Thakre also filed an affidavit informing that he had constituted an expert panel to examine all aspects related to bed shortage and suggest remedies. Both affidavits were filed in response to directives issued by the HC while hearing a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report. The court had appointed Shreerang Bhandarkar as amicus curiae and he was assisted by Nidhi Dayani. The HC stressed on the need to constitute such a panel for categorizing Covid-19 and non-Covid patients. The panel will examine all aspects related to bed shortage and suggest remedies. The GMCH dean informed that of 510 beds, 200 were reserved for intensive care unit (ICU) where ventilators are provided. The remaining 310 beds are dedicated for high dependency units (HDU) for presumptive and positive patients. “The availability of beds is displayed on a daily basis on notice board at Covid hospital and its position was conveyed to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC),” he stated. Mitra added that 135 doctors along with 200 nurses, 20 technicians, 104 sweepers and 150 attendants are working in three shifts to provide round the clock service to patients. “The director of health services and medical education framed a detailed policy for Covid-19 patients which is being followed by GMCH medicos. The pathological report of Covid-19 patients was provided to them immediately after test. If demand is made by indoor patients for his treatment documents, photocopies are provided to them or their relatives. The cleanliness is monitored by concern in-charges,” said Mitra. The collector informed that the five-member panel has head of medicine Dr Rajesh Gosavi, head of pathology Dr Dinkar Kumbhalkar and head of microbiology Sunanda Shrikhande (all from GMCH). The deans of GMCH and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) are the other two members. “This committee would categorize patients into symptomatic and asymptomatic categories. It will also issue guidelines to manage overall treatment to Covid-19 patients,” Thakre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/water-logging-puts-90-beds-at-gmch-out-of-use/articleshow/77954597.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda paediatrician treats 8-yr-old girl with rare condition||Chandrapur: A paediatrician from city treated an eight-year-old girl suffering from rare transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) and transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO), that develops in one in hundreds of patients having frequent blood transfusion.The paediatrician, Dr Abhilasha Gaoture, informed that her patient Swara (details withheld) was suffering from sickle thalassemia since she was six years of age and recently had blood transfusion which led to development of TRALI and TACO.“Sickle thalassemia patients need blood transfusion every one-and-a-half months. The girl recently had a routine blood transfusion. An adverse reaction to led TRALI and TACO, causing failure of kidneys and affected functioning of her lungs, liver and heart. One in hundred patients is likely to develop TRALI and TACO,” she said. “The girl had plural effusion and ascitics and had also developed swelling on her liver. Her blood pressure was high as well,” Dr Gaoture said.“Patients with such condition suffer from lung infection, oxygen deprivation, heart problems, high blood pressure, and decreased heart contractility.As the girl was having severe breathing trouble, none of the private hospitals was ready to admit her due to Covid-19 scare. While her family was suggested to get treatment at Nagpur, they brought the girl to Dr Gaoture. The doctor said the girl was kept in ICU for five days and later shifted to general ward for a few days. She was discharged after full recovery.While Dr Gaoture and her team rejoiced the successful treatment, the girl’s family thanked them for saving her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-paediatrician-treats-8-yr-old-girl-with-rare-condition/articleshow/77954603.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 6, 2020||Delhi||Fact-check site founder booked for doxing girl in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Acting on a complaint of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Delhi Police's Cyber Cell has booked Alt News co-founder Mohammad Zubair for allegedly doxing a minor girl to troll a Twitter user who he claimed was her grandfather. Zubair apparently tweeted the photo of the girl when arguing with the grandfather, a Twitter user. NCPCR took cognisance of the doxing, which involves putting private information into public domain, from Zubair's Twitter handle @zoo_bear after receiving several complaints regarding the tweet and the comments on the thread. In its police complaint, the child rights panel alleged the incident took place on August 7, when Zubair got into an online spat with the Twitter user. In the course of the argument, he dug out photos of the user with the minor girl and asking him how his granddaughter would feel about his tweets. Though Zubair blurred the photograph of the girl, he allegedly left the grandfather's photograph untouched, leaving open the possibility of the girl being identified. A string of comments followed on the thread, some in which users threatened the minor girl with rape. Despite the turn the thread took, Zubair is alleged to have kept on arguing with the grandfather. In its complaint, NCPCR has attached the screenshots of the thread along with the Twitter handles from which abuse was directed at the child. A Cyber Cell officer said that an FIR had been registered under various provisions of the Information Technology Act, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (insulting the modesty of a woman). NCPCR has also asked Twitter India officials to appear before the commission after their reply to the panel's queries were found unsatisfactory. On Saturday, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo tweeted that the action-taken report received by the commission said an FIR was filed against the accused for threatening and torturing a girl child on social media. The tweet added, "As per the request made by Twitter India, 10 days have been provided to them to submit relevant information." TOI tried getting in touch with Alt News for a response, but all phone calls and messages went unanswered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fact-check-site-founder-booked-for-doxing-girl-in-delhi/articleshow/77956512.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||Transit centre procures hi-tech darting gun||Nagpur: In a first, the transit treatment centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills added a darting gun to its infrastructure by procuring the latest X-caliber rifle, which can fire six shots. The gun was handed over to deputy conservator Prabhunath Shukla. Till now, the TTC used tranquillizing guns which had the capability to fire two darts. The new gun, costing over Rs 5.25 lakh, can fire six shots one by one. The injection equipment is manufactured by US firm Pneu-Dart and has been procured from an authorized dealer in Besa. “This is the first gun in Maharashtra supplied to Nagpur forest division. Earlier, we had also supplied one X2 pistol costing Rs 2.60 lakh to the treatment centre in Chandrapur,” said George Kurien, representative of Biohab — the authorized distributor in India for Pneu-Dart wildlife rescue equipment. Kundan Hate, who is monitoring the affairs of TTC, said, “On Friday a demonstration of the gun was organized at the centre, where the TTC staff was trained on a target board on tranquillizing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/transit-centre-procures-hi-tech-darting-gun/articleshow/77954649.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Pandemic battle shifts the focus away from HIV tests||Vijayawada: While testing laboratories remain focussed on Covid-19, there has been an alarming decrease in the availability of tests for other communicable diseases such as HIV in Andhra Pradesh. Overall testing for HIV dropped by 76% in April compared to just the previous month. The HIV testing rate has dropped by 71% for men and 81% for women. According to National Health Mission data, 145 people tested positive for HIV out of 8,170 tests in the month of April. While the positivity rate for HIV is quite low— 1.7%— it is important to note that overall testing for HIV has witnessed a massive drop. Experts are of the opinion that the unintentional undermining of efforts to contain another potentially deadly disease such as HIV may have consequences in the long run. The most worrisome data point, as per National Health Mission, is that the number of pregnant women screened for HIV dropped by a whopping 194% in April compared to March. In the month of May, the number of HIV tests dropped further by 26% from the test numbers in April. In fact, April saw a 26% increase in syphilis infection among men compared to March. The positivity rate for syphilis stood at 12% in April from just 3% in March. This figure is alarming because the total number of men tested for syphilis in the first month of the lockdown dropped by 69%. The number of women who were tested for syphilis saw an even more drastic drop— of 82%— during the lockdown. Only 970 women with reproductive tract infections were tested for the sexually transmitted disease (STD) in April, a fall from 5,648 being tested in March. However, the positivity rate for syphilis among women continues to be low. The number of Widal tests, which are performed to check for typhoid, dropped by 68% in April. Positivity rate for typhoid in April stood at 11%, a marginal decrease from 12% in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pandemic-battle-shifts-the-focus-away-from-hiv-tests/articleshow/77953922.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 6, 2020||India||Railways to start 80 new special trains, reservations begin on September 10||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways will start running another 80 passenger trains or 40 pairs, and resume operations of the Vande Bharat service between Delhi and Varanasi from September 12. Reservations for these trains will start from September 10. The railways will also introduce “clone trains” that will run just ahead of the ones which have a long waiting list for more than seven to ten days. Railway board CEO and chairman, V K Yadav said one of the intentions of running some of these trains is to facilitate the return of migrant workers. “While deciding the routes we took note of some factors including the routes where the demand is high and also considered the Shramik Specials that were run to take migrant workers back to their native places. There is a trend of migrant workers returning to their place of work and hence some of the trains will cater to that need,” he added. The list of 40 pairs of trains shows that a few will run on routes, including Delhi-Gorakhpur, Yashwantpur-Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur-Valsad, Chhapra-Chennai, Korba-Vishakhapatnam, Puri- Ahmedabad, Dhanbad-Ferozpur and Bhagalpur-Delhi. Large number of migrant workforce comes from places such as Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Luchnow and Puri. TOI on September 1 had reported the railways move to introduce around 100 new trains. Yadav said while the occupancy for the existing 230 special trains was 75% on an average, it has now increased to over 80%. Only in the case of 12 trains, the booking is very low and railways may discontinue services on a few such routes. On the clone train issue, Yadav said wherever there is a demand for a particular train and wherever the waiting list is long, the railways will run such trains ahead of the actual trains. “These will have lesser stoppages and would cater to the need of passengers travelling for long distances,” he said. Watch Indian Railways announces 80 new special trains from Sept 12, reservations begin on Sept 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-to-start-80-new-spl-trains-reservations-begin-on-september-10/articleshow/77956515.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh crosses 40 lakh Covid-19 tests as tally rises to 4.87 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh achieved the four million Covid-19 tests milestone on Saturday, even as the state reported 10,825 new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 4,87,331. The toll jumped to 4,347 with 71 more deaths on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 40.35 lakh novel coronavirus tests. Uttar Pradesh (61.9 lakh), Tamil Nadu (51.3 lakh) and Maharashtra (44.7 lakh) are the only states, which conducted more than four million Covid-19 tests. However, Andhra Pradesh continued to maintain its lead by testing about 75,568 people per every million population, the highest among all states in the country. While the national average of tests per every million population is 34,419, Assam (69,595 tests per million) and Tamil Nadu (66,633) stand at the second and third places after Andhra Pradesh. Starting with zero testing facilities in February, the state government established 89 testing laboratories as of date, including the private ones. The state, which collected its first Covid-19 samples on February 1, took 59 days to complete the first one lakh tests and 124 days for the first one million tests by July 5. AP could reduce its time to test the second one million tests to 27 days by August 1 and the third one million tests to 18 days on August 19. The latest one million tests were conducted in only 17 days. As many as 11,941 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Saturday, outnumbering the fresh positive cases for the second consecutive day. There are currently 1,00,880 active cases with 3,82,104 recoveries and 4,347 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 78%, surpassing the national average of 77% for the first time in months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-crosses-40-lakh-covid-19-tests-as-tally-rises-to-4-87-lakh/articleshow/77953927.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Interaction with Anand sir, Humpy’s pep talk gave me confidence to win’||Divya Deshmukh is truly a diva in the game of sixty-four squares. The Orange City’s chess queen recently added another feather to her already glittering cap by becoming the youngest Indian ever to clinch a gold medal in the Chess Olympiad. The 15-year-old, who competed in the Under-20 group, was a vital cog in India’s wheel which rolled over with aplomb to the joint first spot along with Russia in the mixed-team rapid format of the event. Making her debut with the senior national team, Divya virtually played alongside superstars like Viswanathan Anand and Koneru Humpy. The two-time world youth champion scored four points from five games, including a crucial win over China, giving India a direct entry into the quarterfinals. In India’s title clash against Russia, Divya was in a clear winning position before the global Internet outage forced the World Chess Federation (Fide) to declare both nations as joint winners. After starting as low as 1039 in the field of 1794 to helping India corner its maiden Olympiad glory, Divya earned glowing plaudits from the best in the business. Here’s her exclusive interview with TOI. Excerpts… Q. How did you cope with the pressure of playing on such a big stage and that too in the online format? A. I didn’t have to think about anything other than the game because I had a very good support system. I was only focusing on playing good chess. I was unfazed while playing alone in a room. Initially, I did feel the pressure, but when Vidit bhaiyya (Gujrathi), the captain, told me that he will take all the blame if I lose, I started played tension free. Q. To what extent were team strategies communicated to you? A. All the planning and strategies related to my games were communicated to me by skipper Vidit bhaiyya and vice-captain Srinath anna. They duly acknowledged my views as well. Q. How did the coaches and other players support you? A. My coach and skipper both helped me with pre-match preparation. Adhiban Bhaskaran anna and Harshit Raja bhaiyya also supported me a lot. Before the tournament, we were practicing daily by playing games against each other. Q. What adjustments did you have to make for the Olympiad? A. Though I did not have to make too many technical or mental adjustments, there were certain Fide protocols regarding the playing area and network requirement which needed to be fulfilled. They wanted speed of over 40mbps and preferred a wired connection. My parents had to put in a lot of effort. After the Vietnam game which I lost due to disconnection, we installed another wired connection as a backup. We never had any network issues at our end. As per the Fide protocol, my playing room was entirely vacated and only the required material was kept in the room. International Fide arbiters virtually inspected the room before the games. Some electricity backup devices also had to be installed. Srinath anna monitored the conditions and undertook trial runs. Q. After winning the coveted medal, will you participate in local tournaments or any other event? A. I haven't thought of anything special. I will continue to follow my earlier routine. I would love to play in local tournaments if there are no other commitments. Q. Which aspect did you like the most about this Olympiad? A. There were two. The first was representing India — it was my debut at the senior level — and the second best part was being in the same team with the best players of the country. Rubbing shoulders with them was a huge honour. Q. You played with Anand and Humpy for the first time. What was the experience like? A. I interacted with Anand sir for the first time when he felicitated me when I was very young and the second time was recently when he invited me to Chennai and held a discussion on chess. The Chennai meeting was the most memorable moment of my life. Anand sir is very humble and friendly. We didn’t realize that a five-time world champion is playing with us. As far as Humpy akka is concerned, I interacted with her for the first time. I found her very humble and professional. I learnt a lot from her. Q. Your rapid ratings are not that good. Did India’s fastest player Nihal Sarin help you in any way? A. Nihal is a year older than me. As we have a common coach (GM Srinath Narayanan), we often play together and stay in touch. Before the tournament, we worked on speed chess. We played some fast games where we kept the time-limit in seconds. This preparation helped me with my time management during matches. Q. Your take on the appreciation you received after winning? A. I’m truly humbled. I wish to thank everyone who encouraged me. A special thanks to Devendra Fadnavis sir, who remembered me and wished me luck before the finals and congratulated me after we shared the title with Russia. Q. Since you were playing from home, what role did your family play? A. My parents and sister were always there for me. They worked very hard to provide support in all aspects other than chess. Q. Your win in the crucial game against China in which seniors didn’t perform well. A. I played freely. There was no fear at all. I felt as though I was playing against a random team and not the champion team China. As there were two junior players (juniors), I didn’t prepare much. I just went by my intuition. After my rival made an irregular move, I took eight minutes to respond in this rapid format which has just 15 minutes for an entire match and that very moment was fun as everyone thought my net was down and I was gone. After that, I played super fast and was lucky to win that game. Q. Your thoughts on the final against Russia, your game and that disconnection. A. I was clearly in a winning position despite playing a slightly weak 18th move. After that sudden disconnection, I panicked and almost felt like crying. For a moment, I was unable to think. Then, I checked my network. All signals were green and it was communicated to our non-playing captain that there was nothing wrong from my end. Simultaneously, I received a message from Anand sir, which was soothing. Even Vidit bhaiyya and Srinath anna sent me messages, telling me to relax and wait. Since I was in a winning position, I was expecting a re-match. I wanted to play and win that game for India. Q. Did Humpy have a word with you? A. Humpy akka encouraged me after my good show in our last league game against China. “Because of Divya and Praggnanandhaa, we were able to achieve our goal of qualifying for the quarterfinals and move ahead positively,” she said. Her words of encouragement is something every youngster would like to hear. That instilled more confidence in me. Perhaps, they made me a bit more responsible too. I learnt to be expressionless from Humpy akka. Whether she wins or loses, she doesn’t express it. xxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/interaction-with-anand-sir-humpys-pep-talk-gave-me-confidence-to-win/articleshow/77954719.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Action sought against private hospital in Andhra's Eluru||ELURU: A resident of Eluru in West Godavari district, Adidam Vamsi Krishna, has lodged a complaint with the Union ministry of health and family welfare. In his complaint, Krishna demanded that action be taken against Murali Krishna Super Specialty Hospital which is alleged to have treated Covid-19 patients without securing government authorisation. Murali Krishna Super Specialty Hospital was sealed off in the month of August after officials of the health and revenue departments raided the hospital and found that the hospital was not only treating Covid-19 without authorisation but was also charging lakhs for the treatment. At the time, officials mentioned that the hospital had treated 70 Covid-19 patients. Vamsi Krishna, the complainant, claimed in his complaint that 13 people died while undergoing treatment at the hospital and expressed indignation that the police haven’t registered a case against the hospital even though the district medical and health officer has sealed it off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/action-sought-against-pvt-hosp-in-eluru/articleshow/77953944.cms||Samson Raj
September 6, 2020||India||Rajya Sabha official’s ‘termination’ sparks whisper campaign||NEW DELHI: An office order issued by Rajya Sabha secretariat announcing the termination of a contract one day after it had already ended triggered a whisper campaign against former additional secretary in the secretariat A A Rao. Rao’s term ended on August 31 after he turned down an offer to stay in office as Officer on Special Duty attached to the RS secretariat. However, a day after his contract ended, the secretariat issued an office order saying his contract had been terminated, setting off talk of dismissal on grounds of “non-performance”. The language of the order, however, was corrected by Rao after he pointed out that the contract could not have been terminated if it had run its course. Shortly after, the secretariat issued a fresh notification clarifying that Rao’s contract was not terminated, but that he had relinquished charge after completing his tenure. During his tenure, Rao, a close associate of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, had taken a deep dive into the RS history, anchoring studies and reports on its functioning from the time it came into existence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajya-sabha-officials-termination-sparks-whisper-campaign/articleshow/77956516.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi: Minimum govt, maximum privatisation||NEW DELHI: Congress on Saturday slammed the Modi government for putting a freeze on filling existing vacancies and stopping fresh recruitments in government jobs and said that instead of stepping up to its duty to safeguard jobs, the government was hurting the interests of Indian youth through this “anti-people measure”. Rahul Gandhi targeted the Modi government and said that the government was only using coronavirus as an excuse to promote friends and free government offices of permanent staff. “Modi’s government’s thinking — minimum govt, maximum privatisation… Covid is just an excuse, government offices have to be made permanent ‘staff-free’, steal futures of youth, help ‘friends’ get ahead,” he tweeted in Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-minimum-govt-maximum-privatisation/articleshow/77956518.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Never run after money, run behind excellence’||Amaravati: When he was doing his MBBS from the Government Medical College in Guntur, there was one sentence that remained etched in his memory. He went on to join the Indian army and is currently posted in the Ladakh region as a medical officer. But he still remembers those words and has shaped his life on those lines. On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, which fell on Saturday, the army captain wrote a heart-touching letter to his teacher, Dr NV Sundarachary who is the chief of neurology department at the medical college, who taught him that lesson of life: “Never run after money, run behind excellence”. “Today, I feel proud to tell the world that I am leading a good life with a wonderful career by taking the path shown by you (Dr Sundarachary). I was immensely inspired by just sitting next to you and learn how a doctor should treat his patients,” the soldier, a resident of Vijayawada, wrote. He said he still remembers the first rupee he earned from the gifted hands of the “great couple”, referring to Dr Sundarachary and his wife. “It is said a newborn gets the best nutrition from his/her mother’s milk. I got the first and last grooming as a doctor only by sitting next to you sir,” he wrote. He said he was a student of medicine at GMC from 2008 to 2013, after which he did his post-graduation in neurology from 2014 to 2016. “You always used to tell us, ‘Never run after money, run behind excellence. I am proud to say that I am following your scriptures,” the army captain wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/never-run-after-money-run-behind-excellence/articleshow/77953969.cms||Samdani MN
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Jayanthi Rao sir’s students never miss their target||Visakhapatnam: There were no blackboards in his classrooms. His students, instead of carrying books, carried revolvers, SLRs, even grenades. Over 10,000 cops have come out of his ‘class’ over the years, many of whom have excelled in their professional careers. Meet 80-year-old Jayanthi Rao, who has spent the better part of his career at the AP Police Academy in Hyderabad. “Not just AP and Telangana, my students have worked or are working with police forces across the country,” says the sharp-shooter, who has also trained IPS trainees at the National Police Academy. Rao joined the police force in 1961. His shooting skills saw him being deputed to the NPA in 1977 as a field training officer for five years. In 1988 he joined the AP Police Academy as instructor and retired from there as a DSP in 2002. “I also did long stints in J&K, Mizoram and Nagaland where AP government had sent its combat teams to help the military and local forces,” says Rao, who won the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2001. “In field craft training, one needs to master the tricks of hiding (camouflaging) yourself before taking your opponents by surprise during an ambush. Rao sir’s training came in handy when I was posted in the Maoist-infested areas of Bhadrachalam for 15 long years,” Sarangapani Sadula, who works with the Indian Railways in Secunderabad as a DSP, told TOI. Kuruva Gruntla Madhav, the YSRC MP from Hindupur, was also his student. “The two important things I learnt from him were discipline and punctuality,” said Madhav, who passed out from the police academy in 1998 before taking voluntary retirement and taking the plunge into politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jayanthi-rao-sirs-students-never-miss-their-target/articleshow/77953980.cms||Arpit Basu
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Give adequate compensation in exchange for cooperation’||Visakhapatnam: Representatives of villages in Srikakulam district, which will be displaced by the construction of Bhavanapadu Port, have sought adequate compensation in exchange of obtaining ‘no-objection’ from them. Deputy CM Dharmana Krishna Das and fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju met representatives of the coastal villages, Bhavanapadu, Marripadu and Devulnaltada, which will be displaced by the construction of the port. G Shanmukhara Rao from Devunaltada said that nearly 80% residents of the village depend on fishing. The government should satisfy them with the best possible compensation package in order to get their cooperation, he said. Deputy CM Krishna Das said that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will provide a satisfactory compensation package. The villages will be surveyed with modern software, house sites or constructed houses or cash will be given as part of the package, he added. Krishna Das, who is also the revenue minister, said, “If you don’t want to have a home, you will be paid Rs 5 lakh in lump sum. At the time of evacuation, transport charge of Rs 50,000 will also be paid.” He further said that a skill development centre will be set up in Narsannapeta assembly constituency. Fisheries minister Appalaraju said that the Bhavanapadu port will put Srikakulam on the world map. “It will be a great resource for overcoming poverty in the district. This will also prevent the migration of people, especially fisherfolk, to other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/give-adequate-compensation-in-exchange-for-cooperation/articleshow/77954000.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 6, 2020||India||More calls to report threats to LGBTQI since Sec 377 decriminalisation, show data||NEW DELHI: Two years since the Supreme Court judgement on section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, decriminalising consensual sex between same sex persons, the LGBTQI community is seized with a growing threat – the fear of being “outed” by those who want to name and shame them for their gender and sexual identity but cannot use section 377 to silence them anymore. The crisis helplines of voluntary organisation Humsafar Trust, one of the organisations at the forefront of the movement calling for decriminalisation of section 377, tell the story of the emerging crisis. An analysis of the over 1,000 calls on the Delhi and Mumbai helplines of Humsafar Trust and the messages on WhatsApp, social media and email from other parts of the country shows two things – one reporting of violence and blackmailing has increased since the decriminalisation of section 377 and the second is that lack of acceptance of diverse sexual and gender identities is leading to increased violence and harassment both within the family and in the hands of society. The helpline is also getting cases of intimate partner violence among same sex couples where they have no legal recourse under the existing laws like the Domestic Violence Act. All this signals at the need for making the existing laws inclusive with specific provisions to include diverse sexual and gender identities. The lockdown due to the pandemic also proved to be a big challenge as a lot of LGBTQI people were at home with their family members and somehow the family learnt about their sexual identity. In such cases, callers reported facing violence. The Trust came across a case where a trans-woman was forced to live like a man in her home. The Humsafar Trust highlights that the cases of harassment by landlords during lockdown reflected the discrimination the community faces. Yashwinder Singh, director policy, Humsafar Trust added, “certainly, the decriminalisation of section 377 has helped the community to collect the courage and report cases. In fact people have called to say they wanted to file cases against their ex-colleagues for discrimination, abuse and blackmailing that happened prior to SC verdict,” he added. Earlier around 300 cases were received in a year on an average, but between September 2018 to now 1,002 calls for help were received. Out of the total cases, 340 relate to discrimination in healthcare facilities, by landlord, family and workplace. As many as 270 cases were about harassment and violence faced at the hands of family, friends, workplace, partner and police. There were 180 calls related to blackmailing including those on gay dating apps and 92 cases of extortion. Also there were 23 cases related to revenge “outing” of the person to family or on social media platforms. According to Singh, the cases also reflect that the blackmailers have changed their modus operandi. “Instead of threatening by citing Section 377, which is not relevant now, they have started threatening people to 'out them' in society, workspace etc. There are organized gangs who call gay men in markets and forcefully loot them,” he said. Last year, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy had come out with reports to assert the need to make them LGBT+ inclusive and highlighted that laws linked to employment, violence and family continue to exclude LGBT+ people and therefore deny them equal citizenship. LGBT+ community members at the consultation organised by Vidhi Centre in Mumbai in January also pointed out that non-recognition of their relationships leads to various adverse consequences. For instance, only persons who are considered part of one’s hetero-normative family are allowed to make healthcare decisions for them when they lose the capacity to take such decisions, and their chosen partners often get left out of such conversations. Pointing out that the challenges as far as seekign legal recourse remain the same as was hihglighted in the reports last year, Akshat Agarwal from Vidhi Centre said even the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019 and the draft rules released in the public domain address the issue of discrimination against transgender persons in a limited way. He added “no efforts have been made to translate the broader guarantee of non-discrimination into enforceable law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-calls-to-report-threats-to-lgbtqi-since-sec-377-decriminalisation-show-data/articleshow/77956521.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||1.5kg Pulasa sold for Rs 15,000 in Yanam||Visakhapatnam: The catch of Pulasa fish has been dwindling in the state, leading to prices hitting the sky. One 1.5kg Pulasa was sold for Rs 15,000 on Saturday at Yanam, which normally sells for somewhere between Rs 3,000 and Rs 6,000. Pulasa, which is also known as ‘hilsa’ or ‘tenualosa ilish’, appears in river Godavari after the monsoon. The catch is usually found in Dowleswram, Kulla, Edurlanka and Yanam areas. Last year, the per kg price of the fish ranged between Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000. The fish is available in other states too, but the taste of Godavari Pulasa is supposed to be the best. People usually pay advance to fishermen for the fish. K Ramachandra Rao, from Draksharamam in East Godavari district, was the man who paid Rs 15,000 for the 1.5kg fish at Yanam on Saturday. “We have been waiting for the fish. We normally get it at various places during this time every year, but this year it was not available. I was determined that I will buy it,” he said, after winning the ‘auction’ for the fish in which around 100 people took part. Vasuapalli Danayya, a local fisherman, said they usually get a good catch of Pulasa soon after monsoon in the three tributaries of river Godavari, including Vainateya, Gowtami and Vasishtha. “The fish costs several times more than other varieties of fish. We even take loans or borrow money in the confidence of getting a good catch. But quantity and size of Pulasa have been decreasing every year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1-5kg-pulasa-sold-for-rs-15000-in-yanam/articleshow/77954006.cms||Siva G
September 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bus driver suffers heart attack, dies at the wheel||VIJAYAWADA: 54-year-old bus driver D Hanumantha Rao died while driving his bus after he suffered a cardiac arrest at Ongole on Friday. Hanumantha Rao, who worked for the Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) at the Podili depot, managed to steer the bus off the road before collapsing on the wheel. Hanumantha Rao had started out from Podili and was driving towards Vijayawada with bus conductor B Venkatramaiah. Upon reaching the Ongole bypass road, Rao slowed down the bus, steered it off the road and collapsed, but only after bringing the bus to a complete halt. There were nine passengers on board at the time of the incident. After Hanumantha Rao collapsed, his aide Venkatramaiah and passengers shifted him into an auto-rickshaw and took him to a private hospital in Ongole where he was declared ‘brought dead’. Depot managers of Ongole and Podili rushed to the hospital on learning of the incident and informed Hanumantha Rao’s family. MT Krishna Babu, vice-chairman and managing director of APSRTC, conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. He lauded Hanumantha Rao’s efforts for thinking of passengers’ safety even while he was suffering a cardiac arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bus-driver-suffers-heart-attack-dies-at-the-wheel/articleshow/77954020.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ivory craft from Vizag adorns royal palace in UK||VISAKHAPATNAM: Once upon a time, over 200 years ago, the port city was known for its craftwork. The intricate ivory inlay work artefacts and furniture that the colonial era Vizagapatnam was famous for, have adorned various European and royal museums, including the Buckingham Palace in London. The peak period of ivory craft production was between the late 18th and early 20th century. The tale of the city’s unsung artisans had faded into history, till John Castellas set upon the painstaking task of undertaking a research about the close connection between Vizag’s ivory craft and the West. Five generations of Castellas’ family lived here. He studied at St Aloysius School before migrating to Australia in 1966. Castellas gathered all available data on the subject in collaboration with heritage narrator Jayshree Hatangadi, whose family was once associated with ivory craft at the erstwhile antique store, Eastern Art Museum. In 1775, the then governor of Madras bought several ivory-engraved sandalwood armchairs and shipped them to his estate in England. Queen Charlotte got some of those chairs from his estate, which later adorned the royal rooms of George III and IV. Years later, Queen Victoria shifted them to Buckingham Palace. Tipoo Sultan’s chair, too, was made in Vizagapatnam in 1770 (a round chair of yellow teak, veneered with ivory). It currently is a prized collection at Victoria and Albert Museum in London, with an engraved silver plaque proudly declaring: ‘Formerly the property of Tipoo Saib, and presented to Queen Charlotte’. When the Prince of Wales toured India in 1875-76, he was presented with an ornamental palanquin of wood and ivory veneer by the then queen of Bobbili. So what whetted his interest in Vizag’s ivory craft? “In 2017, I came upon an advertisement of an ivory sewing box showcasing the famous Dolphin’s Nose hill of Vizag and sailing ships at an antique sale in the UK. It sparked my interest in tracing the connection between the ivory craft of Vizagapatnam and Europe,” Castellas told TOI. The ivory crafts manufactured at the time included cabinets, writing desks, chairs, tables, photo frames, cigarette cases, cardholders, stocks on firearms, inkstands, fountain pen holders, chess tables, clock stands, bookends, sewing and gift boxes, hat and umbrella stand and tea caddies. Some of these crafts are showcased at the Visakha Museum. “The maharajas of Vizianagaram, Kurpum and Bobbilli owned workshops and gifted the best creations of their craftsmen to officers of the East India Company with royal inscriptions. The Kamsali artisans, who used to stay on the Beach Road, adapted their goldsmith skills to ivory inlay and applied it on western furniture forms. Ivory was locally available while African ivory was shipped,” says Castellas. Eliza Fay, wife of a British governor (1756-1816) who stayed in the city, wrote in her diary: “I truly love this quaint town and market, bought some beautiful sandalwood and ivory boxes, for which I am told this place is so famous for.” The Eastern Art Museum (EAM), which was started in the early 20th century by Jayshree Hatangadi’s grandfather CV Ramana Murthy, used to maintain a team of artisans who worked together under leadership of head craftsmen Peddayya and Veerachari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ivory-craft-from-vizag-adorns-royal-palace-in-uk/articleshow/77954034.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 6, 2020||India||Rajnath talks to CAR ministers, next on diary is meet in Tehran||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh held a flurry of meetings with his counterparts from Central Asian Republics (CAR) in Moscow on Saturday morning before leaving for Iran on his way back to India from Russia. Singh held bilateral meetings with Colonel General Sherali Mizo (Tajikistan), Major General Kurbanov Bakhodir Nizamovic (Uzbekistan), and Lt Gen Nurlan Yermekbayev (Kazakhstan), in keeping with India’s policy to further step up military and economic ties with the energy and minerals-rich CAR. Singh then left for Tehran for an important visit that comes amid the ongoing tension in West Asia and the Gulf after the United States brokered a deal between Israel and UAE, much to Iran’s dismay. India has strong ties with all the parties involved. Singh is slated to hold discussions with Iranian defence minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami on Saturday. India has a huge strategic stake in the Chabahar port in Iran, which will give it access to Afghanistan and CAR by bypassing Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-talks-to-car-ministers-next-on-diary-is-meet-in-tehran/articleshow/77956527.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 test reports must also state cycle threshold value: Doctors||BENGALURU: Many doctors are now telling patients that their Covid-19 test reports should mention the cycle threshold (Ct) value, and not just the positive or negative outcome. Ct value indicates the number of cycles needed in the RT-PCR test to amplify viral RNA, so it can reach a detectable level. A lower Ct value, 20 or below, is a sign of high viral load. Apart from ascertaining the severity of symptoms, doctors are also using Ct value to suggest home isolation or hospital admission to patients. Government labs don’t mention the value in Covid-19 test reports as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) believes it’s an unscientific measure. Some private labs in Bengaluru include Ct value in their reports, while a few others convey it orally to patients. Civic body BBMP’s testing campaign doesn’t reveal the value and asks patients to check into a hospital only if their symptoms (fever, diarrhoea, breathlessness) are moderate to severe. Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo Hospitals, said till the time better diagnostic tools were developed, Ct figure could help assess the amount of virus in one’s bloodstream. “A low value means the viral load is high. It is the closest indirect indicator for understanding the viral load. It must be taken in perspective, and not considered a standard of care. However, most labs don’t reveal it unless asked,” Dr Mehta said. Some doctors send their patients’ samples to only those labs which specifically mention Ct value. “We shifted from one private lab to another with the agreement that Ct value will be mentioned. The treatment is based on it,” said Dr Jagadish Hiremath, CEO, Ace Suhas Hospital. “If the value is between 20 and 25, home isolation can be advised, but the patient must be monitored through online consultations. Hospital admission is a must in cases where the value is less than 20. This is particularly necessary for patients who are aged 50 or more and have comorbidity.” Neuberg Anand Reference Laboratory in Bengaluru is among the private facilities that state Ct figure in all reports. So far, the lab has tested 1.3 lakh samples for SARS-CoV2, the formal name of the virus that causes Covid-19, through the RT-PCR process “One major reason for mentioning Ct values in reports is to minimise errors while uploading the reports on the ICMR portal. ICMR requires us to upload values for all positive cases,” said Dr Ananth Vikas Jayaram, a pathologist with the laboratory. Several pre-analytical factors, such as sample collection method, swab types, storage temperature and the gap between the collection and processing, can affect the RNA extraction and subsequently influence the Ct value. “Two samples collected from a patient at the same time can give different values if one is transported at 2-8 degrees Celsius and the other at room temperature,” Dr Jayaram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-test-reports-must-also-state-ct-value-doctors/articleshow/77956302.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 6, 2020||India||In poll-bound Bihar, BJP seeks ‘justice’ for Sushant||PATNA: A BJP poster campaign featuring a sepia-toned picture of Sushant Singh Rajput and seeking “justice” for the late actor has created a stir in poll-bound Bihar. Around 30,000 posters and pamphlets have been printed by the party’s art and culture cell with the hashtag “#JusticeForSushant” and a slogan in Hindi, “Na bhoole hain, na bhoolne denge (we have neither forgotten, nor will we let anyone forget).” BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said there was nothing political about the campaign even as RJD accused the party of milking the issue. “This is just meant to show solidarity with the departed actor’s family,” Anand said. RJD’s Mritunjay Tiwari claimed leader of opposition Tejashvi Yadav was the first to demand a CBI probe into Sushant’s death, but was against flagging it for political reasons. “Kisi ki lash par rajniti nahi honi chahiye (there should not be politics over someone’s body),” he said. BJP’s art and culture cell has written to CM Nitish Kumar to name Rajiv Nagar Chowk in Patna and also the proposed film city at Rajgir in Nalanda after the actor. Almost every party in Bihar has attached itself to Sushant, a Rajput. “The Rajputs are a force in around 40 seats. There are 19 legislators from this caste in the assembly,” a Congress member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-poll-bound-bihar-bjp-seeks-justice-for-sushant/articleshow/77956530.cms||Ramashankar
September 6, 2020||India||Love between China and Congress out in open: BJP||NEW DELHI: Citing a news report in Global Times, BJP on Saturday claimed that Congress and Beijing have much in common as the Chinese mouthpiece has backed the main opposition against the Modi government. BJP alleged that the opposition party was being used to fire at the country. “This is a classic definition of ‘anti-India stand’,” BJP spokesman Sambit Patra said, alleging that the Gandhi family has got “endorsement” from China and its president Xi Jinping. Patra was referring to a report in the Chinese government mouthpiece which claimed that PM Narendra Modi and BJP were facing heavy domestic pressure with Congress waiting for such a chance to shake the Modi administration for its “disappointing domestic governance and risky foreign policy”. “The love between China and Congress is out in open,” the BJP functionary said and claimed that it was linked to a memorandum of understanding Congress had signed with Chinese Communist Party in 2008 which, he added, spoke of close relations between the two parties. “Be it Pakistan, terrorists or China, why is it that all of them like Congress,” the BJP spokesperson asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/love-between-china-and-congress-out-in-open-bjp/articleshow/77956532.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa govt joins Centre’s portal for purchases||Panaji: After holding out for four years, the Goa government has signed up on the Centre’s e-procurement platform, the Government e-Marketplace (GeM), becoming the 24th state to shift all departmental purchases online. Sharing the information on Saturday, GeM officials urged Goan entrepreneurs to sign up on the portal or they risk losing out on local orders. GeM business facilitator for Goa and Karnataka, H S Gowtama said that Goan medium, small and micro scale enterprises (MSMEs) face a bigger opportunity to participate in government tenders. “Goa government signed an MoU last month and has adopted General Financial Rules (GFR) 2017,” said Gowtama. He was speaking at an online training session organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for MSMEs who want to register as vendors on the GeM portal. “Going forward as a seller there are a lot of opportunities for local MSMEs. As a seller they can participate in Goa’s tenders and any direct order across India, especially Karnataka and Maharashtra, by sitting in Goa,” he said. The public sector is the largest buyer of goods and all state government departments and central agencies have to purchase supplies, services and equipment through the GeM portal, which was set up on August 9, 2016. GeM the Union commerce ministry’s attempt to create an online e-commerce marketplace for government agencies. “Government is the largest buyer and GeM offers a unique opportunity for MSMEs to market and participate in the procurement of the government,” said CII-Goa chairman Blaise Costabir. In the last 30 days, four government departments have purchased IT hardware through the GeM portal. The departments of excise, water resources, science and technology and urban development have utilised the portal to procure office equipment. “GeM is transparent and companies seeking to register with the portal don’t have to submit any document or meet anyone. Any transaction on the GeM portal is completely digital and the L1 bidder is picked by the GeM algorithm and not the buyer. The bidder or the department has no role in selecting the company,” said Gowtama. He said that though vendors from Goa have registered on the portal, there is scope for many more companies to register. With the state government jumping onboard GeM, Goan vendors and companies will face broader competition from suppliers across the country. All government departments would route their purchases through Goa Handicrafts Rural & Small Scale Industries Development Corporation (GHRSSIDC), which will also struggle to remain relevant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-joins-centres-portal-for-purchases/articleshow/77955152.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||Court drops Modi’s name from Gujarat riot compensation suit||AHMEDABAD: A court in Sabarkantha district on Saturday dropped PM Modi’s name from a suit filed by a British family seeking Rs 23 crore as compensation for the killing of three of their relatives during the 2002 post-Godhra riots. Modi was CM of the state at that time. The plaintiff should have given reasonable grounds for arraying Modi, the court said, adding that removal of Modi’s name wouldn’t affect the plaintiffs’ claims to damages. While removing Modi’s name, the principal civil judge of Prantij court, S K Gadhavi, said, “A bare reading of the plaint makes it further evident that bald allegations are made against defendant No 1 (Modi), which resulted into (sic) the incident in question… In my view, such reckless allegations without any basis, i.e. evidence, can hardly establish any nexus or help in raising cause of action against defendant No 1.” Modi was named in the suit along with 13 others by British nationals Imran and Shirin Dawood in 2004. They were seeking compensation for the deaths of their relatives Saeed Dawood, Shakeel Dawood and Mohammed Aswat, who were attacked near Prantij and killed on February 28, 2002 while travelling from Jaipur to Navsari. An application was filed requesting the court to drop Modi’s name on the grounds that while the state can be held liable for such an incident, Modi cannot be held personally liable. It was argued that Modi’s name was added without any reason and continuing with his name was not required for the alleged tortious acts of other officers. It stated political allegations had been made against Modi but the Nanavati Commission had exonerated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-drops-modis-name-from-gujarat-riot-compensation-suit/articleshow/77956545.cms||Saeed Khan
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Ct value use in test reports flawed, says ICMR||Bengaluru: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) strongly believes that adding cycle threshold (Ct) values to coronavirus test reports is not necessary as the concept is scientifically flawed. In July, state chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar wrote to the council, seeking directions for mandatory mention of the values in every RT-PCR test report. “The ICMR replied that the addition of Ct value to reports was not advisable as it was scientifically flawed. It gave a list of reasons. We have to go by ICMR’s advice,” said health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey. The ICMR stated in the reply that patients in early symptomatic stages may show high Ct value, which could subsequently change. “In such cases, the high value will give a false sense of security. Severity of Covid-19 depends on a host of factors, besides the viral load. Some patients with low viral load may suffer from very severe disease due to triggering of the immunological response. Hence, high Ct value may give a false sense of security,” Dr Balaram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, wrote in his letter to the Karnataka government. Though it’s believed that a low Ct value means high viral load, it’s not the same in all cases. “Samples from asymptomatic and mild cases show values similar to those who develop severe disease,” the ICMR letter added. The council said that various parameters can influence Ct values, including the way samples are collected, the temperature at which they are transported and the analytical skills of the interpreters. According to Dr V Ravi, professor and head, department of neurovirology at Nimhans, the RT-PCR test is a qualitative test, and not a quantitative one. “Knowing Ct value will be important when a quantitative test is done. In qualitative tests, we cannot use Ct value for correlation with clinical severity. That’s why the ICMR has said it is not to be issued and we follow the same,” Dr Ravi said. On whether a lower value pointed to high viral load, he said: “By and large, it is true, but correlating it to severity is not correct.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ct-value-use-in-test-reports-flawed-says-icmr/articleshow/77956304.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 6, 2020||Goa||Margao murder: Cops arrest one more accused||PANAJI: Crime Branch of Goa police on Saturday arrested one more accused identified as Evender Rodrigues in the Margao jeweller murder case. Even after three days, the mystery continues over the motive behind the murder of Swapnil Walke, 41, on Wednesday. Superintendent of police (SP) Shobit Saxena told TOI, “They (crime branch) have received the case paper from the Margao police station and have started investigation.” Saxena said that they are ascertaining the motive and chronology of the event. Police said that they may be more people involved. The team led by PI Dattaguru Sawant detained Rodrigues from St Cruz. Police said that Rodrigues was hiding at an under construction site, but when the team reached the site he was not found. A police team was positioned outside his house and the accused was detained while on his way there. So far Omkar Patil and Mustafa Shaikh have been arrested in the case and have been remanded in 10-day police custody. Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena on Friday met crime branch and South Goa police officers to discuss the case and issue necessary directions. The DGP later transferred the case from the Margao town police to the crime branch as it was a “sensitive” case. On Wednesday, a jeweller was stabbed at his shop in the heart of Margao. Chasing the assailant and losing blood rapidly, Walke collapsed outside the store and died before he could be taken to hospital. The knife used by the accused was recovered by police on Friday. As nothing was found missing from the shop, the initial suspicion about robbery being the motive has been rendered unconvincing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-murder-cops-arrest-one-more-accused/articleshow/77955197.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||BJP chief: Party trying to rein in criminal activity since 2012||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade hit back at Congress, saying his party has tried to rein in criminal activities in the state since 2012. He said that the person murdered in Margao was a BJP worker and police have arrested the accused, while reacting to opposition criticism about deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Reacting to state Congress president Girish Chodankar’s allegation that chief minister Pramod Sawant got his Covid test at a private hospital, Tanavade said that he doesn’t know how serious people take Chodankar. The state Congress chief is trying to fool the people of the state by making false allegations, Tanavade told reporters. Deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that murder case was solved within 24 hours because the police force is active. Most of the drug raids were conducted during the tenure of chief minister Pramod Sawant, he said. “This government wants to eliminate the drug menace from the state,” Ajgaonkar said. Challenging the state Congress chief to win a municipal election, the deputy chief minister said, “Why will people listen to Chodankar when he has not done anything for the people of the state.” “During Congress’ tenure, drugs were openly sold. People now see the action. This government is taking action against drugs. Should we ignore it and say that there are no drugs and not act against it?” Ajgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-chief-party-trying-to-rein-in-criminal-activity-since-2012/articleshow/77955232.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Bailancho Ekvott calls for fast-tracking justice in goldsmith murder case||Margao: Auda Veigas of Bailancho Ekvott, a women’s organisation, has demanded that police conduct an “air tight” investigation into the Swapnil Walke murder case, free of any external interference. Addressing reporters on Saturday, Viegas urged the police to file a chargesheet against the accused leaving no loopholes in it, while also demanding that the case be fast-tracked by the court. “Because justice should be here and now. It shouldn’t wait for years,” she said. She also demanded installation or restoration of the CCTV cameras across the town. She said that the authorities should clean the town of “make believe” beggars. “Some criminals and anti-social elements, disguising themselves as beggars, have proliferated our town. Put them in shelter homes,” she said. She demanded stern measures to stop entry of illegal arms and narcotics into Goa. “I am also against festivals that promote drug abuse,” Viegas said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bailancho-ekvott-calls-for-fast-tracking-justice-in-goldsmith-murder-case/articleshow/77955246.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Man thrashed for goat ‘theft’, dies in custody||BOKARO: A man, one of the two beaten up by villagers in Giridih on Friday for allegedly stealing a goat, died in police custody on Saturday. While police suspended two cops and said Balwan Mahto (42), a resident of Topchachi, committed suicide, the district administration has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the custodial death, reports Divy Khare. On Friday, villagers had caught Mahto and Bablu Sonar, beaten them up and handed them over to police. SP Amit Renu claimed Mahto hanged himself at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-thrashed-for-goat-theft-dies-in-custody/articleshow/77956547.cms||Divy Khare
September 6, 2020||India||Dissent must be expressed respectfully, says SC judge||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Saturday said every society must have dissent and different points of view but what is required is that the difference of views should be set forth in a respectful manner. Speaking at a webinar on “Dissents that made a difference: India and Abroad” organised by CAN Foundation, he said,“Every society must have dissent and different points of view. What is required is that difference of views should be set forth in a manner, which conveys the difference of opinion, but not making it shrill in stance.” He said though we have lost respect for each other’s opinion in some way, which is necessary because there is no opinion which is right or wrong, and it is a question of time and of other aspects. “We are faced with political matters where a shrill kind of discourse takes place. But I do believe that we have a Constitution where an elected government is in power. Segregation of power requires the judiciary to perform a role and executive to perform a role,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dissent-must-be-expressed-respectfully-says-sc-judge/articleshow/77956548.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Ex-sarpanch hits out at MLA, panchs for drugs in Calangute||Calangute: Former Calangute sarpanch Joseph Sequeira has alleged that some Calangute panchayat members are involved in the drug business, following the arrest of two persons from Calangute recently. Sequeira also alleged that drug peddling has become rampant in Calangute due to the protection of minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo and the involvement of Calangute panchayat members, with the police turning a blind eye. Speaking to reporters, he said Fayaz Ahmed who was nabbed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday was employed as a driver by the husband of a woman panchayat member from Porbavaddo. Ahmed was arrested for his alleged involvement in supplying marijuana buds to celebrities. The buds were sent from abroad by post, according to the NCB, which intercepted some parcels. One of the intercepted parcels was to be delivered to the address of a restaurant which is owned by the woman panchayat member in Calangute, Sequeira said. On Thursday, the crime branch arrested Tony Fernandes from Calangute with charas worth Rs 90,000. According to Sequeira, Fernandes stays next door to another woman panchayat member. “This shows their clear involvement in the drug racket. This came to light only because the NCB and the CB conducted the raids,” he said. “This has spoilt the name of the Calangute panchayat. I had been a panchayat member for 30 years, but never were there any allegations against panchayat members of being drug traffickers. Now with these arrests, people in Calangute are talking about the panchayat members being the kingpins of the drug racket,” Sequeira said. He also alleged that a panchayat member who is a former sarpanch had visited Canada, and urged the enforcement directorate to probe his role in the whole buds racket since the parcels originated in Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-sarpanch-hits-out-at-mla-panchs-for-drugs-in-calangute/articleshow/77955325.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||Centre nudges Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh & Karnataka to curb Covid spread||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Saturday pressed Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — accounting for about 46% of active Covid-19 cases and 52% of deaths on Friday — to focus on aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and keep mortality rate below 1%. The health ministry advised these states to proactively ensure higher testing, effective clinical management along with efficient monitoring at various levels to lower fatalities. Maharashtra alone accounted for 22% of all active cases reported in a day. The Centre has also highlighted the districts of concern in each state. In Maharashtra, districts of Pune, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara and Palghar were highlighted and the need for effective containment and contact tracing was emphasised. In Andhra Pradesh, Prakasam and Chittoor districts were highlighted with the need for daily monitoring of facility-wise deaths, strengthening of hospital facilities, increasing the number of intensive care units (ICU), oxygen supply and efficient clinical management were focused upon. In Karnataka, the highlighted districts of Koppal, Mysuru, Davangere and Bellari were advised to optimally utilise RT-PCR testing, to strengthen their door-todoor search for active cases and to protect their healthcare workers. Cumulatively, the three states — Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — account for nearly 49% of the active cases and more than 57% of Covid deaths so far in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-nudges-maharashtra-andhra-pradesh-karnataka-to-curb-covid-spread/articleshow/77956554.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Lobo refutes allegations, says he has always been against drugs||Calangute: Reacting to allegations that he is responsible for drug peddling in Calangute, minister for ports and local MLA Michael Lobo said he has always been talking against drugs and a large number of drug raids have been carried out in the constituency. For Calangute sarpanch Joseph Sequeira has alleged that drug peddling has become rampant in Calangute due to the protection of Michael Lobo and the involvement of the panchayat members, with the police turning a blind eye. “This is purely political. Joseph Sequeira fought against me in the last election and lost. He can say what he wants, I don’t want to fight. We’re on the same page as far as the fight against drugs is concerned. The police are free to investigate; they’ve been given a free hand. The NCB is here,” Lobo said. Reacting to the arrest by the NCB of a driver working for the husband of a panchayat member, he said, “I’ve got 400 employees. If somebody does something illegal, I’m not responsible about what he does after duty. If I come to know I will inform the police. We must not tolerate any drug trade. We cannot be lenient on drugs,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-refutes-allegations-says-he-has-always-been-against-drugs/articleshow/77955381.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||Abandoned building at Baina beach den for anti-socials: Locals||VASCO: An abandoned under-construction building at Baina beach has become a matter of concern as locals and social activists say it has become a haven for anti-social elemesnts. “The doors of the ground-plus-one building have been broken open. Glass bottles are found on the window panes even on the top floor, signifying that anti-social elements use this place as their den. The authorities should act fast,” said president of the NGO Savera, Tara Kerkar. Locals are particularly concerned about the safety of women and children who visit Baina beach. “Some children come unaccompanied onto the beach to play and several women and girls walk there. The abandoned structure is right at the entrance of the beach and is a direct threat to their safety. If the Mormugao Municipal Council can’t demolish it, all its entry points should be blocked and a watchman should be stationed there,” said Safura Pasha, a teacher. The fate of the structure is pending before the court over a lease dispute, ex-chairperson and councillor Deepak Naik said. When contacted, local councillor Shraddha Amonkar said she had raised the issue in a recent council meeting and even demanded police patrolling in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/abandoned-bldg-at-baina-beach-den-for-anti-socials-locals/articleshow/77955413.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Forced to take up odd jobs, Bengaluru teachers hold protest||Bengaluru: Several teachers from private schools, who have been forced to do odds jobs or sell products like noodles to make ends meet, staged a protest in the city on Saturday, urging the state government to ease their hardship. They gathered outside the venue of a Teachers’ Day event, which was attended by education minister S Suresh Kumar. Many unaided schools, reeling from a financial crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, have been unable to pay regular salaries to their staff members, who are compelled to look for alternative means. Rangalakshmi, principal of Basaveshwara Educational Institute on Mysuru Road, has been selling noodles for the past few months. “As an earning member of the family, I have commitments. With my regular income stopping, I had to find another way to earn money,” she said. Rangalakshmi joined the teaching profession 18 years ago. Teaching and non-teaching staff of private schools are suffering because of the disruptions caused by Covid-19. They said the government’s failure to spell out a clear policy on collection of school fees had compounded the problems. “In Karnataka, 2 lakh teaching and non-teaching staffers are struggling because of the Covid-19 shutdown. We want the government to implement a policy for minimum wages and provide job security,” the Karnataka State Educational Institutions’ Employees Union has said in an appeal to the government. Deepa Renukesh, a teacher from NBN Vidyamandira on Bannerghatta Road, has been selling saris to support her family. “We are doing everything to survive. We understand the condition of schools. We still have our jobs and have been asked to return when schools reopen. But it’s the uncertainty that’s causing a lot of stress,” she said. Shashi Kumar D, general secretary of the Karnataka Associated Management of English Medium Schools, was a part of Saturday’s protest. He met Suresh Kumar, requesting him to address teachers’ problems. “We demand that the government and education department look into the difficult situation of teaching and non-teaching staff and clarify admission and fees issues. We have various issues that were tabled during meetings. None of them translated into an official order, which has been causing confusion and hardship,” Shashi Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/forced-to-take-up-odd-jobs-bengaluru-teachers-hold-protest/articleshow/77956307.cms||---
September 6, 2020||India||Was I infected? Demand rises for antibody tests||NEW DELHI: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, corporates and individuals have started seeking antibody tests to check whether they have been infected at some stage or need to be extra careful to prevent the infection. Major diagnostic labs and even hospitals said there is an increasing demand for such tests that help detect antibodies in blood to indicate whether a person has been infected or not. However, stringent regulations and restrictions on such tests in some states, including a price cap in Haryana and Tamil Nadu, have limited the use of antibody tests, industry executives said. Private labs are expecting the demand to increase and all states to relax regulations after the Centre’s advisory on Friday asking states to make tests available on demand. Antibody tests are blood-based tests that can be used to identify if a person was exposed to the infection by detecting presence of antibodies. There are two kind of tests — total antibody and IgG antibody test. The IgG test helps detect specific antibodies and is more accurate in terms of indicating whether an individual has been exposed to the novel coronavirus, said experts. At present, major private labs are conducting up to 1,000-1,400 antibody tests per day across the country. However, the distribution is not uniform and varies from state to state. “The demand for these tests had slumped after an initial take-off. But now, the tests have evolved and the government is using it widely in many states for serosurvey. The positivity is mostly uniform and that has triggered a renewed interest. People are generally curious and they want to be know whether they have these antibodies,” said SRL Diagnostics CEO Anand K. Doctors said that as offices are opening up and people are increasingly stepping out of homes, there is an eagerness to know whether they have already been infected. Also, because a significant percentage of the cases are asymptomatic, antibody tests are helpful. It also reassures an individual that he or she might have developed some immunity. These tests are usually successful in detecting antibodies if conducted after 14-30 days of exposure to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/was-i-infected-demand-rises-for-antibody-tests/articleshow/77956558.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 6, 2020||Goa||Sr public prosecutor, who won CBI its 1st case in Goa, resigns||Panaji: S R Rivankar, the state’s senior public prosecutor in the high court, who won the CBI its first case in Goa in 1998, has tendered his resignation. During a trial at the Margao sessions court in the custodial killing of an alleged criminal, Abdul Gaffar Khan, Rivankar got one police inspector and head constable convicted. He was later given a letter of merit. “It was a sensational case. The family wouldn’t take the body and the government, under pressure, finally handed the matter over to the CBI. The deceased was a notorious criminal from Margao. When he was arrested, something went wrong and he was found dead with several injuries,” Rivankar recalled. He also handled several high-profile and sensitive cases during his tenure, including that of the death of a British teen, the kidnapping and murder of a young DJ and most recently, the Merces double murder case. According to Rivankar, a public prosecutor is not a prosecutor for the government. “It’s not about defending the government but defending the public. A conviction is not a success for the government but for the public. The public must be satisfied that justice has been served,” he said. Rivankar said he strove to help the poor if he could. “There’s no point helping rich people. They can get the best legal advice and assistance in the country,” he said. Although he has retired as senior public prosecutor, Rivankar told TOI that he will continue to fight income tax matters, his favourite subject. After obtaining his LLB degree in Goa and his LLM degree in Mumbai, Rivankar practised for a few years in the Bombay high court before returning to Goa in the late 1980s. He began independent practice in 1992 and continued till 1997. He was appointed standing counsel by the Centre from 1998 to 2000, handling mostly custom and excise matters. He was also appointed by the I-T department as standing counsel from 2002 to 2011, and continued with the CBI till 2010. In 2011, he gave it up for private practice until the late chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2012 asked him to join as a public prosecutor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sr-public-prosecutor-who-won-cbi-its-1st-case-in-goa-resigns/articleshow/77955453.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Goa||PWD inspects water tank at New Vaddem after stability concerns||Vasco: Following an inspection of the overhead water tank at New Vaddem, the water supply section of the public works department (PWD) will write to its building section to examine the structure for stability. The PWD has also asked a private contractor to undertake internal cleaning of the tank. It may be recalled that on August 28, TOI had reported that an overhead tank in ward 22 at New Vaddem has become a matter of concern as residents in the area claimed that pieces of the tank’s slab had begun falling onto their rooftops. The residents had also claimed that the tank, water from which is consumed by at least 5,000 people, has not been cleaned in the recent past. The assistant engineer of PWD’s water section in Vasco, Eknath Paste, said, “On Wednesday, we cleaned the pump house and the entire surroundings of the tank. The internal cleaning will be undertaken by next week. By Monday, the contractor will come to New Vaddem and make the necessary arrangements for cleaning the tank. Alternate arrangements for water supply in the vicinity will also have to be made.” The water tank structure is about 20 years old, while around 30 houses are located in its vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-inspects-water-tank-at-new-vaddem-after-stability-concerns/articleshow/77955495.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||Increase contact-tracing to curb Covid-19 cases: Maharashtra CM to BMC||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a review meeting with BMC officials and the state-appointed task force on Covid-19 on Saturday stressed the need for increased contact-tracing. “Instead of tracing 20 contacts, we should find 30 close contacts of patients and conduct tests on them within 48 hours (of a case being reported),” he said. Indirectly targeting deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is the guardian minister of Pune district and had taken the initiative to start a Covid Care Centre in Pune, Thackeray said, “Though a vaccine is not yet available, providing better services to patients is important. But only making beds available and providing medicines is not enough, it would not be a big challenge to find lacunae in services and to try and rectify them.” It was alleged last week that a Pune-based journalist succumbed to Covid-19 due to unavailability of a cardiac ambulance in time to shift him from the Pune CCC to a private hospital. Applauding the BMC’s efforts and preparedness, Thackeray on Saturday said that though the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai after unlocking was a matter of concern, “after checking the BMC’s preparations, I am sure we would be able to control the outbreak.” Thackeray pointed out that though the state’s ‘Chase the virus’ campaign has helped to curb cases, 80-85% of patients now are found in high-rises and big societies instead of slum pockets. On the recent spike, he said, “Although BMC did a good job in Dharavi and Worli and was appreciated for the work carried out, instead of celebrating it, you should continue with the hard work. We were under the impression that a daily rise of 1,000-1,100 cases was the peak, but in the last two days, 1,900 and 1,700 cases have been registered. So we have to take this up as a challenge and face it with more strength.” He also directed the BMC to involve elected representatives, political party activists, corporators and various NGOs and Ganesh mandals to implement an effective ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign to fight Covid-19 in Mumbai. Thackeray said the state can provide 5,000 to 6,000 more beds in Mumbai, but in future, “there is a need to be further prepared and to plan for more oxygen beds and ICU beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/increase-contact-tracing-to-curb-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-cm-to-bmc/articleshow/77956564.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
September 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Strong waves destroy steps leading to Sernabatim beach||COLVA: Choppy sea conditions and high waves have caused damage to the steps leading to Sernabatim beach. Last week, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) had shifted a toilet block which was placed near the steps. However, they failed to inform the water resources department, who have built the steps and also undertake maintainance work. “The sand had eroded under the toilet block, so we moved it to another place,” GTDC’s assistant engineer Vishad Pole said. When contacted, WRD’s executive engineer Ankush Gaonkar said he was not aware that the steps had damaged, and stated that he would ask his personnel “to inspect the site and take appropriate measures”. Ward member Pio Furtado claimed that earlier he used to maintain the steps using his personal funds. “But the government agencies started taking it for granted,” he said.. Heavy soil erosion has also adversely affected many government projects along Salcete’s coastal belt. TOI had earlier highlighted the damage caused to gazebos installed at Sernabatim and Colva, following which, GTDC dismantled them. A study conducted in 2017 by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management had highlighted that sand dunes, which act as the beach’s first line of defence against the forces of the ocean, have borne the brunt of tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strong-waves-destroy-steps-leading-to-sernabatim-beach/articleshow/77955524.cms||Nisser Dias
September 6, 2020||India||By January, 50% in Mumbai’s non-slum areas to have antibodies: TIFR||MUMBAI: November 1 could be the scientific date to fully open up Mumbai’s offices and transport networks. This is the crux of a mathematical projection on the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic worked out by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and submitted to the BMC. Schools should, however, reopen only after Christmas, in January 2021, said the report worked out by Sandeep Juneja, dean of School of Technology and Computer Science in TIFR, along with Prahlad Harsha and Ramprasad Saptharishi. On herd immunity in the city, the team has said that by December or January next year, almost 75% of the people living in slum pockets and in 50% of non-slum pockets would have antibodies. However, the model hasn’t accounted for the threat of reinfection, which has emerged as a concern across the world in the past fortnight. The TIFR team has said the city should open up by 30% in September in terms of attendance in offices and capacity of transport systems. This could be increased to 50% in October. “The city should be further opened up gradually and become fully operational by November 1,” said Dr Juneja. Opening up mid-September, they said, could lead to a second wave of hospitalisations and rise in critical cases in Mumbai, which hit a plateau as far as Covid cases go in the May-June period. Incidentally, the city recorded higherthan-usual number of cases (1,737) on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/by-january-50-in-mumbais-non-slum-areas-to-have-antibodies-tifr/articleshow/77956569.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Salem||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956575.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Erode||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956572.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Madurai||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956573.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Coimbatore||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956571.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Trichy||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956574.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Puducherry||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956570.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Chennai||5,870 cases, 61 deaths reported across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: On Saturday 5,870 fresh cases and 61 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu. At the end of the day there were 51,583 people under treatment. Since February, the state has tested 50,42,197 people for Covid-19. This includes 79,840 in the past 24 hours. The state nowhas a networkof 160 authorised testing laboratories including 64 in the government sector. “We stuck to RT-PCR testing although it is time consuming because it has up to 70% sensitivity compared to 50% in antigen testing. After increasing the number of testing labs we are reducing the turnaround time for results,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The aggressive fever surveillance, targeted testing, swift isolation and early treatment pushed the recovery rate to 87% across the state and helped bring down the infection rate and doubling time, he said. As the state unlocks, there will be stringent enforcement of masking and social distancing. The ordinance promulgated by the state declaring some offences compoundable will help police, health and civic officials impose fines on individuals and institutions. “We have defined social distancing, containment areas and other new terms in the legislation. It gives more power to the public health authorities,” he said. On Saturday, hotspot Chennai reported 965cases and19 deaths, while the three adjoining districts Chengalpet (293), Kancheepuram (152) and Tiruvallur (244) together reported 689 cases and six deaths. Among the seven other northern districts, the only district to record cases in two digits was Thirupathur (44). Cuddalore (434) was on the top of the table, followed by Tiruvannamalai (239), Vellore (165), Villupuram (145), Kallakurichi (133) and Ranipet(109).Together,the11northern districts reported 49% fresh cases and 61% deaths. The eight districts in the west together reported1,403 cases including 545 fresh cases in Coimbatore and 250 cases in Salem. This was followed by 196 in Tirupur, 141 in Erode, Krishnagiri (88), Namakkal (86), Dharmapuri (50), Nilgiris (47). Together 11 deaths were reported. The 10 southern districts reported 783 cases, 25 more than the eight districts in the central zone. Tirunelveli logged 127 cases; Dindigul reported 122, Virudhunagar had 118 and Madurai 99. The zone reported 10 deaths, five from Kanyakumari. Districts in the central zone meanwhile reported the lowest number of cases and deaths. Together the districts reported 758 cases and seven deaths. Four districts – Nagapattinam (169), Pudukottai (126), Thanjavur (114), Thiruvarur (111) and Trichy (108) reported a three digit increase, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur reported 66, 44 and 20 cases each. At the end of the day, 5,859 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured from the ailment to 3,98,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5870-cases-61-deaths-reported-across-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77956567.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: ‘ICMR wants RT-PCR even when antigen makes sense’||MUMBAI: In a new set of testing guidelines issued on Friday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advised rapid antigen tests as a primary choice for surveillance and screening in containment zones. For non-containment areas and hospital settings, it recommended RTPCR as the preferred test, besides the repurposed TB tests CBNAAT and TrueNat. The guidelines come at a time when the use of the rapid antigen test, although less accurate than the RT-PCR, has increased in a significant way owing to its shorter turnaround time and ease of use. The ICMR said that for people with influenza-like illnesses (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) who are seeking immediate admission, the RT-PCR should be the preferred test in hospitals, followed by the rapid antigen test. It said the rapid antigen test should be the primary choice in containment zones and for screening at points of entry. It advised 100% antigen testing for people living in containment areas of cities with widespread infection. Hospitals said the idea of using RT-PCR to screen symptomatic people coming to hospitals was not feasible as reports still take 24 hours. An antigen test provides a diagnosis within 30 minutes and allows doctors to take a quick call on whether to admit the patient. Though the ICMR said hospitals could also use CBNAAT and TrueNat as an alternative to RT-PCR, few hospitals have the option. A municipal official said the ICMR guidelines do clash with the practice on the ground and may be difficult to adhere to. On the ground, most private centres use antigen test combined with a high-resolution CT (HRCT) in symptomatic patients coming to hospitals. An RT-PCR is done only if a symptomatic person tests negative in antigen test. The state, too, said recently that ILI or SARI patients should first do the antigen test. In BMC hospitals too, the antigen test is done first. “Those who come positive are hospitalised. Those negative are admitted in the suspect ward. If we use RT-PCR, almost all will have to go to the suspect ward,” a doctor said. A BMC official said the positivity rate between antigen (12%-13%) and RT-PCR (22%) is not too wide in symptomatic patients. Dr Hiren Ambegaonkar, CEO of SL Raheja Hospital, said that while RTPCR remains the gold standard, antigen allows quick decision-making. The cost of the RT-PCR test ranges from Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,500 while the antigen costs about Rs 450.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/icmr-wants-rt-pcr-even-when-antigen-makes-sense/articleshow/77956579.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kodagu tourist spots finally open to visitors||MADIKERI: In encouraging signs for the Kodagu tourism industry, which has suffered disruptions because of the Covid-19 crisis, the district administration has given the green signal to gradually restart activities in the district. Kodagu district tourism deputy director Raghavendra said tourist hotspots like Raja’s Seat (garden) in Madikeri, Abbi Falls near Madikeri and Cauvery Nisargadhama in Kushalnagar have been reopened to the public with the home ministry’s Standard Operating Procedure being strictly followed. Accordingly, the dos and don’ts on thermal scanning, sanitisation, social distanceing and preventing large gatherings are being ensured. Other important tourist places like Mandalpatti landscape spot near Madikeri and Dubare elephant camp will reopen on September 15, while the Mallalli Falls near Somwarpet will reopen on Sunday, Raghavendra said. The movement of people was visible in Madikeri and other tourist spots over the weekend, much to the delight of locals and vendors who are seeing the revival of tourism after almost six months. Ambekal Naveen, general secretary, Kodagu District Chamber of Commerce and joint secretary, District Homestays Association, said there’s been a 10% tourist turnout in the district. “This is the right season before the commencement of the Dasara season, when the turnout is high if the Nada Habba is celebrated like in previous years. However, this year, the number of tourists staying in lodges may not be high. Tourists from nearby places prefer to visit the district for a day and return,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kodagu-tourist-spots-finally-open-to-visitors/articleshow/77956312.cms||---
September 6, 2020||Mumbai||As active Covid-19 cases rise by 30% in Mumbai, ICU bed availability shrinks again||MUMBAI: Covid ICU beds are once again in short supply — particularly in private hospitals — at a time when active cases in the city have risen nearly 30% over the fortnight. BMC officials said ICUs in two jumbo facilities would be thrown open by the coming weekend, adding 250 beds. A BMC dashboard showed that of the 1,399 Covid ICU beds in the city, 1,258 were occupied and only 141 were available on Saturday. Of the 931 beds supported by a ventilator, merely 43 were available. Of the 528 ICU beds in private hospitals, only 38 were vacant on Saturday. Of the 871 ICU beds of the BMC, only 103 were available. Around 1,100 patients out of the 22,220 active cases and 6,485 symptomatic cases were critical. The active cases in the city jumped from 18,299 to 22,978 in 15 days. Almost all major private hospitals were running to capacity and BMC tertiary hospitals were filling up fast. Dr V Ravishankar of Lilavati said nearly all 140 Covid beds at the Bandra hospital were occupied. “The bed situation has worsened. A lot of people from out of Mumbai are coming now,” he said. At Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo, the Covid facility of 100 beds is full and there is a waiting list of 20 for a bed in the ward and 15 for an ICU bed. Dr Hiren Ambegaonkar, CEO of SL Raheja Hospital, said the bed occupancy was 60%-70% two weeks ago. The 130 Covid beds at the hospital, including 14 ICU beds, were fully occupied. “The occupancy has suddenly spiralled to almost 100%. We don’t admit any asymptomatic at all. We are strictly admitting those with fever and dropping oxygen levels,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that though there was a rise in demand for beds, the situation was not out of control. “There is a bit of a bed crunch in the private sector, but ICU beds are available in the public sector. In addition, we are starting 250 ICU beds in a matter of days,” he said. The jumbo facilities at Mahalaxmi and Nesco, Goregaon, will start 30 and 220 ICU beds, respectively. The inauguration is likely in a few days, and the ICUs will start admitting patients after that. Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants, said the decision to remove 73 nursing homes from the Covid care list was hasty and ill-timed. A ward official said there was reluctance to go to jumbo centres, where the mortality rate was a cause for concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-active-covid-19-cases-rise-by-30-in-mumbai-icu-bed-availability-shrinks-again/articleshow/77956584.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Staying calm and positive helped me beat Covid-19: Aruna Bahuguna||Former police officer Aruna Bahuguna, who recently recovered from Covid-19, says that a positive attitude and self-care goes a long way in helping you fight the virus. The former National Police Academy (NPA) director and the first lady IPS officer in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, had tested positive for coronavirus last month along with her two sons, Anunay and Pranay and daughter-in-law Jennifer. “It came as a rude shock because all of us had tested positive at the same time. I had mild body aches and some irritation in my throat, and my younger son too had mild temperature and body aches. As soon as we tested positive, we isolated ourselves completely and started taking medicines after consultation with a doctor over the phone,” Aruna says.  Taking us through how she and her family battled coronavirus, Aruna shares, “We immediately got an oxymeter and an infrared thermometer.We checked our temperatures and oxygen levels three times a day. We also took a lot of Vitamin C and D, apart from salt water gargling and steam inhalation.”  The former top cop says breathing exercises and gardening helped her stay calm while she was fighting Covid-19. “Being a police officer, many hours of my life were spent on the Parade Ground. That probably built up my lung power. I also did pranayama quite regularly. Gardening was something I particularly enjoyed during this period. There was something about watching life grow in front of you that was very soothing and inspiring,” she reveals, adding, “I kept my phone off most of the time since I wanted to shut out the negativity and just live in the present and spent time with my family.”  The retired cop says that the silver lining of the entire family testing positive for the virus was that the isolation period wasn’t as hard. “Thankfully, we didn’t have to isolate from each other. We played a lot of board games, listened to music, sang, played the piano and watched a lot of TV. Most importantly, we stayed positive all the time and I think that helped us recover quickly,” she says, signing off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/staying-calm-and-positive-helped-me-beat-covid-19-aruna-bahuguna/articleshow/77953154.cms||Suhas Yellapantula
September 6, 2020||Ranchi||Male Covid victim kin get woman’s body in big botch up, Ranchi hosp booked||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: In an embarrassing botch up that added to the trauma of two families who lost their kin to Covid-19 in different cities, a Ranchi-based private hospital handed over a woman’s body to the family of a male patient who died at the hospital on Friday. An FIR has been filed against Asclepius Center for Medical Sciences on instructions from the Ranchi administration. Mohamed Samid Ansari (58), a resident of Jamshedpur, was admitted to the hospital on September 1 with pneumonia and tested positive for Covid-19 before he died there on Friday. The family, based at Jamshedpur’s Mango locality, only realized that they had been given the wrong body once they took it back home for the last rites. The corpse was later identified as that of Milyani Minz (65), a resident of Ranchi’s Kokar area, Covid patient who died at the hospital around the same time. When her family reached at hospital on Saturday, they realized that her body was missing and it had been transported to Jamshedpur, leading to an arguments between them and the hospital staff. Ormanjhi police had to intervene and assured the family that they will receive the dead body soon. “The body was handed over to us on Saturday morning and we brought it to our home town for burial. When we opened the plastic cover at the kabristan for the last rites, we found a woman’s body inside,” said Mohamed Hamid Ansari, the deceased’s younger brother. Hamid added that they called up the hospital, but the management refused to admit any error on their part. The family then approached the Ranchi district administration before Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra reached the hospital and started an inquiry. “I directed the Ormanjhi police to track Ansari’s body and intimated his family in Jamshedpur when we found it. We have registered an FIR against the hospital for the serious lapse. Such botch-ups during the pandemic will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against those responsible for the plight of the two families,” Mishra said. “They (the hospital management) finally told us that my brother’s body is still lying at their mortuary and it will be handed over to us once we reach Ranchi,” said Mohamed Riaz Sharif, another relative of the deceased. The family said it has no idea about the identity of the woman whose body was given to them and they are rushing back to Ranchi to hand it over to the hospital so that her family can collect it and give her a farewell she deserves. When contacted, the hospita’s business head Shadab Alam said: “The family members of the Jamshedpur patient got engaged in a heated argument with the hospital staff when they were informed that he had died. This created chaos and confusion and took the body without getting it verified.” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said: “The hospital was warned for its lackadaisical approach a week ago after they failed to submit the details of Covid patients admitted there. We will also take disciplinary action against the hospital in light of the lapse on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/male-covid-victim-kin-get-womans-body-in-big-botch-up-ranchi-hosp-booked/articleshow/77954457.cms||Gaurav Pandey
