September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood drug scandal will affect business, say Bengaluru pub owners||After months of no operations, the city’s pubs had just thrown their doors open to patrons again, when news of an ongoing drug probe broke. Wondering what the connection is? Well, according to initial reports from the investigation, drugs were allegedly being peddled by some of the accused, who are well-known names in the social circuit, at high-end parties conducted at some city hot spots. The timing of this revelation couldn’t have been worse for pubs, but owners say that being extra cautious about the kind of patrons and activities on their premises should ensure no untoward incidents happen. Amit Roy from the National Restaurant Association of India, Bengaluru chapter, says, “The timing is, no doubt, unfortunate. We finally got a chance to reopen a lot of pubs, which involves a lot of money. Given the pandemic, all venues are only allowing seated services, so parties are ruled out for some time. But, that said, this scandal will impact us to some degree.” A restaurateur, who owns a popular chain, reveals on condition of anonymity that this will also make people relook at events once things resume in a bigger manner. “Incidents like these leave a big doubt in the minds of people who step out to unwind. People will now think twice about whether to attend a do or not.” Echoing similar views, Aman Dua, Beverage Head at a city hotspot, says, “Everyone will have to be very careful henceforth. Even if parties do happen, one will have to do a more thorough background check of the organisers and guests.” Amit agrees that the city hotspots have more at stake. “We don’t encourage such activities, but even the slightest aspersion can be costly for a venue. They even stand to lose their licenses,” he points out. Hot spots gear up to ensure clean parties  A 360 degree check of event organisers  More stringent frisking of guests on big nights Blacklisting anyone suspicious No leeway with extra time or special facilities for VIPs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sandalwood-drug-scandal-will-affect-business-say-bengaluru-pub-owners/articleshow/77965061.cms||Sunayana Suresh
September 7, 2020||Amaravati||Tirupati municipal corporation organises Yoga camps||TIRUPATI: The Tirupati Municipal Corporation under the the leadership of commissioner PS Girisha organised a free yoga training programme to help the locals of Tirupati adopt to a healthy lifestyle. The corporation which collaborated with the Chittoor district yoga association, roped in professional yoga trainers to help the locals of the city boost their immunity levels by practicing yoga techniques. Municipal commissioner PS Girisha along with nearly 150 residents of the city took part in the special free yoga training programme held at the open auditorium at Prakasam park in the city on Sunday morning. PS Girisha urged the locals to make use of the free yoga training camp facility and adopt a healthier lifestyle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tirupati-municipal-corporation-organises-yoga-camps/articleshow/77967123.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Kurukshetra reports 230 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||KURUKSHETRA: The district on Sunday reported three coronavirus-related deaths, taking the toll to 48, said civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. “Three patients, who were Covid-19 positive, died in Kurukshetra on Sunday”, Dr Singh said. “Kurukshetra recorded the highest single-day surge of 230 positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,454, with 1,104 active cases. As many as 29 patients were discharged during the day, taking the recovery count to 1,302, said Dr Sukhbir. Meanwhile, after the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the administration held a meeting with all the concerned officials of different departments and strictly instructed the health department to carry out sampling at maximum capacity and administration to ensure adherence of the norms. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar said the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has been increasing rapidly and the situation is getting serious as 48 infected people have died till September 6. “On September 4, Kurukshetra recorded a mortality rate of 2.06%, as 44 people out of 2,134 found Covid-19 positive lost lives. This figure is probably the highest in Haryana”, said DC Brar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-kurukshetra-reports-230-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/77967162.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 397 new Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: The state on Sunday reported one Covid-19 death from Una district and highest ever single-day tally of 397 cases of Covid-19. The state also saw recovery of 197 coronavirus patients. With current figures, the state's Covid-19 tally has risen to 7,415 of which 2,176 are active patients, 5,138 have recovered, 53 have died while 46 have migrated out of state. In the state total 2,28,691 people have been tested of which 2,20,203 have been tested negative while results of 1,073 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-397-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77967263.cms||Anand Bodh
September 7, 2020||India||Railways to decriminalise begging, smoking in trains||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has proposed to decriminalise begging in stations and trains and smoking inside coaches. The provision of jail and fine for begging would be done away as the focus will now shift to prevention through higher penalties imposed on those found smoking in trains, sources said. A top railway official said this has been proposed following a communication from cabinet secretariat to decriminalise certain offences. The railways may add a couple of more offences to the list for which spot fines would be increased, the official said. This exercise is being undertaken across ministries and many departments have proposed increasing fines rather than arrest of offenders. “This doesn’t mean that railways will allow or encourage begging at stations and in trains. Decriminalisation doesn’t mean it will be legalised. Surveillance by RPF and other staff will be increased to prevent such activities,” said a ministry official. Smoking in public places, including railway stations, is already banned in several states. Section 144(2) of the Railways Act says if any person begs in any train or at station, he is liable for punishment of up to one year jail or with fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. According to the proposed amendment to this section, none shall be permitted to beg in trains or at stations. Section 167 of the Railways Act also specifies that anyone found smoking in a compartment despite prohibition or objection from a co-passenger is liable for a fine of up to Rs 100. The authorities can slap charges for further action. Now the proposal is to increase the fine, though the amount has not yet been finalised, sources said. As per the proposed provision, if the offender pays such fine immediately, the officer authorised can compound the offence by charging the maximum fine. The violator would be discharged and no further proceeding would be taken against him/ her. The ministry has sought feedback from people. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-to-decriminalise-begging-smoking-in-trains/articleshow/77967663.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 7, 2020||Delhi||#MetroReopening: Commuters worry whether others will ‘mind the gap’||As the Delhi Metro resumes its services in a phased manner from September 7, a concern that’s on everyone’s mind is about safety in pandemic times. The Metro operations have remained suspended across NCR since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Last week, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) issued SOPs mentioning the precautions they’ll be taking, adding that those not following social distancing norms will be penalised. We spoke to NCR residents, regular Metro commuters, about the concerns they have about boarding the Metro amid these times. While most people agree that Metro is safer than other public transport, they are concerned about fellow commuters' behaviour. ‘Will wait 15-20 days before boarding Metro’Many Delhiites, who availed Metro services regularly, are now planning to avoid boarding the train as they are scared of travelling with strangers. Though medical experts and authorities have explained the importance of wearing a mask, many Delhiites keep flouting the norm, forcing the police to issue challans on a regular basis. Satyendra Singh, who works at at bookstore, says, “Metro is a closed space and a high risk route for viral transmission. I’m apprehensive about boarding a Metro anytime soon – I’ll wait for 15-20 days before I do. However, Delhi Metro is one of the few places people are disciplined. On road, people now are hardly wearing masks. But, with the CISF personnel around, people usually prefer not to break rules in Metros.” The DMRC is set to ensure social distancing by seating commuters on alternate seats, sanitising trains, carrying out thermal screenings and having foot pedals installed to call lifts‘Commuters talk a lot inside Metros, exposure chances may increase if they remove masks’Delhiites say those commuting via the Metro talk a lot, and if they remove their mask to do so, it can increase COVID-19 transmission. Sumedha Das, a teacher who lives in Mayur Vihar and works in a school in Hauz Khas, says, “I don’t have to go out as schools haven’t reopened yet, but when they resume, I’ll not board the Metro for some time at least, even if I have to spend five times the amount on cabs. I’m terrified of travelling in the Metro. In Metro, people talk all the time. And as we have seen in other public places, many people remove the mask while talking. And this can happen in Metro too.” She adds, “If they did this less in public places, viral transmission might go down.” Agrees Faizan, who works in Gurgaon, “I want to take the train some time in the first week to see how it’s working out, so that when there is an urgency to travel, I can decide whether or not I want to board the Metro. It is a closed space, which may not be crowded initially, but people are in close contact. People talk in Metros continuously, and they might just pull down their mask down. If Metros are less crowded, I might avail their services again.” Even experts agree that not talking in a public place reduces COVID-19 transmission chances. Donald K Milton, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Health, was recently quoted saying, “Silence and quiet speaking are reasonable means of intervening (to reduce COVID-19 transmission).” Not expecting full crowd to return initially: DMRCIn a press conference recently, Mangu Singh, MD, DMRC, said that he doesn’t anticipate a huge rush in the Metro as schools and colleges are shut, and offices are encouraging work from home. He said, “We aren’t expecting the full crowd to return to the Metro initially, as people are venturing out only when needed.” Some commuters say that the Metro will be safer than other modes of public transport, especially as they are unlikely to be crowded initially. Chhavi Mittal, a homemaker, says, “I’ve been postponing plans to go out for long, and with Metros resuming services. it’ll definitely be convenient to go out again. I think only 20-30% people will anyway return to Metro on a regular basis.” Watch Metro reopening: Commuters concerned whether people will 'mind the gap'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metroreopening-commuters-worry-whether-others-will-mind-the-gap/articleshow/77961126.cms||Niharika Lal
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Hot in-flight meals & alcohol, shops reopening: Flying in the #newnormal just got better||With direct air connectivity between Kolkata and London set to be re-established after a decade and India expected to expand its air bubbles with international destinations, more and more passengers are getting to fly in the new normal. Though F&B and retail kiosks – an integral part of the overall flying experience – are gradually reopening at airports across the country, there are few takers for those services as fliers continue to grapple with the virus scare, new rules and regulations and tight budgets. While airport snacking and shopping have taken a backseat, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has, after more than five months, allowed airlines to serve meals on board. We spoke to a few recent fliers to get a sense of how flying in the COVID era feels like. Hot meals back on flightsAfter being stuck in India for months, Wasim Ahmed, a banker in Dubai, flew back on August 31. In the three-hour Emirates flight, he was served a hot meal that included bread, butter, chicken with sautéed veggies, a wrap and a dessert. “They also had alcohol on board, but unlike before, the crew members were only serving it on request,” he told us. Wasim’s experience was way better than what Monami Biswas went through when the Covid-19 survivor and the first plasma donor from Kolkata took a flight to Scotland on April 25. “In the nine-and-a-half-hour-long flight, I was just served some dry snacks. A packet was kept on the seat. It had a sandwich, a roll, chips, a water bottle, juice, mishti doi etc. There was no alcohol on board. The Air India food was pretty sad this time, really,” she told us. In-flight catering resumesWhile the Middle East airlines avail food from their port cities, Indian airlines operate along the local guidelines. After the green signal from DGCA, they are gearing up to order from designated caterers. According to a source in Taj Sats, airlines were primarily taking bottles of water till now, but now with the new notice, Vistara and Air India will also order food from them. "While Vistara will offer hot meals in business class, the other two classes will serve cold meals. The Vande Bharat fliers can expect stuffed croissants, cookies, cake slices, veg puff, dry desserts and more. Flights above three hours will have a wider menu,” said an airport source. Airport shops await footfallWhile the flow of customers at airport eateries is gradually increasing, retail stores are still mostly deserted. At Dubai airport, known to be a shoppers’ paradise, though most of the shops are operational, there is a dearth of buyers. “My flight was from Delhi, where a few shops are open. But in Dubai, almost 80% shops are open, but there’s no one to shop -- be it food, garments or jewellery. Upon arrival, we were immediately directed to the immigration counter and Covid testing unit. People have no time to shop,” said Wasim. Sanjoy Mohanty, who recently travelled from Delhi to Bangalore to Delhi, called the experience “dismal”. he said, “No queues at coffee shops that once used to be buzzing with activity. No one in the retail shops. Be it Bangalore or Delhi – it’s all the same. It is not that people are not travelling. While flying to Bangalore, the flight was packed. Many are still scared of eating outside and splurging at airport shops. I don’t know how to cope with this new normal.” Kaushik Bhattacharjee, director, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata, said, “Fifty per cent of the food outlets in the domestic lounge and city side of Kolkata airport are now open. Rest are in the process of opening. After the international flights resume in September, the bar will be opened too. Since our food court is not spacious enough, it is still shut. Standalone shops will reopen in a couple of days. About 70% of the retail shops are open. However, the footfall there is pretty low.” Flying soon? this is what you must know Airport authorities are sanitising luggage upon arrival No physical checking of tickets or IDs at the gates. The checking is done electronically, maintaining social distancing. Thermal checking is also being conducted No baggage X-ray is done before check-in. Only in-line baggage X-ray is conducted at the airports that have the facility Airlines are encouraging web check-in to avoid issuing boarding passes No frisking at the gate. Security check is being conducted as usual by CISF officials in either PPE suits or face guards, masks and gloves Smoking rooms are not in operation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hot-in-flight-meals-alcohol-shops-reopening-flying-in-the-newnormal-just-got-better/articleshow/77968151.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
September 7, 2020||Business||Centre orders refund of locked-down air tickets||NEW DELHI: Clearing the confusion over refund of tickets for flights during the lockdown period, the Centre’s proposed guidelines mandate airlines and travel agents to immediately refund passengers if they had booked tickets between March 25 and April 14 for travel from March 25 to May 3. In an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court after consultations with different airlines, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) informed it that for flight tickets booked after April 14, airlines and travel agents will get a 15day window to refund the money as the Civil Aviation Requirements say this must be at the convenience of flyers. However, the DGCA provided an alternative to domestic airlines, whose revenues have nose-dived during the pandemic, with regard to refunds for tickets booked after April 14. “If on account of financial distress, airlines are not able to do so, then they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected. This credit shell shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket,” it said. Making the credit shells valid for travel till March 31, 2021, on any route of the passenger’s choice, DGCA said, “If the flyer wants to buy a ticket of value more than the credit shell, then he/she can use cash to top it up. If he wants to buy a ticket of value less than the credit shell, he/she can do so and the balance amount of the credit shell shall be available.” For tickets booked on international flights operated by foreign airlines, refund of ticket amount to the passenger has to be made within 15 days as there is no credit shell facility allowed for foreign operators. For money locked in with airlines and travel agents for cancelled flights, the DGCA said the ticket amount in the credit shell shall grow by 0.5% till June 30 this year and thereafter by 0.75% per month till the passenger utilises the credit shell to buy a ticket till March 31, 2021. It said the passenger can transfer the credit shell to any person of his choice and the airlines will create a mechanism to effect and honour such a transfer. However, if a passenger does not use the credit shell till March 31, 2021, then the person is entitled to a cash refund of the total amount by the airlines, the DGCA said. It said in case of passengers who died after tickets were booked in flights which were cancelled due to lockdown, airlines would give a full refund to their kin. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta had recently told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah that the DGCA had talked to airlines and was finalising a proposal. The DGCA consulted representatives of Air India, Go Air, Air India Express, Vistara, Air Asia, IndiGo and SpiceJet. The DGCA said the above proposal was formulated as an exception keeping in view the problems during Covid-19 and was without prejudice to the regulatory framework as provided in the Civil Aviation Requirements. Watch Passengers to get full refund for tickets booked during lockdown: DGCA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-orders-refund-of-locked-down-air-tickets/articleshow/77968501.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 7, 2020||India||Dissenters Jitin Prasada & Raj Babbar out of key Congress panel for 2022 UP polls||LUCKNOW: Former MP Jitin Prasada, and ex-UP Congress committee chief Raj Babbar were not included in four core committees announced by the party on Sunday keeping in mind the 2022 UP elections. The two were among 23 senior Congressmen who wrote a letter last month to the party chief Sonia Gandhi, dragging her attention towards the uncertainties about the leadership. Former MP RPN Singh is also among prominent leaders from the state who couldn’t make it to these committees. Singh is at present the AICC in charge of Orissa. Party general secretary KC Venugopal released the names of the members of manifesto committee, outreach committee, membership committee and programme implementation committee for UP on Sunday. A senior functionary, however, said that the Raj Babbar and Jitin Prasada would be given important roles in future. Total 27 senior Congress members were included in these committees. Salman Khursheed, the former MP from Farrukhabad, ex-Barabanki MP PL Punia who is also the former ST/SC commission chairperson, Congress legislature party leader in UP assembly, Aradhana Mishra and former journalist Supriya Shrinate, who contested 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Maharajganj and is now the national spokesperson, are part of manifesto committee for the forthcoming state polls. Former Rajya Sabha member and minister Pramod Tiwari, former Jhansi MP Pradip Jain Aditya, Saharanpur’s firebrand neta Imran Masood and Naseemuddin Sidiqui — who has defected from BSP — and two others are part of the outreach committee. All UPCC vice-presidents are ex-officio members of this committee Four-time Allahabad MLA Anugrah Narayan Singh along with other ex MLAs Ajay Kapoor, BL Khabri, Ajay Rai and Mohamad Muqeem are part of Membership committees. Kamal Kishore Commando, who was in the security team of Rajiv Gandhi, and emerged a surprise winner from Bahraich in 2014 LS polls, was also included in this committee. Similarly, the programme implementation committee has former Rampur MP Noor Bano, former Bareilly MP Praveen Aron, and seven others as members. Raj Babbar, who lost from Fathehpur Sikri in the 2019 LS polls downplayed his omission from these committees. “Appropriate people have been picked for appropriate functions. I am sure they will do well. As far as I am concerned, I have left UP,” said Raj Babbar. Meanwhile, Jitin Prasada, who has also been in news for making an outreach to the Brahmin community, did not respond to TOI text or calls over the new development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jitin-prasada-raj-babbar-out-of-key-congress-panel-for-2022-up-polls/articleshow/77968746.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 7, 2020||Patna||Ensure 6,000 tests a day: Gaya DM||GAYA: Gaya DM Abhishek Singh has sought an explanation from the civil surgeon for less than required number of Covid tests in the district during the last three days. According to a press release issued by the PRD, during the review of Covid situation, it was revealed that the actual number of tests was less than the official target. The DM, however, said compared to the state average, the number of tests in Gaya was satisfactory. “The shortfall was in the target set by the district administration. We had set the target of 6,000 tests a day. The actual number of tests during the last three days varied between 5,000 and 5,400 a day,” he added. The DM has also asked the health officials to ensure 100% testing in containment zones. At the review meeting, it was revealed that the residents of containment zones in the Manpur and Dobhi block areas were not being properly tracked. Principal of Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital has been asked to ensure a minimum of 700 RT PCR tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-6000-tests-a-day-gaya-dm/articleshow/77967033.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ECR to run four pairs of special trains from September 12||PATNA: At least 20 special mail and express trains will either originate or pass through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) from September 12 following an announcement made by Railway Board chairman V K Yadav on Saturday. The ECR will be thus running 105 special trains, including 40 examinees’ special MEMU/ DEMU trains. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said four pairs of special trains – Jayanagar-Delhi special (02561/02562), Darbhanga-Secunderabad special (07007/07008), Muzaffarpur-Valsad special (09051/09052) and Dhanbad-Ferozpur special (03307/03308) – will originate from the jurisdiction of the ECR from September 12. Besides, six pairs of other long-distance special trains – Bhagalpur-Delhi special (02367/02368), Madhupur-Delhi special (02465/02466), Dibrugarh-Amritsar special (05933/05934), Agartala-Deogarh special (05625/05626) and Indore-Howrah special (02911/02912) – will pass through the jurisdiction of the ECR. The Covid-19 pandemic has made a severe impact on railway revenue following cancellation of all passenger trains across the country since March 2 . Faced with extraordinary situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the ECR had cancelled altogether 663 passenger trains, including 274 mail/express and 389 other passenger trains, the CPRO said . According to him, ECR has incurred a colossal loss of Rs 9 crore per day due to cancellation of passenger trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-four-pairs-of-special-trains-from-september-12/articleshow/77967053.cms||Kumod Verma
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 1,797 fresh +ve cases, 4 more deaths||PATNA: The state health department on Sunday recorded 1,797 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,47,658. Four more Covid patients died, taking the toll to 754. One person each from Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Bhojpur and Madhubani died, the health department said. With 1,924 more recoveries, the state had 16,604 active cases as 1,30,300 patients had been discharged after recovering from the infection till Sunday. Bihar now has 88.24% recovery rate, which is almost 11% higher than the country’s 77.3%. The state health department claimed to have conducted 1,51,033 tests for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which was likely to be the highest in the country. State health minister Mangal Pandey claimed that Bihar has the highest number of tests per day. “The state also has the highest recovery rate and the lowest 0.5% death rate in the country. In the past 24 hours, 1924 patients recovered, taking the cumulative tally of cured patients to 1,30,300 with 88.24% recovery rate,” he tweeted. Patna reported 214 fresh positive cases, taking the district tally so far to 22,533. There were 2,141 active cases in the district which has reported 20,215 Covid patients so far. The district has 89.7% recovery rate now. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the bed occupancy at isolation centres and hospitals in the district has reduced significantly. “Timely contact tracing of infected people, high number of tests and proper monitoring of containment zones led to the decline in number of Covid patients in Patna,” he said. Other districts with large number of fresh Covid- 19 cases included Araria (151), Bhagalpur (89), Purnea (86), Siwan and Supaul (76 each), Saran (69) and Madhubani (68). No new Covid-19 deaths were reported from the two dedicated hospitals at Patna — AIIMS and NMCH — on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-1797-fresh-ve-cases-4-more-deaths/articleshow/77967006.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Post-Covid care clinic at NMCH from Monday||PATNA: The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, a Covid-dedicated hospital in Patna, will start ‘post-Covid care clinic’ and ‘counselling centre’ from Monday for patients who have recovered from the infection. The outpatient department (OPD) has been set up at the de-addiction unit of NMCH after secondary ailments were reported in some of those who had recovered from the infection attack. A team of nine doctors, including physiotherapists, psychologists and general physicians, has been constituted. Dr BP Jaiswal, associate professor at department of paediatrics, would be the OPD in charge. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Saturday that several patients after recovering from coronavirus infection contacted the hospital with ailments like lung fibrosis, fatigue, psychological problems, respiratory distress and heart issues among others. “The clinic will help in reducing the health challenges faced by patients to enable them to recover fully,” he said. “The Covid-19 survivors will get supportive advice from the physiotherapists, paediatricians, counsellors and nutritionists. Patients who need more medical attention will be admitted to the non-Covid ward. Patients can also avail the services through tele-counselling,” he said. The OPD of post-Covid care clinic and counselling centre would operate from Monday to Saturday between 9am and 2pm. Dr Jaiswal said the recovered patients often visited the hospital with neurological distress, which they faced due to stigmatization and re-emergence of fever and cough. “Stigma is still associated with the Covid-19. Many patients again suffered from viral infection like fever and cough. The doctors will counsel such patients,” he said. “There are also patients who suffered from other ailments like respiratory problems, heart issues and fatigue. We will conduct medical examinations of such patients and provide them treatment required. As Covid is a novel virus, we got to know about new things related to this respiratory disease. But there are still much to unravel about the disease,” Dr Jaiswal said. AIIMS-Patna and Patna Medical College and Hospital are also gearing up to commence the same facility for patients having psychological distress, lung fibrosis, fatigue and other secondary ailments after recovering from the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/post-covid-care-clinic-at-nmch-from-today/articleshow/77967021.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 7, 2020||Kanpur||Five Covid deaths at Kanshiram hosp: DM forms probe panel||Kanpur: The district magistrate, on Sunday, constituted a three-member committe to probe the death of five Covid patients at Kanshiram Hospital on Saturday. He has asked the committee to give its report within 12 hours. The five deaths at Kanshiram hospital were a big blow to the administration which is taking all necessary steps to check Covid-19 deaths and cases in the city. Nine Covid deaths were reported in the city on Saturday of which five were at Kanshiram hospital. The three-member committee consists of chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra, ADM civil supplies Dr Basant Agarwal and a doctor nominated by the principal of GSVM medical college. District magistrate Alok Tiwari directed the committee to conduct an inquiry against the doctors who were not performing their duties and fix their accountability. Earlier, the chief medical superintendent had informed that some doctors were not performing their duties seriously. Tiwari told the CMS that strong action would be taken against staff showing laxity. During inspection, the DM interacted with patients through video and examined the preparations of a new ICU having 43 beds . The district magistrate randomly cross checked the physical survey by rapid response teams in Shiv Katra, Jagai Purwa and adjacent localities. More than 1,000 teams of paramedical staff are conducting RRT surveys of people in home isolation. Tiwari visited the houses where teams had conducted the survey and asked people about the survey and availability of pulse oximeter, thermometer and separate rooms and toilets. The home isolated patients said that they had downloaded the app in their mobile and were getting all the information. The district magistrate thereafter communicated with their family members and said that the infected person must stay in the house for 14 days and if there was any problem then they must inform at 18001805159 immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-covid-deaths-at-kanshiram-hosp-dm-forms-probe-panel/articleshow/77966538.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Art, PE teachers get the short end of the stick||Kochi: For the past several months Abhilash (name changed), a physical education teacher with a private school at Kalamassery, had been earning his bread by delivering newspapers. “It doesn’t pay much but this was the only job I could find,” says Abhilash, who has not been paid by his school management for the past five months. While the school where he works reopened virtually in June offering online classes for students, teachers who impart training in extra-curricular subjects were not given assignments or paid their salaries. “The music teacher is assisting his mother in a small tea shop. Karate trainer in our school had a traveller, which he used to run as tourist vehicle, but is currently facing hardship because he has neither salary nor the extra income he once had. Yoga teacher is surviving because of online yoga classes,” says Sajith (name changed), who teaches art in the same school. Other teachers in the same school are being paid at least half salary but we are considered dispensable, he said. “Many teachers engaged in training of co-curricular subjects have either lost their jobs or not being paid salaries. Some are paid half salaries. I know people who have taken up jobs like hair cutting or even selling fish to survive,” says R K Chandrababu, an art teacher and coordinator for Teach Art Kochi, a community of art teachers. The group raised money to help three teachers who were in dire financial straits during the Onam festival. “I have been training students through virtual mode ever since the classes began in June but I am being paid only 50% of the salary. Teachers in other subjects are being paid 60%,” said Shailaja, who teaches art at a private school at Kaloor. A labour department official in Ernakulam said they don’t have the mandate to look into issues faced by school teachers and only the district education office can address such grievances. “If it is a private school with CBSE syllabus there is very little we can do. We only had one complaint in June from staff of an aided school and we had intervened,” said district education officer, Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/art-pe-teachers-get-the-short-end-of-the-stick/articleshow/77968013.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt job for daughter of deceased corona warrior, Rs 1 lakh grant to family||Barnala: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh on Sunday visited the residence of multi-purpose health worker Ram Singh of Ugoke village in Barnala district to condole his demise. The corona warrior passed away earlier this week. Paying tributes to corona warriors saying that they are putting their lives at grave risk to save those under their care, Sidhu announced a government job for Ram Singh’ daughter besides Rs 1 lakh ex-gratia grant to the family, which is also eligible for special insurance of Rs 50 lakh. He was accompanied by Barnala deputy commissioner Tej Partap Singh Phoolka. Speaking to mediapersons, the minister said it is highly unfortunate that a misinformation campaign on removal of vital organs from bodies of Covid-19 deceased is being run on social media platforms by anti-social elements. They are also spreading rumours that Covid-19 is not an ailment and people do not need to get tests. Such people must ask families who have lost loved ones to coronavirus. He asked people to cooperate with health workers whenever they visit for testing so that the state government can monitor the quantum of the problem and take adequate measures to deal with the situation. Sidhu said the health department is recruiting 4,000 personnel to ease the burden on stressed health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-job-for-daughter-of-deceased-corona-warrior-rs-1-lakh-grant-to-family/articleshow/77967988.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||DUET: Amid safety concerns, students find arrangements at centres good||New Delhi: Anjali Shriram reached the Kalkaji exam centre on Sunday earlier than she had anticipated. But the student from Badshahpur, Gurgaon, was worried about her mother, Meena, who only recently had a heart surgery and was accompanying her outside the centre during the coronavirus pandemic. For many like Anjali, the first day of Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) was all about travelling large distances while trusting that they would be in safe hands when they sit for an exam that may get them a spot in DU. Hundreds of students travelled from across Delhi and outside to reach the several exam centres in the city. Before going inside the centre, Anjali asked her 56-year-old mother to stay put and not remove her mask. “We reached here with so much difficulty. There are no buses plying from near our home to this part of Delhi. So we had to book a cab and come here after paying so much money,” the mother said. Also reaching the exam centre from far off were Sanjay Sharma and Swati Sharma. The daughter-father duo left early from their Meerut home in a scooter and travelled a large distance to reach Kalkaji. “I want to appear for this exam also to confirm if there are good safety arrangements as I plan to give entrance tests at Banaras Hindu University as well,” said Swati. While Himani Diwakar had to travel far from Ghaziabad to reach the exam centre, she said that “it was good that most centres were in Delhi and we could get a cab easily.” Sarika Bhatt who travelled from Burari also felt that “getting cabs in Delhi is easier so they were not worried about being late for the test.” At the Harkesh Nagar, Okhla centre, brother-sister duo of Laxman Negi and Gayatri Negi came for the exam. While Laxman is studying at DU’s School of Open Learning, his sister, a Gargi College political science graduate, was appearing for her MA in Political Science test. After the exam, Gayatri told TOI that “arrangements at the centre were good and staff members were very helpful. We were checked by a temperature scanner at the entrance where they also made us change our old masks. They then asked us to sanitise and leave behind our bags. There was a decent distance between each student.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/duet-amid-safety-concerns-students-find-arrangements-at-centres-good/articleshow/77967996.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mysuru||Air passenger traffic at Mysuru airport picks up||MYSURU: The air passenger traffic at Myuru airport is on the path of recovery. There has been a steady improvement of passengers travelling in domestic flights from the airport after three months of ‘unlock’. About 8,415 passengers have travelled to several destinations from Mysuru in the last four months. Flight services were stopped in March when the nation went into lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The domestic civil aviation operations recommenced from May and gradually the service picked up pace after passengers gained confidence and started travelling. The flight services from Mysuru to Hyderabad, Cochin, Bengaluru, Goa and Belagavi was launched in the ‘unlock’ phase. Everyday ten flights ferried passengers to five cities and in four months 8,415 passengers travelled from Mysuru. According to airport authorities, Mysuru airport stands fourth in the passenger traffic in July in Karnataka. The Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), Bengaluru stands first with 4,38,083 passengers. Mysuru airport director R Manjunath said that due to coronavirus the number of people travelling from Mysuru has reduced. “But after the ‘unlock’, the numbers are increasing,” he said. Demand for Mysuru – M’luru service The Mysuru airport authorities have received demand for air service between Mysuru and Mangaluru. Around 70,000 Mangalureans residing in Mysuru and surrounding regions have formed an association and have submitted their memorandum to the airport authorities to start the flight services between the cities. Based on their demand, the airport authorities have sent a proposal to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for flight operation on Chennai- Bengaluru – Mysuru – Mangaluru route. “The airport authority will take a decision on the route soon,” the airport authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/air-passenger-traffic-at-mysuru-airport-picks-up/articleshow/77966201.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 7, 2020||Business||Trim & glow: Men beat women to salon visits||MUMBAI: Men seem to be more eager to shed their ‘lockdown’ looks than women. A larger proportion of men are thronging salons, and are not restricting themselves to mere haircuts. Male footfalls were up 3-4% as compared to women following the reopening of beauty salons. Jean-Claude Biguine Salons found a dominant part of its clientele being men. At Enrich, a unisex chain of salons present in six cities, the female to male ratio is at 40:60. Pre-lockdown, this was at an average 70:30. Apart from beard trim, men are availing of services like manicures and pedicures. Footfalls are still at 40-45% of what some of the salons saw in pre-Covid months (January-March). In terms of sales, however, some are at 55-60% levels. This is because although fewer people are visiting salons, they are utilising more services. If the average service count per consumer pre-lockdown was 2.1, today it stands at 3 and more. JCB CEO Samir Srivastav said, “Men essentially always depended on their favourite salons and barber shops for their grooming needs and rarely experimented with DIY (do-it-yourself) cures. Given that digital meetings now define the new normal in a WFH (work-from-home) culture, hair and facial grooming has definitely taken centre stage. Since the lockdown, we saw a rise in the number of requests for haircuts and beard grooming. From buzz cuts to stylish trims, we have seen a wide range of demand flowing in. Beard trimming/grooming now equals haircuts in terms of services availed by our male clients in-salon.” When cities opened up for the first time after the lockdown, pent-up behaviour was visible among consumers visiting salons. There were fewer empty slots initially due to the high demand and decreased capacity due to social distancing. The main objective of most salon businesses is to get back to pre-Covid levels. “Footfalls are still at 40-45% of what we saw in pre-Covid months (January-March). In terms of sales, however, we are at 55-60% levels already. This is because although fewer people are visiting salons, they are consuming more services. Our average service count per consumer pre-lockdown was 2.1. Today, this stands at 3 and more,” said Enrich Salon director Sachin Kamat. In pre-Covid times, BBlunt had a 70:30 female to male client ratio. In Mumbai, the trend since opening after the lockdown is around 55:45 female to male. “Since we are steering clear from offering high-contact face services like facials, face waxing and threading, beauty business is naturally low, which had majority of women customers. Also, men who visit salons for a haircut or manicures-pedicures visit more frequently than their female counterparts,” said BBlunt CEO Spoorthy Shetty. Srivastav, however, said women consumers have also started coming to salons, getting all services done in a single visit. Long-term consumer trends will change, said Shetty, with consumers wanting less in-salon time. With ‘safe salon’ experience being the most common ask, hygiene is expected to take over sustainability, she added. “Clients want to see more visible space, less clutter, less touch & feel, shopping by appointment, contactless engagement & payment,” said Shetty. While JCB introduced waterless manicure and pedicures to reduce contact, Enrich is using single-use cases for services like waxing and facials. “In markets where facials are allowed, we use acrylic sheets to create a distance between the service provider and consumer. We tried and tested all these products during the lockdown,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trim-glow-men-beat-women-to-salon-visits/articleshow/77967827.cms||Namrata Singh
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JLNMCH warns oxygen supplier||BHAGALPUR: The firm supplying oxygen in the ICU at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) has been warned for low pressure in the supply line for a short period on Saturday afternoon. JLNMCH superintendent Dr Ashok Bhagat on Sunday sought explanation from the company officials and asked them to submit the maintenance report on oxygen supply system. There was a rumour that three patients died due to low oxygen supply to the ICU. But Dr Bhagat clarified that the three had been coronavirus patients and died between 1.00 and 4.30pm while the oxygen pressure was low in the supply pipeline after 5.00pm. Dr Bhagat said the oxygen is supplied to the JLNMCH through a pipeline by an agency. “We have ordered the agency to make periodic checks of the oxygen supply system and pipelines and submit weekly or fortnightly reports. As the oxygen supply for patients admitted at the hospital is vital for their lives, we cannot afford its disruption even for a minute. We are weighing other options, including cryogenic system, for maintaining uninterrupted oxygen supply to the ICU and other wards as a precautionary measure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jlnmch-warns-oxygen-supplier/articleshow/77967028.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 7, 2020||Business||PE firm Gaja Capital may lead $100m round in 1MG||BENGALURU: Amid the consolidation in the e-pharmacy space, 1MG is in talks with Indian and global private equity funds for a new fund-raise of around $100 million as it prepares to fight rivals — Reliance Industries, Amazon and PharmEasy-Medlife combine. Private equity firm Gaja Capital is in an advanced stage of talks to lead the round at 1MG, while Tata Capital and Europe’s Partners Group are also looking to participate in the deal along with another ‘global private equity major’, said three sources briefed on the matter. The discussions are under way on the final contours of the deal, which may include the total round being completed in tranches, sources aware of the matter said. For Gaja, if the deal with the Gurgaon-based company closes, it will be its first investment from its new fourth fund of around $400 million. 1MG’s existing investors, which include Sequoia Capital and World Bank investment arm IFC, are also expected to participate. “It is looking to raise north of $100 million and the talks have accelerated following the Reliance-Netmeds deal as it would require capital as a standalone player. Around $70 million of new capital has been finalised but 1MG is negotiating for a bigger cheque,” a person aware of the matter said. TOI reported on August 24 how higher stickiness, wider healthcare business has attracted the likes of Reliance and Amazon in the online medicine delivery space. It mentioned PharmEasy is also working with JP Morgan for fund-raise while it is in the middle of acquiring smaller rival Medlife. When contacted, 1MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon, spokesperson for Gaja Capital and Tata Capital declined to comment on the matter. Email sent to Partners Group did not elicit any response. For 1MG’s rivals like Netmeds, now majority owned by Reliance, besides PharmEasy-Medlife, most of their revenue comes from medicine delivery, while they expand to online doctor consultations and lab tests. Tandon recently told TOI that around 50% of its top line is from medicine delivery as it looks to position itself as a broader digital healthcare platform. A report by market research firm Redseer on Sunday said e-pharmacy platforms, including consultation and lab tests, are expected to clock $2 billion in gross sales by March 2021 — with supply chain restoration and rise in new users. Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, 6 million new households tried online medicine taking the total to 9 million households, a recent Ficci-Redseer white paper said. The latest Redseer report said e-pharmacies clocked $1.3 billion in gross sales for the 12-month period ending March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-firm-gaja-capital-may-lead-100m-round-in-1mg/articleshow/77967738.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 7, 2020||Varanasi||Another student missing from BHU||Varanasi: Another student of Banaras Hindu University has gone missing and a report has been registered with Lanka police station in this regard even as police are still grappling to trace a student missing since February 15. Shiblu Ali, a student of BA first year and a resident of Kaimur in Bihar, had left for BHU on August 27 to submit some documents. After reaching BHU, he called his family to inform that he had submitted the documents and would return after two days, but his phone was switched off after that. He later called his brother Naushad Ali using some other mobile number and said he would return after another two days. However, when Shiblu did not reach home and his phone was also switched off, his father Sartaj Ali came to Varanasi to look for him. Sartaj Ali lodged a missing report at Lanka police station on September 3. Lanka inspector Mahesh Pandey said police are looking into the matter and Shiblu’s posters have been circulated to get any inputs about his whereabouts. Earlier, a student Shiv Kumar from Madhya Pradesh had gone missing on February 15. A petition has been filed in the case in the Allahabad High Court which had asked Varanasi SSP to appear before it on September 3. The SSP has been now asked to be present in court in person on September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/another-student-missing-from-bhu/articleshow/77966452.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||Toxic chemical dumping racket busted in Mehsana||Palanpur: A massive racket of dumping toxic chemicals into the ground by digging borewell was unearthed by the Mehsana local crime branch in Shohasan village of the distirct over the past week. Four people including owner of a chemical factory have been arrested so far, while two accused who are also owners of chemical units are yet to be arrested.The accused who have factories in Vapi, used to bring the toxic chemicals for dumping it into ground through a bore-well in Shohasan village of Mehsana, said LCB inspector B H Rathod.“The poisonous liquid chemical was being transported from Vapi and dumped on private land taken on lease by one Salim Mohammad Vora. We have arrested four persons, while two are yet to be arrested,” said Rathod. Those arrested include Kishor Thangi, owner chemical factory Trikoot located in at Sarigam village of Vapi in Valsad distrct; Vora, who used to get money for dumping the chemicals; driver of the truck Sanju Yadav and Ankit Patel who was the coordinator.“This activity is going on from January,” Rathod told TOI adding that the accused have so far dumped 12 tankers.He added that two other accused involved in the racket, Mehul Patel, a transporter and chemical factory owner Sanjay Sharma.The accused have been booked for poisoning groundwater table charged under different sections of the IPC like 360, 277, 284, 114 and under Environment Protection Act Section 5 and Water Pollution Act section 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/toxic-chemical-dumping-racket-busted-in-mehsana/articleshow/77966949.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||42 wagons of organic fertilizer sent to Karpurigram, Sarai||Rajkot: The Bhavnagar division of Western Railway (WR) sent 42 wagons full of organic fertilizer to Karpurigram and Sarai from Junagadh Railway Station on Sunday. “We have sent 27 wagons of organic fertilizer to Karpurigram Railway Station and 15 wagons to Sarai Railway Station. Both these stations are in Bihar,” said V K Tailor, senior commercial manager, Bhavnagar division (WR).  Recently, the Bhavnagar division had run a goods train carrying the supply of onions to Darshana Railway Station in Bangladesh on August 4, covering the distance of 2,437 kms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/42-wagons-of-organic-fertilizer-sent-to-karpurigram-sarai/articleshow/77966883.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Business||RBI norms may exclude several companies from loan recast scheme||MUMBAI: The RBI’s norms on corporate loan restructuring are likely to exclude a large number of companies as bankers expect advances worth only Rs 2-3 lakh crore will qualify for recast. A five-member committee headed by K V Kamath, constituted by the RBI to look into the parameters within which restructuring can be allowed, has submitted its recommendation to the central bank and lenders will approach their boards once the report is released. Read AlsoBanks told to be ready with lists for loan recastBanks have been advised to be ready with the list of borrowers who will be eligible for one-time debt restructuring under a special window opened by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to tackle stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Bankers said corporates that have been lax in repayments before March 2020 will not qualify for restructuring even if they are not non-performing assets (NPAs). Bankers expect only 2-3% of overall bank loans to be eligible for restructuring. India Ratings has said that 7.7% of bank loans (Rs 8.4 lakh crore) would need a restructuring of which non-corporate would be just 1.9%. The rating agency also said that loans of over Rs 5 lakh crore would slip into NPA if they are not restructured. The RBI circular notifying the Covid resolution framework and appointing the expert committee had said that only those borrower accounts, which were classified as standard and not in default for more than 30 days with the lending institution as on March 1, 2020, will be eligible for resolution under this framework. Bankers said that a large portion of the stress in the banking system has been addressed through the insolvency and bankruptcy code (IBC). Borrowers that were facing stress even before the pandemic have been excluded because of the 30-day overdue clause. Bankers said that stressed corporates typically delay payments and make use of the headroom available even as they avoid the NPA tag. Read AlsoRBI’s new loan recast window for stressed borrowers: Things to knowThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in its August monetary policy review this year agreed for a loan restructuring scheme for stressed borrowers -- both corporate and retail loans without getting classified as a non-performing asset or NPA.This means that only those businesses that were doing well before lockdown, but are facing trouble due to Covid will be entertained. These include hospitality and retail real estate, as malls have seen zero revenue during the lockdown. It also includes build-operate-transfer projects such as toll roads, where revenues disappeared in the initial months. Some well-performing power projects were also hit because of the state government’s ability to pay for power in time. Those hit by global disruptions includes the gems and jewellery segment and the textile sector, which were hit by global disruptions. According to India Ratings’s analysis of corporates across 35 sectors, the restructuring quantum from the corporate sector in FY21 could range between 3%-5.8% of the banking credit amounting to Rs 3.3-6.3 lakh crore. “Even stressed assets that may not slip in the near term could be restructured as Covid would have aggravated stress. Nearly 53% of this pool is at a high probability of restructuring/slippages. The balance 47% is at moderate risk of restructuring, and the progress on these accounts will depend upon the progress of Covid situation,” the rating agency said. While a high proportion of the debt from the real estate, airlines, hotels, and other consumer discretionary sectors is likely to be restructured, the largest contribution would be from infrastructure, power, and construction, India Ratings said. Watch RBI norms may exclude several companies from loan recast scheme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-norms-may-exclude-several-cos-from-loan-recast-scheme/articleshow/77967911.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Business||Affordable housing major driver for HDFC||MUMBAI: Affordable housing has emerged as a major driver of home loan growth for HDFC. The country’s largest housing finance company has disbursed over 50,000 loans in this category in the last six months. HDFC has disbursed 27,000 loans worth Rs 9,000 crore to first-time homebuyers in the current fiscal under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana credit-linked subsidy scheme (PMAY-CLSS). The corporation has been the first to extend two lakh loans under the scheme, which was introduced in 2015. The loans disbursed in this segment have crossed Rs 47,000 crore with a key driver being the government subsidy, of which over Rs 4,700 crore has been passed on to HDFC’s homebuyers. According to HDFC managing director Renu Sud Karnad, even after the Covid shock, the demand for affordable housing will pick up because of strong structural demand and improved affordability due to the government’s thrust in the sector. “Affordability was never better given the huge concessions under PMAY, tax benefits on home loans, lowest-ever interest rates and price and time correction in property prices. Also, with the increase in working from home trend, the demand for houses will only rise going forward,” she said. The shift in borrower profile to one from smaller towns purchasing a lower-value house has resulted in HDFC consistently showing an improvement in home affordability. HDFC measures affordability as the ratio of the property price to annual income among its borrowers. This has declined from a high of 22 years in 1995 to 5 in 2006 to 3.3 in 2020, which is lower than 3.5 in the earlier years. The PMAY scheme is available for three segments — economically weaker section (EWS), low-income group (LIG), and from January 2017, the middle-income groups (MIGs). Borrowers are eligible for an interest subsidy of 6.5% per annum for loans up to Rs 6 lakh for EWS and LIG category (annual household income up to Rs 6 lakh), an interest subsidy of 4% for loan up to Rs 9 lakh for MIG-1 category (annual household income between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 12 lakh) and an interest subsidy of 3% for loans up to Rs 12 lakh for MIG 2 category (annual household income between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 18 lakh) for a maximum tenure of 20 years. The effective subsidy to the customer is in the range of Rs 2.3 - 2.7 lakh on a 20-year term, receivable up front. The schemes for MIG categories have been extended till March 31, 2021, and schemes for EWS/LIG are valid up to March 31, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/affordable-housing-major-driver-for-hdfc/articleshow/77967801.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||Man, two bulls killed in lightning strike in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A man and two bulls were struck to death by lightning in Amreli district as heavy rains lashed Khambha and Rajula talukas on Sunday afternoon. The disaster control room of Amreli district said that Babu Ram (30) was killed by lightning while he was working in his field in Goran village of Khambha taluka. “Two other farmers, who had accompanied Ram, also received burn injuries in the lightning,” said an official from the disaster control room. “Two bulls were struck to death by lightning on the outskirts of Malakness village in Khambha taluka,” added the official. Heavy rains were reported from different villages of Khambha taluka including Malakness, Rayadi, Pachpachiya, Dhundhvan, Borana and Gorana. The India Meteorological Department has forecast light to moderate rain and thundershowers at isolated places in the districts of Bhavnagar, Amreli, Banaskantha, Patan, Sabarkantha, Mehsana, Aravalli and in the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli for the next couple of days. However, dry weather was likely in the district of Kutch and remaining districts of Gujarat, Saurashtra and Diu, the bulletin added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-two-bulls-killed-in-lightning-strike/articleshow/77966865.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hubballi||Small businesses in Hubballi register uptick in fiscal year’s second quarter||Hubballi: The start of the current fiscal year was marked by a deafening silence in Hubballi, the commercial capital of North Karnataka, owing to the enforcement of the lockdown that resulted in business activities juddering to an abrupt halt. However, the second quarter of the financial year ushered in much hope, and in September, there are visible signs of economic recovery in the city. To begin with, there has been a perceptible spurt in activity in the retail sector, with most stores in Hubballi’s market areas registering decent businesses. In addition to locals, residents from other taluks and districts are visiting these outlets, ensuring circulation of money, which is vital to restart the engine of the local economy. Secondly, entrepreneurs in Hubballi’s central business district (CBD) admitted to increase in the number of customers visiting their stores. Although the patronage is not comparable to what existed prior to the Covid-19 crisis, it is nevertheless an encouraging sign. Shanawaz Khan, engaged in the supply of Malabar Parathas to eateries in Hubballi-Dharwad, suffered enormous losses when the lockdown was enforced, but following the relaxation on the restrictions allowing dine-in at restaurants, his business has been on the road to recovery. Khan is keeping his fingers crossed for the situation to remain the same. Ashok Bhandari, owner of a textile store in Hubballi, echoed Khan’s observations, stating that the worst was behind them. “If the government lifts all restrictions on weddings and ceremonies, business will witness a marked improvement. Since this is the Pitru Paksha, very few people purchase new clothes in this season. But with Dasara and Deepavali around the corner, we are hoping for an uptick in the business soon. Also, since Kaartika Maasa is a month during which weddings are held in large numbers, we hope that, with most restrictions eased, we will be able to register sales comparable to pre-Covid times,” Bhandari said. Rajram Hampi, who owns an idli eatery in Old Hubballi, said that, with the exception of schools and colleges, which continue to remain closed, life has resumed its pre-Covid flavour in the twin cities. Although the continued closure of schools and colleges has hit his business, Rajram has found new patrons, who are helping his small business recover from the beating it took owing to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/small-businesses-in-hubballi-register-uptick-in-fiscal-years-second-quarter/articleshow/77966416.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||Residents protest against Covid hospital in their area in Rajkot||Rajkot: Residents of Wankaner Society on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot protested against the opening of a Covid hospital in their area on Sunday.The residents submitted a memorandum to the Rajkot collector after BJP leader Bhanu Meta designated his brother Janak Meta’s hospital as a Covid hospital. “The hospital had been lying unused for the past one decade and is situated in a residential area. Hence it poses the danger of Covid-19 infection,” said Baldav Dangar, a resident of Wankaner Society. “The hospital is lying in a dilapidated condition with no lift or fire safety norms,” said Dushyantsinh Jadeja, another resident of Wankaner Society. Incidentally, Janak Meta is the president of Wankaner Society. “Janak Meta is misusing his powers as the president of the society,” said Virendra Dangar, another resident of the society. SIMILAR SITUATION WITNESSED IN VERAVAL A similar situation was witnessed in Veraval of Gir Somnath district on Saturday evening, when the residents of Sundaram Apartment protested against the opening of a Covid hospital in their area. “The collector has designated the hospital in our area as the Covid hospital which amounts to playing with the lives of the people of our area,” said a resident of Sundaram Apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/residents-protest-against-covid-hospital-in-their-area-in-rajkot/articleshow/77966766.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hubballi||Four teenagers drown in Bheema River||Kalaburagi: In a tragic incident, four teenage boys who waded into the River Bheema for a swim drowned near the Gurusanagi Bridge in Yadgir district on Sunday. The four victims – Aman, Ayaan, Rehman, all three of whom are 16 and residents of Yadgir town, and 15-year-old Rehman, a resident of Kalaburagi – reportedly were not very adept at swimming and proceeding into very deep waters proved fatal, said police. The four boys had been accompanied by another, Mohammad Abdul who did not enter the waters, deciding to stay back on the bank to keep an eye on the belongings. Abdul informed the cops that, when the four had gone very far in the river, and found the water too deep, they tried to swim back ashore, but failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-teenagers-drown-in-bheema-river/articleshow/77966352.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot police pay homage to two corona warriors||Rajkot: Rajkot police paid homage on Sunday to two corona warriors who succumbed to the deadly virus in Surat and Bhuj in Kutch district. Both deceased were assistant sub-inspectors and both had died while being on duty on Saturday. While Mohan Baria died in Surat, Jashwant Kumar Yadav passed away in Bhuj. Those who paid the homage included Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal, joint commissioner of police Khurshid Ahmed, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pravin Meena and DCP Manoharsinh Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-police-pay-homage-to-two-corona-warriors/articleshow/77966691.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Rajkot||PDU Rajkot will study Covid-19 impact on human body through autopsy||RAJKOT: In a first, Gujarat will perform post mortem on victims of Covid-19 in order to find out where all the novel coronavirus has the maximum effect on the human body. PDU Medical College in Rajkot has been chosen as the first hospital in Gujarat to carry out the research, while pathological autopsies on bodies of victims are already being carried out at Bhopal’s All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS). Confirming the move, Dr Hetal Kyada, head of forensic medicine department of PDU Medical College and additional superintendent of Covid Hospital, said: “Through autopsy, we will be able to carry out major research in the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients.” “PDU Medical College will be the first in the state to perform autopsies on victims of Covid-19. However, this is not possible without the consent of the deceased patients’ kin. If they consent, we will keep the identities of the patients and their relatives secret,” he said. “So far, only Bhopal AIIMS had been carrying out pathological autopsy. Now, Rajkot too will study the virus and its impact,” he added. While this has been a major decision, the move has been seen as a way to placate the rising tempers after Rajkot registered a sharp spike in number of cases as well as deaths from Covid in the past one month. Apart from political backlash, the state government has also come under pressure from the citizenry about the mismanagement of Covid-related data and transparency in the publication of related details. Sudden rise in deaths due to Covid-19 also forced principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi and other top officials to camp in the city to manage the situation and normalize matters. Nearly 320 people succumbed to the virus in August alone, while more than 40 have died in the past four days of September. While the situation is yet to improve in Rupani’s home town, nearly 1,500 teachers from 350 government schools have been roped in to help the district administration carry out testing in 18 wards of the city. Meanwhile, Ravi on Sunday took stock of the medical facility in Rajkot civil hospital. According to sources, the district administration asked Ramnath crematorium, located near the hospital not to share death figures of suspected Covid patients with media. The sources also claimed that it has been decided to send Covid bodies for cremation to other crematoriums too, and, interestingly, perform cremations during night time only. Higher officials have, however, remained tight-lipped on these issues. Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has asked all medical shops to maintain a register of people buying cold and cough-related medicines and share details with the health team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pdu-rajkot-will-study-covid-19-impact-on-human-body-through-autopsy/articleshow/77966674.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: AIIMS-Darbhanga to be 750-bed hospital, says minister||PATNA: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Sunday the proposed AIIMS at Darbhanga would be a 750-bed health facility. It would come up by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs1,361 crore. “In the meeting of the Expenditure Finance Committee chaired by the Union finance secretary on August 25, the ministry of health had approved the primary report of the project,” the minister said. “After getting the green signal from the Centre, construction work will start. The second AIIMS in the state will benefit the people of north Bihar. The central government is committed to providing better, modern and affordable health facilities in the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Altogether five superspecialty hospitals are being constructed in Bihar,” Choubey said. He reviewed the construction works of Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga superspecialty hospitals. The minister directed the agency assigned the work to complete the construction of OPD as soon as possible. Darbhanga MP Gopaljee Thakur also apprised the minister about the current status of construction of the superspecialty hospital in his home constituency town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-darbhanga-to-be-750-bed-hospital-says-minister/articleshow/77967040.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: PMC to focus on waste management, sanitation to improve ranking||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation has chalked out a plan to improve its ranking in the next Swachh Survekshan survey, which is conducted annually by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoUHA) under the Swachh Bharat Mission. This time, the civic body will put emphasis on waste management, segregation, sanitation and engagement of citizens, besides strengthening door-to-door garbage collection from households. A decision in this regard was taken after the poor performance of Patna city in the Swachh Survekshan report released on August 20. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said work has already started to reduce the overflowing legacy waste at landfill site in Bairiya Chak. “With the help of Bobcat vehicles, we have created small mounds of garbage of around 15 lakh metric tonnes. The bio-remediation process has also started. In this process, some chemicals will be sprayed to reduce the volume of the waste by 30-40%. It would continue for next couple of weeks,” he said. Sharma added, “The next step is to segregate the legacy waste like plastic, metal and biodegradable materials with the help of dust trommel machines. It will be installed at Bairiya Chak by September 20 and all the waste will be segregated in six months.” The civic body has decided to hire 10 dust trommel machines from private suppliers for segregation of legacy waste. The rate for one-tonne waste segregation is between Rs 300 and Rs 400. The PMC has planned to give the segregated plastics and metals to the United Nations Development Programme’s plant or the registered recyclers of Bihar State Pollution Control Board. The soil will be used in land-filing and construction work. The PMC boss said, “Once the landfill site is free from legacy waste, the area will undergo beautification on the same lines of Indore and Surat. Recently, some PMC officials had visited these two cities and learned their model of waste segregation.” The PMC will start the transfer station at Gardanibagh within the next 15 days. The second station at Agamkuan would also be operational soon as 70% work has already been done. Himanshu said with support from UNDP-Bihar, the civic body is sensitising the residents of Patliputra and Bankipore circles to keep wet and dry waste separately in green and blue bins. “This practice has become successful in several wards of the two circles. It will help the PMC segregate the garbage at Gardanibagh transfer station. Plastic waste will be given to the UNDP’s plant and organic waste will be transferred to the landfill site for compost,” he added. The PMC has targeted to set up 23 organic waste compost plants in major vegetable and fruit ‘mandis’ across the city by October-end. The bidding process for the same has already been initiated. The PMC has also asked hospitals to make arrangement for compost pit for the wet waste on their own. From September 30 onwards, the PMC will not collect wet waste from the hospitals. Besides, the PMC has also decided to set up around 350 modular toilets in 36 slum areas by the end of this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-to-focus-on-waste-management-sanitation-to-improve-ranking/articleshow/77967060.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru Central receives first passenger train after 5 months||Mangaluru: It was a rare sight at the Mangaluru Central railway station on Saturday as train 06515 from Bengaluru chugged in at 5.55am, for it was the first passenger train to run post-lockdown. Mangaluru Central did not get to handle a single Shramik special train operated during the lockdown period. All these special trains operated by the zonal railways – SWR, Southern Railway and Konkan Railway — started from Mangaluru Junction railway station. Lack of advance information about train 06515 meant that there were not many passengers on it and only those with reserved accommodation travelled. Train 06515 (Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central four days a week via Kunigal) later departed from Mangaluru Central to Bengaluru and train 06518 (Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru three days a week via Mysuru) at 8.50pm. SWR will operate Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru train services on all days of the week – four-days via Kunigal and rest via Mysuru as special services and not operating it till Kannur (train 16511/12) due to the pandemic. SWR has also reintroduced Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur services as daily special trains (06585/06586) on which they will operate on the regular route via Kunigal. SWR has increased the speed of train 06585 between Hassan and Bantwal from September 7 to ensure it reaches Karwar at the right time. The train will depart from Hassan at 9.45pm (10.10pm); Sakleshpur 10.55pm (11pm) and Subrahmanya Road 1.35am (2.10am) Only those with reserved accommodation on these special trains are allowed to board, SWR authorities said, adding they have to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines including maintaining social distance and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-central-receives-first-passenger-train-after-5-months/articleshow/77966091.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||More recoveries than infection rejoice Vadodara||Vadodara: For the fourth consecutive day, Vadodara continued to witness more discharge then fresh cases of Covid-19. Going by the medical bulletin shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), by Sunday evening, the city and district had registered 122 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases touched 8,795. Against this, 176 patients were discharged taking the total number of discharges during the ongoing pandemic to 7,285. Those discharged included 31 from government hospitals, 78 from private hospitals and 67 from home isolation. The number of active cases on Sunday reduced to 1,359 from 1,415 that were recorded on Saturday. Of the 1,359 active cases, condition of 1,158 patients is said to be stable. A total of 144 patients are being treated with oxygen support while 57 are under ventilator or BI-PAP. VMC also declared two more deaths after which the official death toll in the city and district due to Covid-19 touched 151. The 122 fresh cases were result of 2,319 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. West zone of VMC registered 27 fresh cases taking the total to 1,402 and south zone which recorded 22 more cases taking the total in this zone to 1,730. The east zone recorded 17 fresh cases taking the total number of cases in this zone to 1,462. In absolute numbers however north zone remained the worst hit. With addition of 19 fresh cases, the total number of cases here has touched 2,140. Currently, 3,837 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, 3,830 are under home quarantine while seven are under quarantine at private facilities. With 37 fresh cases, Vadodara rural recorded highest spike in fresh cases in 24 hours after which the total number of cases in rural areas of the district touched 2,025. In Vadodara rural, fresh cases were reported from Karjan, Waghodiya, Shinor, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-recoveries-than-infection-rejoice-vadodara/articleshow/77965591.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen demand latest R&D centres for tech advancement||Ludhiana: Suffering huge losses due to coronavirus, city businessmen are now demanding that government opens new research and development institutes in the city and revamp the existing ones, so that they can develop new products and techniques and bring down the cost of their existing products. According to businessmen, given the current situation, this is the only hope for them. According to Gurmit Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), “Due to coronavirus Ludhiana’s industry has suffered huge losses and there is uncertainty over the future of the business. There is an urgent need of cost cutting and technological advancement, which is only possible if there are research and development institutes or technology and incubation centres. The existing centres here are working on the old principles, whereas there has been huge technological advancement. Industry of Ludhiana desperately needs to update their technology in order to compete in international market and develop new products for domestic use. In addition to this there is also a need of centres which could help us in technology transfer as there are many products of steel which has been replaced with plastic but till now such changes have not been possible to be adopted in Ludhiana industry.” Kular also added, “We have started approaching central government officials to put forward our demand for a state of the art technology centre for the city. Very soon we are going to meet Union MSME minister and request for his intervention in this matter as well.” Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “Research and development institutes and technology transfer are the need of the hour for Ludhiana’s industry. But at the same time the high import duty and the custom duty on import of machinery too is a big cause of concern for us and it should be abolished. We believe that acquiring the technology from abroad for manufacturing a product is more beneficial for the country’s economy, rather than importing a product. Also to realise the Make in India and Atam Nirbhar Bharat vision of our PM, the duties should be exempted for import of machinery.” Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, said, “Decades back Ludhiana was once amongst the most advanced manufacturing hubs in India with all latest techonologies and machinery. But over the passage of time the R&D centres in Ludhiana could not upgrade themselves in accordance with the changing technology and processes and as a result we could not actually benefit from these centres. So right now is the high time when industry of Ludhiana needs technological advancement. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-demand-latest-rd-centres-for-tech-advancement/articleshow/77967039.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Allahabad||Water level of twin rivers receding, relief for people in low-lying areas||Prayagraj: The water level of the twin rivers, Ganga and Yamuna, that started showing a receding trend for the past two days was flowing below four meters of the danger mark on Sunday. The water level of the Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag was 80.34 metre and 79.33 metre respectively till 4 pm. At Naini, the Yamuna was flowing at 79.93 metre. The danger mark for the twin rivers is 84.73 metre. The receding trend has brought major relief for the flood control department as well as citizens living on river bank side. Executive engineer (Flood control) Brajesh Kumar told TOI that the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag receded 8 and 16 cm respectively till 4 pm while the water level of river Yamuna has gone down 12 cm at Naini as well till 4 PM. He further added that the water level of both Ganga and Yamuna is rapidly decreasing. “ In August last week, when there were incessant rains and stock of water at all prominent barrages was over, the barrage authorities released the excess water into river, which resulted into rise in the water level of both Ganga and Yamuna,” said Kumar. “Now when rains have stopped and no water is being released to rivers, the water level of both Ganga and Yamuna was receeding rapidly”, he added. He added that water level of both the rivers started receding since Friday afternoon and people living on river banks had started shifting to safer places. However, the water level has been receding since past 48 hours. Ganga Nagar resident Guddi said: “The decreasing trend was a welcome relief in low lying and flood-affected pockets. We were frightened that we had to shift our belongings if the rising trend continued. Similar views were expressed by Baghara resident SK Yadav. He said, “People had made up their mind to shift the belongings of their houses to safer places if the water level of river Ganga continued to rise. However, news of decreasing trend has brought a major relief for the residents.” Residents of low lying areas claimed that they had old memories of floods when they had to move safer places during floods and post-flood scenario. Similarly, farmers in trans-Ganga belt also heaved a sigh of relief once the water level of Ganga started receding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/water-level-of-twin-rivers-receding-relief-for-people-in-low-lying-areas/articleshow/77968186.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||SDMC to give ration to waste pickers in return for garbage||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has come up with a unique initiative wherein waste pickers will get free ration and other essential items in exchange of garbage. The initiative is aimed at making its area free of single-use plastic and at encouraging waste pickers to bring segregated waste in large quantities. SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti inaugurated a ‘Save our planet’ centre in Tagore Garden on Saturday where plastic items and wet waste will be exchanged with essential items, such as soap, rice, bucket and compost. The facility will be available at the centre in a few weeks. The quantity of ration will depend on the quantity of waste. For 5 kg plastic, 2 kg rice will be given. And for 2 kg plastic waste, mustard oil or a dustbin of 12 litres capacity will be given. In exchange of 1 kg wet waste, half kg organic compost will be given and for 25 kg waste, a detergent packet. “Not all small waste pickers can sell plastic easily at a decent price. But we are giving them the option to conveniently sell it in their neighbourhood and get ration also. Based on the response here, we may set up more such units,” said Rajiv Jain, SDMC nodal officer for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. “The initiative also gives an opportunity to common people to contribute to the cause and get free compost in return for segregated waste,” added Jain. To further segregate the dry waste collected from homes, a material recovery facility has been set up in Tagore Garden. To make compost out of wet waste, the civic agency has also established an aerobic compost plant of one tonne per day capacity on Najafgarh Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-give-ration-to-waste-pickers-in-return-for-garbage/articleshow/77968017.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||Minor Dalit girl found hanging, family suspects rape-cum-murder||Bareilly: A 14-year-old Dalit girl, a student of Class IX, was found hanging in her house under mysterious circumstances in a village under Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday morning. Her parents, who spotted the girl’s body hanging in her room during early hours on Sunday, alleged that their daughter was sexually assaulted and then hanged by her tormentor. Police sent the body for autopsy and started the investigation. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satyendra Kumar said, “The death looks suspicious. A panel of experts will conduct the autopsy and further action would be taken based on the autopsy report and police investigation.” Three girls have been raped and murdered in Kheri district since August 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-dalit-girl-found-hanging-family-suspects-rape-cum-murder/articleshow/77965274.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||50 students counsel 40k Covid patients in a month||A resident of an apartment complex in Picnic Garden suddenly found her evening walk buddies cursing her after she was detected Covid positive. When she was admitted to the hospital, it was her daughter who bore the brunt. She had to face verbal abuse and social rejection in the complex. After a Belgachhia resident was detected with the virus, his brother fled, abandoning him with a paralysed wife and two children. Fortunately, the neighbours came to their rescue and provided food and other necessities. Covid-19 patients and their family members have faced unparalleled social ostracism by neighbours and even at the hands of friends and relatives. The psychological counselling calls to Covid-19 patients in the city and beyond revealed that the indelible scars etched deep in their mind, caused apparently by their near and dear ones, often complicate their health issues. A group of students of psychology and their faculty members at Swasthya Bhavan are now trying to heal these scars. “We noticed a great degree of mental trauma in the patients, hindering their response to treatment,” said a doctor attached to the health department. “On the basis of the doctors’ assessment, We promptly set up a 24X7 tele-counselling unit and roped in the psychology department students of Calcutta University who readily agreed to help us. The tele-psychological counselling, which has become a part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol, has started working wonders for many patients,” said a senior health department officer. Twenty-five tele-counsellors work in each of the two daily shifts (from 9am to 3pm and 3pm to 9pm) and each counsellor counsels 25 patients a day. So far, more than 40,000 Covid-19 patients have been counselled by the unit that has started functioning from August 1. But it is not easy to penetrate into their traumatised mind. “Most of the individuals still associate psychological counselling with insanity. Many felt offended when we told them about the necessity of psychological counselling,” said tele-counsellor Sudipa Bhowmik, a final year post graduate student. “We, therefore, stopped introducing ourselves as psychological counsellors. We started talking about normal daily life to build a rapport to break the first line of psychological barriers,” said Sarmistha Chanda, another final year student. The situation in rural Bengal is worse, where families of Covid patients often face complete social rejection. The family members are often banished from the village. Extreme fear led most humane individuals to behave inhumanly. Perpetrators of the action often collectively need counselling in such cases apart from the victims, said a faculty member. Besides, the tele counsellors are also receiving a lot of agonised calls apparently from healthy individuals, who are undergoing tremendous mental stress after getting stuck at home for nearly six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-students-counsel-40k-covid-patients-in-a-month/articleshow/77967052.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Patient, who was rescued after fleeing hosp, dies||Kota: A 50-year-old Covid-19 patient, who had escaped from the intensive care unit of Baran district hospital on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, rescued from outside the Railway Colony on Saturday. However, he died hours later during treatment at the hospital.The victim has been identified as Mangilal Meena, a resident of Chabda area, in Baran. As per the guidelines by the government, the last rites of the deceased were performed by the district administration on Saturday afternoon.Principal medical officer of Baran district hospital H K Meena said Mangilal was tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted in the ICU on Thursday evening. He was a drug addict and suffering from tuberculosis. He was found missing from his bed at around 12.40am on intervening nights of Thursday and Friday following which the matter was reported to Baran city police station and a hunt for him was kicked off, he said.Mangilal was found in a poor health outside the Railway Colony and immediately rushed to the hospital where he died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patient-who-was-rescued-after-fleeing-hosp-dies/articleshow/77967997.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to issue lease deeds to biz bodies on 21 roads||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will issue lease deeds (patta) to commercial establishments situated on 21 major roads of the city. The pilot project will be start from Gopalpura Road.These roads, including JLN Marg, Tonk Road, Sikar Road will be developed accordingly, after preparing a detailed development zonal plan.An official said, “Commercial activities are already going on these major roads. The JDA will prepare a plan which will include parameters such as size of a shop, link road, parking, height and others. The decision was taken in the Building Plan Committee (BPC) and implementation would be done soon.”The JDA plans to earn revenue of Rs 1,000 crore after issuing the lease deeds to these establishments. The cash-strapped JDA is finding out innovative ways to earn revenue as it is facing funds shortage to carry out development works.An official source said, “JDA is desperate to earn revenue as it has to pay approximately Rs 30 crore installments against the loan taken from National Capital Regional Planning Board for Dravyawati River and Railway over-bridge. Moreover, it has to carry out several new projects including civil lines RoB, Govind Marg elevated road etc,” said a sourceThe JDA has taken loans totalling Rs 2,250 crore from NCRPB for the city’s major projects. The JDA sought funds from the Centre for ROBs and the elevated road.With the real estate market facing a slump, the situation in (JDA) too looks grim due to fund shortage. With less than Rs 65 crore in the authority’s account, the development of the city in near future looks bleak. In financial year 2020-2021, the JDA has proposed to earn Rs 1,500 crore after auctioning land. However, seeing the market condition it looks nearly impossible to achieve the target.A JDA official said, “The fixed expenses such as remuneration of employees and payment of contractors are high. We have also invited tenders for many civil works for road patch work, drainage, gardens etc. The work will be taken on priority basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-issue-lease-deeds-to-biz-bodies-on-21-roads/articleshow/77968014.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Vision loss in Covid patients, doctors advise retina scan post recovery||SURAT: A few days ago, a 55-year-old man from Ahmedabad, who had just recovered from Covid-19 infection, was in a panic because his vision got blurry. Not realizing what was happening, he approached Ahmedabad-based retina specialist Dr Parth Rana, who diagnosed his condition as central retinal artery occlusion or blockage of blood to the retina due to a small clot. “Considering his history of Covid-19 infection, we immediately started low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and his clot dissolved in a few days. He also regained most of his lost vision but not his entire vision,” said Dr Rana. “Retina surgeons worldwide are seeing new complications due to Covid-19. Sudden painless loss of vision after recovery is being reported locally," Rana told TOI who says he has treated five such patients recently. According to local ophthalmologists, nearly 40 such cases have been reported from across Gujarat. “We have come across such cases in Surat where Covid-19 recovered patients complained of blurry vision. It is important that patients know about this problem and report to doctors as soon as possible,” said Dr Shobhana Mange, a retina specialist in Surat. Experts say in rare cases, patients are also coming with blurry vision as a primary symptom of Covid. “A 48-year-old suffered painless loss of vision in his left eye. He did not have any symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive. Drugs to dissolve clotting restored his vision,” Dr Rana said. Experts say that when a vein in the retina gets blocked, it can give patients blurry vision or even sudden permanent blindness in that eye. It’s similar to retinal artery occlusion. Some doctors said that most of the patients coming late to them had an excuse that they felt that the blurry vision was due to weakness caused by Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vision-loss-in-covid-patients-docs-advise-retina-scan-post-recovery/articleshow/77966128.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Cop study on use of Howrah Bridge walkways as cycle lanes||Kolkata: The Kolkata Police and the Howrah Police carried out a first ever joint study since the Covid pandemic to decide whether it would be feasible to allow the movement of cycles on Howrah Bridge’s both flanks of pedestrian walkways until the resumption of local train services. The study came after a spurt in the number of cycles plying on the bridge after local trains topped running and the suburban commuters shifted to two-wheelers as the safest mode of travel. Traffic cops have already ruled out the chance of coming up with dedicated cycle lanes or channels on the road because of its insufficient width. The Howrah bridge traffic guard cops proposed to use a section of the footpath for the cycle movement, according to sources. “There are not many pedestrians using the bridge now. Once train services resume, we can revoke the decision,” said an officer. However, Howrah police said there was a practical problem in implementing the plan. “While cyclists can easily get on the bridge from the Kolkata side, getting off on the Howrah station side is difficult because there are iron blockades. It will be difficult for too many cycles to pass through at one point of time,” said an officer. “It is easier said than done. For our plan to be successful, it is also important that we promote safe riding. We might allow only staggered flow of cycles during peak hours and ensure every cyclist has the provision for reflectors,” said sources. Lalbazar sources said a new bicycle movement plan is being readied on the bridge following ground realities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-study-on-use-of-howrah-bridge-walkways-as-cycle-lanes/articleshow/77967057.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||MGNREGA: 4.69 lakh households completed 81-99 days of work; 3.76 lakh covered 71-80 days||Jaipur: Even as data shows that only 37,012 households/families have completed 100 days of work under MGNREGA in 2020-21 so far in Rajasthan, it has been observed that 4.69 lakh households have already completed 81-99 days of work and 3.76 lakh have completed 71-80 days of work under the scheme. The huge demand for work under the scheme was possible due to joblessness/unemployment in other sectors during the lockdown period in the state. The MGNREGA MIS report on period-wise employment provided for financial year 2020-21 shows that as on September 6, 4.87 lakh households/families have completed 61-70 days of work under the scheme; 6.43 lakh families have completed 51-60 days of work already and 8.62 lakh households have completed 41-50 days of work under the scheme so far.It also revealed that 10.58 lakh families have completed 31-40 days of work, 14.67 lakh households have completed 15-30 days of work and 10.27 lakh households have completed 1-14 days of work under the scheme so far. In 2019-20, 8.48 lakh families completed 100 days of work in the state, 5.88 lakh households completed in 2018-19, 2.28 lakh families completed the full quota of wage employment in 2017-18 and 4.27 lakh families completed in 2016-17.According to the MIS report, 6.64 lakh new job cards have been issued under the scheme this year (2020-21). “We believe those who have completed 30 days of work can complete the full quota of work (100 days) in the coming months. We still have more than 6 months for the completion of the financial year. The district collectors know how to monitor the progress of work under this category,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. By these standards, it can be estimated that by the end of the financial year (2020-21), over 40 lakh households/families could complete 100 days of work under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mgnrega-4-69-lakh-households-completed-81-99-days-of-work-3-76-lakh-covered-71-80-days/articleshow/77968018.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Man ends life after brawl with wife in Rajasthan's Baran district||KOTA: A 40-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself to a tree in an agriculture field near his in-laws’ house in Goverdhanpura village under Bhanwargarh police station of Baran district late on Saturday night. According to sources, he had a brawl with his wife before committing suicide. He had been staying at his in-laws’ place for over a month. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Sunday morning and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC for further investigation. The deceased Gyanchand Sahariya, 40, was a resident of Ranibarode village under Kishanganj police station of Baran district. Sahariya had left his first wife and had been living with his second wife in his village, but for the last one month he had been living with his first wife at his in-laws’ house in Goverdhanpura village, SHO at Bhanwargarh police station Vijendra Singh said. The deceased was a liquor addict, he added. Sahariya, in an inebriated state, engaged in a scuffle with his first wife on Saturday evening and when the scuffle flared up, he left the house. The family members searched for him, but he was not traced anywhere. Sahariya was found hanging to a tree in an agriculture field near his in-laws house, the SHO said. Prima facie, the family scuffle was likely to be the reason behind the extreme step by the deceased, however, no suicide note was recovered from his possession, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-ends-life-after-brawl-with-wife/articleshow/77968016.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||RAS officer transferred after probe demanded by social justice dept employees||Jaipur: The state government on Sunday transferred RAS officer and chief executive officer (CEO) zila parishad, Bhilwara, Gopal Ram Birda to HCM RIPA, Bikaner, as additional director (admin). The move comes after the Samaj Kalyan Adhikari Sangh, Jaipur, wrote to chief minister Ashok requesting him to conduct a high-level probe into the death of Sharad Sharma, who was an assistant director at the social justice and empowerment department in Bhilwara. In the letter, the Sangh had aid a notice was issued to Sharma by the chief executive officer (CEO) of the zila parishad and the officer was under stress. “We had demanded a high-level probe into the matter and not his transfer,” said S L Paharia, president of the Sangh.Birda, who was transferred on Sunday said, “I don’t want to say anything (on their complaints). My transfer was due. It has nothing to do with the notice. Notices are issued every day for the progress of work. The social justice department also comes under the zila parishad. Therefore, according to the rules (2010 circular), zila parishad is held responsible for the progress of work under the department. There was no error in issuing the notice. Also, no reply was sought from me by the government.”“The notice was issued despite there not being any wrongdoing by him. The notice was issued for not monitoring the pension scheme effectively. However, the monitoring is usually done by the BDO and the SDM. He (Sharma) was under stress due to the issuance of the notice. We have urged the CM to conduct a fair and impartial investigation in the matter. He died due to a heart attack on September 2,” Paharia had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ras-officer-transferred-after-probe-demanded-by-social-justice-dept-employees/articleshow/77968022.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Ensuring distancing during tarpan will be a challenge’||KOLKATA: Lalbazar is likely to issue an advisory towards the middle of this week on how to celebrate Vishwakarma Puja and Mahalaya — both of which fall on September 17. The deliberations for police arrangements were kicked off on Saturday with the police stations and traffic guards manning the ghats being asked to prepare a plan of action as hundreds are expected to line up to offer ‘tarpan’. “In Covid times, the challenge is about maintaining social distancing,” said a senior officer. Sources in Lalbazar said they were expecting a drop in people offering ‘tarpan’ at the Hooghly. “We have to divide time slots or redirect people to other ghats if there is too much crowding. But people have now grown accustomed to the new normal and we are hopeful that a large section of people will not come out of their homes. Having said that, we will be prepared for that day just like any other year,” said an IPS officer. “We might also mark out the area where devotees will be made to wait while others take the dip. We will also fix the exact number of people who will have access to water at a certain point of time,” said another officer. Periodic announcements asking people to ensure social distancing will be made. Volunteers with sanitizers will be kept ready near major ghats. Like every year, several roads are likely to see restrictions. “In view of safety and security of the people, there will be no-entry to several roads that morning. They will include Strand Road and Saint Georges Gate Road between Raja Woodmunt Street and Hastings crossings. All vehicles, except those carrying devotees, will be diverted from Clyde Road, Commissariat Road crossing, Clyde Road and Saint Georges Gate Road crossing towards Kidderpore Road,” said police. There will be advisories for Vishwarkarma Puja organisers, too. Since it’s mostly organized at industrial units, the police are advising owners to ensure that there is social distancing. All functions associated with this puja, especially on the factory premises in the evening, will have to be curtailed. The police said they are in touch with the organizers of some of the big pujas. “We will advise everyone not to expose people, particularly children and the elderly persons, to crowded spots on September 17,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ensuring-distancing-during-tarpan-will-be-a-challenge/articleshow/77967065.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Spurious food items supplied to small eateries, restaurants and dhabas in Jaipur||Jaipur: The crime unit of Jaipur police commissionerate investigating the food adulteration case has said small eateries, dhabas and restaurants were the customers of wholesalers selling sub-standard food items. Officers added that since the items were sold in bulk, the roadside eateries, dhabas and others were purchasing these items despite knowing it will have ill-effects on the health of customers. Sulesh Chaudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police (crime), on Sunday said investigations suggested that people in greed of purchasing cheaper products were also the targeted customers of these traders. “It was found that they used to sell wheat flour in bulk to eateries, dhabas and restaurants across the city. Also, customers who are aware on the actual price of a food item like 10 kg wheat packet used to purchase these items as these were cheap,” Chaudhary added. She added that thinner or spirit was used to first remove the expiry date and price tag of any food item varying from pulses, wheat flour, spices and nuts.Police appealed the public to purchase branded items after properly seeing expiry dates. “If you find tampering with the expiry date, refrain from purchasing the item and complain about it to the food inspectors, food and civil supplies department, medical and health or to police,” said added. Police have also released the list of wholesale dealers whose items were sealed and police urged public not purchase products from these shops. “These shops are from almost every part of Jaipur including Jhotwara, Mulripura, Vaishali Nagar, Chomu, Jalupura, Sarna Dungar, Choti Chaupar, Malviya Nagar, Mohana Mandi, Dadi Ka Phatak, Murlipura, Pratap Nagar, Sanganer, Chandpole, Shastri Nagar, Shyam Nagar, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Naya Kheda and others,” said a senior police officer . Police and medical and health department are also planning to conduct raids at various dhabas, eateries and restaurants to check their goods including wheat flour, spices and edible oils. “We will certainly check their goods as they are putting adverse effects on the public health,” said a senior officer of health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spurious-food-items-supplied-to-small-eateries-restaurants-and-dhabas-in-jaipur/articleshow/77968025.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Royalty contracts to be awarded via e-auction||Jaipur: In a bid to bring in transparency and efficiency in the collection of royalty, the mines and petroleum department has implemented e-auctioning system to select vendors.In the first phase, the department will issue 111 Royalty Collection Contracts (RCC) through auctions which will start from September 14. The same for Excess Royalty Collection Contracts will be done in October for which the process has already started. The department collects royalty from companies through vendors.Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum, said, “We will use SMTC’s platform for the e-auction. This will be a transparent system, aimed at enhancing royalty collection and checking leakages. This will open the scope for larger participation as anybody in the country can take part through this e-auction.”He said mining of sandstone, granite, marble, gypsum, etc are going on in full swing and the priority is to lay out a clear system to collect the royalty as efficiently as possible.There are 197 contracts given in the state and as of now 51 are in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/royalty-contracts-to-be-awarded-via-e-auction/articleshow/77968023.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University science, humanities to wait for West Bengal govt to get extension from UGC||KOLKATA: The twin faculties of humanities and science at Jadavpur University will not decide on a date to hold the terminal semester examinations till the state government manages to get an extension from the University Grants Commission (UGC) for the tests to be held in October. The UGC had suggested that the tests be held in September. Also, the candidates will be evaluated based on the digital-mode examination where question papers will be sent to students through emails, WhatsApp and other online modes. Students, who fail to take the examination due to the internet unavailability or accessibility, will be given a chance to reappear later. “The arts faculty council has decided that all the suggestions given by UGC will be abided by, be it the duration of the examinations or result publication,” said a teacher. Students will be allowed to send the answer scripts after taking the exam within a stipulated time. Examinations will be “assignment based” and full weightage will be given for the current semester. Question papers will be set only on the topics which have been completed by the teachers. On the lines of the humanities faculty, the science departments may also not publish a date to hold the examinations till the state manages to get an extension from the UGC. It was decided at the science faculty council meeting on Sunday. Sources said though a decision on the type of questions was pending, the method of the assessment will be assignment-based and the mode will be online. But, students, who don’t have access to internet and fail to submit their assignments online, will be allowed to do so in person. For practical examinations, the choice has been left to individual departments to take a call. However, among the two proposals that were discussed at the faculty council meeting was to evaluate students from their laboratory experiments that they had carried out this semester and the results that they had systematically preserved. The decisions of the faculty councils will be placed before examination board to fix the modalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-science-humanities-to-wait-for-state-to-get-extension-from-ugc/articleshow/77967069.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Man stealing Covid patients’ belongings caught on CCTV||Vadodara: An unidentified thief has been caught on a CCTV camera stealing the belongings of a Covid-19 positive patient admitted at the Covid ward of GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri.The hospital officials said that they had received a complaint of theft from a patient admitted at the ward located on the fourth floor of the hospital, which has been declared as designated Covid-19 hospital in Vadodara. “The patient complained that his mobile phone and purse with Rs 3,000 cash, some cards like aadhar card among others had been stolen,” said Dr Sheetal Mistry, administrative nodal officer of Covid-19 hospital at Gotri.“When we checked the CCTV footage, we could see a man stealing patient’s belongings from the ward. The man is not wearing any PPE kit and the incident has happened between 3 am and 5 am,” said Mistry, adding that the CCTV footage has been provided to Gorwa police for further investigation. The burglary raises serious questions on how a person manages to freely roam inside the ward without wearing any safety kit. “The hospital authorities had earlier too received similar complaints from patients who had verbally informed them about mobiles and wallets being stolen. The authorities had started keeping a watch on the movement of some fourth class employees but their suspicion proved to be wrong,” said Mistry. “It seems to be the handiwork of an outsider who might have been sneaking inside the ward. So far, no patient has provided us any complaint in writing. We would hope that patients provide a formal complaint to the police and an application to us so that the formal investigation can start,” he added. With rising incidents of thefts from the hospital, the authorities have installed CCTV cameras at three ICU wards as well. “The ICU wards were started in a hurry. But last week we had installed CCTV cameras to keep a strict vigil. Also, we insist that patients should handover cash and their valuable possessions to their relatives at the time of admission,” said Mistry. “But when it comes to things like mobile phones, patients keep the gadgets with them to communicate with their near and dear ones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-stealing-covid-patients-belongings-caught-on-cctv/articleshow/77965605.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||NWR adds seven pairs of trains from September 12||JAIPUR: Passengers travelling in trains from Rajasthan will have the option of visiting more destinations including Mysuru, Jabalpur, Kanpur, Yashwantpur, Dibrugarh and Delhi. The North Western Railway (NWR) is planning to start trains to these destinations from September 12 onwards.A senior officer of NWR said they have got a nod to start seven pairs of trains that would make a total of 17 pairs in their kitty from September 12.“We have got a nod from the Railway Board to start seven pairs of trains which include Jabalpur-Ajmer-Jabalpur, Prayagraj-Jaipur-Prayagraj, Jodhpur-Delhi-Jodhpur, Bikaner-Yashwantpur-Bikaner, Mysore-Jaipur-Mysore, Dibrugarh-Lalgarh-Dibrugarh and Kanpur-Bhiwani-Kanpur,” said a senior officer on Sunday. Out of these trains, three pairs will start from September 12. “Among the three trains is the Jodhpur-Delhi-Jodhpur which will connect various portions of Shekhawati region to Delhi,” said an officer. The other two trains are Kanpur-Bhiwani-Kanpur and Mysore-Jaipur-Mysore. “The Mysore-Jaipur-Mysore will be bi-weekly and will run on every Monday and Tuesday. The Bhiwani-Kanpur-Bhiwani too will run everyday,” said an officer. After the start of these trains, schedule of other trains will also be announced. Senior officers of NWR said gradually passenger numbers are increasing in various trains which are being run following various Covid-19 SOPs. “In order to facilitate train passengers, we are gradually adding more trains on the directions of the Railway Board,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. “With these trains, various places of Rajasthan will be connected to Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, New Delhi, Telangana and other states. “Initially, we had a passenger footfall of 20 to 30 per cent which is now fluctuating between 50 and 70 per cent depending on the route. Trains to Delhi and Jodhpur are running packed,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-adds-seven-pairs-of-trains-from-september-12/articleshow/77968028.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||10% of accidents near educational institutes in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report revealed that the city contributes about 9.7% of all victims injured in accidents outside schools and educational institutes across the country. The city has reported 35 injuries — both fatal and non-fatal in nature — in 2019. Though the total injuries near educational institutes stand less than 1.5% of all accident injuries in the city, the Kolkata traffic police officers said they would address the issue once schools reopen. “We introduced many programmes outside schools in 2020. We are bound to reap its benefits in the long run,” said an officer, adding that the new measures would include visiting every school and holding ‘Safe Drive Save Life’ campaign, streamlining pool cars and buses, ensuring decongestion at the school gates and deploying cops the school hours so that none faces any difficulty in crossing the road. TimesViewThe focus should be on “vulnerable” zones. Schoolchildren should be protected from the consequences of irresponsible driving.In absolute figures, the city’s performance, though, is better than Lucknow (248 students injured) or Mumbai (26 students injured). Delhi that performed poorly in every other parametre when compared to Kolkata has managed to reduce total number of injuries of students to merely 26 by following a staggered school timing. “The staggered timings introduced in the past two years have worked in southeast Kolkata around Ballygunge-Park Circus-Park street areas,” said a senior police officer. The biggest worry for cops remains the areas near colleges, where several accidents are reported. “That is because the youngsters don’t follow traffic rules,” said a senior officer from the south guard. Cops at Lalbazar, though, do not agree with such a simplistic take. “Kolkata’s mixed use of roads is a challenge. Moreover, motorists are far more careful when it comes to youngsters than the high school students or college-goers. “Boarding, alighting from vehicles and riding on the foot boards remain an issue,” said the officer. Meanwhile, the state reported 143 injuries outside educational institutes in 2019. In both Kolkata and Bengal, male students outnumber their female counterparts as far as injuries are concerned. While 28 boys and seven girls were injured in Kolkata, around 122 boys and 21 girls were injured in Bengal. Kolkata Police has been harping on some safety rules to be followed by drivers in safety zones after a Class-XI student from had been killed in an accident last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-of-accidents-near-edu-institutes-in-kol/articleshow/77967088.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Epicentre of food adulteration racket in Gwalior; 5 arrested so far||Jaipur: A day after exposing the biggest racket involved in supplying of adulterated and sub-standard food items, senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Sunday said the epicentre of the network was in Gwalior city of Madhya Pradesh.Five persons have been arrested so far for selling sub-standard items by tampering with the expiry dates of packets. Police are now planning to send a team to arrest the kingpin and his son from Gwalior.Police in a joint operation with medical and health department had raided several godowns and wholesalers dealing with grocery and other food items. Sulesh Chaudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police (crime) who led the operation said, “After any item like ketchup, pulses, wheat flour or others get expired, these people purchase it ay throwaway prices. With the help of thinner, they remove the expiry date and paste advance expiry dates.” So far, police have prepared a list of around 262 traders across the state who were selling these items with tampered expiry dates on their packets. “Their goods have been confiscated and action would be taken by the medical and health department,” she added.When teams of medical and health and police raided various godowns, they were greeted by foul smell from food items including wheat flour, tomato ketchup and others. “Also, in other FMCG products like soaps and hair oils, they used to purchase items which have crossed its expired dates and later used to put a fresh expired date,” she said.Senior officers said Om Shree Shubh Labh, a Gwalior-based firm, supplies these products in Rajathan. “In Jaipur, we have identified 262 shops where these items were sold. The owner of this firm Giriraj Bansal and his son Ketan Bansal are the kingpins and will be arrested,” said a senior police officer.Police have so far arrested five persons including one Swapnil Sharma, who is the marketing head of the company selling adulterated and sub-standard food products, Manish Sharma, Subash Sharma and Amit Sharma. “One Mohit Jain was also arrested who had the godown in the basement of his house,” she said.The modus operandiA tomato ketchup bottle which has crossed its expiry date is purchased in Rs 8 to Rs 10 and later sold at Rs 100 to Rs 120 by changing its expiry date and priceA 10kg wheat packet, which is almost two years old, is repackaged with new price tag and advanced expiry datesItems like hair oil, noodles of various companies, pulses and other items were seized by police and medical teamsIn Jaipur alone, at least 262 wholesale traders were found selling sub-standard food items which have crossed its expiry dateSamples have been sent to the medical and health teamsPolice have registered a case of cheating and endangering life of others against the accused||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/epicentre-of-food-adulteration-racket-in-gwalior-5-arrested-so-far/articleshow/77968026.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kin held for murder of 30-year-old in Kolkata's Topsia||KOLKATA: Two persons were arrested on Sunday, five days after the murder of Abhijit Rajak (30), a mentally disabled man at his Topsia residence. The accused, Chandan Rajak (49) and Priyanka Rajak (29), are relatives of the victim and they reside in the same house. “We have arrested two persons for the murder. Of them, Chandan is Abhijit’s youngest uncle while Priyanka is the victim’s sister-in-law (wife of his eldest cousin),” said DC (ESD) Debasmita Das. “We have come to know that the victim used to physically harass women in his family. Whenever they used to complain about the matter to the victim’s parents, they would tell them that their son was a mentally disabled person. This went on for sometime before Priyanka decided that she needed to put an end to this,” said a police officer. Cops said there was a family dispute recently over an ancestral property on Gobra Gorasthan and this was another reason why some family members had been angry with the victim and his father. “The victim’s father had demanded a greater share of the property for his son who used to work in a hotel. Chandan didn’t like this,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. After killing him, the two accused disposed of two cycles in a nearby waterbody to establish that the murder was committed by cycle thieves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kin-held-for-murder-of-30-year-old-in-topsia/articleshow/77967106.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Hubballi||Ganja cultivation rampant, but only 25 cases in 10 yrs||Basavaraj Maralihalli Haveri: Cannabis is being grown on sugarcane fields here, so that its cultivation is not detected. Haveri, Hanagal, Hirekerur and other taluks have reported the cultivation of cannabis at isolated places in recent decades. However, only 25 cases have been lodged under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act 1985 in the last 10 years in the district. Among these, only five accused have been convicted in three cases, and the remaining cases are under trial, while some are in the inquiry stage. Marijuana is consumed by people and also by bulls participating in the traditional sport of bull taming. Bulls are fed marijuana plants, as it is believed that they get more energy during taming. “We can find cannabis plants easily on open areas, but farmers and peddlers are growing it in remote places as well as inside sugarcane fields in recent years. Cannnabis is grown on a small patch inside a 20-25 acre sugarcane field, and hence it’s difficult to crack down on its illegal cultivation. We are trying hard to find the cannabis plants with the help of our informants,” shared a police official. He added, “Most of the cannabis grown in the district is being used locally. It is easy to sell to locals. We are closely monitoring this illegal act, and we have to focus on remote areas now,” said the official. Additional superintendent of police Mallikarjun Baladandi said that the police have kept a strict vigil on marijuana being brought into and trafficked outside the district from here. “We have been seeing the cultivation of cannabis in isolated places. It is difficult to find cannabis crops inside sugarcane fields, which is the main reason that many cases are going unregistered,” he said. “We are committed to curb this illegal business completely in the district in the near future,” he assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganja-cultivation-rampant-but-only-25-cases-in-10-yrs/articleshow/77966178.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Dwarahat BJP MLA booked for rape, case lodged against wife for criminal intimidation||DEHRADUN: Mahesh Negi, BJP MLA from Dwarahat in Almora district, has been booked by Dehradun police for rape and criminal intimidation. The MLA’s wife, too, has been booked for criminal intimidation. The case was registered on Sunday morning on the orders of the additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM). The MLA has been booked under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) while his wife Rita Negi has been booked under section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, a police official said. “Police have registered an FIR in Nehru Colony police station against Mahesh Negi and his wife on the orders of the court. It will now be followed by an investigation of charges levelled by the complainant in the matter,” said Shweta Choubey, superintendent of police (city), Dehradun. A day earlier, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) had put a stay on the arrest of the woman complainant, saying no coercive action should be taken against her and had asked the state government and police to respond to the issue within 10 days. The move comes after an application was filed in court by the 30-year-old woman seeking a DNA test of the MLA and her daughter, who she claimed was born from their relationship. The MLA’s wife had also filed a complaint against the woman in Nehru Colony police station of Dehradun alleging that she was making these charges in order to extort money from them. On Rita Negi’s complaint, police had filed a case of extortion against the woman. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dwarahat-bjp-mla-booked-for-rape-case-lodged-against-wife-for-criminal-intimidation/articleshow/77965317.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 7, 2020||Kanpur||Properties of Jai, his 3 brothers attached||KANPUR: Police kickstarted proceedings late Saturday to attach properties of slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s financier, Jaikant Bajpai, and his three brothers in posh Brahmnagar locality and other areas of the city. While Bajpai was jailed soon after the Bikru ambush, his brothers surrendered at Kanpur Dehat court on Friday. Notices were pasted on houses of Jaikant and his three brothers — Rajnikant, Ajaikant and Shobhit Bajpai — who were booked under Gangster Act on Tuesday. Police executed the proceedings with beating of drums. Earlier, Kanpur SSP Preetinder Singh submitted a report to the district administration, stating Jaikant Bajpai and his three brothers had illegally amassed wealth and funded criminal activities of slain don Vikas Dubey, following which the DM ordered attachment of multi-crore assets. This includes four houses and bungalows in Brahmanagar worth Rs 20crore, two flats in Arya Nagar of Rs 8 crore, a duplex in Panki of Rs 2 crore, house in Swaroop Nagar worth Rs 4 crore and plots in Singhpur and Bithoor worth Rs 7crore. On Sunday, officials sealed Bajpai’s 111/481 Brahmnagar residence worth Rs 5 crore after evacuating three tenants in a post-midnight operation. Then a portion of another house in the same locality, which was bought seven years ago was also sealed. Then House No. 107/298 worth Rs 3 crore was sealed in which Bajpai’s mother and other family members lived. Later, a 4-crore bungalow in which Bajpai’s wife Shweta and their children would stay was sealed. “We have attached four immovable properties of Jaikant. Other properties would be attached in next few days,” said tehsildar Atul Kumar. Cops from three police stations along with PAC jawans were deployed during the sealing drive. Earlier, Nazirabad police initiated action against Bajpai under Gangsters Act as he was operating a gang with his three brothers and was involved in securing unauthorised possession on government land and indulged in money laundering. After Bajpai’s arrest, his three brothers went into hiding. Police had announced a Rs 25,000 reward on each of them before they surrendered in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/properties-of-jai-his-3-brothers-attached/articleshow/77966553.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 7, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 patient dies days after testing -ve, kin ransack hospital||Varanasi: A Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment at Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University since July 31 died on Sunday, over a week after testing negative for novel coronavirus infection. His family and relatives ransacked the hospital and damaged medical equipment, alleging that he died due to medical negligence. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said, “A 29-year-old patient Rahul Srivastava was admitted under Dr D P Yadav on July 31. He was suffering from fever for seven days, shortness of breath for four days and cough for four days, and was admitted to Covid ICU on the same day.” The patient was on non-invasive ventilator support since the day of admission, and remdesivir injection was also started on the same day, he added. “He was further given plasma therapy on August 8, and remained in ICU since he needed ventilator support. The patient tested negative on August 28 and was shifted to Ambulatory Care Unit (ACU) on Saturday night. Maximum possible intensive care was given to him, but the patient expired on Sunday morning,” Singh said. His attendants and relatives alleged that he died due to negligence ransacked the ACU after his death, threatened the doctors and staff on duty. They damaged a ventilator machine, a suction machine, a medicine crusher, the glass entrance door of ACU, electric switch board at bed-9, ECG machine wire, a stationary probe and a cuff of blood pressure machine. The hospital administration informed the police about the matter. The ACU in-charge provided all details of the damage caused to the medical equipment to the medical superintendent, and demanded deployment of a team of security guards at the ACU for the safety of doctors and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-patient-dies-days-after-testing-ve-kin-ransack-hospital/articleshow/77966463.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||E-W tunnelling resumes as workers stop water breach||Kolkata: The East-West Metro tunnelling that was suspended on Saturday evening after water and foam started gushing out near Koley Market in the Sealdah area was resumed on Sunday morning after the water breach was stopped. Though the officials of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency, said the subsidence on Saturday was minor, the incident triggered panic among locals, bringing back memories of a tunnel-borer hitting an aquifer below Bowbazar’s Durga Pithuri Lane on August 31 last year. The officials of ITD Cementation, contracted to build the twin East-West Metro tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah, and KMRC worked through the night to bring the situation under control. The area from where water was leaking has been land-filled. Officials said the incident on Saturday had been caused by a leakage through an unidentified bore hole below the surface. The tunnel boring machine (TBM), digging the west-bound tunnel, was being oiled and the chemical used for maintenance of the machine’s cutter head had leaked through the bore hole. “Before tunnelling, we sealed and grouted the bore holes that were revealed during survey, but there could be some unidentified bore holes,” said an official. A similar leakage had occurred when the TBM was crossing the Bank of India building at the BB Ganguly Street-Amherst Street crossing two weeks ago. The TBM’s path is now sloping upwards and the depth of the tunnel reduces as it approaches its destination, Sealdah station, which is around 350m away. From Sealdah, the tunnel borer will make a U-turn to Durga Pithuri Lane, which is around 700m from its current digging spot, and complete the unfinished east-bound tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnelling-resumes-as-workers-stop-water-breach/articleshow/77967112.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Man-eater leopard shot dead in Devprayag||Dehradun: After a week of rigorous search, the forest team on the trail of the man-eater leopard in Devprayag area of Garhwal claimed on Sunday that it had succeeded in terminating the wild cat. “It was an 8-year-old male leopard which was identified as the man-eater. We decided to terminate it as it didn’t get trapped in the cages installed by us. The basis of its identification was that it had been repeatedly visiting the same location, where it had killed a man last week. We took its pug marks and matched it with the pug marks which we had retrieved from that spot. They matched and thereafter it was shot dead late night on Saturday,” said Joy Hukil, the shooter deputed by the forest department. Citing possible reasons behind the animal’s abnormal predating behaviour, Hukil added, “Its front paws had absolutely blunt nails. That’s the prime reason why it was on the lookout for easy prey.” This is the fourth man-eater leopard kill in Uttarakhand this year. Of the four man-eaters shot, Hukil has put down three. “My first kill this year happened at Dhari Devi in Tehri this January, the second at Narayanbagarh in Chamoli while the third has happened at Devprayag,” Meanwhile, the hunt still continues for the man-eaters at Maletha — where a woman was killed on August 8 — and Ramnagar, where a woman and a teenager were killed in the month of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-shot-dead-in-devprayag/articleshow/77965327.cms||Shivani Azad
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||New virus cases rising inRaj, tally races past 90k||Jaipur: Covid-19 cases in the state are fast approaching the one-lakh mark. The pace at which new infections have increased over the past few days, the state will touch the one-lakh mark in next five to six days if it continues in the same pace. With a record single-day spike of 1,593 new infections on Sunday, the state breached the 90,000 mark to tally 90,956 overall. The state took six days to add 10,000 cases to reach 90,000, which is the quickest ever time taken to add 10,000 cases to the count. The first 10,000 positive cases for Covid-19 in the state had taken 94 days. Since then, the duration of adding 10,000 cases constantly had decreased, with the spread of virus picking up pace across the state. This can be gauged by the fact that while the first 50,000 cases were reported in 157 days, the next 40,000 have come in just 29 days. However, the state government is alert and taking all necessary measures to contain the spread of the virus along by expanding facilities for treating patients. “We have started another dedicated Covid care hospital in Jaipur. The facilities for treatment has been increased as the government has also allowed conversion of hotels to Covid care centres for the benefit of patients,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, 15 persons died in the state on Sunday, taking the toll to 1,137. Three people died in Jodhpur, taking its toll to 110, while two died in Jaipur, taking its toll to 286. Three died in Bikaner, taking its casualties to eight, while Jhalawar reported two more deaths to take its toll to four. Kota reported its 80th death, Ajmer 77th, Alwar 29th, Chittorgarh eighth, and Dausa its ninth fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (310), Jodhpur (254), Kota (195), Ajmer (108), Alwar (104), Bikaner (94), Jhalawar (70), Pali (45), Baran (38), Bundi (37), Chittorgarh (36), Bhilwara (36), Nagaur (35), Rajsamand (27), Dholpur (25), Banswara (22), Bharatpur (21), Barmer (19), Udaipur (18), Sirohi (17), Jhunjhunu (15), Churu (14), Sriganganagar (14), Sawai Madhopur (12), Tonk (6), Jaisalmer (5), Dungarpur (5), Karauli (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dausa (2), Pratapgarh (2) and Sikar (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-virus-cases-rising-inraj-tally-races-past-90k/articleshow/77968119.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Agra||Land mafia ‘sells land of soldier’ posted in Kargil using ‘fake papers’, no FIR yet||AGRA: An Army personnel posted at Kargil is running from pillar to post to get an FIR registered against a property dealer and local goons who have allegedly been harassing him for months in a bid to “grab” his 111.4 square feet land that he had bought near the main crossing of Abhaypura village of Bah block in Agra district in January. The dealer allegedly sold the same land to another man with forged documents, and now, “both of them are threatening” the Army man and his family members of dire consequences. The Army man, Mahesh Singh, 40, a Havildar with the Rashtriya Rifles (Rajput), said he tried to get an FIR registered in this connection many times, but in vain. He also lodged complaints with the Bah circle officer, local tehsildar, sub-divisional magistrate, office of senior superintendent of police and the district magistrate, but to no avail, he said. “I submitted formal complaints at Khera Rathaur police station four times, but an FIR was not registered. I had purchased the land to build a house for my family, but it was sold by the land mafia using fake documents. They attacked me thrice, but I somehow managed to save my life. My wife and children live with my elderly parents at our ancestral home in Barara village, but they are unable to step out. There is a danger to their lives. I am unable to perform my duty properly, I need help,” Singh told TOI. In a written complaint to the Khera Rathaur station house officer dated August 7, 2020, Singh had stated that he purchased a plot of 111.48 sq ft from a resident of Badagaon under Bah sub-division on January 10, 2020, alleging that the same person sold a major portion of his land to a resident of Pura Badhoria village under Bah sub-division on July 21. “I have the land registry papers with me. The plot is registered on my name. It could be seen on the online database of land records. Local goons are, however, openly threatening to kill my two minor sons if I staked a claim to the land. My life is also in danger. The local police station is not accepting my complaint. I just want police to register an FIR and conduct a fair investigation,” said Singh. Deputy superintendent of police Jagmohan Singh said, “I have recently taken the charge of the Bah circle officer, but the matter is in my knowledge and we are looking into it. The complainant and the people who are allegedly trying to grab his land will be called for a meeting to understand the matter clearly and based on which suitable action will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/land-mafia-sells-land-of-soldier-posted-in-kargil-using-fake-papers-no-fir-yet/articleshow/77965336.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM to sound poll bugle today through virtual rally||PATNA: JD(U) president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar will sound the poll bugle through a mega virtual rally on Monday. Christened ‘Nischay Samvad’, around 35 lakh people are expected to directly hear Nitish’s speech through different social media platforms, including the party’s digital platform ‘jdulive.com’, from 11.30am. “It will be the biggest ever virtual rally, as the JD(U) has already sent the link to more than 26.25 lakh people to directly connect them with the CM when he delivers his speech,” JD(U)’s national secretary Rabindra Prasad Singh told TOI on Sunday. Singh said senior party leaders, MLAs and MPs have arranged big LED and TV screens so that a large number of people can hear Nitish while maintaining social distancing. “As per reports reaching the JD(U) state headquarters, the party workers have erected tents at thousands of polling stations or schools across the state and made arrangements for big LED screens to facilitate clear hearing of Nitish’s speech,” Singh said. He said Nitish’s speech would be telecast and broadcast from the newly-built Karpoori Thakur Sabhagar at the JD(U)’s office here. The ‘Nischay Samvad’ was earlier scheduled for September 6. But it was rescheduled due to the weeklong state mourning following the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee on August 31. “Through this mega virtual rally, JD(U) will try to connect with the maximum number of people possible ahead of the Bihar assembly election due in October-November this year,” senior JD(U) leader and state’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary told TOI. Choudhary said the party had been making preparations for the virtual rally for the last four months. “Earlier, we connected with lakhs of people during our constituency-wise virtual meetings for several weeks,” Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-sound-poll-bugle-today-through-virtual-rally/articleshow/77967118.cms||Madan Kumar
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Colleges gear up to conduct final exams amidst pandemic||Mangaluru: With a few days to go for the final year undergraduate examinations, colleges in undivided Dakshina Kannada are making several arrangements to keep everyone involved in the process safe. Safety is the priority on every campus which will hold the third-year final semester examination on September 16. Apart from it, college campuses in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada, after five months of inactivity, are back to life. Final-year students, who are charged up to appear for their last examination of their undergraduate college life, are visiting campuses in small numbers to carry out last-minute preparations. At SDM College, students of each stream—science, arts and commerce—will write the examination in different blocks, and with only one student per bench. Dr B Yashovarma, secretary, SDM Educational Society, told TOI that staff and students are strictly instructed to ensure there is no crowding in the campus. In order to achieve the goal, examinations will be held for each stream in different blocks of the institution. Similar rules have been applied in hostels as well, where only two students is permitted in a room, instead of four. At the mess, a staggered entry is proposed and additional hostel facility has been arranged. More than 1,000 final- year students will be appearing for the examination. In order to help students to revise and prepare well for the examination, Yashovarma said that students are provided with lots of e-books, which can be downloaded free-of-cost. Apart from it, recorded lectures are made available to brush up the syllabus. Three autonomous colleges in the city—St Agnes College, St Aloysius College and School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya—have jointly made arrangements for students from Kerala, Goa and the north-east to write the examination in their own states. Sources said that there will be three examination centres in Kerala, five in the north-east and one in Goa. However, candidates will not be given any chance to do last-minute group study inside the campus, minutes before the examination. Charles Pais, registrar, St Agnes College, said that all the candidates, after thermal scanning is performed on them, will be asked to go and take a seat in their respective exam rooms. There is no room for interaction, and candidates will leave straightaway go home or to the hostel, after the examination. Officials at St Aloysius College said that candidates will be informed about their examination hall and seat numbers through email and WhatsApp. “To ensure that physical distancing does not go for a toss, all students are asked to occupy their seats 45 minutes prior to the exam. The examination hall allotted in the morning will not be used for the examination in the afternoon. There is also an isolation room for Covid positive students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/colleges-gear-up-to-conduct-final-exams-amidst-pandemic/articleshow/77966221.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pugmarks of missing tigress MT-4 discovered at Mukundra reserve||JAIPUR: Fresh pugmarks of tigress MT-4 were discovered on Sunday and have come as a relief for the state forest administration, which had launched an intense combing operation to trace the last two surviving tigers at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR). According to sources, the pugmarks were seen at Mor Khali region of the Mashalpura range of the reserve. The forest department had come under fire when MT-4 was found to have disappeared from MHTR for about a fortnight from August 19 when it was last photographed. However, a massive hunt on Sunday helped officials trace the tigress after finding fresh pugmarks. A day before the tigress, male tiger MT-1 had also gone missing. But no traces of the big cat has been found. A press statement issued by MHTR administration said, “During monitoring, the team found evidence of the movement of tigress MT-4. No evidence of the movement of MT-1 was found. The work to install additional camera traps in the 2sqkm area is in progress.”As per records, the camera trap picture of MT-1, the first tiger of Mukundra, was captured on August 18. The tiger was living inside an 80sqkm enclosure in Mashalpura, located at the southern end of MHTR. Similarly, the picture of MT-4, brought from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) in April 2019 and was outside the enclosure, was captured on camera trap a day later on August 19. After the big cats went missing, the chief wildlife warden (CWLW) camped at MHTR to track them. Along with massive foot patrolling, the forest department also used a drone to find out the probable location of the big cats. A team of trackers from RNP was also pressed into service. “The pugmarks were found by the trackers of RNP. They were recorded from the Mor Khali region of Mashalpura,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pugmarks-of-missing-tigress-mt-4discovered-at-mukundra-reserve/articleshow/77968122.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Abandoned government building collapses in Patna, boy dies||PATNA: A six-year-old child, Sunny Kumar, died and two more children were critically injured when a portion of a 30-year-old abandoned government building in Albert Ekka Memorial complex at Adalatganj under the Kotwali police station area in Patna collapsed around 4.30pm on Sunday. The two injured children were identified as Pradhan Kumar (12) and his younger brother Sahab Kumar (8). SHO of Kotwali police station Ramashankar Singh said the children were residents of neighbouring Kamla Nehru Nagar. “They were probably picking up bricks from the building when the incident occurred,” the SHO added. Patna sadar SDO Nitin Kumar Singh said the two children have sustained multiple fractures. “We have initiated the process of providing Rs 20,000 as immediate ex gratia to the parents of the deceased child,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/abandoned-govt-bldg-collapses-in-patna-boy-dies/articleshow/77967130.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 7, 2020||Chennai||TN attracts investments, but falls short in ease of doing biz||Chennai: It looks easier to attract new industrial investments for Tamil Nadu, than getting a higher rank, among states, in the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) survey. State Industries department officials are zapped that despite so much going in favour of Tamil Nadu the state ranked 14 on the EoDB front.The latest survey, rankings of which were released on Saturday by the Centre, shows Tamil Nadu improving its EoDB stature by one notch, from the 15th position in 2018. While Andhra Pradesh was ranked at the top, Uttar Pradesh bagged the second spot, jumping by nearly 10 places from earlier.Consider the following: During the Covid period, Tamil Nadu signed 41 MoUs to translate into actual industrial investments to the tune of Rs30,664 crore. A recent ranking of the Centre — Good Governance Index — recognised Tamil Nadu as the best governed state in the country. It ranked second in the State Investment Potential Index published by the National Council for Applied Economic Research. The state is ranked third in the recently published Export Preparedness Index 2020 by Niti Aayog. But, when it comes to Ease of Doing Business (EoDB), it has failed to make it to the top 10."Factors not directly related to the industrial climate have caused the state to remain low on rankings. The issue of commercial courts going online, something being done under the supervision of the Supreme Court and the home department, besides end-to-end digitisation of land records and planning permissions are major factors that continue to pull the state down. While we directly have no role in the e-courts, the state revenue department is working on the other two," a state government official lamented."The investment climate of a state comprises several components including infrastructure, law and order, conducive and proactive policies and availability of skilled manpower. Ease of doing business is only one of such facet of a good investment climate," reads an internal note of the state government. Pointing out that the state’s ranking has improved in the past two years, it is not reflective of the actual investment climate vis-a-vis other states. "Tamil Nadu has adopted a holistic approach to EoDB by taking up reforms far beyond what is mandated by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade and these reforms are nearing completion," the note reads."We are working on a new single-window portal that will change the government-business interface drastically. Once the portal is unveiled, Tamil Nadu will be a game changer, since it will take over 180 government-business transactions online, much beyond the Business Reforms Action Plan (BRAP)," says Neeraj Mittal, managing director and CEO, Guidance.Officials and industry representatives are questioning the ‘feedback system’, based on which the whole ranking system is arrived at. "While Delhi has carried out only 30% of the reforms, while we have completed 90% of it. Still on the ranking front, we both are placed close to each other. There is a need for more transparency on the feedback system," says an official.The survey does not seem to have given Tamil Nadu its due recognition, feels CII Tamil Nadu chairman Hari K Thiagarajan. "We are certainly on an upward trend. With new multinationals coming into the state, Tamil Nadu’s EoDB ranking will surely go up, since the climate for industrial investment is improving," he says.Looking at the scope for improvement, former chairman of CII Tamil Nadu M Ponnuswami says, "The state government is in the process of completing digital reforms in sectors such as land. Let this be an eyeopener for the state to complete the process in the next two months so that it can be fully geared up for a better showing in the next year’s rankings."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-attracts-investments-but-falls-short-in-ease-of-doing-biz/articleshow/77967131.cms||D Govardan
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer held for growing marijuana||Vadodara: A farmer in Panchmahal was arrested on Sunday for growing marijuana in his field. The special operations group (SOG) of Panchmahal police had received information that the farmer, Bhaila Matiya, has grown marijuana in his farm. Based on the information, SOG sleuths raided the farm on Sunday. Initially, the cops did not find anything suspicious as they only found maize crops. But as they went further inside the farm, they found marijuana plants. Police said that the marijuana plants weighed over 18 kilograms. The entire stock was seized by the cops and Matiya was arrested. An offence was registered under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act against him at Damavav police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-held-for-growing-marijuana/articleshow/77965620.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Highway expansion in North Goa likely to be completed in May 2021||PANAJI: The work of four and six laning of highways from Patradevi to Karaswada and Karaswada to Bambolim stretches is expected to be completed by May 2021, PWD chief engineer Uttam Parsekar said. The highway expansion work in Goa had begun in late 2016. The PWD began the four and six laning work first in stretches were land was already in the state’s possession and rest of the work was started in late 2017 or early 2018 after the land acquisition was completed. Speaking to TOI, Parsekar said that there was labour shortage during the lockdown period, but the work is gradually picking up pace now. From October, once the monsoons retreat, the work is expected to begin in full swing. While the Karaswada to Bambolim highway expansion contract is worth Rs 850 crore, the Patradevi to Karaswada project has been awarded for Rs 630 crore. Parsekar said that usable materials from disposed construction debris were used in some parts of the highway work. It is one of the sustainable practices adopted by the PWD, which helps tackle the increasing construction waste in the state. The project highway will link Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, starting at Patradevi on the Maharashtra-Goa border to Polem on the Goa-Karnataka border, which will be of a total length of 135.96km. Under the multi-crore highway expansion project, the national highway is slated to be widened from its current two-lane to four lanes. This will allow vehicles to cruise at a speed of 80 to 100 kmph. The work also includes vehicular underpasses all along the highway meant to improve accident prone junctions. A China-based company, Quingdao, along with a Hyderabad firm, are the contractors for a 17.4km stretch, while another company, also based in Hyderabad, Navyuga constructions, has bagged the expansion work for a 25km stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/highway-expansion-in-north-goa-likely-to-be-completed-in-may-2021/articleshow/77968194.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||2 more TTD buildings turn care centres||Tirupati: Two more rest houses under the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) were converted into Covid-19 care centres as cases continue to see a rapid rise in the temple city. Following requests from the district administration, the TTD management handed over the Sri Govindaraja Swamy and Sri Kodandarama Swamy choultries, which were inaugurated as care centres by Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta, and SP Avula Ramesh Reddy on Sunday. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has appealed to the district administration to restrict pilgrim footfall in view of the rising cases. He said that high pilgrim footfalls expected in Puratassi month, considered auspicious by devottes from Tamil Nadu, may lead to a further spike in cases.  Chittoor district collector Dr Gupta said that the number of beds in quarantine centres has been increased to 5,400 following the TTD’s support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-more-ttd-buildings-turn-care-centres/articleshow/77966245.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||E-cigarettes are no less harmful, say researchers||MANGALURU: While narcotic drugs continue to be a topic of discussion across the nation, a team of experts have raised concern over the increasing demand for e-cigarettes. Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) is a fast-growing trend among the youth worldwide. A study conducted by a team of researchers led by Dr Nidhi Manaktala, associate professor, department of oral pathology and microbiology, Manipal College of Dental Sciences (MCODS), Mangaluru, found that majority of the youngsters are unaware about harmful effects of e-cigarettes. The study was conducted in the wake of the increasing demand for e-cigarettes. The MCODS research team included Dr Srikant N, head, department of oral pathology and microbiology and interns Dr Vidushi Gupta and Dr Madhu Sharma. This is probably first of its kind study in India, that had 710 participants, including smokers and non-smokers across seven countries. The study revealed that youth often took to e-cigarettes as a way of smoking cessation or just to follow a trend. Most people are unaware of the detrimental effects of this habit. “This study was carried out to assess the prevalence of the habit of smoking e-cigarette and the awareness of its harmful effects among adults aged 18–23 years,” said Dr Nidhi. E-cigarette, a small battery-operated hand-held electronic device, is banned in India, said Dr Nidhi, adding that several misleading myths associated with e-cigarette need to be busted. Around 79.5% of the respondents felt that e-cigarette is safer and healthier and less harmful than the conventional cigarettes. “They often used it as a method of reducing tobacco smoking, as it does not cause bad breath, has no flame and carbon monoxide emissions,” she said. Pre-filled cartridges of e-cigarettes are contain more than 250 components such as diethylene glycol, tetramethyl-pyrazine and tetrahydro-cannabinol.The digital smokes can cause allergies, asthma, heart diseases, mood disorders and impulse control failure. If overheated, the battery might explode, stated the research paper, published in the latest edition of Open Medicine (Poland) journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/e-cigarettes-are-no-less-harmful-say-researchers/articleshow/77966253.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||12 charged with murder bid||Times News Network Ludhiana: Twelve people were booked on Saturday on the charge of murder bid on a 28-year-old resident of Tajpur Bet, the police said on Sunday.Kulwinder Singh is admitted to a hospital in Sector 32. The accused have been identified as Shiva, Monu Gujjar, Laddi Gujjar, Ruby, Mukesh Gandhi, Rakesh Gandhi and their six unidentified accomplices.Kulwinder said in his police complaint, “When I reached Guru Nanak Nagar on Friday night, the accused intercepted my motorcycle and attacked me with sharp-edged weapons, iron rods and sticks. They also damaged my motorcycle and fled from the spot, leaving me in a pool of blood.”Passesby took him to hospital.Division 7 police station ASI Karnail Singh said, “The attack was the fallout of a monetary dispute. A case has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common intention) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/12-charged-with-murder-bid/articleshow/77966248.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll nears 500 as 13 lose life to Covid-19||TNN Ludhiana: Thirteen from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 on Sunday, when 161 persons from the district and 31 outsiders tested positive here. Six outsiders also succumbed to the disease here on the day.The district residents who succumbed to the deadly virus included a 60-year-old Giaspura man with hypertension, a 45-year-old diabetic man of New Subhash Nagar, a 85-year-old woman of Mall Road with diabetes and hypertension, a 58-year-old woman of Jethi Nagar in Khanna with hypertension and chronic kidney disease, a 58-year-old man of Haibowal with fungal sepsis, a 71-year-old man of BRS Nagar with hypertension and chronic kidney disease, a 68-year-old man of Subhash Nagar, a 63-year-old diabetic man of Manakwal Enclave, a 40-year-old man of Kabrana, a 71-year-old man of Prem Nagar, a 27-year-old woman of Sherpur Kalan with hepatic disease and liver failure, a 52-year-old woman of Prakash Nagar with chronic kidney disease and a 37-year-old man of Kanech.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 13 deaths, the district toll tally has reached 499 and that of outsiders to 123.Officials said the patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive included 82 from the flu corner, 70 positive cases’ contacts and six healthcare workers. Ludhiana case count has risen to 11,784 and that of outsiders to 1,266.The state media bulletin said 232 patients were discharged after getting cured on Sunday.The civil surgeon said till now, 9,472 patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 80.38% of the total cases. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,810 active patients in the district at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-nears-500-as-13-lose-life-to-covid-19/articleshow/77966255.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Robber stabs factory worker, arrested||Times News Network Ludhiana: In an attempt to rob a factory worker, a man stabbed him in throat on Kakowal Road on Saturday night.Anwar Alam, 44, a resident of Atal Nagar, is admitted to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.The police have arrested the robber, Roshan Kumar, 22, of Kakowal Road. Anwar’s brother Dilnawaj said, “Anwar works at a hosiery factory. On Saturday night, he was walking back home from the factory when the robber intercepted him near a filling station. The robber asked Anwar to handover cash and cellphone to him. When Anwar resisted, the robber brandished a sharp-edged weapon. Before Anwar could understand the reality of the situation, the goon stabbed him in throat. On hearing his screams, passersby raised the alarm. As the robber tried to escape, the passersby chased and nabbed him.” After thrashing the goon, they handed him over to the police. Anwar was taken to a hospital. Basti Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur said, “A case under sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC has been lodged against Roshan. He too works at a hosiery factory. On Saturday night, Roshan too was returning home from the factory when he waylaid Anwar in an attempt to rob him. Roshan attacked Anwar with a cutter he uses in the factory. We are checking if Roshan has a criminal record.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/robber-stabs-factory-worker-arrested/articleshow/77966257.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||NITK rises to challenge posed by pandemic||Mangaluru: The pandemic has been a dampener for NITK Surathkal, which was in a festive mood of celebrating its diamond jubilee. K Umamaheshwar Rao, director of the institution, said that it has converted the challenges posed by the pandemic into opportunities. The diamond jubilee year celebrations (2019-2020) of the institution commenced on August 6, 2019. The celebrations were expected to culminate last month with grandeur, but the pandemic has come as a hurdle. Rao said that despite the institution closing down and academic activities coming to a grinding halt, NITK has turned the challenges posed by the pandemic into opportunities. “Academic and research activities were severely affected since students had to vacate the campus. But as the adage goes, ‘when the going gets tough, the tough get going!’ It is during times of crisis that true leaders exhibit their talents as was demonstrated by the collective leadership under the guidance of K Balaveera Reddy, chairperson of our Board of Governors,” he said. The NITK fraternity demonstrated innovative solutions to mitigate the challenges posed by the pandemic. Rao said that as a first step in this direction, it was decided to use IT tools to conduct academic activities online. Since April 2020, conducting academics online has become a new normal at NITK. . Rao said that as part of their commitment towards social responsibility, NITK has made significant contributions in the form of designing and fabricating 3D printed ventilator components, face masks with N95 filters, face shields, hand sanitizers and apps to ensure that migrant workers travel safely, to mitigate the hardship caused by Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nitk-rises-to-challenge-posed-by-pandemic/articleshow/77978400.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Tailor who stitched fake cop’s uniform traced||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police have traced the tailor from whom fake cop Kulwant Singh Dhillon got his uniform stitched. It has also been identified that Dhillon, an actor, had purchased badges for the uniform from Malerkotla. On September 5, the Division 7 police had arrested Dhillon of MIG flats, Sector 32, after his video of consuming alcohol in a cop’s uniform went viral on social media. “It was found during preliminary investigation that the accused had done supporting roles in Punjabi movies,” said a cop.In the video, the accused is seen in a cop’s uniform. When a man asks him what the police are doing to check Covid-19, the accused takes out a liquor bottle from his pocket, starts drinking and says this is the treatment of corona.Deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Ashwani Kapur said, “We have checked the background of Dhillon. He owns a dyeing factory, which he gave on rent in 2014. His son is settled in Canada and wants to be a social media influencer. Therefore, his father shoots some comedy videos, which they upload online. This was one such video. In it, Dhillon is wearing a complete police uniform, which is illegal.”“We have traced the tailor from whom he got the uniform stitched. Further questioning will ascertain if Dhillon introduced himself as a cop or an actor to get the uniform. The Ludhiana Police had issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, banning sale of police uniforms. There are a few tailors in the city, who stitch uniforms after checking the ID cards of cops. They are registered with the police department. The badges Dhillon used on the uniform were purchased from Malerkotla. Due to the weekend lockdown, the police on Monday will trace the Malerkotla man, who sold him the badges. Action will be taken against those involved,” the DCP added.A case was registered against Dhillon under sections 171 (wearing garb or token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to live) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tailor-who-stitched-fake-cops-uniform-traced/articleshow/77966268.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 7, 2020||Goa||WRD officials inspect Kalasa site, check for more changes in natural flow of river||Keri: Days after TOI reported that Karnataka has once again changed the natural flow of the Kalasa river, officials from the state water resources department (WRD) visited the site on Sunday for an inspection. The report, on TOI’s Friday edition, highlighted how the tempering of the Kalasa river bed gradient reversed the natural flow of water in the direction of inter-connecting canals that join the Malaprabha river. WRD officials Dilip Naik, Xavier Manuel and Wilson Pereira visited the site in Kankumbi. “As per directives from higher authorities, we visited the Kalasa site and will submit the report of our findings to chief engineer Shrikant Patil, along with photographic evidence,” Naik told TOI. Although Karnataka had diverted the natural flow of the Kalasa coming into the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary two years ago, this time, taking advantage of the Covid-19 lockdowns, the southern state changed the river bed gradient in a way that more water flows into the Malaprabha through open cut and underground canals. In 2015, as per directives of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal, Karnataka also constructed the masonry embankment to stop the flow of Kalasa water into the Malaprabha. “Earlier, water from the Kalasa river used to flow into Goa,” Kankumbi resident Ladu Naik told TOI. “However, later, something may have been done in a concealed manner that has facilitated the natural flow of the water in the opposite direction.” He added that the villagers used Kalasa water to take up cultivation, but today, the course of the river has minimised to such an extent, there is hardly any water available for irrigation. On account of the Kalasa project work, not only the natural course of the river has degraded from its origin at Rameshwar temple, but also the origin and the course of the Malaprabha has degraded for around two kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-officials-inspect-kalasa-site-check-for-more-changes-in-natural-flow-of-river/articleshow/77968246.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid cases down, recoveries up but so are fatalities in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana district is showing signs of improvements, with less number of cases reported in the last seven days than the total count in the preceding week. The percentage of cured patients in the last week also showed an improvement over the figure for seven days prior to that, though high case fatality rate (CFR) still remains a concern.The data extracted from the state’s Covid-19 bulletin released on Saturday evening suggests that the number of cases registered in Ludhiana last week was 1,193, which was less than the figure for Jalandhar district, which occupied the top spot with 1,524 cases, whereas Patiala with 1,190 cases stood at number three, followed by SAS Nagar with 993 fresh cases.An analysis of the data for recent weeks suggests that during the week ending August 29, Ludhiana had contributed 1,581 new cases to the state’s total, while the district had recorded 2,373 cases in the week closing on August 22.The number of active cases in Ludhiana also saw a decline from 2,552 on August 29 to 1,975 on September 5.Another parameter that shows improvement in the Covid-19 scenario in the district is the rise in percentage of cured patients, which was 79% last week, while it was 72% on August 29. On August 22, the cured patients’ percentage had slipped to 53% from 66% on August 15.However, even as there is a marked improvement in Covid-19 situation in the district on several parameters, according to the latest bulletin, Ludhiana continues to witness a high number of fatalities. In last seven days, 107 patients lost the battle, while during the week closing on August 29, the number of deaths was 76.The case fatality rate (CFR), which is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease for a particular period, is also on the higher side. On September 5, the CFR was 4.2%, while it stood at 3.6% on August 29.Nonetheless, with visible improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana district, the health department authorities are hopeful of cases further declining in the coming days.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they are doing maximum sampling and are carrying out exhaustive contact tracing, which is why there is a decline in fresh cases. He, however, admitted that high fatalities are a cause of concern, but that is mostly due to late reporting by the patients. They are requesting people with symptoms to get testing done in the initial days itself, he added.BOXRecent trend in districtWee ending September 5District — New cases — Active cases — Total — DeathsLudhiana — 1,193 — 1,975 — 11,702 — 107 Jalandhar — 1,524 — 2,694 — 7,618 — 48 Patiala — 1,190 — 1,297 — 7,054 — 32Amritsar — 832 — 831 — 4,640 — 40SAS Nagar — 993 — 2,084 — 4,463 — 30Week ending August 29District — New cases — Active cases — Total — DeathsLudhiana — 1,581 — 2,552 — 10,509 — 76 Jalandhar — 1,037 — 2,043 — 6,094 — 26 Patiala — 1,156 — 1,423 — 5,864 — 51Amritsar — 598 — 672 — 3,808 — 27SAS Nagar — 897 — 1,536 — 3,470 — 25Week ending August 22District — New cases — Active cases — Total — DeathsLudhiana — 2,373 — 3,867 — 8,932 — 76 Jalandhar — 1,284 — 1,829 — 5,057 — 29 Patiala — 1,131 — 1,629 — 4,708 — 33Amritsar — 473 — 564 — 3,201 — 16SAS Nagar — 841 — 1,405 — 2,573 — 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-cases-down-recoveries-up-but-so-are-fatalities-in-ludhiana/articleshow/77966274.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Standard-bearers for gender equality, women rule khaki bastion in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: From handling Covid-19 arrangements to leading the cyber cell and heading police stations, women cops in Ludhiana commissionerate are doing an exemplary job. The Ludhiana Police has 464 women cops, including a joint commissioner of police, two additional deputy commissioners, one assistant commissioner, five inspectors, 29 sub-inspectors, 28 ASIs, 34 head constables and 364 constables. Those on prominent posts are joint commissioner of police Kanwardeep Kaur, ADCP (headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal, ADCP (special branch) Rupinder Kaur Sra, ACP (cybercrime) Prabhjot Kaur, Jodhewal police station SHO Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, Sarabha Nagar SHO Madhu Bala, Moti Nagar SHO Simranjit Kaur, woman police station SHO Manjit Kaur and in charge of cyber cell Sukhpal Kaur. This is the first time when so many women cops are serving on important posts.Joint commissioner (city) Kanwardeep Kaur, who is heading zone II and zone IV, said, “I have 14 police stations under these two zones. I look into all the important cases registered at these police stations. I have observed that in zone II, several robberies were committed, so I am working on a plan to avert them.” ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra, who is a nodal officer for police for Covid-19, said, “As I am also in the committee formed for contact tracing of positive patients, it is a 24x7 duty these days. We have to be available for the cops who have contracted the virus. Organising webinars for them, managing corona warrior groups, getting daily updates of their health, arranging beds for cops from other districts as Ludhiana has prominent hospitals, and even tracing contacts of positive patients keep me on toes. Before joining here, I was associated with 112 helpline and had to travel to Chandigarh daily. We also distributed sanitary napkins to the needy. I also developed viral symptoms and was quarantined for 14 days.” While performing their duties, these officers sometimes feel guilty of overlooking their families. “I have a three-year-old son and an elderly mother. I am not able to give time to my family at all. The online classes of my son have also got affected. I also remain worried for their safety,” Sra said. Basti Jodhewal, Moti Nagar and Sarabha Nagar police stations are considered the biggest and hectic in the city. Sarabha Nagar has the maximum number of restaurants, clubs, spas, while Jodhewal and Moti Nagar have a high migrant population. Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “Gender makes no difference in policing. But we have to work extra so that people don’t get a chance to say she could not do it as she was a woman. My police station is not that big, but I have a large migrant population and a high crime rate too, but we have been able to solve many cases.” Inspector Sukhpal Kaur, in charge of the cyber cell, said, “So many people in Ludhiana are falling prey to cyber criminals and fraudsters. With technology, we are solving the cases and also spreading awareness among residents to be alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/standard-bearers-for-gender-equality-women-rule-khaki-bastion-in-ludhiana/articleshow/77966278.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Hotel, banquet hall owners put plateful of woes on table||Ludhiana: City’s hotel and banquet hall owners are up in arms against the state government and local authorities for not increasing the 30-person cap for marriage and other functions. They said their industry has suffered losses worth several crores and the burden of loans and expenses was increasing by the day, but the government was not offering any help. They said the Punjab government was silent on removing the cap on the number of persons even though the Centre recommended in its latest unlock guidelines that up to 100 guests may be allowed at marriage and other functions after September 20. Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “As compared with other sectors, the hospitality industry has taken the worst hit in the pandemic. Hotels, banquet halls and marriage palaces remained shut completely for four months. When in June last week they were allowed to open, a cap of 50 persons was put, and later it was further reduced to 30. A large number of people started organising functions at their homes. All these factors suffered a blow to Ludhiana’s hospitality industry. Now when even the Centre has allowed up to 100 guests at a function, the limit of 30 guests slapped on us should be revised. If not 100, then at least 60-75 guests must be allowed. The silence of the state government and local authorities is really shocking. As a result, a large number of hospitality units will be forced to shut down in Ludhiana.”SS Rai, managing director of a hotel in Model Town, said, “As compared with other states, Punjab’s hotels, banquets and marriage palaces are in bigger trouble. Elsewhere the guest limit at a function is 50, but in Punjab since July it has been capped at 30. Regardless of our repeated reminders to the authorities, nothing has been done. The government must increase the limit to 100 else we will not be able to bear further losses. Moreover, our hospitality industry is well-equipped to hold functions for mass gatherings even beyond 100 and all of us are fully complying with Covid-19 safety norms.”Amarjeet Singh, another hotelier from the city, said, “Our earnings have taken a huge dip, but we have got no respite in expenses of power, water, salaries of the staff. Because of this huge disparity in our earnings and expenditures, almost every hospitality unit, particularly those dependent on functions, are under a huge debt burden. Cap on the number of guests must be increased to 100, so that we can reduce our losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hotel-banquet-hall-owners-put-plateful-of-woes-on-table/articleshow/77966271.cms||Mohit Behl
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||542 test +ve on coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: The recent trend in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi of reporting in excess of 500 Covid-19 cases continued on Sunday, with the two districts cumulatively recording 542 cases. The share of DK in this tally was 326 and Udupi 216. A Covid-19 death was reported in DK in Mangaluru taluk, taking the district’s tally to 401. Udupi’s Covid-19 related death tally remained at 112. Fresh cases in DK saw its tally of total positive cases inch closer to the 15,000 mark to settle at 14,926. The discharge of 202 patients during the day resulted in the active cases crossing the 3,000 mark at 3,084, up from 2,961 on Saturday. As on date, 10,6431 samples have been tested in DK, out of which 91,505 have turned up negative. The health authorities have discharged 11,441 patients as on date, said deputy commissioner K V Rajendra. Influenza-like illness (ILI) contributed to 51% (168) of the total cases reported in DK. The source of infection in 109 patients (33.4%) is being investigated, 34 (10.4%) were primary contacts of those who were infected and 15 patients (4.6%) had severe acute respiratory infection. Symptomatic patients (192) contributed to 58.8% of new cases, Dr Rajendra said, adding Mangaluru taluk accounted for 187 cases (57.3%) and patients from other districts the least, at 12. In Udupi, 84 cases were categorised as people with ILI, 74 were primary contacts of infected people, source of infection in 40 people is being investigated, 11 had SARI and 7 were reported as domestic travellers. In all, 120 (55.5%) of the reported cases were symptomatic. Udupi taluk added 137 cases, Kundapura-43 and Karkala-31. The discharge of 270 patients brought down the active cases to 1852, which was 1,906 on Saturday, and total discharges went up to 10,763, said DC G Jagadeesha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/542-test-ve-on-coast/articleshow/77964759.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Mohsin leads IXL 1st round||Patna: Reigning champion Mohsin Ahmed of Bangalore was leading after the first scoring round of the 8th edition of Indian Crossword League, popularly called IXL. Ramki Krishnan of Chennai, who had won the contest four times in its last seven editions, was at second place. There are three overseas players in the top 10 — Sowmya Ramkumar from Manama at 3rd place, Philip Coote from Griffith in Australia at 6th place and Koh Ting Sween Kenny from Singapore at 7th place. Akshay Bhandarkar from Dubai was at 11th spot after the first round. “There will be eight more rounds before the top 30 on the cumulative leaderboard are called for an offline Grand Finale in Bangalore later this year. The winner will lift the National Crossword Champion trophy,” said Amitabh Ranjan, the chief operating officer of Extra-C, which organizes the IXL. The online launch of IXL-2020 in August was marked by a message from Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik. The contest, which was open to Indians across the world till now, has been thrown open to foreigners from this year. “The online weekly rounds are hosted on www.crypticsingh.com. Entry is free through registration on the website. Participants may enter the competition at any stage during the contest,” Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mohsin-leads-ixl-1st-round/articleshow/77967172.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Paramour’s husband kills a farm labourer||Vadodara: A man killed a farm labourer in Desar taluka over his affair with the former’s wife. Accused Himmat Parmar was arrested on Sunday for killing 32-year-old Jayanti Parmar with a pair of kitchen tongs at a farm in Vav na Muvada. Police said that Jayanti had an altercation with Himmat’s granduncle Khaatu at whose farm he used to work. The verbal altercation escalated to a brawl and Jayanti beat up Khaatu. When Himmat learnt about the incident, he went to the farm to meet Jayanti. “The accused was furious with the victim for attacking his granduncle. However, eye-witnesses told us that the accused had said that he has been harassed by Jayanti,” said sub-inspector D H Vasava. Already enraged, Himmat then brought a pair of kitchen tongs from Khaatu’s house and hit Jayanti thrice on the head. The farm labourer died on the spot. Jayanti’s cousin Balwant informed police and lodged a murder offence against Himmat at Desar police station. Vasava said that Himmat was arrested after his coronavirus tests were completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/paramours-husband-kills-a-farm-labourer/articleshow/77965632.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mysuru||686 test +ve in Mysuru||Mysuru: Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Mysuru and other southern districts. In Mysuru 686 new cases were reported on Sunday. According to the Covid-19 district bulletin, 435 people were discharged from hospitals in Mysuru while 5 people succumbed to Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. With this the Covid 19 fatalities crossed the 500 mark. The total Covid-19 fatalities in Mysuru now stands at 503. In Shivamogga, 329 new cases were reported, while 245 people were discharged from hospital. The district also saw 3 Covid-19 deaths. In Chamarajanagar, 41 cases were reported on Sunday. A totl 27 people were discharged from hospital after receiving treatment. However, the district didn’t report any fatality on Sunday. In Chikkamagaluru 239 new cases were reported on Sunday. A total 209 people were discharged from hospital in the district, and two people died due to Covid. A total 324 Covid cases were reported in Hassan district on Sunday. Two deaths were reported from the district and 316 patients were discharged. In Kodagu district, 38 new Covid cases were reported, one person died due to the disease and 71 patients were discharged on Sunday. Mandya district registered 230 new cases, 49 patients were discharged and one person died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/686-test-ve-in-mysuru/articleshow/77964769.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Metro resumes services after five months||HYDERABAD: After a gap of more than five months, the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) welcomed passengers on Monday morning. The Metro, which had suspended its services in March due to Covid-19 lockdown reopened with a series of measures such as limited passengers, ensuring fresh air inside the trains, restricting entry without face masks, thermal scanners and sanitisers among others to enable commuters to adhere to Covid-19 social distancing protocols. As the Red Line or Corridor One between LB Nagar and Miypur will become functional on Monday with trains every five minutes between 7am and 12noon and 4pm to 9pm, the Hyderabad Metro Rail will ferry only 300 passengers which is one third of its carrying capacity for the three-coach trains, with alternate seating arrangement to ensure social distancing. Stations in containment zones - Gandhi Hospital, Bharat Nagar, Moosapet, Musheerabad and Yousufguda will be closed until further notice. “Apart from keeping the doors open for more time at stations, fresh air will be pumped to an extent of 75% as against 25%-30% earlier as per the standards prescribed by operation of heating, ventilation and AC (HVAC) standards to improve air circulation,” said HMR MD NVS Reddy. “All human contact areas such as hand rails in the train, escalator handrails, lift buttons and customer handling points would be disinfected every four hours,” said L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) managing director and CEO KVB Reddy. Watch Unlock 4: Hyderabad Metro resumes services after five months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-rail-to-chug-in-city-from-today/articleshow/77967220.cms||Moulika.KV
September 7, 2020||Patna||RJD promises young leadership, new Bihar||Patna: The opposition RJD on Sunday came out with a new slogan — ‘Naee Sonch Naya Bihar, Yuva Sarkar Abki Baar’ — for the state assembly polls due in October-November this year. The RJD’s new poster came a day before CM Nitish Kumar is scheduled to address a virtual meeting of his JD(U) on Monday to launch election campaign in the state. “It reflects the vision of our party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who wants to take the state to the development path with the support of youths,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said while explaining the new slogan. He said unemployment is a big issue in the state. “The youths feel cheated by the present dispensation and are desperately looking for a change. Our party leaders have raised the issue and also promised to fill up around 4.5 lakh vacant posts in different government departments,” he added. ‘Bihar unemployment rate is around 46%, one of the highest in India. If given a chance, our government will fill all the vacant posts and create new vacancies in proportion to population,” Tejashwi tweeted. Reacting to the RJD poster and new slogan, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said it is like ‘Mungeri Lal ke hasin sapne’. Taking a dig at Tejashwi, he said such posters would not serve any purpose in the coming election. “Tejashwi will have to go to the field and work with the people,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-promises-young-leadership-new-bihar/articleshow/77967236.cms||Ramashankar
September 7, 2020||Goa||BJP interfering in Margao jeweller murder case: Cong||Panaji: Congress has accused BJP of trying to interfere into the murder investigation of Margao-based jeweller Swapnil Walke. The party’s media convenor, Trajano D’Mello, said BJP president Sadanand Tanawade and organising secretary Satish Dhond’s decision to rush to Margao after the murder indicates that BJP functionaries are interfering in the investigation process. The deceased is son of a prominent BJP functionary. “When top functionaries of the party go to the site and speak to the police officers regarding the investigation, what does that mean? Already there is hue and cry that goondaism is increasing and that it cannot happen without the patronage of the politicians”, he said.  Raking up the 2012 murder of a goldsmith in Mapusa, D’Mello said the failure to nab the accused is enough to prove that the BJP government has failed in maintaining law and order in the state. He also slammed the BJP government for brushing aside all concerns regarding health, safety and drugs raised by the opposition. The party has also accused BJP’s top brass of protecting anti-social elements including those involved in the drug trade, gang rivalry and the begging mafia. D’Mello, said recent incidents proved that crime is on the rise and that many of the accused have links to BJP bigwigs. Congress said the seizure of drugs at a BJP office bearer’s factory in Sattari, the beach cleaning scam, the cyberage scheme scam, crores paid as rent for the Spaces building at Patto, Panaji, and the foreign tours for family members of tourism minister Manohar Agjaonkar also prove that BJP supports corruption. When top functionaries of the party go to the site and speak to the police officers regarding the investigation, what does that mean?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-interfering-in-margao-jeweller-murder-case-cong/articleshow/77968275.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan takes a jibe at Bihar CM on SC/ST issue||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Sunday termed the state government’s recent decision to give a government job to the next of kin of any Scheduled Caste or Scheduled tribe person killed in Bihar as a political gimmick of CM Nitish Kumar. Chirag shot off a letter to Nitish on Sunday and urged him to provide jobs within one month to all those SC/ST families who had lost their kin in violent incidents during his 15 years’ rule in the state. “If you are really concerned about the well-being of the SC/ST people, then submit all the pending cases lodged under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act to the fast-track courts so that justice could be delivered to the victims at the earliest,” Chirag wrote. The letter came a day before the LJP is holding a meeting of its parliamentary board in Delhi and Nitish is scheduled to address a mega virtual rally to formally kick-start the JD(U) campaign for the coming assembly polls. Reminding Nitish of his government’s earlier decisions to give 3 decimal homestead land each to SC/ST people, Chirag wrote that he received numerous complaints that the promise in this regard had not been fulfilled. The LJP chief, who has been attacking Nitish frequently for various reasons in the recent past, said the state government should ensure that no person either from the SC/ST or other community be killed in violent incidents. “I am raising this issue because you also hold the home portfolio,” he wrote. Chirag also urged the CM to work on better schemes to bring the SC/ST people into the mainstream of the society. “If these things are not taken into consideration, people will think of the government’s recent decision to provide a job to any SC/ST person killed in violent incidents as politically motivated,” he added. The JD(U) leaders, however, refused to make any comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-takes-a-jibe-at-nitish-on-sc/st-issue/articleshow/77967246.cms||Ramashankar
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,500 Covid cases, nine deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 2,574 new cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths across the state, taking the total number of cases to 1.40 lakh. With the latest count, the total number of deaths in the state now stands at 886. So far, a total of 1,07,530 patients in the state have recovered from coronavirus, while 32,553 patients are presently under medical care at home and in hospitals. The case fatality rate in the state fell below 1% from over 3% at the beginning of the pandemic. “The current national average case fatality rate is 1.71% which makes Telangana better placed when it comes to the number of Covid-19 patients dying of the virus. The recovery rate, in which Telangana has been faring badly, being behind majority of the states, is slowly picking up but is still behind the national average,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-2500-covid-cases-nine-deaths/articleshow/77967248.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: From kattas to hi-tech arms, there’s one for every budget||MARGAO: There is a dark side to the sunshine state and it is scary. The tiniest state in India, better known for its sparkling beaches, is also witness to easy availability of guns. From an armed robbery of a bank in Mapusa three years ago, arguably the first of its kind in Goa, to two shootouts leading to two murders in two months this year—the gang war in Santa Cruz in June and the Margao jeweller’s murder earlier last week—has brought forth the ugly side of the state’s underbelly. If in October 2017, a Ravanford resident was shot dead in a village bar with a desi gun, three months later five armed men barged into a bank, took the staff and customers hostage and decamped with Rs 13 lakh in cash. Three years later, the proliferation of gun culture in the state has been deep and rapid. In June 2020, a gang war broke out in Santa Cruz in the dead hour of the night leading to a murder, while two months later, a jeweller was killed around noon in Margao. The common thread in all these acts has been the use of guns. Police officers, on condition of anonymity, admit that procuring an illegal gun is not a big deal in Goa. And they reckon, the illegal gun trade is not only raising its ugly head, but actually prospering in the state. The desi gun-making business, sources said, has now shifted to CNC (computerised numerical control) gunsmithing, which gives any desi pistol or katta a sophisticated finish. While a CNC gun is available in the illegal market at upwards of Rs 80,000, desi kattas can be procured for as less as Rs 25,000, sources said. “The threat from the illegal gun trade is real and needs to be nipped in the bud. While there are checks in place for licensed gun owners, the illegal guns lying in the hands of criminals is a matter of grave concern. It will be disastrous for Goa if police turn a blind eye now,” said a retired police officer, who is now a private crime detective. Another senior police officer, who was involved in the seizure of illegal arms from an industrial estate in North Goa years ago, admitted that the situation concerning illegal gun trade in Goa was indeed “scary”. “The way I saw it (the illegal guns) in the industrial estate over a decade ago, I’m sure gun trade exists in Goa through illegal channels,” the police officer said. “The fact that no tangible measures have been taken by the authorities to rein in the culprits, there are no reasons to believe that the situation has changed for the better,” the officer, who wished not to be named, added. Girish Sardesai, a Porvorim-based authorised dealer for arms and ammunition, didn’t negate the possibility of illegal arms entering the state on a significant scale. “Manufacturing katta guns is a cottage industry in states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, where they are sold for anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 20,000. The illegal firearms find their way to Goa probably by trains, where luggage largely goes unchecked at the entry or exit points,” Sardesai said. Sources conversant with the illegal gun trade said the state will harm its own interests if it chooses to stay in denial about the existence of arms trafficking. “When drugs and flesh trade are acknowledged to be the underbelly of Goa’s tourism economy, it is foolhardy to be oblivious of the unlicensed guns that abound in the state. There’s a deep connection between drugs, guns and prostitution, and Goa cannot be an exception,” a source said. So, how does one go about procuring an unlicensed gun in Goa? “It’s easy,” points out Sujit Ali (name changed to protect identity), who once possessed several illegal guns, “provided you are able to identify the right conduits and earn their trust”. Ali now claims to have been dispossessed of all his prized weapons after he was arrested by the Goa police under the Arms Act and for which he had to serve time in prison, years ago. Though Ali procured his guns from a local gunsmith, who would modify antique guns and sell them to gun aficionados for a premium, he said the trade has now evolved with all types of sophisticated arms and ammunition now available for the asking. “You name it, you have it. There’s one for every budget, the price depending upon how desperate you are to own the weapon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-kattas-to-hi-tech-arms-theres-one-for-every-budget/articleshow/77968274.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Six years on, no respite for civilians as LMA continues to close roads||SECUNDERABAD: Even after six years, the fight against the repeated closure of 25 civilian roads is still on. From 2014, the local military authority (LMA) has been shutting these 150-year-old roads quite often, causing severe inconvenience to people. Among the 62 cantonment boards, only the people living in and around the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are facing this road closure problem. The tussle between the army and the civilians has now reached the Supreme Court and is expected to be raised during the monsoon session of the parliament. To exert pressure on the LMA and reclaim their right to freedom of movement, around 3.5 lakh people came on one platform, Open Secunderabad All Cantonment Roads (OSCAR). Another association, United Federation of Residential Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) has also joined hands with FNECS and OSCAR to put up a united fight against LMA. OSCAR is using various media platforms and is repeatedly approaching the MoD and the Telangana state government. “We may even get rid of Covid-19 after the vaccine comes, but not sure when we would overcome this problem of road closure. We are only asking LMA to follow the orders issued by the ministry of defence (MoD) and open the roads. On one pretext or the other LMA shuts these roads,” said Pankaj Seth, resident of Yapral. Another major demand is to widen these roads. “All these roads were laid in the 19th century and have become narrow and weak. It is high time they are widened and relaid,” said CS Chandrasekhar, secretary, Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS). Senior citizen Anoop Kumar, who is also the member of OSCAR hoped that they would get respite from the Apex Court. “Fed up with LMA we approached the Supreme Court. Hope the top court would provide a solution to this issue,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-years-on-no-respite-for-civilians-as-lma-continues-to-close-roads/articleshow/77967258.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||3 times more drug-induced suicides in 2019 in Ludh||Ludhiana: Even as the suicides in Ludhiana have increased by more than 30% in 2019, as compared with previous year, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, suicides by drug abuse and liquor addiction has witnessed a jump. Ludhiana witnessed 194 suicides in 2018, the number increased to 254 in 2019. The recent NCRB data also pegs the number of suicides because of drug abuse and liquor addiction in 2019 at 13. The number of suicides in 2018 was just four. The data suggests that the number of suicides by persons in Ludhiana because of drug abuse and liquor addiction in 2017 was four and just 2 in 2016. The experts said there are many reasons for increase in such suicides. “Drugs and liquor addiction are considered easy way by addicts to relieve themselves of the stress of life. Easily availability and curiosity to try once because of peer pressure result in such addiction. Some drugs result in psychiatric ailments, including psychosis sometimes which can be precursor to suicidal thoughts,” said city-based psychiatrist Dr Anshu Gupta. He added that non availability of drugs can itself lead to depression and ultimately suicidal thoughts. The social activists said there is need to check drug abuse and liquor addiction. “The government agencies should check the availability of drugs but the society should also help solve the problem by waging a war against drug abuse. There is a need for families of such addicts to get them de-addicted and support them to give up addiction,” said Ajaydeep Singh, a social activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-times-more-drug-induced-suicides-in-2019-in-ludh/articleshow/77966335.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 7, 2020||Goa||As male breadwinners lose jobs to pandemic, women turn entrepreneurs||PANAJI: In March this year, just as the pandemic hit, Sanjana Naik found her family in crisis. Her husband, who worked as a cook in a hotel in Vasco, lost his job. She was a housewife and the couple had three young children aged 7, 5 and 3 years to raise. “We had no savings and had our monthly expenses, the children's school fees and installment of our bike to pay,” said Sanjana, a resident of New Vaddem, Vasco. In nearby Baina, a single mother Archana Chavan, with a 20-year-old daughter in college, was struggling similarly to make ends meet. “By working as a maid, I was earning around Rs 10,000 a month. Post-Covid, three employers discontinued my services, afraid I may carry the virus. My monthly earning reduced to Rs 2,000 and it got very difficult to get by,” said Archana. It was a familiar story with many women in their neighbourhood, with men in the family suddenly out of work. It was finally in August that these women stumbled upon an opportunity. Sitting at their home, they could fashion items like dupattas and stoles out of silk sarees and fetch Rs 800 per piece. All the women had to spare was 4-5 hours a day, with plenty of time left for housework and their children. “I was a bit apprehensive at first as I had never worked before,” admitted Sanjana. The opportunity was presented to them by Anyay Rahit Zindagi or Arz, the nodal NGO for Goa Police’s anti-trafficking unit, in a collaborative effort with artist Harshada Sonak. The project is called ‘Stitch in Time’. Arz director Arun Pandey admits that it wasn’t easy for the women to make the shift from housewife to enterprenuer. “Most of the women hesitated initially as many of them were housewives. Even those who were working earlier had never done this kind of work. They did have physical problems such as headache, back pain, pain in the eye, etc at first,” said Pandey. On an average, it takes the women four days to ready one piece. Presently, 18 women are part of the project, where Sonak provided the training at the Arz centre. Baina resident Savita is a beneficiary of the project. “My husband, who was a taxi driver, has lost his income during the pandemic. We have four children – two daughters aged 17 and 15 and two sons aged 10 and 8 – to raise. The project has helped us by providing a source of income,” said Savita. Arz and Sonak sought donations of silk sarees for ‘Stitch in Time’ and were overwhelmed by the response. However, there are 25 other women on the waitlist to join the project and many more donations are required before they can start work too. The women chosen for the project are necessarily those belonging to families in which men have lost their income due to Covid-19 and are unable to get alternative employment. “My husband is a sub-contractor, who took up painting work. Due to Covid, since the last five months, he is without any work. We were quite stressed about how we would manage. Now this job, suits my requirement as I can work from home and as per my convenience,” said Anita, a mother of three children aged 19, 15 and 2. Many of the women take the material home, but some also prefer coming to the Arz centre to work 'as they find it relaxing'. On a weekly basis the beneficiaries bring the finished products to the Arz center. A quality check is done and then the payments are made. “There is a fear that the lack of income in lower-income families would result in child marriage of girls, school dropout of children, child labour, begging, suicide. We are planning to expand, but we require more silk material and people to buy the finished products. In the crisis caused due to COVID people want jobs, and not necessarily relief,” said Pandey. “I was a bit apprehensive at first as I had never worked before. Now with the earnings, hopefully, we will be able to manage our monthly ration expenses,” said Sanjana. (Names changed to protect identities)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-male-breadwinners-lose-jobs-to-pandemic-women-turn-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77968280.cms||Murari Shetye
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||MC to launch garbage segregation drive from Sept 15||Ludhiana: In order to implement the source segregation strictly in the city, the civic officials are going to launch an extensive drive from September 15 where garbage would be collected from those households where owners will give separate dry and wet waste to the waste collectors. The step is being taken after local bodies department had notified the Punjab Solid Waste Management and Cleanliness and Sanitation Bylaws 2020. The civic officials claimed that first they will take this step and if residents continued flouting the norms there will be challaning as well. According to the bylaws, the source segregation in city should be 100% from households as well as the garbage dumps. There is provision for imposing penalty of Rs 250 in residential and Rs 5,000 in commercial areas. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana informed the councillors in zone B of MC’s decision. She asked the councillors to tell people that from September 15, the civic body will only lift waste if it is separated. BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal said they have started sending messages through social media. He said there should be strict implementation of these orders. Even though the civic officials are talking about strict action, arrangements from their side are not up to the mark. Some of the garbage collectors do not even have proper vehicles to lift garbage in segregated form. At garbage dumps too segregation is a problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-launch-garbage-segregation-drive-from-sept-15/articleshow/77966348.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt teachers’ union insist on regularisation of all teachers||Ludhiana: Government School Teachers’ Union held a convention on new education policy on Sunday during which experts recommended that government teachers should be regularised and the fixed-benefit pension scheme should be implemented. A patron of the union, Charan Singh Sarabha said, “Time to time, governments, especially after the implementation of open market neo-liberal economic policies since 1990, have severely damaged the status, service conditions and dignity of teachers. Today, a large number of teachers in the country and in Punjab are being exploited with low salaries by categorising them as contract volunteers, education workers, education friends and education providers.” State president Surinder Puaari of the union said, “We demand repeal of new education policy issued by the central government.” According to him, the new policy encourages privatisation and commercialisation of education, taking the education system away from the education policy of 1968, 1986 and 1991. “This will destroy the already established school system. The new education policy seeks to suppress the rational and scientific thinking of the children by promoting education in madrassas, temples and ashrams in an attempt to push education beyond government responsibility. On the other hand, giving more autonomy to private sector schools and colleges to pave the way for economic exploitation of children and handing over public education to social volunteers is a big negligence. The policy did not even mention the teachers working on contract basis whereas according to the Right to Education Act 2009, these teachers should have been regularised by 2015.” Balkar Valtoha, general secretary of the union, said “We demanded in the convention that all contract teachers should be immediately regularised. The new education policy hould be repealed and the Kothari Education Commission (1964-66) should be implemented. Parliament of India passed in 1968 with necessary and meaningful amendments to the 1968 Education Policy. The common school system should be implemented by making all the schools running various schemes in the country and Punjab a part of the established school system and all education should be brought under the control of the government. The Right To Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009 should be amended from three years of age to 18 years of age — from pre-primary to Class XII — so that education can become a Constitutional right of children.” Tehal Singh Sarabha, a teacher, said , “The Union Government should set aside 6% of the GDP and 10% of the annual budget for education and the state government should set aside 30% of its budget for education. Eight regular teachers should be appointed for eight classes in pre-primary and primary and teachers of mathematics, science, social science, Punjabi, Hindi, drawing and PT should be appointed at the secondary level. The vacant posts should be filled. Teachers should be given full autonomy in teaching and policy making in schools and the old fixed-benefit pension scheme should be implemented to all teachers-employees appointed after January 1, 2004.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-teachers-union-insist-on-regularisation-of-all-teachers/articleshow/77966346.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||83% take JEE on concluding day||Patna: Around 83% candidates appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main in the state on Sunday for admissions to BE and BTech courses at premier engineering institutes like IITs and NITs in the country. The examinations were held at 43 centres on the concluding day. The invigilators said the exams were conducted with all necessary precautions in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Divya Singh, an examinee, said the physics questions were tricky and mainly based on calculations. Rohan Gupta also found the physics section difficult and lengthy. Meanwhile, many candidates and their parents had to spend a lot of money to reach the exam centres owing to Covid-19 restrictions. Arvind Kumar, a native of Sasaram, whose son Adesh Ranjan appeared for the exam at the Patliputra centre in Patna, spent Rs 10,000 to book a private taxi and stay in the city. “We reached here a day before the exam and spent the night at a lodge. Finding food was also a challenge for us as we stayed in Digha area. However, my son’s exam went well,” he said. An examinee from Darbhanga, Vikas Kumar, said his father drove bike for four hours to reach the exam centre in Patna’s Phulwarisharif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/83-take-jee-on-concluding-day/articleshow/77967254.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad start-up Oncoseek Bio bags US-India Covid project||HYDERABAD: Oncoseek Bio Pvt Ltd, a start-up incubated at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has received the United States-India Science and Technology Endowment Fund (USISTEF) for its strategy developed to fight Covid-19. This project, under Covid-19 Ignition grants for its ‘novel therapeutic strategy’ was one of the 11 selected out of 520 global proposals that were received and evaluated. In its proposal, the start-up proposed to create antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) that can target and kill the SARS-CoV-2 virus. “The SDC will have both antibodies and medicine. So, when administered, the antibodies go and get attached to the virus and the drug is released at the site of action, thereby killing the virus,” Suresh Poosala, founder and president, Oncoseek Bio told TOI. He added that the antibodies can be attached with any of the Covid-19 drugs. He said that the drug can be administered either as a prevention or therapeutic and may not need hospital visits. The start-up, which is incubated at ASPIRE-BioNEST, UoH, has tied up with August Avery of Cornell University, USA to test the efficacy of these potential ADCs against Covid-19 in mice. “These mouse models are not available in India and this collaboration will be very helpful in doing in vivo screening,” added Poosala. He said that their other partners, include Oncosimis Biotech, which will synthesize the novel antibodies, Reagene Biosciences, which will create the ADCs and IgY Pvt Ltd, which supports the nanoparticle portion of this project. Poosala said that the duration of the project is one year, but they intend to complete it in six months by utilizing the grant amount — Rs 50 lakh, received from the USISTEF. This is the second competitive grant that the company has received. Earlier it had received a grant from BIRAC, the Government of India to develop a platform to screen the potential drug candidates for Covid-19. Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor, University of Hyderabad said that this development augurs well for the ASPIRE-BioNEST that is focusing on quality over quantity, which is yielding positive results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-start-up-oncoseek-bio-bags-us-india-covid-project/articleshow/77967257.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: HAM(S) posters show rift between Jitan Ram Manjhi & Chirag Paswan||PATNA: The rift between two prominent Dalit leaders and NDA partners was evident from the new posters put up by HAM(S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi in Patna on Sunday. The pictures of LJP chief Chirag Paswan or his father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan are not on the posters, which have faces of PM Narendra Modi, CM Nitish Kumar, Manjhi and some other HAM(S) and BJP leaders. The posters also have a slogan, ‘First Bihar Nitish Kumar’. It is being seen in the political circles to counter ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ slogan by Chirag, who has been attacking CM Nitish over several issues, including the handling of coronavirus and floods in Bihar, which is likely to go to the assembly polls in October-November. Since joining hands with Nitish recently, Manjhi has been targeting Chirag. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan explained the reason for not including the names of LJP leaders in the posters. “LJP leaders say they are neither a part of the NDA nor the government in Bihar. And our party is with the state NDA. So there is no point in including their pictures in our posters,” he said. Rizwan said the posters have been put up at 50 locations in Patna. “We have already said HAM(S) will contest the election with JD(U), which is a major partner of the NDA in the state. There should not be any confusion on this count,” he said. LJP, which is a constituent of the NDA, is not ready to accept Manjhi’s party as an alliance partner. “Manjhi’s party has not formally joined the NDA as yet. So it’s wrong to call HAM(S) as an alliance partner of the NDA. The issue will be decided at the meeting of BJP, JD(U) and LJP,” LJP national vice-president A K Vajpayee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-posters-show-rift-between-manjhi-chirag/articleshow/77967277.cms||Ramashankar
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Mushrooming shops disrupt residential life||Hyderabad: Residents in parts of city rued about commercial establishments turning their residential localities into noisy markets. Space crunch, lack of fire safety, noise pollution, rash driving, and discharge of biomedical waste polluting ground water were the major grievances reported by residents. “Our area has turned into a commercial noisy market with three boutiques, a coffee shop, a pub and a car accessory showroom. Women safety, reckless driving, drunk driving, people gathering in groups near our houses is our major concern,” said a resident of Jubilee Hills Road no. 56. Ridhima V from MLA Colony, , Banjara Hills Road no. 12 said that their ground water is being polluted due to hospitals and other commercial establishments .  “We have served notices to commercial establishments. Though they have approached court, our legal team will counter them. The residents who approached us also know that inspections were taken up based on their complaints,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mushrooming-shops-disrupt-residential-life/articleshow/77967270.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Complete post matric scholarship enquiry in 15 days’||Ludhiana: Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) comprising nearly 1,650 colleges of Punjab has given an ultimatum to the Punjab government to clarify the status of SC scholarships within 15 days after the final investigation. Jagjit Singh, president, and Anshu Kataria, co-chairman of JAC, maintained that the government has been issuing statements of scholarship scams of SC students, followed by repeated audits and investigations, since 2017. According to Singh, despite the regularity of the scam, the government has not adopted any policy to monitor the scholarship scheme. “It is clear by any means the government does not want to release the scholarship funds of the SC students. This will not be tolerated further,” added Singh. Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal, chairman of JAC, said various departments like finance and social welfare, have conducted many audits in the past and the records of which are available with the government. “So, it should not delay any further and should complete the process in the next 15 days and release the scholarship amount of Rs 1,850 crore, which is pending for the last three years,” Dhaliwal added. S Chattha, general secretary of JAC, said it was the responsibility of the central government to release 100% of the money for this scholarship scheme till the session 2016-17. “But for the sessions 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 neither the central government nor Punjab is taking responsibility. The government has not clarified any policy for the session 2020-21, due to which the future of lakhs of SC students and educational institutions is at stake. This confusion and evasive policy of the government have broken the education structure of Punjab financially due to which lakhs of SC students are being denied higher education and bank accounts of many educational institutions have turned to NPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/complete-post-matric-scholarship-enquiry-in-15-days/articleshow/77966361.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Rly begins boundary wall work at Dholewal crossing||Ludhiana: After suspending the construction of boundary walls around the railway crossing in Prem Nagar, following resistance by local residents, Northern Railway engineering department has now started the work on the walls at Dholewal railway crossing. This time round, railway officials have sought police protection to continue their work at Dholewal railway crossing. They will also soon remove all illegal constructions on the railway land. Meanwhile, officials are trying to settle the matter at Prem Nagar for the construction of 650-metre stretch around the railway tracks crossing through the area. The railway officials have held several meetings with district administration officials and the police so they can conduct proper mapping of the railway land which is being used by local residents illegally. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “Due to ongoing conflict between local residents of Prem Nagar and railway authorities, we have suspended work on Ludhiana-Sahnewal railway route and re-started the construction work on the Dholewal railway crossing. We had to first settle issues with local residents by taking legal support from district officials concerned and the police force as local residents are against the boundary walls even though they are for their safety,” told by director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rly-begins-boundary-wall-work-at-dholewal-crossing/articleshow/77966359.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts caution Telangana farmers on excess use of fertilisers||HYDERABAD: Farmers in Telangana are using excess fertilisers, raising concern among agriculture scientists, who said indiscriminate use of urea and other chemical fertilisers will not only lead to pest and disease attack, but also result in damaging the biological life of soil, loss of yield and lack of quality produce. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said the farmers in Telangana, on an average, were using 173 kg of fertiliser per acre as against the national average of 51.2 kg per acre and a world average of 78.4 kg. The minister appealed to the farmers to reduce the usage of fertilisers. Enquiries by TOI revealed that though over utilization of fertilisers is not new to Telangana, farmers indulged in indiscriminate use of urea during the current Vaanakalam (kharif) crop with the wrong perception that the first or second round of urea employed by them was washed away by the intermittent rain. Members of farmers welfare organisations blamed it on fertiliser companies’ aggressive campaign in rural areas promoting excess use of fertilisers and the state government’s failure to check it. All India Kisan Sabha vice-president Sarampalli Malla Reddy said an inquiry should be conducted into alleged nexus between the agriculture department officials, scientists and fertiliser, seed and pesticide companies. “In the last few years, various farmer welfare associations tried to create awareness among the farmers about the harms of excess use of fertilisers. But our awareness programmes fizzled out because we were not able to compete with the campaigns of fertiliser companies. These companies spend crores of rupees on marketing and campaigning. Youngsters are hired who go to villages in automobiles with sound systems and aggressively promote use of fertilisers,” said Malla Reddy, adding that a majority of the farmers were illiterate and follow each other in cultivation norms. Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University principal scientist and head of soil unit Dr P Surendra Babu said urea should be used two to three times during the entire crop cycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-caution-t-farmers-on-excess-use-of-fertilisers/articleshow/77967289.cms||Roushan Ali
September 7, 2020||Goa||Cops verifying stolen gold angle in Swapnil Walke murder case||MARGAO: The investigation into the Swapnil Walke murder case has reached a crucial step, with crime branch personnel trying to ascertain if the murder was borne out of a sales transaction that went awry pertaining to stolen gold, though a few other angles are also being probed. Sources said that the probe has thrown up valuable leads that have prompted the police to verify its links to the Rs 1.5 crore gold robbery case booked by Anjuna police in February. Significantly, police investigations have also turned their focus on the 340g gold block worth Rs 17 lakh allegedly stolen by Walke’s killers from outside the state. Police are verifying if it has any links to the murder. Omkar Patil, who was the first to be arrested in the Walke murder case, was earlier booked by Anjuna police in connection with the gold theft case, while Evander Rodrigues, the latest to be arrested in the murder case, is also learnt to have been involved in the Anjuna case, and police were on his lookout. What has led investigators to follow the leads in the Anjuna case is the police findings that Patil and Rodrigues had been camping in Margao for the last 2-3 months before the murder. Police are trying to verify if the duo was trying to trade their stolen gold from Anjuna to gullible goldsmiths in the town during the period, and if the Walke murder was borne out of a sales transaction that went awry. A view has also been gaining ground in police circles that had Anjuna police succeeded in recovering the Rs 1.5 crore gold believed to have been robbed by Patil, Walke’s murder could have been prevented. Anjuna police, it is learnt, had managed to recover just Rs 4 lakh worth of gold. Rodrigues had conned the complainant in the Anjuna case, a 60-year old woman related to him, into parting with her gold jewellery to be kept in a safety locker, with Patil as his accomplice in the conspiracy. All three culprits who have been arrested in the case so far are residents of Santa Cruz and belong to the same gang. Significantly, all three have criminal antecedents. Though Shaikh is originally from Fakirband, Margao — a slum-like locality, where his brother and parents still live — he had shifted base to Santa Cruz a few years ago. Police sources said he was also charged in a double murder case at Old Goa, but was convicted under Section 304 (culpable homicide to murder) of the IPC, and got discharged a few years ago after serving a three-year prison term. Sources said Shaikh also has a medical certificate showing that he had undergone treatment for a mental illness, which, investigators fear, would be used by him to defend himself in the murder case. Sources associated with the probe, however, stated that it wouldn’t affect the police case adversely. “Such detailed planning that went into the heinous murder cannot be the handiwork of a mentally-ill patient,” the source said. Shaikh, in association with another accomplice who was earlier detained by the police but yet to be placed under arrest, had planned the murder, it is learnt. Patil, who has several cases of robbery booked against him, was among the two who had attempted to escape from Anjuna police station lock-up in June 2014, and were later re-arrested. He was arrested from Santa Cruz hours after his escape. The investigating officer in the murder case, PI CL Patil, alongwith with another police official, visited the Walke residence on Sunday as part of the investigation. Meanwhile, South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh has proceeded on 10 days leave, with SP (CID) Mahesh Gaonkar given additional charge of South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-verifying-stolen-gold-angle-in-walke-murder-case/articleshow/77968282.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Padra trader loses Rs 2L to cyber frauds||Vadodara: A wholesale vegetable trader in Padra was conned by cyber frauds under the pretext of completing know-your-customer (KYC) procedure of a mobile payment application. According to the trader, Ketan Patel, he received a call from an unidentified number on March 31 asking him to finish KYC procedures of his PayTM account. The accused asked Patel to download an application called QuickSupport on his mobile phone. The application allows a person to remotely access any person’s mobile phone from any part of the world. Later on the conman’s instruction, Patel shared details of his two debit cards on the application. As he started receiving one-time passwords (OTP) on his mobile phone, Patel shared them with the accused. Immediately, Rs 1.8 lakh got siphoned off from Patel’s bank accounts. Patel told cops that he uninstalled the QuickSupport application, but the damage was done by then. Next day, he gave an application to the police to inform about the fraud that had happened with him. Based on the complaint and documents submitted by Patel, an offence of cheating and under the Information Technology Act was registered at Padra Police Station on Saturday. In the past too, several persons using the mobile payment applications have been cheated similarly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/padra-trader-loses-rs-2l-to-cyber-frauds/articleshow/77965645.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Rahul hero in China: Subhash||Hyderabad: Terming Rahul Gandhi as ‘hero’ in China and ‘zero’ in India, state BJP leader NV Subhash on Sunday said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi should realize that his ‘tweet politics’ and mere ‘punch words’ may gain him instant applause, but not people’s trust. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rahul-hero-in-china-subhash/articleshow/77967264.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Congress eyes CCP polls, begins ground work in Panaji||Panaji: With around six more months to go for the elections of Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Congress is gearing up to contest the polls with the hope of creating a foothold in the state capital. For the last few decades, MLA Atanasio Monserrate and the BJP have held the reigns of Panaji and Congress’s last attempt to crash the party ended in a debacle with the party failing to win a single seat in March 2016. Congress, according to office-bearers, has entered into talks with certain citizen groups and is also working to rebuild the Panaji Congress block. “Congress is ready to contest the CCP elections and our preliminary preparations are on. A citizens’ group has taken the initative and it will be a Congress-backed citizens group for the elections,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. The party’s Panaji block had to be disbanded after Monserrate, who won on a Congress ticket, switched over to BJP. Many of the Panaji block members, who owed allegiance to Monserrate, moved with him. “The block has to be strengthened and more members have to be added,” party general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said. “Congress put its trust in Babush but he betrayed us and many of our members left.” In 2016, Congress formally joined the CCP electoral fray with Cumbarjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar spearheading the campaign. Congress got a drubbing in the polls and only served to eat into Monserrate’s votes. Madkaikar subsequently joined BJP. This time around, Congress is meeting local NGOs, prominent citizens, activists and those who have taken a neutral stance in the capital. “There are local activists who are concerned about the destruction of the city. They had supported Babush the last time as he had promised many things. They want to preserve the city,” Chodankar added. Panjikar said that Congress has been getting a good response from locals during the meetings. “They are ready to work with us for the municipal elections. It is still early and once it takes shape, we can take a formal decision but we are preparing for it,” Panjikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-eyes-ccp-polls-begins-ground-work-in-panaji/articleshow/77968300.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Experts tell students to limit unnecessary screen time to ace ‘schools at home’||Ludhiana: Just as we take precautions in donning the mask, this pandemic you will be doing your eyes and concentration a great favour if you limit your screen time. This seems to be the consensus after almost five months on online schooling. While many hurdles have already been crossed, quite a few are yet to be ironed out, said students and educators, struggling to cope up with the concept of ‘schools at home’. Charvi Singh, student of Guru Nanak Public School in Model Town Extension, said, “Shifting from a traditional classroom to a virtual one was a different learning experience. I realised we had to to be more attentive during e-learning than in the physical classroom and students with a traditional mindset find it difficult to adapt. There is a lot of pressure and has specifically harmed the health of the students, especially eye. Although students are generally tech-savvy, lack of computer literacy is a major issue among them and especially parents. Many students are not provided with good internet connection that online platforms require. I also want to impress upon the need of proper time management in online learning as it offers the freedom to organise the studies. Whereas, poor time management could lead to failure. Working towards any goal requires dedication and motivation and, on the face of it, studying online can seem fraught with opportunities to lose these qualities.” Another student Shivam from BBA from a city college, said, “As a student, it’s a challenge to put energy and stress on a laptop screen to attend a lecture and get used to it. We were not used to give 100% attention even in a physical classrooms with proper study environment. In our bedroom in front of a screen didn’t really work initially. Also, the strain on the eyes, sometimes headaches and network connectivity are some of the hurdles that we faced. But the truth is, it’s a change we have to inculcate in our education mindset.” Ajay Sharma, principal of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Jhande village, said, “The screen time for the students is over 5-6 hours and we give 10 minutes break in between lectures and an hour and half for lunch time. The college session starts at 9.30am and ends at 2.15pm, those who do not attend classes are penalised. I feel that there should be government regulations to fix screen time for adults as well. In college, we do not make any adjustments when the professor is on leave.” According to Dr Sumeet Chopra, professor and head of ophthalmology department at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), suggests along with precautionary measures to keep Covid-19 infection at bay, now is a time to stress the need to washing hands before wearing contact lens, as it could aggravate already infection-prone eyes due to long screen exposure. Dr Priyanka Arora, associate professor, ophthalmology department at DMCH said schools at home has forced many children to sit in front of computers for hours together, causing strain on eyes and resulting in dryness irritation, redness, watering and even headaches. She advises to avoid rubbing eyes. “If one feels an urge to itch or rub eyes or even adjust glasses, use a tissue instead of your fingers. Before administering eye medicine, wash hands first with soap and water for at least 20 seconds,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/experts-tell-students-to-limit-unnecessary-screen-time-to-ace-schools-at-home/articleshow/77966387.cms||Mehak Jain
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||House expected to discuss Covid, GST & Srisailam blaze||Hyderabad: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the monsoon session of the assembly will commence from Monday with the House expected to discuss developmental activities in Greater Hyderabad, implementation of welfare schemes, measures taken to contain the spread of coronavirus, GST compensation due from the central government and the fire accident at Srisailam power plant among other issues. The House would take up discussion on projects implemented in GHMC limits in the last six years adding to the brand image of Hyderabad as a global city. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to announce new developmental projects in Greater Hyderabad ahead of the civic elections. The new Revenue Bill is likely to be tabled in the assembly on Wednesday. The CM has directed officials to incorporate stringent provisions in the new Act that would make revenue department officials “think twice” before indulging in corrupt activities. Necessary changes would be made in the service rules of the revenue employees in this regard. The chief minister is strongly in favour of downsizing staff in the revenue department and shifting them to other departments. KCR has already dropped indications that, if necessary, the government would abolish the village revenue officer (VRO) system as part of the proposed Revenue Act. Telangana VROs’ Welfare Association president Satish said all stakeholders should be consulted before bringing the new Act. “To say that the revenue department is corrupt is like generalising all employees as corrupt. A majority of the employees are honest and they should not be labelled as corrupt. And is there any department which does not have corruption cases against its staff,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/house-expected-to-discuss-covid-gst-srisailam-blaze/articleshow/77967311.cms||Roushan Ali
September 7, 2020||Patna||Attack on ASI: All accused still at large||Patna: Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma on Sunday said all those involved in attacking assistant sub-inspector Ashutosh Kumar Rai (53) have been identified with the help of a video which was recorded by a local from the terrace of a multi-story building at R-Block. Rai was thrashed and shot at when a police team chasing bootleggers came under attack on railway tracks behind P & T Club near R-Block on Saturday morning. A liquor smuggler, Subodh Paswan (28), had also sustained bullet injuries. The SSP said the members of the families living in hutments just behind P & T Club, including women, who had attacked the ASI, are evading arrest. The SSP said police have identified all three youths who were seen hitting Rai in the video clip. “Raids are on to arrest them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/attack-on-asi-all-accused-still-at-large/articleshow/77967326.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Lawmakers test negative for Covid-19||Hyderabad: The reports of MLCs and MLAs who underwent tests for Covid-19 ahead of the assembly and council sessions have come back negative. Nearly 100 elected representatives, including state council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Talasani Srinivas Yadav among others have tested negative. Legislature secretary V Narasimha Charyulu said it is mandatory for everyone to produce a copy of Covid-19 negative report or show it online before entering the assembly. “All the guidelines issued by the Government of India regarding Covid-19 guidelines are being followed for conduct of council and assembly sessions. All MLCs and MLAs who got tested at the facility provided in the state assembly premises have tested negative. Several of the elected representatives are getting tests conducted in their districts and other places,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawmakers-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/77967281.cms||Roushan Ali
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC's asset cell flooded with encroachment complaints||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s asset protection cell, which has a mandate to protect government properties such as lakes, parks and other open spaces from squatters, has been flooded with complaints since its launch on July 5. The cell has received 1,859 calls so far. Of the 1,859 calls, 294 complaints were pertaining to encroachments in GHMC limits, while the remaining were from the vicinity.  As per the civic body’s data most of the encroachments were reported from areas in the IT corridor and its vicinity (76 complaints) followed by eastern part of the city (LB Nagar-68 complaints). Denizens rued that land sharks had grabbed lakes, parks, government land and open land in residential localities marked as recreational zones and green spaces. Ironically, a part of a cement-concrete road in Jubilee Hills was also encroached upon. Tin sheds were put up to encroach the road, but they were pulled down after a person reported it to the cell. A compound wall was built to illegally occupy 2,170 square yards of land in Shiekpet, while foundation and pillars were built in Kukatpally to grab 700 square yard of land marked as open space and a tin shed raised to grab 200 square yards of park land in Chandanagar. All these illegal structures were demolished last week and public spaces reclaimed by the asset cell. “Staff should stop illegal constructions in initial stages itself,” FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said. “Complainants can provide their details or give complaint anonymously by calling 1800-599-0099,” Viswajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asset-cell-flooded-with-encroachment-plaints/articleshow/77967337.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: NIMZ to receive 3 tmc fresh water from Singur reservoir||HYDERABAD: The drinking water source of Hyderabad and Sangareddy Singur reservoir and Manjeera water will now be used for industrial purposes of upcoming National Industrial and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) at Zaheerabad. The government of Telangana has proposed to allocate up to 10% of Singur’s water to NIMZ. Documents of Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, that TOI reviewed, revealed that 57.7 MLD of fresh water is required for NIMZ. “The fresh water will be sourced from the Singur reservoir located about 25 km apart. Telangana government has proposed to allocate 10% of water from Singur around 3 tmc for meeting the industrial needs of the project. The estimated requirement for NIMZ is around 1.54tmc/year for which Singur has been found adequate,” said the document. The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) has submitted an application to the irrigation and CAD department. As many as 14 NIMZ have been identified across the country, including in Prakasam and Chittoor (Andhra Pradesh), and Medak and Hyderabad Pharma City. The project side of NIMZ is located at Nyalkal of Jharasangam mandal near Zaheerabad in Sangareddy district, in an area of 12,635 acres. The project will have electrical machinery that include manufacturing of electric motors, generators, transformers, manufacturing of batteries and accumulators, manufacturing of wiring and wiring devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nimz-to-receive-3-tmc-fresh-water-from-singur-reservoir/articleshow/77967350.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 7, 2020||Trichy||SETC resumes Trichy-Chennai service after 5 months, 80% seats booked||Trichy: There is an overwhelming response from people to the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) decision to resume its long-distance bus services after five months on Monday, as around 80% of the seats have been booked in the Trichy-Chennai sector. This trend is likely to continue in the coming days as private bus operators have planned to stay away from roads till October first week demanding road tax waiver. With 99 fleets, SETC Trichy has been predominantly connecting Chennai and Bengaluru cities, while a few buses had also been running to Tirupati and Pamba. Since March 2020, the buses were not operated due to Covid-19 restrictions. As the state government permitted the SETC to resume bus services on Monday, the management started ticket reservation on Sunday. Within a few hours, people booked almost 80% of the seats in the Trichy-Chennai route. SETC sources said that they have planned to operate buses from 6 am. Sleeper bus service and airconditioned buses will not to be operated for now. Similarly, other cities except Chennai will not be connected. “The demand for Trichy-Chennai service was exceptionally good, peak hour services were filled by Sunday itself. Passengers will be allowed to occupy only 60% of the seats, we will operate buses till 11 pm,” a senior official with SETC said. A total of 13 buses will be operated initially, in case of overcrowding additional buses will be operated to Chennai, SETC said. Maintaining the Covid-19 guidelines for buses as that of the intra-district routes, passengers will be screened before boarding the buses and facemask is made mandatory. Meanwhile, private bus operators citing operational costs said that that 60% occupancy of buses will not help them to run the show. “Maintenance was not taken up in our fleets in the past five month. We have to spend at least Rs 1 lakh per bus. We hope that the government will waive road tax,” R Balakrishnan, president, Trichy Omnibus Operators Association, said. Meanwhile SETC officials said that all the districts will be connected from Trichy central bus stand and Chathiram bus stand by ensuring the standard operating procedures (SOPs). Total fleets: 99 Buses to be operated on Monday: 13 Destination: Chennai Normal seats: 43 Seats available by ensuring social distancing: 26 Timing: 6 am to 11 pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/setc-resumes-trichy-chennai-service-after-5-months-80-seats-booked/articleshow/77968289.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Pedestrians make up 30% of road accident victims in city||Hyderabad: Pedestrians amount to close to 30% of the victims of road accidents in the city. Experts say a substantial amount of pedestrian accidents occur on the accident-prone metro corridor on NH-65 road, due to lack of pedestrian infrastructure. Traffic cops in the recent past have put up barricades to prevent pedestrians from crossing the corridor on NH-65 road and to reduce the number of accidents on the stretch. A quick round of the stretch from Moosapet metro station to Miyapur metro station via NH-65 revealed pedestrians often dodge these barricades to make their way to cross the road. “The stretch is accident-prone, we see no less than five accidents every month, both fatal and non-fatal accidents. In most cases, victims escape with minor injuries,” said Chandra Sekhar, ACP (traffic) Cyberabad. The officer says pedestrians and two-wheelers are most of the victims of accidents. “Even after putting barricades on junctions, pedestrians are seen jaywalking and carelessly crossing roads. The median height is close to 3 feet, people dodge and cross the road easily even after installation of the barricades,” said a traffic cop on duty. Traffic police had recently put up a green sheet between JNTU and KPHB metro station stretch to prevent people from crossing the road through the median on the highway, however, the result was hardly fruitful. “We have earlier tried fencing the median, but people would dodge that as well,” said the officer. Road safety experts said the infrastructure is to blame. “The metro median and footpath parallel of the NH-65 corridor has been used for beautification instead of making it pedestrian-friendly, including the foot-over-bridges (FOB),” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of Indian Federation of Road Safety. He said if the height of the median if increased, it will prevent pedestrians from crossing the road. “Only limited openings can be made to cross the highway through medians, with proper zebra crossings in place. FOBs have to be made pedestrian-friendly with lift or escalators,” he added. Pedestrians hardly use FOBs, traffic cops said and added jaywalking causes maximum number of accidents. “In Miyapur junction, railings were constructed on the medians in collaboration with a private organisation, reducing accidents,” said the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pedestrians-make-up-30-of-road-accident-victims-in-city/articleshow/77967345.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 7, 2020||Patna||CPI for early seat-sharing talks in GA||Patna: The CPI’s two-day executive committee meeting concluded here on Sunday with the party insisting on early conclusion of seat-sharing exercise in the Grand Alliance (GA) so that the parties could gear up their cadres, members and sympathisers in the assembly constituencies. The party has also insisted on complete understanding on all the 243 assembly seats among the GA partners, including the three Left parties, so that direct one-to-one fight can be ensured in all the constituencies against the NDA candidates. CPI and CPI(M) have already submitted their list of seats to the RJD. The two-day state CPI executive meet, presided by the party’s senior functionary from Saharsa, Om Prakash Narayan, was held at the party headquarters here. The participants also included the party’s district secretaries. Party’s state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey also addressed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpi-for-early-seat-sharing-talks-in-ga/articleshow/77967347.cms||Abhay Singh
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of legal reforms cost Telangana top slot in EoDB rankings||HYDERABAD: The lack of performance in two areas of ‘Commercial Dispute Resolution Enablers’ reforms led to the fall in the ranking of Telangana to third spot in the fourth edition of Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) list released by the Centre on Saturday. As per the information available on the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) website, of the stipulated 187 reforms, Telangana did not perform in two areas of ‘Commercial Dispute Resolution Enablers’ which included, ensuring that at least 90% of the vacancies in specialized commercial courts are filled up and designing & implementing a system that allows publishing of e-cause lists for commercial disputes in commercial courts. There was one reform area pertaining to the state excise department, where the Centre stated that the reform was ‘not applicable’. Telangana industries and IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan pointed out that in the coming days the state government will be working in these areas by working with the stakeholders concerned such as High Court registry, law department, presiding officers and practising advocates in commercial courts and sensitising them on the importance of these items for businesses. While both Telangana and UP managed to carry out 184 of the stipulated 187 reforms, UP stole a march over Telangana perhaps because of the higher feedback score as compared to Telangana, Ranjan added. Uttar Pradesh, that came second, too faltered in two areas -- land administration and labour regulation-enablers reforms while Andhra Pradesh managed to tick all the reform boxes and retained the numero uno position. Even as Telangana plans to work towards improving its ease of doing business (EoDB) quotient, it is important to note that the state has improved to rank 3 in 2019 from rank 13 in 2015. In 2018, it lost by whisker to Andhra Pradesh, which has retained the top spot for three consecutive years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-legal-reforms-cost-t-top-slot-in-eodb-rankings/articleshow/77967321.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: In eye of Covid, assembly session set to begin today||HYDERABAD: The MLAs and MLCs were on Sunday given oral instructions to avoid gathering in large numbers during the monsoon session of the assembly, which is to begin on Monday. For the first time, the elected representatives will not be allowed to bring their personal secretaries along with them to the assembly, however, the ministers have been allowed to get their personal secretaries with them as they have to answer the questions. Contact-less sanitisers have also been put up at both Houses. The assembly session will begin with the MLAs being seated at a distance, as per the Covid-19 protocol. Sources told TOI that as the Parliament was being convened for 80 to 100 days every year, there are plans to conduct the monsoon session for at least 80 days. However, this time, the session may be held for only 20 days in view of the pandemic. “This time, the session might be conducted for 20 days, while following all precautions and with social distancing norms in place. The session will send a message to the public that things are not stagnant,” a senior political leader said. The second assembly session was conducted for 23 days in the last 19 months. As per the rules depending on the number of MLAs in the House, a minimum of 30 days of functioning in a year is required. So far, the assembly has been convened for 177 hours after the formation of Telangana state. The opposition parties have been demanding more number of days and hours in each session. “We are expecting that the assembly will see a stormy session over the pandemic,” Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-eye-of-covid-assembly-session-set-to-begin-today/articleshow/77967333.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Metro Makes Quiet Return, And It’s Not A Rush Job||New Delhi: Gurgaon resident Jatin Kathuria was quite surprised. “I didn’t expect it to be quite so empty,” he said, referring to his just concluded ride on Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line on Monday, the first train service since March. Kathuria runs a shop in Chandni Chowk and for the past few months since the Covid-19 restrictions were relaxed, has been driving every day to his shop and back. Recalling the endless hours caught in traffic jams, which he says have become usual again, the businessman smiled, “After so many weeks, I had a peaceful journey to work. Driving from Gurgaon to north Delhi is never easy and it takes a chunk of your day.”Peaceful, cheaper, faster, reliable — these were some of the adjectives used by commuters travelling on the first day of resumption of Delhi Metro services. While only the Yellow Line functioned on Monday, the train network will open up in a phased manner until September 12. Just 15,500 people took the Delhi Metro on its resumption day.Commuting long distances and paying high cab fares had burdened many daily travellers these past few months. On Monday, office-goers and daily-wage earners finally had the cheaper travel option. TOI also bumped into students going to Delhi University’s North Campus and others who found the gap between Gurgaon and many parts of Delhi suddenly bridged to their relief.Shivanand, 21, a software engineer residing at IFFCO Chowk in Gurgaon and working at Krishi Bhawan was one of the relieved people. “I was spending Rs 800 on travel every day. Today, one-way, it cost me just Rs 45,” he said.For many others, the time saved was a bonus. Dr Mohammad Shafi Azam (37) took the train to his work at Bara Hindu Rao Hospital. He travelled the Hauz Khas-Kashmere Gate section and then took a 10-minute autorickshaw ride. “I decided to give it a shot and hoped that the train would not be crowded in the morning hours. I saved a lot of time,” he said brightly.The passengers, unsure initially of how the crowd control would be enforced, were pleasantly surprised to see the thin crowd. “I had read about the various restrictions and how each coach would have a limited number of seats. I can now see that with fewer people, it is easy for everyone to observe social distancing,” said Yogesh Gujjar, a 25-year-old student going to GTB Nagar.For 27-year-old Dhriti, the Delhi Metro ride had never been so comfortable. “I was confused about whether I should travel by the metro because I know how crowded it can be, especially on Mondays. Now I won’t think twice about taking the train,” the private company consultant said. “Of course, the moment the coaches start getting crowded, my parents will ask me to start taking a costly taxi instead.”Seema, however, wasn’t aware that not all the metro services had resumed. Having ridden to Huda City Centre to pick up her daughter from a relative’s house in Gurgaon, the Usmanpur factory worker hadn’t reckoned that she would need to make other travel arrangements because the Blue Line corridor to her home in Janakpuri was still closed on Monday. “Had I known that all lines weren’t open, I would have waited a few more days,” said Seema. Mukesh Kumar, too, had a similar grouse. “I live near Badarpur, so I will have to get down at AIIMS before taking a bus home,” said Kumar, who works at Udyog Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-makes-quiet-return-and-its-not-a-rush-job/articleshow/77986295.cms||Jasjeev Singh
September 7, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC officials wary of false -ve patients||Kolhapur: The civic and health authorities are now worried about the spread of coronavirus by patients who test false negative via antigen tests. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the district health officials have found that many people who test negative after the antigen tests go on to test positive after RT-PCR tests. However, till the time the results for the RT-PCR tests come out, such false-negative patients have the potential to infect their family members, relatives, neighbours and contacts. The officials said they recommend mandatory for false-negative patients to stay isolated at home for a few days and keep an eye out for symptoms that may develop later. However, it has been observed that often such false negative patients become careless and approach doctors only when they develop hypoxia. They usually approach the local private hospitals first for treatment. Mallinath Kalshetti, the municipal commissioner, said: “Usually, we advise the high-risk contacts to stay at home even after they have undergone antigen testing. Those with symptoms and those who test positive are taken for treatment. We have decided to enforce strict isolation for the other contacts. They will be fined if they are found roaming outside their homes. ” It is difficult to monitor the movements and keep the high-risk contacts under strict isolation. One local ward committee member said they are not provided with the details of persons undergoing rapid antigen tests and testing negative. The market's vendors had undergone antigen tests. Many who had first tested negative, later test positive. However, until they develop symptoms, they continue with their daily routine and become super spreaders. Every day, around 300 to 400 rapid antigen tests are performed and around 60-80 persons test positive. Kalshetti said the administration is going to increase the confirmatory testings by RT-PCR in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-officials-wary-of-false-ve-patients/articleshow/77965514.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur administration for inclusion of 22 private hospitals under MPJAY||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has sought inclusion of 22 private hospitals acquired for treating Covid-19 patients under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY). The inclusion of these hospitals will ensure patients are treated free of cost irrespective of their economic status. Earlier, the scheme was meant only for treating poor patients. However, the state government has approved covering all the citizens under this scheme and provide free treatment. Currently, the private hospitals are charging as per the treatment cost capped by the state government. The TOI has accessed the letter written by district collector Daulat Desai to the chief executive officer of MPJAY on September 3. In the letter, Desai has claimed that the list of the private hospitals have been prepared only after the hospitals agreed to be empanelled in the scheme. Some of these hospitals were de-empanelled by the MPJAY authorities earlier for alleged irregularities. Out of the 22 hospitals suggested for inclusion in the scheme, 20 are from Kolhapur city and two are from Jaysingpur town. Currently, there are 37 private hospitals acquired by the district administration for treating Covid patients. However, only few are included in the scheme. Out of the Rs 4.05 crore claims filled by private hospitals for treating Covid patients under the MPJAY, claim amount of only Rs 1.79 crore have been approved between April 1 to August 30. Out of the 133 claims submitted, claims of just 52 Covid cases have been approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-admin-for-inclusion-of-22-pvt-hospitals-under-mpjay/articleshow/77965524.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Back in demand, autos bridge the gap; e-rick drivers heave a sigh of relief too||New Delhi: The one entry and exit at Delhi Metro stations that were open on Monday saw a semblance of the usual hustle and bustle one associates with such a point. After months, autorickshaws and e-rickshaws also got a chance to earn a bit while providing the metro riders the last link between station and destination.“After having to search for passengers across the city, we came to an understanding among ourselves on Monday that each of us would get sufficient customers,” said auto driver Rajinder Singh at Rajiv Chowk. Most did adequate business. With only the Yellow line resuming services, autos were the automatic choice for those who needed to travel further. Monu Kumar, for instance, took an auto from Rajiv Chowk to Noida when he would have normally changed to the Blue Line. “I came from Chhatarpur and now an auto ride will take me to my destination. A combination of the metro and an auto is cheaper and faster,” said Kumar.Harinder Verma, who works at Rajendra Place, said he too would have changed trains to directly reach his workplace, but with only the Yellow corridor running, the auto bridged the last-mile gap. “As more lines open up, there will be more takers for the train and the autos and taxis,” said Verma.Hari, 32, brough his e-rickshaw back to Kashmere Gate station on Monday after scouring other areas in the past few months. “Many people will ride my e-rickshaw, and it is good for everyone involved that the metro is running again,” he added.Lawyer Garima Verma would agree. Running late for a client meeting and fearful of the usual choked traffic, she took the metro, taking care to book a cab from Rajiv Chowk to her client’s in advance. “I was surprised to see so many autos outside the station, but I had booked a taxi. I now know I have the option of autos,” Verma smiled.This uncertainty over autos being available seemed to have spurred people to either arrange cars or taxis to pick them up. Auto drivers at Hauz Khas station were especially peeved. “When the metro train wasn’t running, I got passengers for Chhatarpur, Karol Bagh and other places. Some paid us extra to wait a while and bring them back after their work,” said auto driver Ganesh Kumar. “But now that Delhi Metro is running, I have had lengthy waits here and have earned only Rs 450.”Dev Narayan had the same plaint. “People were booking autos on their mobile application, and I am not on the app. It’s 6pm and I have only taken in Rs 350 today,” said Narayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-in-demand-autos-bridge-the-gap-e-rick-drivers-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-too/articleshow/77986299.cms||Jasjeev Singh
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dhanvantari Raths cross treatment milestone||Ahmedabad: Dhanvantari Raths or mobile medical vans providing healthcare on people’s doorsteps in Ahmedabad have crossed an important milestone — providing treatment to over a million people. The raths have played a vital role in the war against the coronavirus. The service began with 40 vehicles covering 160 sites. Now it has 123 vehicles and covers 450 sites. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the forest and environment department who is in charge of the anti-Covid mission in Ahmedabad, said that the service takes healthcare to people’s homes. The raths rolled out across the city on May 15. Each vehicle consists of a doctor and a paramedic. Soon after the introduction of the raths, more than 1,50,000 people approached them for treatment. Of the total cases, about 32% related to cough and cold and 10% were associated with fever. This month, about a million people have been treated by the raths. Patients suffering from cough and cold were just 6% and those with fever were 2.62%. Gupta said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had exhorted all cities in the country to replicate the Dhanvantari Rath model. Gupta said that more than 40 cities are in the initial stages of offering a similar service. NITI Aayog and the World Health Organization have also urged other states to get on board the rath model. Dhanvantari Raths are stocked with medicines, have devices to check blood pressure and blood glucose levels, and carry pulse oximeters and rapid antigen test kits. The raths also proactively identify Covid patients. Gupta said that initially it was planned that a rath would be stationed for 2 hours at one location and would cover four locations in an eight-hour shift. However, after considering the initiative’s benefits to the general public, the government and the AMC gradually increased the number of raths and the locations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dhanvantari-raths-cross-treatment-milestone/articleshow/77968297.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Another Covid vaccine trial to start in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences here will be hosting the Phase 1 trial of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin which is to be administered through the intradermal route. Recruitment process for the trials will start from Tuesday. With this, Nagpur is now hosting human trials of three vaccines for Covid-19. Another version of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is already under clinical trials at Dr Gillurkar’s hospital. It is being administered through the intramuscular route in which the vaccine is injected into the muscles. In Meditrina institute, the vaccine will be administered via the intradermal route — injected into the dermis which is the layer beneath the outer layer of skin (epidermis). Dr Anand Rathi, who is heading this clinical trial at Meditrina Institute, told TOI that initially 20 healthy volunteers will be recruited. Health care workers will not be enrolled for the trial. “Generally, infants are administered BCG and other vaccines via the intradermal route,”said Dr Rathi. According to the World Health Organisation, intradermal technique is ‘dose-sparing’, meaning it consumes less vaccine than the intramuscular delivery method. This technique reduces per-injection cost of vaccines and is also found to be more effective in inducing an immune response. Nagpur is now hosting three Covid-19 vaccine human trials. The Bharat biotech/ICMR’s Covaxin (intramascular) trial has already entered Phase 2 at Dr Gillukar’s hospital. The Serum Institute of India’s Covishield will be tried in two institutes in Vidarbha — GMCH Nagpur and MGIMS Sevagram. Now, Covaxin (intradermal) will be tried on healthy patients in Meditrina Institute. Initially, the vaccine will be administered to the eligible participants and their tests will be conducted on 14th, 28th and 42nd days, respectively. Their immune response and vital health parameters will be checked. Vaccine’s safety, effectivity and other parameters will be tested in the next 42 days. The trial will be conducted at 12 centres across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-covid-vaccine-trial-to-start-in-nagpur/articleshow/77955883.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||After banker & a woman, now a cop jumps to his death from Covid hosp in Moradabad||Bareilly: Days after a Covid-19 positive banker and then a woman jumped to their deaths from a corona hospital in UP's Moradabad, a 52-year-old head constable has now allegedly killed himself by jumping out from the same building on Saturday night. The incident was reportedly caught on CCTV where the Covid positive cop, who was earlier posted at a complaint cell of Moradabad SSP's office, could be seen lunging from a fifth floor window of the Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College and Research Centre (TMU) in an attempt to jump out. According to police, the constable had Covid-like symptoms last month. He was admitted to the TMU's corona ward on September 4 after being diagnosed with the deadly virus and the hospital authorities informed that he was under a "lot of stress and even had arguments with the hospital staff". On Sunday, Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary told TOI, “The incident came to light around 11pm on Saturday. The head constable had allegedly jumped from the fifth floor and died. His body has been sent for postmortem and a report is awaited. Prima facie, it is a case of suicide.” The cop was a native of Badaun, but was living in Hanuman Nagar under Majhola police station in Moradabad. His family lives in Subhash Nagar area of Bareilly. “It is worrying that suicide cases of Covid-19 positive patients are being reported from TMU. We are scanning the CCTV footage. A separate magisterial inquiry has been ordered to probe this matter,” the SSP added. The university has been served a notice under section 149 of CrPC to ensure prevention of cognizable offence in future and ensure proper monitoring, according to police. Nodal officer of Covid-19 care centre in Moradabad Dr VK Singh said, “The head constable, who was admitted to the Covid facility here on September 4, was suffering from stress. He had even indulged in scuffles and arguments with the hospital staff and was given counselling by doctors. However, it is unfortunate that he decided to end his life despite the best efforts being made by the hospital staff." "As a precautionary measure, windows will now have iron grills for better security of patients. So far, over 2,600 Covid positive patients from Bijnor, Moradabad, Sambhal, Rampur and Amroha districts have been administered treatment at the L-3 Covid centre of TMU. Of these, as many as 2,200 patients have successfully recovered and discharged,” Singh added. Saturday night's incident is the third such case at TMU within a month. About 10 days ago, a 42-year-old banker had jumped from the sixth floor of the TMU's Covid ward and died. Earlier in August, a woman, 28, had killed herself after she fell from the second floor of the same hospital in an apparent bid to escape from the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-banker-a-woman-now-a-cop-jumps-to-his-death-from-covid-hosp-in-moradabad/articleshow/77965542.cms||Maria Khan
September 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Special train between Parbhani and Hyderabad||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced a special train between Parbhani and Hyderabad from September 12, an official release said on Sunday. Meanwhile, railway activists have demanded more trains passing from Marathwada amid unlocking during the current pandemic. As per official release, the new special train Parbhani-Hyderabad, (No. 07564) will depart from Parbhani at 10.30 pm every day and is scheduled to reach Hyderabad via Nanded on the next day at 6.45 am. The Hyderabad-Parbhani train (07563) will leave from Hyderabad every day on 10.45 pm and expected to reach at the destination via Nizamabad at 6.30 am. The special train will have 15 coaches and will stop at Purna, Nanded, Mudkhed, Nizamabad, Kamareddy and Secunderabad in both the directions. Meanwhile, railway activist Raj Somani said the SCR has allotted only one train for the Nanded division, while declaring total 12 special trains. “We were expecting the start of DEMU train from Jalna to Nagarsol, but no attention was paid towards our demand. The DEMU train would have been highly useful for the working class people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/special-train-between-parbhani-and-hyderabad/articleshow/77965536.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||Munger varsity to start new courses||Patna: Keeping in tune with the provisions of the National Education Policy, 2020 Munger University has decided to sign as many as five MoUs with some research laboratories, institutions and professional bodies for awarding academic credit to students, facilitating exchange of students and faculty members and bringing in the much-desired flexibility in curricula both at undergraduate and postgraduate stages. This decision was taken at a meeting of the syndicate held at Munger on Saturday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma. Verma said the one-year PG diploma course in fragrance and aroma technology would be started shortly in partnership with the government-owned Fragrance and Flavour Development Centre at Kannauj. Similarly, a diploma course in fisheries and aquaculture would be launched in collaboration with the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore (Kolkata) with a view to training university students in augmenting the production of more nutritious fishes in a vast stretch of Mokamah Tal area. Study materials on ‘family management’ are to be developed soon by the university in collaboration with the Delhi Centre of UGC-MOOCs (massive open online courses), Verma said.. The syndicate also decided to allocate an initial grant of Rs 10 lakh for establishing Electronic Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC) which will facilitate production, editing and quality control of the e-learning materials. It also approved a plan for the establishment of a Rs 1.36 crore Rajendra Amphitheatre on the university campus, the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/munger-varsity-to-start-new-courses/articleshow/77967356.cms||B K Mishra
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 10K cases for 12th day in a row||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,794 new Covid-19 cases and 70 deaths on Sunday as health authorities said they are worried about the rising count. The Covid-19 tally in the state stood at 4,98,125 and the toll rose to 4,417, even as 11,915 patients were declared cured on Sunday, outnumbering the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. There are currently 99,689 active cases in the state with 3,94,019 cumulative recoveries and 4,417 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 79%, exceeding the national average recovery rate of 77%. Bihar achieved an 88% recovery rate, the highest among all union territories and states. The state tested 72,573 Covid-19 samples, the highest single-day test total, on Sunday to detect the 10,794 fresh cases. The state so far conducted 41.07 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 12%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-10k-cases-for-12th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77967358.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Covid toll reaches 3,100, last 100 in a week||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday added 1,335 positive cases, taking the total to 1.04 lakh. It was the highest single-day tally for the state and sixth consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases. The new cases include 295 from Surat — one of the daily highest tally in recent times. 173 from Ahmedabad, 151 from Rajkot, 127 from Vadodara and 114 from Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 860 or 64.4% of the daily cases. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad (32,609), Surat (22,252), Vadodara (8,937) and 5,664 in Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the total to 3,108, crossing 3,100 deaths. Analysis of the deaths reveal that the last 100 deaths had taken place in seven days, compared to the previous 100 deaths in six. The new deaths in Gujarat include five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, and one each from Rajkot, Vadodara, Morbi, Kutch, Gir Somnath and Gandhinagar. Death toll for Ahmedabad (1,734) Surat (656) Vadodara (140 ) and Rajkot 102. A total of 1,212 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 84,758. The discharges include 303 from Surat, 176 from Vadodara, 109 from Jamnagar, 94 from Rajkot, and 77 from Ahmedabad With the update, the number of active cases rose to 16,475, which accounts for 15.8% of the total positive cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 81.2% and 3% respectively. Gujarat carried out 72,561 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 27.8 lakh. The state health department claimed that the number is 1116 tests per day per million population. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 7.35 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 2,162 are in facility quarantine, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-covid-toll-reaches-3100-last-100-in-a-week/articleshow/77968301.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bhopal||‘Unlocked’, Bhopalis head for dams, lakes to unwind||Bhopal: After months of Sunday lockdown, when this Sunday, there was no lockdown, the city residents showed appreciable restraint, not overcrowding markets or popular hangouts where Bhopalis go for unwinding during weekends or holidays. A crowd had started assembling near the reservoirs like Kerwa or Kaliasot towards the evening, after light showers cooled the climate, but it was still quite manageable. There were some policemen at the junction between Kerwa and Kaliasot reservoirs, but they were sitting quietly, allowing people in cars and two-wheeler, mostly youngsters, to pass. At other places, where the police, pethaps, anticipated crowd like ‘Sair Sapata’, police pickets were placed to control the movement of vehicles. However, there were not too many vehicles on the roads. Even at Kerwa, where there was perhaps the maximum turnout of people for Sunday outing, the crowd was largely limited to the banks of the reservoir and not spread across the cafes, restaurants and hotels in the vicinity. Markets had normal presence of people and not like pre-lockdown Sundays when people thronged the New Market not only because of Sunday being a holiday, but also because the biggest market of New Bhopal normally remains closed on Monday and markets from Shivaji Nagar to Trilanga remain closed on Tuesday. Even Bairagarh wholesale market, which attracts buyers from among retailers and consumers, was not crowded. “People are not coming to buy things as of now unless it’s absolutely essential. Not only because of Covid-19 protocol, but also because of financial constraints that every section of society is facing. If somebody thought that people would come in hordes to the market in absence of Sunday lockdown, he is mistaken,” said the owner of a wholesale ‘saree bhandhar’ in Bairagarh. Shops, where workers appeared to be “extra busy” compared to other post-lockdown days, were car washing centres and two-wheeler repair centres. Barber shops and hair salons, which were facing a double whammy due to people abstaining from coming to their shops in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and Sunday lockdown, were also happy at the lifting of Sunday lockdown. A number of bars, particularly in big hotels, started operation either from Saturday or Sunday. And, the first thing the staff engaged in was to empty the beer bottles, which after more than five months of lockdown were no longer fit for consumption. Consequently, they were not able to serve chilled beer to their customers on Sunday. Roadside vendors were also a happy lot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unlocked-bhopalis-head-for-dams-lakes-to-unwind/articleshow/77968315.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 7, 2020||Goa||Govt paying lip service to ease of doing business: Goa Inc||Panaji: Reacting to Goa’s dismal performance in the Centre’s ease of doing business rankings where the state slipped five spots to 24, industry stakeholders said the state’s efforts to bring in reforms remain only on paper. One of the biggest pain points remains the practice of sending files for clearance to the minister or chairman. “At the end, every minister wants files to come to them. The dealing hand who receives the files has a job to do, but he sends every file to the minister which takes a long time,” Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chairman Blaise Costabir said. Costabir has called for training and capacity building for government staff, particularly Goa Industrial Development Corporation. From No. 19 in 2018, Goa slipped five places in the fourth edition of the business reform action plan (BRAP) ranking of states, as it failed to bring in much needed industry reforms. “This is an alarming sign for Goa’s industrial scenario,” said president of Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) Damodar Kochkar. “I have been screaming from day one of my taking over as president that we need ease of doing business in the real sense.” The department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) identified 187 reforms which states had to implement but instead of seeking compliance documents from different departments, this time around feedback was sought from local industry stakeholders. Industry stakeholders said that despite the rule changes or notifications brought in by the state government, very little has changed for the private sector on ground. Highlighting the overnight transfer of a 2.4 lakh sqm industrial plot from Meta Strips to logistics firm Varama Sir India, Costabir said that when required, government departments can function very efficiently. “The Meta Strips plot was transferred in a day, illegally and when the election code was in place. That means it is possible for the state to do things fast and Goa should be number one and not 24 in ease of doing business,” Costabir said. Earlier this year, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, GSIA and other industrial bodies had clearly said that the government appears to be ignoring the private sector’s concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-paying-lip-service-to-ease-of-doing-business-goa-inc/articleshow/77968338.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Swachhta goes downhill: Kolhapur city’s rank drops to 30||Kolhapur: Kolhapur city’s ranking among clean cities in India dropped down from 16 to 30 this year. The drop in the city’s ranking has been attributed to the failure of civic administration in ensuring 100% collection of garbage directly from households.Last year, Kolhapur ranked 16 in the list of cleanest cities in India. This year, its rank slipped to 30. Corporators of the Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) have slammed the civic authorities for the poor performance. The city which was earlier infamous with respect to sanitation was applauded by activists, experts and public representatives when it reached the 16th position as against 177 rank in 2018.Senior corporator of KMC Sharangdhar Deshmukh said, “Last year, 100% collection of waste from households was achieved in some wards. However, a year down the line, garbage bins have again come up in these wards as door-to-door waste collection has been hampered. We have demanded more vehicles and sanitation staff to be deployed on ground for 100% collection of waste.”A team of officials appointed by the central government had surveyed the city earlier this year. A senior official said that the team came across garbage bins in some wards, resulting in poor ranking of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/swachhta-goes-downhill-kolhapur-citys-rank-drops-to-30/articleshow/77965545.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer booked for reselling same land||VADODARA: A farmer was booked for selling his agricultural land in Karjan to a woman from Surat after taking money from another farmer for the same land and giving him a bill of sale. Complainant Mukesh Patel told police that the accused, Naresh Patel, had planned to sell his land at Fatehpura village in Karjan taluka in 2015. As Mukesh was interested, Naresh agreed to sell the land to him for Rs 1.5 lakh. On October 5 in 2015, Mukesh paid Rs 11,000 to Naresh, and after the bill of sale was notarized, he paid the remaining Rs 1.4 lakh. Since the ownership was in Naresh’s late mother’s name, it was decided to complete the sale deed process after the ownership was transferred to Naresh. After completing the ownership procedures, Naresh, in April 2016, sold the same land to a woman in Surat and even did the sale deed. When Mukesh learnt about it, he asked Naresh to return his money. But when Naresh did not give the money back, Mukesh filed a civil suit against him. Meanwhile, the duo tried settling the issue through talks. Since they did not reach a settlement Mukesh lodged a complaint of cheating at Karjan police station on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-booked-for-reselling-same-land/articleshow/77965791.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai dist authorities extend helping hand to girl, mom with learning difficulties||Trichy: The Pudukottai district authorities extended aid to a 17-year-old girl living with her mother, who has learning difficulties. Living in a house with thatched roof near Poramvadakipatti village in Perungalur, R Sathya, who just finished her Class XII, was waiting for college admission. While her elder sister got married four years ago, she lost her father last year, who was the only bread winner for the family. With no support from her rlelatives, the girl was looking after her mother. When the Pudukottai district superintendent of police, L Balaji Saravanan, found out about the girl, he met the family a couple of days ago and assured all help. He took up responsibility of her studies and offered cash assistance. “Sathya told me that she wants to become a government officer. It was good to see that despite facing all adversaries, Sathya is optimistic towards life,” said the SP. Meanwhile, the district administration, too, pitched in to get the family, patta for free land and officials have assured to get the duo a house built on the land. Officials from the district mental health program visited the family and gave counselling to both Santhya and her mother. Project officer R Karthik Deivanayagam, said that that the family has been given care that includes getting them patta land, arrangements for higher education and civil service training. Sathya said that she has been receiving calls for the last two days from various people offering help. It has given her hope for a better future and she wants to give back to the society in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-dist-authorities-extend-helping-hand-to-girl-mom-with-learning-difficulties/articleshow/77968333.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Now, NCB questions Rhea Chakraborty for over 6 hours||MUMBAI: Actor Rhea Chakraborty was questioned for six-and-a-half hours on Sunday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drug case linked to her late boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She will be summoned again on Monday for questioning, said an NCB officer. In another development, the NDPS court sent Chembur resident Dipesh Sawant (25), Rajput’s house manager who has been arrested in the drug case, to NCB custody till September 9. On Sunday, the NCB also carried out a raid in Khar and seized banned narcotics. M A Jain, NCB deputy director, told mediapersons that in the raid, they seized 590gm of hashish, 0.6gm of LSD sheets, 304gm of marijuana, including imported joints and capsules, over Rs 1.9 lakh cash and 5,000 Indonesian Rupiah. The seizure came after the NCB questioned Anuj Keshwani. “His name had come up during the interrogation of Kaizan Ebrahim. The quantity of LSD that has been recovered is commercial quantity under the NDPS Act,” said Jain. NCB sources said that Ebrahim had disclosed that Keshwani was his supplier for the contraband. When asked about Rhea’s questioning and the outcome, Jain did not comment on it. In the morning, Sameer Wankhede, NCB joint director, and other officers served a summon to Rhea at her Santacruz residence asking her to join the investigation. She arrived at 12pm at the NCB office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai. Sources said that she was quizzed based on the findings from the interrogation of the arrested accused, including her brother Showik, about the supply of drugs and whether she ever consumed it. The NCB has so far arrested eight people—Abbas Lakhani, Karan Arora, Zaid Vilatra, Basit Parihar, Ebrahim, Samuel Miranda, Showik and Sawant. Sawant, in his ‘voluntary statement’ given to NCB, said that on March 17, as per Showik’s instructions, he went with Miranda to receive the delivery of 0.5gm doob/ganja/cannabis at Bandra from Viltara. The remand application, signed by intelligence officer K Kiran Babu, filed in the court while seeking Sawant’s custody till September 9, stated: “On April 17, Rhea and her brother Showik ordered him [Sawant] to receive a delivery of 10gm charas from Kaizan Ebrahim near Mount Blanc building [Rajput’s building]. Through WhatsApp chat on May 1, Showik asked him to receive ganja from one Dwayne and also shared with him his contact number. On May 2, he also received 50gm charas from Dwayne. In the first week of June, he received 100gm ganja from a delivery boy of Rishikesh Pawar.” The remand paper further read, “Therefore it is clear from his statement and the electronic evidence gathered by NCB that he is an active member of a drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers.” Rhea’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, issued a statement on her behalf, which said: “Rhea is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar Police now with CBI, ED and NCB.” In a related development, the CBI questioned Meetu Singh, Rajput’s sister, on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-ncb-questions-rhea-for-over-6-hours/articleshow/77968602.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 in Kochi: More guest workers testing positive a cause for concern||KOCHI: With nearly 400 guest workers testing positive for Covid-19 in the district, authorities are now focusing on containing disease spread as more relaxations in interstate movement have been introduced. Moreover, the living conditions of guest workers is also a cause for concern for authorities as one case can spread the infection like a wildfire. “Our current concern is infection among guest workers. However, our only consolation is that none of the infected people has turned serious. We have asked authorities to check the camps where the guest workers stay. If anyone is found symptomatic, the camp will be closed. Movement of them will be allowed only when the infection is contained. Most of the cases among the workers have been reported from a company in Payipra. Cases were also reported from Thrikkakara and Aluva. Infection among them will increase further as more workers are coming from other states as the movement restrictions have been lifted,” said Dr Mathew Numpeli, NHM district coordinator. Meanwhile, agents and contractors who have been asked to identify buildings to place guest workers coming from other states under quarantine, have been approaching health authorities to do antigen testing among the workers. In Vazhakulam panchayat near Perumbavoor, where Bengal Colony is situated, agents took buildings on lease to place workers on quarantine. “Though the workers are quarantined in buildings, it does not have adequate facilities like an attached bathroom. It is impossible to implement room quarantine here and they use common toilets. Health workers cannot go to the colony without wearing PPE kits. Workers from neighbouring local bodies are also undergoing quarantine in these buildings. Once the quarantine period is over, they go to the respective panchayats where they used to stay before. Though the agents asked us about conducting antigen testing on the workers, the expense should be met by themselves,” said Vipin P S, health inspector in Vazhakulam. As there are no direct train services from north eastern states, guest workers, desperate to get a job, are coming back to the state through flights facing lots of hardships on the way. “More than 60% of passengers on the flight from Bengaluru to Kochi last Friday were guest workers from West Bengal. Guest workers from North Indian and northeastern states travel to Kerala through connecting flights and do not have means to buy food from airport eateries as they are expensive. Workers told me they were desperate to get jobs to make ends meet,” said Vishnu Narendran, co-founder of centre for migration and inclusive development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-guest-workers-testingpositive-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/77967429.cms||T C Sreemol
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||NTCA proposes translocation of tigers||Hyderabad: The National Tiger Conservation Authority member and additional director general of Project Tiger, SP Yadav, has proposed inter-state relocation of tigers for increasing the population of the big cat in areas where the numbers are meek. Yadav wrote in the latest issue of NTCA’s inhouse newsletter Stripes that as part of the conservation of tigers, relocation process needs to be taken up. He said that two major tiger reserves Amrabad in Telangana and Nagarjuna Srisailam in Andhra Pradesh have been identified as having low density of tigers. These reserves will benefit from the relocation move. “Low density of tigers has been identified in may tiger reserves. In some reserves, there are also pockets of low density, for example in Buxa, Dampa, Achanakmar, Palamau, Udanti-Sitanadi, NSTR, Amrabad, Dandeli-Anshi, Sanjay-Dubri, Satpuda, Namdhapa, Dibang, Similipal and Satkosia tiger reserve. If enough in situ prey population is seen in these areas, tigers may be translocated here,” Yadav wrote. He also pointed out that several tiger reserves across the country are infested with massive invasive alien species. “These species have encroached upon prime grassland in the reserves. By effectively managing such areas, grasslands can be restored which in turn will be able to accommodate more herbivores and tigers. Yadav also said that NTCA has plans to bring more areas under Project Tiger by notifying them as tiger reserves. He observed that poaching remains the biggest threat to tiger conservation till date. “There should be mandatory annual security audit of all tiger reserves. This will immensely help in improving the protection regime and to fix the loopholes and gaps,” wrote Yadav. Plans to augment use of technology to track tigers, identify intruders, virtual fencing and sensors to detect animal/poacher movement are also being considered, according to the additional director general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ntca-proposes-translocation-of-tigers/articleshow/77967422.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 7, 2020||Trichy||Balasubramoniam, SZCC director, dead||Thanjavur: Director of South Zone Cultural Centre (SZCC), Thanjavur, M Balasubramoniam, 63, passed away on Sunday. A multi-faceted personality, he was a Carnatic musician, mridangam player and recipient of several awards including the coveted Raghuvara Puraskar. A member of the Central Advisory Board on Culture and former principal of Chembai Government Music College and RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, Tripunithura in Kerala, Balasubramoniam had accompanied eminent musicians including Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer for concerts. He was appointed director of South Zone Cultural Centre by the ministry of culture on September 13, 2018. He was the head of the centre’s cultural activities in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and the union territories of Andaman and Nicobar, Lakshadeep, and Puducherry which come under its purview. He was admitted to Government medical college hospital in Thanjavur on September 2 after developing breathing difficulties. His body was cremated at the Thanjavur city corporation crematorium. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who is also chairman of the centre, expressed shock and grief at the sudden demise of the musician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/balasubramoniam-szcc-director-dead/articleshow/77968330.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police nab 4 who stole bank locker containing Rs 7.2 lakh cash||Aurangabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of the Jalna police on Sunday nabbed four suspects within 24 hours of them stealing a bank locker — which contained Rs 7.28 lakh cash meant for disbursal among the beneficiaries of PM Kisan Sanman Yojana — of a cooperative bank in Panewadi in Jalna district.Police have deployed several teams to find the key suspect who has been on the run since the arrest of the four suspects. Unidentified suspects had committed the heist sometime in the wee hours of Saturday, following which a case was registered at the Ghansavangi police station. Jalna superintendent of police (SP) S Chaitanya said the suspects were criminals on record and there was a possibility of detecting some more property offences after interrogation. The suspects were produced before a court which remanded them in police custody for four days. According tothe police, the suspects stole a jeep from Shrikrushnagar for the bank burglary. The suspects had also stolen the digital video recorder (DVR) of the CCTV cameras installed at the bank. After breaking the locker, the suspects disposed it in a water-filled quarry in the vicinity of Dwarkadasnagar. SP Chaitanya said, “Our team has managed to recover Rs 1.44 lakh. We have also recovered a bike and a television set that the suspects had purchased with the money from the locker.” Preliminary probe has revealed that the same suspects had previously attempted to burgle the bank but had failed. “The bank does not have a security guard. It solely relies on the CCTV cameras for security,” said LCB inspector Rajendersingh Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-nab-4-who-stole-bank-locker-containing-rs-7-2-lakh-cash/articleshow/77965567.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 7, 2020||Bhopal||Ensure adequate relief to flood-hit: CM tells officials||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday asked the officials to ensure adequate compensation to people affected by floods in the state. Reviewing the flood situation in the state at his residence on Sunday, Chouhan observed there was extensive damage to property during the recent floods.He said residents whose houses were damaged in the floods must be compensated under provisions of RBC (revenue book code) and MNREGA to restore the house. Under section 6/4 of RBC and MNREGA, Rs1.32 lakh can be provided to them— Rs 1 lakh from RCB, Rs 20,000 thousand from MNREGA and an additional Rs12,000 for construction of toilet in the house.Similarly, those who have lost their cattle sheds, Rs 70,000 to Rs1 lakh can be provided (Rs 70,000 for upto five cattle and Rs 1 lakh for 10 cattle and above).Additional chief secretary, Manoj Shrivastava, said an amount of Rs 3.80 lakh can also be provided under MNREGA for restoration of fields.Chief minister further said that work for an additional 50 days be provided to people in flood-affected areas besides the 100 mandatory days. He further asked for restoration of public property in affected areas.He asked the district administration concerned to provide all help to people to restore their houses and property.He further said that loan to women self-help groups should be provided at 4% interest. They have done commendable work in making masks and PPE kits and market linkages should also be provided to them.Later, the chief minister said that under the "PM loan scheme for vendors" MP has topped with 1.40 lakh vendors getting loan of Rs 10,000 as working capital to carry on their business.PM Modi will talk to some of them over video conferencing on September 9. A loan of Rs 10,000 is being provided under the scheme to vendors and if they make timely payment of loan over one year, they can avail a loan of Rs 20,000 more. He further said that in addition to 7% subsidy in interest being given by the Union government, the rest will be taken care of by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ensure-adequate-relief-to-flood-hit-cm-tells-officials/articleshow/77968350.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Patna||New traffic plan at Ara||ARA: All the vehicles coming to Patna from Sasaram side will now pass through Bihari mill and eastern railway crossing at Ara. While the vehicles from Patna side and going toward Sasaram will take the railway station, Katira Mor and western overbridge route, said Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai on Saturday. The one-way traffic plan has been made to avoid jam in the Ara town areas. No vehicle coming from Patna side will be allowed to enter Ara town from Sapna cinema-Shivganj Mor. While the vehicles coming from Ara town for Patna side will take the Shivganj-Sapna Cinema Mor and Dharhara route. The vehicles coming from Sadar Hospital, Mathiya and Nawada side will have to pass through either Babu Bazar or Nawada police station, KG Road, Judge Kothi and Ramna Maidan, instead of going toward Shahid Bhavan in Ara. The vehicles coming from Shahid Bhawan side will go towards Sadar Hospital and Shivganj through Mahavir Tola Mor, the SP said. It may be mentioned here that Ara town witnessed frequent traffic jams and the new plan was likely to give relief to the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-traffic-plan-at-ara/articleshow/77967427.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Trichy||Additional flight to Mumbai from Trichy||Trichy: IndiGo will operate a new bi-weekly service between Trichy and Mumbai from September 9. The flight will be operated on Wednesdays and Sundays. The carrier has already been operating a bi-weekly flight on Fridays and Mondays in this route. The flight (6E 6265) is scheduled to depart from Mumbai at 3.35 pm, and reach Trichy at 5.45 pm. The return flight (6E 6267) will depart from Trichy at 6.20 pm and reach Mumbai at 8.15 pm. As of now, the Trichy international airport handles 49 domestic flights a week. With the addition of two more services by IndiGo, the number will go up 53. It may be recalled that the airline launched its first direct bi-weekly special service between Trichy and Mumbai on August 14. Though the flight was initially meant to be operated till August 24, it was extended till October 23. The flight departs from Mumbai at 3.30 pm and arrives at Trichy at 5.45 pm. The return flightdeparts from Trichy at 6.20 pm and reaches Mumbai at 8.35 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/additional-flight-to-mumbai-from-trichy/articleshow/77968339.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||How LAC tension is delaying work on Mumbai coastal road||MUMBAI: Covid-19, coupled with tensions between India and China, have delayed tunnelling work for the underground section of the coastal road. The components of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) were imported from China in April. Since then they have been lying at the work site at Priyadarshini Park, Napeansea Road, waiting for specialists to assemble them. The TBM will be the biggest yet to be used in any project in India. The coastal road’s contractor, L&T, is now trying to mobilise Chinese engineers who arrived in India earlier for work on the Mumbai and Bangalore Metro railway systems. Experts say that big infrastructure projects in Mumbai and the rest of the country are extremely reliant on Chinese heavy machinery and calls for boycotting Chinese goods will only hurt these projects. It will take two months to assemble the tunnel boring machine (TBM) components at the coastal road work site at Priyadarshini Park in the city. BMC officials say that unless Chinese engineers are allowed to work on the machine, the project will suffer delays. “Around 100 pieces of the TBM, imported from China, need to be put together. Because of India-China tensions, contractor L&T has been unable to get clearances for engineers from the Chinese manufacturer to reach Mumbai for the work. But Chinese engineers already working on the TBMs being used in Metro 3 and the Bangalore Metro can help assemble the coastal road TBM, the biggest in India, as the Metro TBMs are similar machines, size being the only difference,” said a BMC official. “After the machine is assembled, we need to test it to start the actual work. But even for that we need engineers from the Chinese company that manufactured the machine. It was tested in China in December 2019, before being dismantled for shipping to India, but a test needs to be done again after it is assembled,” the official said. As per reports, eight of 18 TBMs currently in the city for the Metro 3 project have been manufactured by Chinese-owned firms. The remaining 10, though are by companies registered in the West, too have been manufactured in China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-lac-tension-is-delaying-work-on-mumbai-coastal-road/articleshow/77968859.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 7, 2020||Pune||Waterlogged roads, power cuts after 9mm rain in 4 hours in Pune||PUNE: A strong spell of rain accompanied by thunder and lightning lashed several parts of the city, throwing normal life out of gear. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Shivajinagar observatory, which covers most of Pune city, recorded 11.3mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Sunday and 9mm of this rainfall occurred in four hours from 4.30pm to 8.30pm. The met officials attributed the rainfall to local convection. “The city, parts of Pune district and south west Maharashtra will experience similar weather conditions for the next few days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD Pune’s forecasting unit. The officials have forecast light to moderate rainfall over Pune till September 12. Day and night temperatures would be in the 30-33°C and 21-23°C range during this period, they said. Rainfall figures for the Lohegaon observatory, which covers the eastern fringes, and Pashan observatory on the western fringes, were not available immediately, IMD officials said. Much of the rain activity was confined to the city areas. Incidents of people getting injured due to falling trees, vehicles getting damaged under fallen trees, traffic on the highway getting affected and waterlogging in low-lying areas were reported. The spell was particularly severe in areas including Kothrud, Karvenagar and Sinhagad Road, among others. The heavy rain also triggered power cuts in several areas in the evening. Two men suffered injuries after a branch of a tree fell on them near the Nilayam theatre in Sadashiv Peth. Police identified one of the injured as Nikhil Nikalje and the other, partially identified as Pankaj, suffered head injuries. A fire brigade team rescued them and sent them to a hospital. “We received five distress calls about falling of tree branches from different parts of the city,” a fire brigade officer said. Five two-wheelers and a car were damaged in these incidents. One person, who was stuck inside the car, was safely rescued. Traffic on Pune-Solapur highway was disrupted after a tree branch fell near Kasurdi. At several spots on Sinhagad Road, vehicle users and pedestrians had to wade through knee-deep water. Motorists found it difficult to travel these conditions. Many people recalled last year’s floods in parts of the city, including areas on the banks of the Mutha river, which flows through the city. “The intensity was such that I wondered if there was a cloud burst,” said motorist Santosh Shinde, a resident of Kirkatwadi. Kashyapi said, “Due to high day temperature and moisture level triggered local instability that resulted in convective activity in the evening hours. Subsequently, this weather condition brought rain with thunderous activity and lightning over the city. The city was surrounded by cumulonimbus clouds in these hours (between 4pm to 8pm).” The maximum temperature has risen over the last week. On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded day temperatures as 33.8°C and 34.7°C, which were above normal by 5.8 degrees and 5.7 degree Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-3mm-rain-with-thunder-lightning-affects-normal-life-in-city/articleshow/77967447.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 7, 2020||Patna||SHO accused of abetting woman cop to commit suicide||PATNA: King Kundan, who was posted as Narpatganj police station SHO, has been evading arrest for allegedly abetting a young woman constable to commit suicide. Shruti Kumari was posted at Simraha police station in Araria district. She was found hanging in her rented accommodation at Simraha market on Friday. “Her husband Kumar Gaurav has lodged an FIR against Kundan with Simraha police station for harassing and abetting his wife to commit suicide,” Forbesganj SPDO Gautam Kumar said on Sunday. Simraha police station SHO Masood Haidri said the SHO and the woman constable had been in relationship. “Kundan was earlier posted as Town police station SHO and she had been deputed there as a trainee during Chhath and Diwali last year,” he said. Haidri said though Shruti was provided accommodation on the police station premises, she had rented a room in the same locality as her husband used to visit her from Munger. “Gaurav is a private tutor,” Haidri added. The SPDO said raids were on to nab Kundan, who was suspended on Saturday evening. He said Kundan (35) hails from Bhagalpur while Shruti, who joined the police service in 2018, was from Munger. Shruti had left a suicide note in which she had blamed none for taking her extreme step. “Her suicide note only mentions that she had been annoyed with her life,” he said. “The call detail record shows both used to talk with each other. Her cellphone has been seized and sent for forensic analysis,” he said. The SDPO said before committing suicide, Shruti had talked to her husband in Munger over phone. “Police came to know that Gaurav had tried to persuade her not to be depressed, but in vain,” he said. “When Shruti didn’t respond to her husband’s calls on Friday, he asked her colleague to go and check. Shruti’s colleague went to her room and found her hanging from the ceiling,” he said. The postmortem report mentions hanging as the reason of her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sho-accused-of-abetting-woman-cop-to-commit-suicide/articleshow/77967457.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Old wooden chariot at Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple gutted||RAJAHMUNDRY: An old wooden chariot of the famous Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in Sakhinetipalli mandal of East Godavari district was reduced to ashes in a fire late on Saturday night. The chariot was built about 62 years ago while the temple was constructed about 220 years ago. The cause of the mishap is not known,but it is believed that electric short circuit may have led to the blaze that broke out between 1.00 am and 1.30 am. Flames engulfed the chariot, which was kept in a shed on the temple compound. Police are investigating whether the fire was due to short circuit or arson. A team has been formed with senior police officials, endowments, fire and forensic departments to probe the mishap. The chariot, which is about 40 feet high, was made with teak wood for use during the annual ritual of Kalyanothstavam of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy. Devotees protest after chariot burns downA large number of devotees and activists of the RSS and Jana Sena staged a protest. Some people attempted to gherao the temple executive officer, Nallam Surya Chakradhar Rao. However, the police foiled their attempt. The devotees while staging a protest wondered why there were no CCTV cameras. The existing cameras developed a snag about six months ago, and they were not repaired. According to the police,a mentally ill person, who stays near the temple, shouted on seeing the fire. A devotee, who came from Bhimavarma town, heard the shouts and informed locals. They rushed in to douse the flames. Fire fighting personnel brought the flames under control. The chariot, however, was reduced to ashes. Locals allege that the mentally unsound man may have set the chariot on fire. They allege that the man was often seen setting fire to garbage. East Godavari SP Nayeem said the police are investigating all possible angles . Preliminary findings showed there is no evidence of any conspiracy. Asked why the CCTV cameras were not working, he said that they may have been damaged in the recent heavy incessant rains. Narsapuram MP, Raghuramakrishnam Raju, has alleged a conspiracy. “As there is scope for people to think that it is an attack on a religion, I request chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to come out with a statement on the incident. Stern action should be taken against those responsible after conducting a thorough inquiry,” he said. BJP state president Somu Verraju demanded a detailed inquiry with a sitting judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/antarvedis-temple-chariot-gutted/articleshow/77967451.cms||Samson Raj
September 7, 2020||Nashik||NMC to hire 25 contract workers||Nashik: The state health department has approved the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s proposal to appoint 25 people on contract basis to locate mosquito breeding spots in the city.NMC sources said it will appoint these people for five months.“These contract workers will be assigned in the six divisions of the civic body. The task of these contractual staff will be to locate all mosquito breeding spots and take remedial measures to do away with such spots,” said NMC sources.This would be the first time that NMC will be appointing people on contract to keep a tab on the mosquito breeding spots. According to officials, if their work is satisfactory their contract could be extended and if there is any laxity on their part they will be pulled up.NMC is trying to ensure there are no large scale cases of any vector-borne disease in the city as its main focus is to contain the spread of Covid-19.  Last year in August, there were 117 dengue cases and one death. But in August this year, there were only 28 cases and there were no fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-hire-25-contract-workers/articleshow/77965578.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Govt nod awaited to seek names for new Lokayukta||PANAJI: Directorate of vigilance has sought government approval for seeking names of retired high court judges to select new Lokayukta for the state. The current Lokayukta justice P K Misra will retire on September 17. “We have moved the file, once we get the approval we will request the high court to provide the names of retired judges,” a senior officer at the directorate of vigilance said. One September 2, the state government told the high court of Bombay at Goa that it has initiated the process to appoint a new Lokayukta. TOI reported on Tuesday that even as Misra’s tenure is due to end, the office will be non-functional with 75 pending cases, as the state is yet to start the search for a new Lokayukta. A Panaji lawyer, Aires Rodrigues, had approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta to take office after the incumbent’s term ends. In his petition, Rodrigues had stated that the government should have started the process to appoint a new Lokayukta. Misra, the current Lokayukta, took the oath of office on April 28, 2016. Most pending cases at the institution pertain to illegal constructions, along with others like the labour scam and the construction of the new Taleigao panchayat ghar. Misra was appointed after the Goa cabinet dragged its feet for three years. Panaji: Directorate of vigilance has sought government approval for seeking names of retired high court judges to select new Lokayukta for the state. The current Lokayukta justice P K Misra will retire on September 17. “We have moved the file, once we get the approval we will request the high court to provide the names of retired judges,” a senior officer at the directorate of vigilance said. One September 2, the state government told the high court of Bombay at Goa that it has initiated the process to appoint a new Lokayukta. TOI reported on Tuesday that even as Misra’s tenure is due to end, the office will be non-functional with 75 pending cases, as the state is yet to start the search for a new Lokayukta. A Panaji lawyer, Aires Rodrigues, had approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta to take office after the incumbent’s term ends. In his petition, Rodrigues had stated that the government should have started the process to appoint a new Lokayukta. Misra, the current Lokayukta, took the oath of office on April 28, 2016. Most pending cases at the institution pertain to illegal constructions, along with others like the labour scam and the construction of the new Taleigao panchayat ghar. Misra was appointed after the Goa cabinet dragged its feet for three years. Misra, prior to his appointment as Lokayukta, served a five-year term as chairperson of the state human rights commission. The first Goa Lokayukta, former Supreme Court judge Justice Sudershan Reddy, was appointed in March 2013, but resigned within seven months, citing personal reasons. In January this year, the Lokayukta recommended that the directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) file an FIR against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, former mines secretary Pawan Kumar Sain and former mines director Prasanna Acharya in connection with the alleged “corruption” and “criminal conspiracy” regarding the renewal of 88 mining leases between November 2014 and January 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-nod-awaited-to-seek-names-for-new-lokayukta/articleshow/77968354.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Coronavirus in Kochi: Number of positive cases on the rise so are violations||KOCHI: Even as the Covid situation continues to remain grave in the district, statistics shows that many are still not taking the regulations seriously. According to the data released by the Ernakulam rural police, police took penal action against 5,833 persons in the first six days of September alone. In the same period, action was taken against as many 7,554 persons for not following social distancing norms. On Sunday alone, rural police took action against as many as 1,075 persons for not wearing face masks. Action was also initiated against 1,453 persons for not following social distancing norms. Police on Sunday registered 23 cases and recorded the arrest of 85 persons for violating the restrictions. As many as eight vehicles were seized on Sunday for Covid related offences. Police said they are maintaining vigil and special patrolling drives are being held to identify persons who are not following the instructions of the government as part of its containment strategy. Commercial establishments which are not following social distancing and Covid protocol would face stringent action, said police. “It is true that the restrictions are continuing indefinitely but until there is a permanent solution, like a vaccine, this has to be our lifestyle. Wearing face masks and social distancing should be strictly followed,” said an official. Rural police added that police have to enforce the lockdown restrictions and routine police work simultaneously. “The number of cases that are getting registered is obviously an additional workload. The amount of effort that goes into processing these cases would be huge. However, we cannot show any leniency towards those who violate simple regulations like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing,” said an officer.  On Tuesday, as many 1,510 persons faced the music for social distancing violations and for not wearing face masks. On Wednesday, action was taken against 2,417 persons. On the subsequent days, action was taken against 2,046 (Thursday), 2,157 (Friday) and 2,729 (Saturday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/number-of-ve-cases-on-the-rise-so-are-violations/articleshow/77967455.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||‘Dawood Ibrahim's aide’ calls Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray home, police on alert||MUMBAI: Security at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence in Bandra (E) has been beefed up after calls were received from a person claiming to be an aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim late on Saturday. However, no threat was issued. While the crime branch of the city police has started an investigation, the issue came up for discussion at a meeting of the state cabinet on Sunday. Sources in the state secretariat said that cabinet members were of the view that it is a “serious” matter and even the Centre should look into it, and the caller punished. Sena leader and cabinet minister Anil Parab said there was “no threat to blow up the residence or anything like that”. Four calls were received on a phone number at Matoshree after 11pm; two of these were missed, while two were answered by the telephone operator, said a senior crime branch official. The operator, however, refused to transfer the calls to the chief minister. “During the second call that was received, the caller introduced himself as Mohammad Khalid of the Dawood Ibrahim gang. He said he was calling from Dubai,” said the official. “We have increased security cover at Matoshree.” The crime branch official said they are trying to procure the caller’s details. A senior crime branch officer also visited the Kalanagar residence on Sunday afternoon. An investigation by the crime branch has already begun, state home minister Anil Deshmukh informed his colleagues at the cabinet meeting. Another cabinet minister, Eknath Shinde, said that Shiv Sena is not scared of Dawood Ibrahim. “…Nobody can harm Matoshree, not even Dawood,” he said, adding that earlier Pakistan had threatened Shiv Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray. “But it couldn’t do anything. Shiv Sena has never been afraid of any such threats, and will not be even in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dawood-aide-calls-cm-home-police-on-alert/articleshow/77968603.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Trichy||Verification of PM-Kisan beneficiaries on in Trichy||Trichy: Officials from the agriculture department in Trichy have started the process to weed out irregularities in the PM-Kisan cash assistance scheme in the district. According to officials, they are verifying the list of beneficiaries who enrolled during the lockdown period. Around 1.5 lakh farmers have benefited under the scheme in Trichy, while 15,000 names were registered during the lockdown period.“15,000 names were included under the scheme after April. A senior official from the agriculture department is verifying the new list. He has commenced the process to verify whether all the beneficiaries are genuine one or if there irregularities involved in the process”, an official from the department said.Under the PM-Kisan scheme, the union government credits Rs 6,000 per annum in three instalments in the bank accounts of farmers those holding land and cultivating. The fraud came into light in Cuddalore district where 38,000 fake beneficiaries benefitted from the scheme. Following that, farmers and leaders of farmers associations had demanded for a state-wide probe and complete verification to weed out the fake beneficiaries. Without holding a piece of land, they have been receiving cash benefits for the last two years, farmers alleged. Collectors in all the districts have instructed the concerned officials to look into the issue. Meanwhile, BJP state president L Murugan said that his party would submit a petition to district collectors across the state demanding a probe on the issue on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/verification-of-pm-kisan-beneficiaries-on-in-trichy/articleshow/77968344.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Key UDF meet tomorrow to decide Kuttanad bypoll seat||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The UDF leadership has made it clear that Jose K Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (Mani) is on its way out of the front. The UDF has decided not to invite Mani for the UDF meeting which is scheduled on Tuesday. This meeting is being convened to finalize the decision on Kuttanad bypoll which is the seat of Kerala Congress (Mani). The Congress is unhappy with the way P J Joseph has already claimed that his faction of KC(M) will be contesting from the seat as UDF candidate. The Congress district leadership of Alappuzha and several KPCC leaders have already urged the leadership to take over the Kuttanad seat from KC(M) if the UDF wants to win the bypoll. The UDF meeting is expected to take a final decision on the Kuttanad seat before which a bilateral talk with Joseph is also likely to take place. The Indian Union Muslim League has also favoured Congress’s decision of not having any kind of discussion with Mani now. “The situation in which the UDF had decided not to invite Jose K Mani faction of the Kerala Congress for UDF meetings still persists. Hence it has been decided not to invite them for the next meeting,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Even though KPCC leadership had softened its stand towards Mani after the Election Commission of India’s decision of providing the party symbol to him, the Congress leadership came to know that he was continuing informal discussions with the rival LDF. This had upset the UDF leadership and hence Congress decided not to take the initiative for a discussion with him. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala gave clear hints that Mani is moving towards the LDF. “It is a political morality that Jose K Mani resigns his Rajya Sabha seat before leaving the front. M P Veerendra Kumar had quit the RS seat when his party left the front,” said Ramesh. With the steering committee of the Jose K Mani faction of KC(M) held at Kottayam on Sunday also deciding not to cooperate with UDF anymore, it has become almost certain that they are joining hands with the LDF before the local body polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/key-udf-meet-tomorrow-to-decide-kuttanad-bypoll-seat/articleshow/77966470.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Dighavakar takes charge as IG (special)||Nashik: Pratap Dighavakar took charge as the inspector general (special) of Nashik Range on Saturday evening replacing Chhering Dorje, who has been transferred to Mumbai as the special IG at Sudhar Seva. A native of Satana taluka in Nashik district, the new IG (special), who was earlier the IG at the Crime Against Women and Children, Maharashtra, said his priority was to ensure good health of police personnel across Nashik rural, Dhule, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts as these frontline workers were getting infected in large numbers during the course of their duty. He said his aim would also be to make sure police personnel are provided with the best medical facilities in case they test positive. Dighavakar said all the government instruction with respect to Covid-19 wil be strictly implemented and at the same time, the police would support the resumption of industrial and business operations in the unlock process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dighavakar-takes-charge-as-ig-special/articleshow/77965598.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 7, 2020||Pune||Deputy manager of financial services firm booked for voyeurism||Pune: The Kothrud police on Saturday registered an offence against the deputy manager of a financial services company’s Kothrud branch for placing a video camera inside the office’s restroom for it women staffers. Police said the incident came to light on September 2, after the head of the financial services company branch in Kothrud lodged an FIR against the deputy manager following an internal inquiry. “We have booked the deputy manager under section 354-C (voyeurism) of the Indian Penal Code,” inspector Kiran Balwadkar of the Kothrud police told TOI.The officer said one of the employees in the office noticed a camera installed in the restroom on Tuesday and immediately alerted the head of the branch about it. “When the head of the branch checked the camera, he found that it was attached with a memory card,” the officer said.The complainant then asked his women colleague to check the data stores in the memory card using her cellphone. The officer said the woman the couldn’t read the data as the car was not supported on her device. “When the woman kept the card on a table after the failed attempt to decipher the data, the deputy manager managed to break it,” the officer said.The officer said the another woman employee noticed the suspect’s action. “She also recalled that around 10 days ago, someone had locked the main door of the men and women washrooms in the office from the inside. Surprised by this, the woman had summoned the security guard to check it. When the security guard arrived at the scene, the suspect had exited one of the restrooms and then requested the duo to not tell anyone about the incident. After the woman told it to the complainant, an internal inquiry was initiated. The suspect, however, had not turned up at the office since then and had been threatening to commit suicide,” Balwadkar said. The officer added that no arrest was made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deputy-manager-of-financial-services-firm-booked-for-voyeurism/articleshow/77967453.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Snacks store goes up in flames||Hyderabad: In a fire on Sunday afternoon, a Rajasthan-based person who began his business by renting a store a month ago, lost all his stocked goods. LB Nagar police said that Jasraj, who stocked various brands of packaged snacks and chocolates, lost all the stock and suffered severe loss. Around 12.30pm, Jasraj came to his store and later went to Malakpet by closing his store. Meanwhile, he got a telephone call from an acquaintance informing about the fire. By the time he returned, the whole shop was on fire. One fire tender reached the spot and it took 30 minutes to douse the fire. Officials suspect that short circuit might be the cause of the fire. A dejected Jasraj did not lodge police complaint, and is planning to return to Rajasthan after the loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/snacks-store-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/77967460.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||2 DRI officials hurt in bid to prevent gold smuggling||Kozhikode: Two officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) were injured when members of a gold smuggling racket rammed their car into the motorcycle of the officials in a bid to escape capture while transporting smuggled gold near Calicut International Airport on Sunday morning. The DRI officials, identified as inspector Albert George and Najeeb, were injured when they tried to stop the car in which the two-member gang was allegedly transporting gold sneaked in through Karipur airport. The two injured officials are under treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode. Meanwhile, sources said finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has enquired about the well-being of the officials and has asked the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) to provide them all medical facilities. DRI officials took one of the accused, identified as Nissar hailing from Kumaranalloor at Mukkom in Kozhikode district, into custody and also seized around 3kg of gold valued at around Rs 1.6 crore. The police and DRI are on the lookout for the other absconding accused and driver of the vehicle Fazlur Rahman, hailing from Pathanapuram near Areekode in Malappuram district. Kondotty police have registered a case under section 307 of IPC (attempt to murder) and sections 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in discharge of his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) in connection with the incident. On a tip-off that the duo collected gold sneaked in through Calicut International Airport and was transporting it in a car, a team of six DRI officials from Kozhikode had tried to stop the SUV around 1km away from the airport at 8:30am. As the DRI team flagged down the duo, the accused hit the motorcycle of the officials. The motorcycle fell on the road and was dragged for around 20 metres. As the car hit the motor cycle, it lost control, hit a tree stump and came to a stop. Soon, the other DRI officials nabbed Nissar while Fazlur Rahman managed to escape. Around 3kg gold was recovered from the accused. Also, three cleaning supervisors at the airport have been taken into custody by DRI. According to DRI sources, the gold in compound form was smuggled by a passenger who arrived in Indigo airlines repatriation flight from Doha which landed on Sunday morning. Officials said that the passenger dumped the around 4kg gold compound inside the waste bin kept at the passenger waiting area. The cleaning staff collected the contraband and took it out of the airport and handed it over to the two members of the smuggling gang who were waiting outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-dri-officials-hurt-in-bid-to-prevent-gold-smuggling/articleshow/77966474.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Water release from four outlets of Jayakwadi||AURANGABAD: There has been four-way release of water from Jayakwadi major irrigation project after its reservoir was filled to the designed capacity. The key dam, which currently has 97% live storage, was releasing water at the rate of 2,096 cusec through flood-gates by Sunday morning. While around 1,589 cusec of water is being released from an outlet of the hydro-power project, water is also being released from the Paithan left bank canal (PLBC) and Paithan right bank canal (PRBC) at the speed of 100 cusec and 500 cusec respectively. Sandip Rathod, in-charge of Jayakwadi dam, said the water release from the major irrigation project would be regulated as per inflow and rainfall in the catchment areas. “The dam has been filled to the designed capacity relatively earlier as compared to such occasions in the recent past. With still a month to go for monsoon, followed by the withdrawal phase, the water release from the dam is bound to vary in future,” he said. The overflowing Jayakwadi dam has relieved both the farming community as well as the local industries as their demand for water can be easily met after setting aside the quantum for meeting drinking water needs. Besides supplying 120 MLD to 160 MLD water for meeting the drinking water needs of Aurangabad, Jayakwadi dam also supplies water to the industrial areas in Aurangabad and Jalna, which together draw around 75 MLD water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/water-release-from-four-outlets-of-jayakwadi/articleshow/77965595.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||CMD orders probe as PMPML buses break down after services resume||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) resumed its services in the city four days ago and around 60 buses have broken down in the last three days. The PMPML’s chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI that the directions given by him to his subordinates had not been followed. “For almost five months, most of the buses were non-operational and it was an ideal period to ensure proper maintenance of the buses. As we started talks about resuming services, I had given instructions to ensure that only the new buses should be used for services and not the old ones. Instructions were also given to take care of the buses and make them ready to ply on the road. However, with the new buses, some of the old ones were also rolled out. Many buses faced issues with their batteries, which to an extent is understandable. However, there were buses that faced technical snags, which could have easily been avoided. I have told my officials to specifically find out who is responsible so that action can be initiated,” he said. According to the figures provided, 30 buses broke down on September 3 and 24 buses broke down on September 4. The figures for September 5 were yet to be calculated, a source from the PMPML said. Of these buses, 14 of them broke down because of uncharged batteries, five broke down because of punctured tyres, three faced clutch failures, in two buses the hub got dislocated and in one case each the brakes failed and there was a leak in the radiator. “Battery problems can be understood, but the other issues could have easily been avoided if there had been proper checks of buses. Someone, be it the driver, the mechanic, the technical staff of the depots, has not done what was instructed, which has caused this. It is an embarassment as majority of the buses were stationary and there was ample time to fix these issues,” another PMPML official told TOI, requesting anonymity. “While breakdowns have been common with the PMPML buses all the time, running into breakdowns immediately after resumption of service is an embarassment. The PMPML has a golden opportunity in hand to improve its services and ensure more ridership considering cabs and autorickshaws are a costly affair in the city. This exposes the non-serious attitude of the transport body and a missed opportunity. However, they still have time to mend their ways,” PMPML Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole said. Commuters too were angry. “How can buses run into breakdowns immediately after resuming services? This clearly means that the buses were not serviced in the last five months. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, a breakdown means that passengers have to wait for long for another bus to come, which increases the risk of getting infected,” Akshay Kadam, a regular commuter, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-stares-at-breakdowns-as-services-resume-cmd-orders-probe/articleshow/77967464.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Man donates brain-dead wife’s organs, saves lives of two patients||PUNE: The husband of a 41-year-old brain-dead woman donated her vital organs, including heart and liver, that went on to benefit two patients in Mumbai and Pune on Sunday. This is the 10th organ donation since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 24th since January. The husband also pledged his organs after his wife's death. “We were all struck by the husband’s forthright approach. After signing the consent form to donate his wife’s organs, he filled up another form pledging his own organs after death,” said Jehangir hospital’s transplant coordinator Vrinda Pusalkar. The woman was admitted at the hospital on August 26 after complaining of severe headaches. She was soon diagnosed with intracranial bleeding. Despite their best efforts, doctors could not revive her and by Saturday afternoon, she was declared brain dead. As per norms of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), which oversees allocation of donated organs, the woman's heart was allocated to a 28-year-old Mumbai man, a patient of end-stage heart disease enrolled at the HN Reliance hospital in Mumbai. The woman's liver was given to a 43-year-old Pune man, a patient of liver failure enrolled with Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. The donor and recipients were tested for Covid-19. “Then the doctors started the process of transplantation where the standard procedures to avoid Covid infection were followed,” said ZTCC’s transplant coordinator, Aarti Gokhale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/husband-donates-brain-dead-wifes-vital-organs/articleshow/77967468.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Fault in oxygen supply at GMCH, patients being referred to Mayo||Nagpur: Oxygen delivery mechanism in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), a Covid-19 hospital in city, developed technical glitch on September 6 and two of the Covid-19 wards stopped receiving oxygen support. Both these wards were newly established and had no patients admitted, so a major mishap was averted. Now, GMCH administration has decided not to accept new patients with potential need of oxygen support for the time being. All such patients will be referred to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH). Authorities at GMCH conducted an emergency meeting and decided to help out IGGMCH with staff. “We have sent seven nurses, 8 interns and 5 doctors to IGGMCH as support staff for those patients who may need oxygen support. This arrangement is for the time being. GMCH will restructure the entire oxygen distribution line in next 48 hours,” said a senior official from the administration department. The hospital is planning to overhaul the oxygen supply line and also establish alternative supply line for all Covid-19 wards so that such condition does not arise again in future. While technical details of the fault were not shared, TOI learnt that the supply line developed leak, due to which patients were not getting oxygen with enough pressure. Sources also told TOI that a similar problem had been experienced a week ago, and 12 patients were shifted from one ward to another in hurry to save their lives. However, no official from GMCH commented on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fault-in-oxygen-supply-at-gmch-patients-being-referred-to-mayo/articleshow/77968347.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Ambedkar museum work hit by lack of funds||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut talks about making Nagpur a part of India’s Buddhist circuit, but he has not been able to secure funds for the project coming under it. The work on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar museum at Chicholi has been badly hit due to lack of funds. It was to be completed in December 2018, but got delayed due to various reasons. The cost of the museum is Rs41 crore and so far the government has released only Rs15 crore. “The museum is about 90% complete. However, the contractors are working at a snail’s pace for finishing the remaining work as they have not received payment of Rs26 crore. Work can only pick up speed when we pay the contractor,” said a Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) official on the condition of anonymity. Commenting on the lack of funds, Raut said, “This is a difficult year. A cut was imposed on the money sanctioned in the budget for 2020-21. However, some money will be sanctioned under supplementary grants in the monsoon session of state legislature and work will pick up pace.” Raut had planned to open the museum on Dhammachakra Pravartan Din this year. However, NIT officials say this is an impossible target now because work cant be completed by then even if the entire amount is sanctioned. Slamming Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule said it had not sanctioned a single penny for Nagpur district’s tourist and religious places including Ramtek, Koradi, Chicholi, Deekshabhoomi, Tajbagh and Dragon Palace temple in the budget for 2020-21. “It is the responsibility of Raut to get the money sanctioned for these six projects in supplementary budget to be tabled on Tuesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambedkar-museum-work-hit-by-lack-of-funds/articleshow/77968351.cms||Ashish Roy
September 7, 2020||Bhopal||Horti scam: Fresh complaint over illegal transfer of staff||Bhopal: In a new twist, amid the multiple inquiries into the Rs 100 crore China-made equipment supply scam in the horticulture department, a fresh complaint has been lodged with the Lokayukta alleging that over 300 people were transferred illegally. The complaint alleges that the 300 transfers of employees were made on a single day in 2019 during ban and without the approval of the CM’s coordination committee. Complaint has been made on the letterhead of Kisan Ekta Manch Madhya Pradesh signed by state president Mukesh Patidar and copies of the same has also been sent to the top-ranking officers in the agriculture and horticulture ministry. The transfer list was neither uploaded on the department nor sent to the public relation office for media publication. The orders were not recorded in the official register also. “it’s a violation of the state’s transfer policy and guidelines issued by the GAD,” complainant alleged. Meanwhile, state agriculture minister Kamal Patel targeted Congress holding them responsible for the equipment supply scam. “They were given funds for providing power tillers to the farmers, but they gave it to power dealers. They misappropriated funds and Lokayukta is inquiring this. Accused would be behind the bars soon,” Patel told media. Senior BJP leader and former vice president of the state mining corporation Govid Malu also issued a release demanding strong action against those involved in the scam. “Officers who are involved in this scam are still holding key positions in the department and they should be shifted immediately so that a fair probe is held,” Malu said, adding, the horticulture department was converted into ‘scam culture’ department in a year’s rule by the Congress. On other hand, new revelations surfaced during the Lokayukta’s probe into the Chinese equipment scam. It was found that in many of the cases farmers were asked to pose with a power tiller for a photograph and then the equipment was taken away. “This shows that many supplies were made only on papers,” said an officer. Lokayukta is awaiting reports from the director horticulture for further action. It is alleged that his predecessor is also under the scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/horti-scam-fresh-complaint-over-illegal-transfer-of-staff/articleshow/77968352.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||3 succumb to burns in transformer blast||Pune: A 50-year-old woman, her daughter and five-month-old granddaughter, who had suffered severe burns in the MSEDCL transformer explosion at Indrayaninagar in Bhosari on Saturday evening, succumbed to the injuries later in the night. Sharada Dilip Kotwal (50) and her five-month-old granddaughter Shivani Kakade, who had suffered over 70% burns, died during the treatment late on Saturday night. Shivani’s mother Harshada (32) had suffered around 80% burns. She died during treatment on Sunday. On Saturday evening, when Kotwal was bathing her granddaughter in the front yard of their house, the transformer developed a technical snag and hot oil from it fell on them. The infant was taken to a private hospital in Bhosari while, the women were sent to Sassoon hospital. Later, the infant too was shifted to Sassoon hospital. “The injured women and the infant died during the treatment,” senior inspector of the Bhosari MIDC police Rajendra Kunte said. Kunte said the offence would be registered after the probe. Meanwhile, the MSEDCL on Sunday declared compensation of Rs4 lakh each to the relatives of the victims who died in the accident. The MSEDCL has ordered an inquiry about the incident. A three-member committee has been formed to probe the matter. The MSEDCL also stated that they had sent a show cause notice to the supplier of the transformer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-succumb-to-burns-in-transformer-blast/articleshow/77967472.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kunhalikutty set to return to state politics||Kozhikode: Putting an end to all speculations, IUML state president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal has announced that party’s national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty would return to state politics. Talking to reporters after the parliamentary board meeting at Panakkad in Malappuram on Sunday, he said national organizing secretary E T Muhammad Basheer would coordinate the national-level activities of the party. Thangal said Kunhalikutty would oversee all the ensuing elections. “We could see the positive results of entrusting Kunhalikutty in the last Lok Sabha elections,” he said. Many eyebrows were raised when Kunhalikutty decided to shift his area of activity to Delhi at a time when the IUML leader was immersed in the state politics. His detractors insinuated that he hoped a UPA win and envisaged a larger role for himself in the new dispensation. Even after his election to the Lok Sabha, Kunhalikutty remained active in Kerala politics in an informal way. He was the arbitrator in the tug-of-war between the coalition partners of the UDF. Kunhalikutty was entrusted to mediate between the warring factions of the Kerala Congress (M). Unlike Basheer, Kunhalikutty had not shown much interests in the national politics. There was a group within the party that was opposed to his return to his home turf. Basheer said the party believed that the effective leadership of Kunhalikutty was imperative at a critical juncture. His presence was needed for the effective management of the election campaign, he said. Kunhalikutty told reporters that the party sees the coming chain of elections with utmost seriousness. “The people of the state are looking for an alternative as the present government is doing nothing. IUML is duty-bound to strengthen the UDF and the party will evolve various strategies to this end,” he said. He said the responsibility entrusted by the party is challenging. “There is the issue of Covid-19 and the dismal state of the economy. The government’s reaction to the situation is unimpressive,” he said. Asked whether the split in the Kerala Congress (M) would affect UDF’s prospects, he said people are with the UDF. “We could win LDF’s sure seats in the last Lok Sabha elections because of the people’s trust,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kunhalikutty-set-to-return-to-state-politics/articleshow/77966535.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Two fishermen electrocuted||Hyderabad: Two fishermen who were using electric traps to catch fish in Jagtial died after getting electrocuted when they came in contact with the trap laid by them on Saturday morning. Jeevan (27) and Srinivas (32) died while working at Peddacheruvu in Mallaram. The incident came to light after their bodies were found floating in the water body by a passer by. After their bodies were found, villagers informed the local police who rushed to the spot and brought the dead bodies out of water. A case has been registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-fishermen-electrocuted/articleshow/77967498.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vadodara||Phase 2 of online final exams declared||VADODARA: After winding up phase 2 of online mock test, M S University has announced online final examination phase 2. The phase 2 of the online mock test was held for students of four faculties — Faculty of Science, Faculty of Law, Faculty of Management Studies and Faculty of Technology and Engineering on September 4 and 5. The online final examination of these faculties will be now held from September 17 onwards. The examination will be held in three shifts for which the detailed time-table will be displayed on university website by September 10. The online final examination of remaining students is tentatively scheduled in last week of September. Meanwhile, the university has also announced phase 3 of the online mock test that will cover students of two biggest faculties – the Faculty of Commerce and Faculty of Arts. The phase 3 mock test for students of these faculties will be held on September 9 and September 10 in three time slots. Around 1,400 students of Faculty of Arts are eligible to appear in the first time slot on September 9. In the same slot, 500 students of Faculty of Commerce will also appear for the mock round. In two other slots, 1,700 students each of commerce faculty will appear for the test. The following day, too, will witness 1,700 students each appearing in the mock test in three time slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/phase-2-of-online-final-exams-declared/articleshow/77965654.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Shibu Baby John begins Chavara bypoll campaign||Thiruvananthapuram: The UDF candidate has started his campaign for Chavara bypoll even before the LDF camp is yet to finalize who should contest in their sitting seat. UDF candidate Shibu Baby John of RSP started his campaign in Chavara on Sunday by meeting party leaders and workers. Party workers gave him a rousing reception as part of the campaign launch. RSP state and central committee had approved Shibu as the party candidate for Chavara bypoll. RSP state secretary A A Azeez gave a letter to UDF detailing this decision. The UDF meet on Tuesday will announce the candidature officially. “I have been in Chavara for the last 23 years. In the last election, we received a setback. The last four years was utilized to rectify our mistakes and pointed out the failures of LDF rule. People of Kollam voted for UDF in the Lok Sabha because of these works,” said Shibu. Shibu had contested from Chavara four times and won two times. He was a minister in the Oommen Chandy government. He was first elected in 2001 on RSP ticket. He was defeated in 2006 elections when he contested on UDF ticket against N K Premachandran, who was then with LDF. In 2011, he defeated Premachandran and went on to become a minister in UDF government. In 2016, he was defeated when pitted against Vijayan Pillai, who died in March this year, leading to the bypoll now. “Congress district committee has begun campaigning for the bypoll and UDF is set to regain the seat. There is no doubt about the victory and Shibu Baby John is a hugely popular figure in the constituency,” said Bindu Krishna, DCC president of Kollam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shibu-baby-john-begins-chavara-bypoll-campaign/articleshow/77966487.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Deworming to be done using community-based approach||Mangaluru: The second phase of National Deworming Day (NDD) that gets under way across India from Monday, targeting children in the age group of 1 to 19 will follow a community-based approach in the new normal. Children aged 1 to 19 will be given Albendazole tablets as part of the nationwide campaign. While those aged 1-2 will be administered half of the 400mg tablet, those aged 2-19 will be given the full tablet. Dr Rajesh B V, district reproductive and child health (RCH) officer said with schools, anganwadis, ITIs and PU colleges still closed due to the pandemic, the department of health and family welfare will use the services of anganwadi and ASHA workers to deliver these tablets to the doorsteps of children in the target age groups. These workers will ensure that the children consume the WHO certified tablets in their presence, to ensure the success of the campaign, he said. The continuing closure of educational institutions has brought down demand for Albendazole tablets from 5.3 lakh utilised in the first phase of the campaign held from February 10 to 4.4 lakh for this phase that will go up to September 21. ASHA and anganwadi workers will go door-to-door on the first day of the campaign, and use the remaining period for residual mop up action of children whom they might miss due to various reasons, he noted. The campaign, now into its eighth year, strives to address health issues in children such as anaemia and malnutrition, that worm infestation causes in them, Dr Rajesh said. Children in the above age groups are generally vulnerable to it. Malnutrition and anaemia result in stunted growth and has a long term effect on growth and development of children. Administering the tablet on a campaign mode seeks to address this basic health issue, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/deworming-to-be-done-using-community-based-approach/articleshow/77965749.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Ragini’s lawyer alleges procedural lapses, cops refute charges||Bengaluru: Actor Ragini Dwivedi’s advocate has claimed there were multiple procedural lapses in the raid conducted at her house and the subsequent arrest. However, police say the allegations are baseless. Pawan Shyam, Dwivedi’s advocate, said procedures laid down under Section 100(4) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which mandate two independent witnesses during a raid, were violated by police during the raid. He alleged cops didn’t follow protocol even while preparing the seizure memo and arresting the actor. “In NDPS Act cases, the said requirements are even more critical,” said Shyam, claiming he had enquired with cops, who had told him they hadn’t brought any witnesses. “Police didn’t find drugs at Ragini’s house,” he claimed, adding that if they had, she would’ve been arrested on the spot. He also alleged police made Ragini sign a seizure memo prepared many hours after the raid — rules mandate it be done on the spot — though she could not read what was written. “She requested my presence, which was denied. They read out the content without a witness,” Shyam said. “Also, a woman can’t be held for interrogation after 6pm unless she has been arrested. However, Ragini was only arrested around 8pm but the records have been made to show it happened at 5.30pm. She was not allowed to mention the time under her signature,” Shyam added. DCP Ravi Kumar KP said: “As her lawyer he may wish to protect his client, but his allegations are baseless. We have followed all procedures during the investigation and any action initiated as part of it. He can prove his allegations in court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/raginis-lawyer-alleges-procedural-lapses-cops-refute-charges/articleshow/77966843.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Key decisions on Nalsar consortium||Hyderabad: To ensure the smooth conduct of CLAT-2020, and to avoid the conflict of interest, the governing board has unanimously resolved to shift the secretariat of the consortium to the Nalsar University of Law, Hyderabad. It has also unanimously resolved that in the interim period, Faizan Mustafa, the senior-most member of the consortium and past president, and who is the vice-chancellor of Nalsar, Hyderabad, will discharge all the administrative and secretarial functions of the consortium. It was resolved that Mustafa shall immediately take over the control and the handle of the consortium website. Professor KD Rao, last year’s CLAT convener and vice-chancellor, NLU, Odisha, will now discharge the financial functions of the treasurer of CLAT Consortium. The governing body decided that they will discharge these functions in consultation with the president of the consortium. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/key-decisions-on-nalsar-consortium/articleshow/77967471.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Technical prob results in fewer cases being reported in Nagpur||Nagpur: Although because of a technicalglitch, the number of recovered patients of Covid-19 was higher than the number of new patients on Sunday. Total 2,189 patients were reported on Sunday against 2,654 who recovered and were discharged. But this could be due to less reporting from Nagpur. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) reported only 654 cases while district health authorities reported another 165 cases in a day. A senior NMC officials stated the ICMR website could not be opened so, they could report only positive figure of NMC testing centres. Nagpur, for the first time in 14 days, reported less than 1,000 cases bringing down Vidarbha region’s case count too. On Sunday, with Nagpur (819) Amravati (269), Chandrapur (262), Yavatmal (190), Gondia (121), Bhandara (119), Wardha (116), Akola (100), Buldhana (93), Washim (70), and Gadchiroli (30), total cases in Vidarbha reached 75,356. The projected peak figure in Vidarbha as per the directorate of health services is 75,801 which most likely will be crossed tomorrow. Recoveries are coming from all 11 districts now. Nagpur (1,811), Chandrapur (208), Amravati (189), Buldhana (104) Wardha (98), Akola (85), Bhandara (36), Gadchiroli (36), Washim (35), Gondia (34), Yavatmal (18) accounted for 2,654 patients who recovered. Now, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is more than 65% but still less than Maharashtra’s 71.03% and national 77.33%. On Sunday, the region reported 76 deaths which is highest in a day. Total 410 deaths have been reported in just six days of September. Vidarbha’s death toll reached 1,999 and case fatality rate around 2.65% against Maharashtra’s 2.93%. National average is under 2% now. On Sunday, Nagpur reported highest 54 deaths in a day followed by Chandrapur (5), Washim (4), Gondia (3), Amravati (3), Yavatmal (3) Bhandara (2), Wardha (1), and Buldhana (1). AMRAVATI: A spike of 269 cases, the highest on any single day since the lockdown, took the district’s count to 7,005. It was the fifth 200-plus count recorded on single day and second on the trot. The district also reported three covid deaths taking the toll to 153. With 189 patients getting discharged today, the count of recovered patients reached 5,262. This left 1590 active cases including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur and 365 in home isolation, according to an official release. The deceased included males aged 39 and 68 from Dhotarkheda village in Achalpur and Kholapuri Gate here. A 54-year-old woman from Daryapur was the third Covid casualty of the day.CHANDRAPUR: Chandrapur posted single day high of five deaths and sixth double century with 262 positive cases taking the toll to 46 and total to 3,903 respectively on Sunday. District also registered the record of 208 recoveries the taking the total to 1,850 during the day. The five deceased include 40-year-old from Shivra in Chimur tehsil, 70-year-old from Vikas Nagar in Warora, 65-year-old from Tukum locality in Chandrapur city, 86-year-old from Keljhar in Mul teshil and a 90-year-old from Dadmahal ward in Chandrapur city. They all died at Chandrapur GMCH. YAVATMAL: The district recorded three more deaths on Sunday taking the toll to 120. They included 63-year-old man and a 56-year-old woman from the city and a 62-year-old man from Pandharkawda. There were 190 new positive patients on Sunday. Yavatmal city alone reported 54 patients of whom 31 men and 23 women. Meanwhile 18 patients recovered. Now, Yavatmal has 4253 cases.GONDIA: Gondia has reported 29 deaths in last 27 days including three on Sunday. While district added 121 new patients and 34 defeated coronavirus today. Now Gondia has 2,307 total cases. 1177 have recovered and there have been 32 deaths. BHANDARA: Covid-19 cases in Bhandara surpassed 2,000-mark with 119 new patients. Bhandara has been constantly reporting triple digit increase in patients since September 2. on Sunday, two patients died taking total deaths to 35. With 2,003 cases, 973 discharged and 35 deaths, now 995 are under treatment. BULDHANA: The district reported 93 positive cases. A 66-yr-old man from Palshi in Khamgaon tehsil died during treatment taking toll in Buldhana to 58. Number of patients recovered was 104, more than the number of new patients. Now, Buldhana has 3,845 cases, 2,733 recoveries, and 58 deaths.AKOLA: 100 new positive cases were reorted taking total to 4611. Total 85 patients recovered. No death was reported keeping total toll at 165. Now, 941 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: The district continued to report more than 100 positive patients for the third day in a row. 116 positive were found including 75 males and 41 females. A 66-year-old man from Dahegaon village of Wardha tehsil died. 98 patients beat the virus and got discharged. The caseload of district reached 1,718 and toll is 32.WASHIM: Deaths of four patients due to Covid-19 took toll of Washim to 42. A 75-year-old woman, a 70-year-old woman from Washim city, a 77-year-old man and a 66-year-old woman from Risod town died. Total 70 new patients were detected while 35 were discharged after recovery. This took total in district to 2,163 and recoveries to 1505. GADCHIROLI: Total 36 patients recovered while 30 new cases were detected in Gadchiroli on September 6. Recovered patients include 12 patients from Gadchiroli, 23 from Chamorshi, and one from Wadsa. New patients include a C-60 Jawan, a CRPF Jawan, and a police jawan. Others are patients from close contacts of positive patients. Now, Gadchiroli has 1,282 cases and 989 recoveries with one death reported in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/technical-prob-results-in-fewer-cases-being-reported-in-nagpur/articleshow/77968296.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||In a 1st, NU to hold online exam for all final yr students||Nagpur: In a first, Nagpur University will conduct online examinations for its final year students, as per the directives of chancellor BS Koshiyari and Maharashtra government. As reported in detail by TOI on Sunday, papers would have multiple choice questions (MCQ). The decision was taken during an emergent meeting, which was conducted online, of Academic Council on Sunday convened by vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhary. Earlier, NU had constituted a task force under CP and Berar College principal Milind Barahate to suggest measures on holding the exam online in view of government’s directives. The ten-member panel held a marathon meeting on Saturday and prepared a draft suggesting MCQ type papers of 50 questions each for all faculties. The draft was accepted and would now be placed before the Board of Examinations and Evaluations (BOEE) on Monday morning for urgent clearance and then tabled before Management Council for its approval on the same day. “We would be sending the entire report to the state higher and technical education department by Monday evening, as directed by director Dhanraj Mane. The practical exams would start from September 15, which too would be held online. The MCQ papers would be held from October 1 to 18, which students can solve using their smartphones or any other Android-based gadget,” BOEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI, while refusing to comment further. NU officials said it was also decided to ask Promarc to design an app that would be the single point gateway for exams. They, however, added that total marks would be granted on the basis of students’ performance in online exams and their internal assessment. Both components would carry equal marks in the mark-sheet. NU would hold mock tests on September 26 and 27, so that students can get accustomed to this type of exam and servers can also be tested. All papers would be conducted in four time slots daily, and there would be no Sunday or holiday for 18 days. Colleges to hold ATKT students’ exams In another first, NU’s affiliated and conducted colleges would be entrusted with the task of conducting exams of final year failure students. “We’ve very few such ATKT students, about 8,000, having backlog of papers. We will be asking colleges to hold it online, offline or blended mode at their level, but keeping in mind health factor of examinees,” NU officials told TOI. ALL ABOUT NU FINAL YEAR EXAMS * Duration — 1 hour * Mode — Online (MCQ) * Questions — 50 * Minimum to solve — 25 * Registration — Through NU Exam App * Requirements — Smartphone/laptop/desktop # Exam schedule * Practical exams — Sept 15-25 * Mock test — Sept 24-27 * Exams — Oct 1-18 * Results out — Oct 18-31 * Papers — Daily, No Sunday/holiday # Time slots * Commerce — 9.30am to 10.30am * Humanities — 11.30am to 12.30pm * Science — 1.30pm to 2.30pm * Engineering — 3.30pm to 4.30pm # Exam format * No of exams — 180 * No of papers — 1,135 * Total students — 75,000 # Failure students * Colleges to hold exams at their level * Failure students — 8,000 (approx)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-1st-nu-to-hold-online-exam-for-all-final-yr-students/articleshow/77968340.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Six, including 3 Covid positive patients, sneak out of Mayo Hospital||Nagpur: Six patients, including a woman with her newborn son, fled the Mayo hospital in the early hours of Sunday while hospital authorities remained in the dark. At least three of them, including the woman, are reportedly Covid-19 positive. This is the second instance when patients have fled the Mayo hospital after the outbreak of Covid. The patients, who were caught in the CCTV of the Nagpur railway station, boarded the Sanghamitra Express which had reached here at 8.10am. After getting an alert, Nagpur’s Railway Protection Force (RPF) under divisional security commissioner, central railway, Ashutosh Pandey traced the six boarding the train and alerted their Betul (Madhya Pradesh) counterpart. The six were intercepted at Betul station by the RPF staffers and shifted to the local Covid care centre (CCC). The woman was travelling along with her family in Secunderabad-Danapur Express on September 4. The woman along her family alighted from the train at Nagpur station after she went into labour. She delivered a baby boy on the Nagpur station platform with the help of doctors and nurses from the Railway hospital. Th woman was shifted to Mayo hospital and subsequently found positive. Another two members of her family too tested positive. It’s not known whether the baby too was positive. Dr Ajay Keoliya, dean of Mayo hospital, said the matter needs to be probed for more details as none of the staffers seem to have clarity about the incident. “The situation is still not clear. The woman and the family must have been lodged near ward no. 38 as they did not have symptoms. It’s not known how they left the hospital premises,” said Dr Keoliya. Pandey said the Mayo hospital guard had met with our officers with a list of patients who may have taken the train to flee. “We verified the information and found it to be true. Help of Beitul unit was taken to intercept them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-including-3-covid-positive-patients-sneak-out-of-mayo-hospital/articleshow/77968304.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 7, 2020||Amaravati||AP government broadens ambit of Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act||AMARAVATI: In a move to bring in more transparency and accountability to the administration, the state government has brought several citizen services under the purview of Andhra Pradesh Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act, 2018 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 6 of 2018). As many as 44 services from different departments including revenue, registration, industries, ground water, mines and geology, agriculture, transport, forests and legal metrology have been listed under the services to be guaranteed under prescribed deadline. Although the legislation was passed three years ago, many services had been left out of the purview of the Act. There was no time-frame set for providing services including issuing no objection certificates (NOC) for land use from revenue authorities. The state government found that such delays are only resulting in high volume corruption in different departments and decided to widen the ambit of Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act, 2018, by including many services. The government is also hopeful of attracting investments to the state as officials would face penalties if the services were not provided within the timelines prescribed. “This is certainly going to be a game-changer in making the administration transparent and accountable. People could sue the officials for payment of penalties in case of delay in providing the services,” said KariKal Valaven, special chief secretary, commerce and industries. According to the new rules, urban civic bodies should grant integrated water and sewerage connection within 15 days from the receipt of the application. Municipal commissioner would be held accountable to pay Rs 50 per each day of delay if the connection is not granted. Similarly, the roads and buildings (R&B) department should issue road cutting permissions within 14 days. Registration department should release the encumbrance certificate within 24 hours of getting the application. Application for registration of a cooperative society should be cleared by the concerned deputy registrar within 60 days or pay Rs 50 penalty per each day of delay. Similarly, registration of contractors should be completed by R&B department within 21 days or face penalty of Rs 100 per each day of delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-broadens-ambit-of-public-services-delivery-guarantee-act/articleshow/77971790.cms||Samdani MN
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: SEC files complaint over fake poll schedule post on social media||VIJAYAWADA: Taking serious note of a forged message bearing the name of state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar being circulated on social media about election schedule for local bodies, the state election commission (SEC) lodged a complaint with Vijayawada police on Sunday. Ramesh Kumar, in his statement, termed the message in circulation as false, mischievous and motivated and said it was part of a disinformation campaign against the election commission. A complaint has been forwarded to Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu, Suryaraopet police station, and to the cybercrime wing of Vijayawada police on Sunday. Based on the complaint received from the SEC, Suryaraopet police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 505 of IPC for spreading false information. Inspector NV Suryanarayana said that they have launched an investigation to identify the source of the message. The cybercrime wing of Vijayawada police identified two web portals and issued notices to them. Cybercrime inspector K Shivaji said that they have sent notices to the web portals to remove false information and asked them to reply with names of those responsible for the post. He said he criminal proceedings will be handled by Suryaraopet police and they will assist them in identifying the persons responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-files-plaint-over-fake-poll-schedule-post-on-social-media/articleshow/77966393.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government broadens ambit of Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act||AMARAVATI: In a move to bring in more transparency and accountability to the administration, the state government has brought several citizen services under the purview of Andhra Pradesh Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act, 2018 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 6 of 2018). As many as 44 services from different departments including revenue, registration, industries, ground water, mines and geology, agriculture, transport, forests and legal metrology have been listed under the services to be guaranteed under prescribed deadline. Although the legislation was passed three years ago, many services had been left out of the purview of the Act. There was no time-frame set for providing services including issuing no objection certificates (NOC) for land use from revenue authorities. The state government found that such delays are only resulting in high volume corruption in different departments and decided to widen the ambit of Public Services Delivery Guarantee Act, 2018, by including many services. The government is also hopeful of attracting investments to the state as officials would face penalties if the services were not provided within the timelines prescribed. “This is certainly going to be a game-changer in making the administration transparent and accountable. People could sue the officials for payment of penalties in case of delay in providing the services,” said KariKal Valaven, special chief secretary, commerce and industries. According to the new rules, urban civic bodies should grant integrated water and sewerage connection within 15 days from the receipt of the application. Municipal commissioner would be held accountable to pay Rs 50 per each day of delay if the connection is not granted. Similarly, the roads and buildings (R&B) department should issue road cutting permissions within 14 days. Registration department should release the encumbrance certificate within 24 hours of getting the application. Application for registration of a cooperative society should be cleared by the concerned deputy registrar within 60 days or pay Rs 50 penalty per each day of delay. Similarly, registration of contractors should be completed by R&B department within 21 days or face penalty of Rs 100 per each day of delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-broadens-ambit-of-public-services-delivery-guarantee-act/articleshow/77966354.cms||Samdani MN
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Informer or culprit? Police mum on Ravi Shankar’s role in drug racket||Bengaluru: CCB police said Ravi Shankar, the RTO official who spilled the beans about the drug racket allegedly involving Sandalwood celebrities but was not named in the FIR, has been arrested in another drug-peddling case from 2018. Pratheek Shetty, a software engineer from Mangaluru, and two foreigners had also been apprehended in the two-year-old case. While investigators said the trio supplied drugs for high-end parties in Bengaluru, it’s not clear what Shankar’s role in the two-year-old scandal was and why he’s been arrested now. Cops said Shankar’s involvement came to light recently while they picked him up for interrogation in the latest case, but are tight-lipped about why he was excluded from the Sandalwood drug scandal. Shankar’s statement is believed to have implicated his friend, actor Ragini Dwivedi, and also his rival for her affections, Shivaprakash, in the latest case. Faith Chuks alias Twa, 34, from Cape Town, South Africa; Kante Henry alias Iwa from Conkry Gunine, East Africa and Pratheek Shetty, 29 of New Thippasandra and originally from Mangaluru, were arrested by CCB sleuths on November 2, 2018. Police had claimed to have seized cocaine and ecstasy tablets worth Rs 1.5 crore from the trio. Court documents reveal police acted on credible information that persons from a few African countries along with a local were trying to sell drugs at Kacharakanahalli near Banasawadi. A team rushed to the spot and swooped down on the trio. In total, 1,500 grams of cocaine, 1930 ecstasy tablets, a car and scooter, mobile phones, plastic covers, cash worth Rs 6,000 and passports were seized from the accused. Police investigated the case and filed a chargesheet before the special court for NDPS. The initial bail petitions of the accused trio were rejected, but they were granted bail in July 2019. “The main reason they were granted bail was that the forensic report on the seized drugs was not ready even after eight months of the arrests,” said a police officer privy to the case said. Now, the trial is nearing the stage of framing of charges. A few police officers who had handled the 2018 case said the accused trio confessed to smuggling drugs from Mumbai and supplying them in high-level parties in Bengaluru. They didn’t reveal Shankar’s name during interrogation. A police officer said that they picked up Shankar on the suspicion of him peddling drugs for actors and celebrities a few days ago. He confessed about his link with the 2018 case and was arrested in connection with that. Police officers, including joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil, declined to reveal anything about Shankar’s role in the fresh case. “These are legal ways of handling the issue. We can’t disclose much now,” Patil said. QUICK REWIND * Techie and 2 foreigners were held with drugs on Nov 2, 2018 * Trio granted bail in July 2019 * Confessed to supplying drugs in Bengaluru parties; didn’t reveal Shankar’s name during interrogation * Shankar recently picked up on suspicion; said he’s connected with 2018 case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/informer-or-culprit-police-mum-on-ravi-shankars-role-in-drug-racket/articleshow/77966794.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Red light area residents are following safety norms to remain ‘Corona free’||Nagpur: Nearly 1,500 residents of Ganga Jamuna, the city’s red light area, have so far ensured that their zone is ‘Corona free’ by diligently following Covid and safe sex guidelines.Though the risk has increased in the unlock phase as visitors are gradually on the rise, alert residents have so far kept the virus at bay by following guidelines provided to them by NGOs like the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) which are active in this part of th city. While the city’s Covid positive count has crossed the 39,000 mark with more than 1,300 deaths registered, residents of these lanes have kept themselves well protected. Hemlata Lohave, project manager of IRCS, said a joint meeting was held between the NGO and the police department as soon as the lockdown was announced in March. “We managed to keep the locality and its residents free of Covid till date as they helped us by following the guidelines of safe sex and Covid regulations like wearing mask, using sanitizer and soap frequently,” said Lohave. “We were repeatedly counselling them (commercial sex workers) to keep them safe. During our anti-HIV campaigns, we told them that a condom is a shield and now we are adding masks, sanitizers and different techniques for safe sex to stay away from Covid,” she said. The Ganga Jamuna locality, close to several containment zones, including the adjacent Satranjipura, was initially thought to be a high-risk zone because of customers frequenting the dingy lanes and pigeon-hole cubicles where several diseases were already prevalent. The residents then took on the challenge by continuing with their personal and professional lives by following all the safety guidelines. Panic due to the pandemic also saw a large numbers of residents fleeing the place as several unfounded fears, anxieties and rumours had started doing the rounds here. Residents who decided to stay back adopted the guidelines with extra dedication than the neighbouring areas where the pandemic wreaked havoc.According to a resident of Ganga Jamuna, the women are cautious about not staying without masks, using sanitizers and soaps to clean hands and other parts of the body frequently. “We are repeatedly drinking warm water and Kadha throughout the day,” said a resident. “There is no news of anyone of us being affected by Corona as yet,” she said.Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station said he too did not hear about anyone has been affected by Covid from Ganga Jamuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/red-light-area-residents-are-following-safety-norms-to-remain-corona-free/articleshow/77968346.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 7, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru girl emerges as state’s 2nd topper after SSLC revaluation||Mysuru: Spoorthi Y Agnihothri, a student of Marimallappa’s High School in the city emerged as the state’s second topper in the SSLC examination after she got six additional marks in English language paper during revaluation. Earlier, she had secured 618/625 and after the revaluation, her score is now 624/625. “In the first valuation, I secured full marks marks in five subjects, including Sanskrit (125/125), Kannada (100/100), Mathematics (100/100), Science (100/100) and Social Science (100/100). However in English, I secured 93 marks. This surprised me as I was confident of securing more marks in the subject. So I applied for revaluation and secured six additional marks,” she said. Earlier, three students who had secured 623/625 were announced as the district toppers. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Chamarajanagar, after revaluation a student of Nisarga Vidyanikethana English Medium High School Srikrutha emerged as district topper and state’s fourth topper. After revaluation, she secured 622 marks against the earlier 618 marks. “Two students of Sri Ramakrishna Vidyashala, Mysuru — Vivek S and Vihaan N — secured 623 out of 625 after the revaluation. With this, three students of the school have emerged as the district toppers,” said school correspondent Swami Yukteshananda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-girl-emerges-as-states-2nd-topper-after-sslc-revaluation/articleshow/77966343.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Potholes at Dwarka jn throw traffic out of gear||Nashik: The pothole-riddled road at the Dwarka junction has been slowing down the vehicular traffic on the Mumbai-Agra highway over the past few days.Police personnel responsible for streamlining traffic at this junction said they have informed their senior officers of the issues so that the matter can be taken up with the civic officials concerned.The Dwarka junction on the Mumbai-Agra highway is one of the busiest junctions in the city. A large number of vehicles from the Mumbai side, the Dhule side, from Nashik city and Pune criss-cross at this junction all through the day.Taking into account the frequent traffic snarls at this junction, the city police have already banned the movement of heavy vehicles here between 8 am and 10 am. These vehicles are diverted to other routes.A couple of months ago, the city police had set in operation a traffic signal at this junction. For a brief while, it appeared that the perennial problem of the Dwarka junction had been resolved. However, the showers over the past two months have created potholes around this junction — again slowing down vehicular movement.Though motorists are following the road signals, they get stuck in the middle of the junction where huge potholes have developed. A traffic constable said when the vehicles slow down in the middle junction, chaos ensues. The police officers said they would be writing to the NMC and get the potholes filled immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/potholes-at-dwarka-jn-throw-traffic-out-of-gear/articleshow/77965639.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Fallen container stalls traffic on Kasara ghat||Nashik: Traffic had come to a standtill for about half-an-hour on the road going towards Mumbai on the Mumbai-Agra highway on Sunday morning as the highway police was removing a container that had fallen off the road following an accident on Saturday. Police said that they had to stop the traffic for some time around 9am. The container was lifted with the help of a crane after which the vehicles were allowed to go towards Mumbai. Constable Rahul Gangurde of the highway police said that the accident occured on Saturday morning when the driver of the container lost control of the vehicle. Though the fallen container was not impeding traffic flow, motorists slowed down at the accident spot. A large number of accidents take place in the Kasara Ghat area as either drivers of heavy vehicles lose control in the ghat section or motorists stop their vehicles in the middle of the road to watch the scenery around the valley. Harish Chaube, a fire officer at an industrial unit in Igatpuri, who commutes on the highway daily, said that accidents were a daily affair on the highway because of the bad condition of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fallen-container-stalls-traffic-on-kasara-ghat/articleshow/77965611.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Eknath Khadse claims Devendra Fadnavis used Kripa Shankar Singh, hacker to dislodge him||MUMBAI: Sidelined BJP politician Eknath Khadse on Sunday launched a frontal attack against party colleague and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, saying he used hacker Manish Bhangale to dislodge him from politics. Khadse's disclosure came on the eve of the monsoon session of the legislature. "I was the prime contender for the CM post. Fadnavis used the hacker to dislodge me from active politics. On the day the hacker alleged my nexus with don Dawood Ibrahim's wife, at midnight the hacker met Fadnavis at the official residence of the CM. He was accompanied by Congress leader Kripa Shankar Singh. In lieu, Fadnavis refused permission for prosecuting Singh, who was involved in economic offences. Singh was acquitted in all cases. An activist of the Uttar Bhartiya Sangh was nominated on the legislative council," Khadse said. Khadse asked Fadnavis why criminal cases were not initiated against the hacker. "During his entire tenure of five years, Fadnavis gave a clean chit to all cabinet members who were facing serious charges of corruption and irregularities. Then he had purchased an ultramodern dry-clean. Except me, everyone got a clean chit," he said. Khadse was asked to quit the Fadnavis cabinet by the BJP over allegations of land grab. Fadnavis declined to comment. A BJP politician said Bhangale and Singh did meet the CM on that day and a picture circulated by Khadse had gone viral then. "Khadse is hiding the fact that he was given a clean chit by Fadnavis on the allegations against him in less than 12 hours and put the hacker in jail for several months," the BJP politician said, requesting anonymity. Singh denied the charges, saying he was given a clean chit by the court and not Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-eknath-khadse-claims-devendra-fadnavis-used-kripa-shankar-singh-hacker-to-dislodge-him/articleshow/77968872.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 7, 2020||Chennai||2,600 calls from Tamil Nadu to stop child marriages||CHENNAI: Around half of the distress calls to stop child marriages in the past seven months to the national helpline 1098 were from four southern states, reveal statistics. Data received from Childline showed that between January and July, the helpline received more than 14,700 calls — more than 7,500 of which were from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Karnataka. The states are among the top five in terms of child marriages reported. According to the data, Tamil Nadu had the third-highest number with 2,666 distress calls, after Karnataka which had 2,737 calls, followed by Telangana (923) and Andhra Pradesh (168). Most calls were from West Bengal (2,962). Comparing the figures with those from the same period last year, showed that while the number of distress calls received from these four states had declined by around 10%, they continued to be among the top five. The number has also declined nationally by around 12% and officials said there was evident decline during the lockdown months starting from April. A significant number of cases involved children below 16 years of age and more than 50% involved children between 16 and 18. Experts said increasing awareness about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act (PCMA), 2006, in the southern states, and reporting was the reason behind the high numbers. “Today, 1098 has become a household number, everyone knows about it, starting from children and the elderly. If the children are unable to report, a neighbour might,” said S Christuraj, child rights activist and state coordinator of Samakalvi Iyakkam. He said a combination of reasons such as poverty, lack of education forced parents to marry off their children at an early age. “But figures over the past five years show that people in the south have followed the rules much more effectively than in the north because of several interventions and mechanisms available to curb them,” he said. Officials from the state child protection unit, however, said the possibility of under-reporting should not be ignored. “Children are stuck at home with families. They might not find a safe place to report these instances,” said a senior official from the unit. The official said due to the lockdown and lack of manpower, they are also finding it difficult to follow up on such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-6k-calls-from-tn-to-stop-child-marriages/articleshow/77967491.cms||Aditi R
September 7, 2020||Kochi||KC(M) seeks to disqualify 2 MLAs for violating whip||KOTTAYAM: The steering committee of Kerala Congress (Mani) decided to file a complaint with the assembly speaker asking him to disqualify MLAs P J Joseph and Mons Joseph, both of who violated the party whip during the no-confidence motion and in the Rajya Sabha elections. The meeting also decided to proceed legally, based on the anti-defection law, against local body members who contested in the ‘two leaves’ symbol and later switched over to the Jos eph faction of KC(M). A press note from the party said that as part of disqualifying the two MLAs based on section 3 (6) of the anti-defection law, which says that after the expiry of fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention, and within thirty days from the date of such voting or abstention, the political party has got the time to decide whether to take action against the members. The main agenda of the steering committee was to decide on this. The meeting concluded that both P J Joseph and Mons Joseph cheated the party by violating the whip and hence should be disqualified. Chief whip of the Kerala Congress (M) Roshy Augustine was entrusted with submitting the complaint to the speaker. MLA C F Thomas who did not attend the assembly due to health reasons was exempted from any action. The meeting also decided that the party will take a decision about joining a political front before the local body elections. The party had taken an independent stand after being expelled from UDF. The meeting entrusted MP Jose K Mani to take a decision regarding this. There was severe criticism against UDF in the meeting, while the members welcomed the favourable stand of LDF towards the KC(M).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kcm-seeks-to-disqualify-2-mlas-for-violating-whip/articleshow/77966539.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Since 2014, no action has been taken on vigilance reports||HYDERABAD: Vigilance and enforcement (V&E) department has submitted around 660 vigilance reports about irregularities, mostly in municipal administration, revenue and panchayat raj departments since formation of Telangana in 2014. In majority of cases, action taken reports have not been submitted by departments concerned. Of the 660 vigilance reports, municipal administration tops with 139, while revenue has 80, panchayat raj 79, agriculture department 61 and irrigation 52. A Right to Information (RTI) reply from the general administration department (vigilance and enforcement) to Forum for Good Governance revealed that around 722 alerts were issued regarding pilferage of income, mostly from the revenue department. Former IFS official M Padmanabha Reddy said: “There is an abnormal delay in taking action against tainted officials in revenue, irrigation, panchayat raj, municipal administration departments. Lack of fear of law will lead to further corruption. We represented on the issue to the government two years ago, but no action has been taken. Again, we will seek governor’s intervention on the issue.” “Vigilance and enforcement was constituted to probe into serious misconduct by government employees and irregularities. Vigilance department is like the eyes and ears of the government. It is headed by a director-general-rank official. Also, it has two directors, 76 senior officers and staff and around Rs 10 crore is spent on the department.” “Vigilance reports and notices received by the department are sent to GAD and then to department heads for action. There is no action on most of the reports and dragged on for years. Since the formation of Telangana, there are no action taken reports. Lack of focus on bringing logical conclusion to the cases is abetting the erring staff,” Padmanabha Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/since-14-no-action-has-been-taken-on-vigilance-reports/articleshow/77967524.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Land sharks use locals as front to grab prime property of trust along ECR||CHENNAI: The Madras high court may have restrained the registration department from creating any encumbrance on land belonging to Arulmigu Alavandhar Nayakar Charity, but attempts to usurp the prime properties along ECR using locals have come to light. A section of residents of the coastal hamlets around are working hand-in-glove with the land sharks, said officials of the HR&CE department. About 1,300 acres of scenic land owned by the trust attached to the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department dot the East Coast Road (ECR) between Kovalam and Mamallapuram. While there are repeated attempts to grab the land by organised gangs, there are instances of them colluding with the locals as well. Official sources with the department, which maintains the properties, said grabbing takes place in form of a hut or two being erected or pathways being laid for posh bungalows adjacent to the trust’s land. “The land parcels are used for accessing several private properties along the sea shore and pathways are constructed illegally. This is just groundwork as the pathways can be cited later to get permanent roads constructed,” said a source. Several such attempts were weeded out with the assistance of police. In the past five years, police registered around 20 cases against 100 individuals for attempting to encroach, grab and trespass into the land belonging to the trust. “Those named in the FIRs, even with land grabbing charges, continue to pursue the land. Protecting the land from anti-social elements is challenging because a section of the locals and the big shots (land sharks) are hand-in-hand,” a HR&CE official said. On Saturday, the Madras high court directed Tiruporur sub-registrar not to register about 2,000 acres of land belonging to Arulmigu Kandaswamy Temple at Tiruporur on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and Arulmigu Alavandhar Nayakar Charity at Mamallapuram, worth Rs 60,000 crore, following a TOI report in July. Meanwhile, the Chengalpet district police, under whose purview the trust properties fall, said multiple land grabbing gangs operate on OMR and ECR. “We are sending reports to the anti-land grabbing cell to investigate cases,” a district police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/land-sharks-use-locals-as-front-to-grab-prime-property-of-trust-along-ecr/articleshow/77967515.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 7, 2020||Bhopal||3X increase in Covid beds in MP by Oct, says Sarang||Bhopal: Medical colleges would double their bed-capacity by three times by October, said MP medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang, here on Sunday. In the meeting, Sarang discussed the treatment protocol adopted by medical colleges. “An unprecedented increase in bed-strength in medical colleges would be achieved by October. Government colleges and hospitals would continue to provide free-of-cost Covid treatment to all patients,” said Sarang. Deans and senior DME officials were present in the meeting. Sarang also reviewed the measures being taken for protection of medical practitioners and support staff as these Covid warriors are at high risk. Doctors, support staff should be encouraged and provided with the best infrastructure. Increase in bed-strength is expected to be across all 13 government run medical colleges in 10 districts of Madhya Pradesh. “A target has been set that 3600 oxygen beds and 564 ICU beds would be added for coronavirus treatment till October 31, which will increases such beds to 11,710 and 2,488 respectively”, he said. MP fixes Covid treatment cost at private hospitals: Madhya Pradesh government has decided that private hospitals treating Covid-affected patients could charge only 40% more than the rates prevalent before the outbreak. Vishwas Sarang informed that there was some confusion about bills being given by private hospitals treating Covid patients. “It was decided in the meeting that private hospitals treating Covid patients can charge bills on the basis of rates fixed before February this year. They can charge maximum of 40 per cent more than the pre-February rates. Say, they were charging Rs100 in February, then they can charge Rs140 now,” he said. It was decided that patients can voluntarily pay bills, fully or partially, at designated hospitals which are treating free-of-cost at the moment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3x-increase-in-covid-beds-in-mp-by-oct-says-sarang/articleshow/77968356.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Plasma therapy helps 2-month-old recover in Nashik||NASHIK: A two-month-old baby — admitted to a private hospital in the city after testing positive for Covid-19 — was recently discharged after successful recovery. Doctors who treated the infant said the infection was passed on to him from his mother. After testing positive, the woman had been quarantined at home and tests were performed on her baby. The swab reports later confirmed the infection. Medical director and paediatrician Sushil Parakh of Ashoka Medicover Hospital said the child was brought to the hospital in a serious condition. Nearly 70% of his lungs were infected at the time of admission. The baby was administered plasma therapy and was also put on high dose of steroid therapy. According to doctors, it was for the first time in north Maharashtra that Covid-19 medicines were used to treat a two-month-old baby. The baby was discharged about a week back and there has been no relapse of the infection, said Parakh, adding that the treatment continued for 22 days. Given the need and effectiveness of plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 infection, the administration has been requesting and encouraging cured Covid patients to opt for plasma donation. “It is a misconception that children have low risk of contracting infection. The immunity in small children is low and, hence, they are more susceptible of contracting the infection. If children are not provided immediate treatment and care, the repercussions could be serious,” said Parakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/plasma-therapy-helps-2-month-old-recover/articleshow/77965650.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: MBA aspirants accuse classmate, 2 others for duping him of Rs 66 lakh||PUNE: The Kothrud police on Saturday registered an offence against a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) student, his brother and mother after five of his classmates alleged that he duped them of Rs66 lakh on the pretext of helping them secure admission to an MBA course at a private management college here. The police said the trio took money in instalments from the complainants between December last year and August. They even gave the students bogus selection letters, fake fee receipts and emailed them provisional admission letters in the name of the college. “The fraud came to light recently when the students approached the college with the admission letters and found that the letters were fake,” said Kiran Balwadkar, inspector of Kothrud police station. Balwadkar said, “When the students demanded their money back, the two brothers abused and threatened them. The students lodged an FIR on Saturday. We have booked the trio for cheating and forgery.” The affected students and the main suspect are classmates at a college in Kothrud and they all had appeared for the MBA entrance examination held by the private management college. “However, they were not sure if they would be able to clear the exam,” Balwadkar said. “The suspect told them that he and his brother were in contact with the head of the college and promised them admission to the course through the management quota. The brothers took over Rs12.5 lakh from each student, who transferred the money to a joint account held by the suspects and their mother. The students also claimed to have given them cash during the lockdown period,” said Balwadkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mba-aspirants-accuse-classmate-2-others-for-duping-him-of-rs-66l/articleshow/77967530.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Need special plan for housing in Munnar: Report||IDUKKI: In the wake of the Pettimudy landslide, a report submitted by a team led by Munnar special tehsildar Binu Joseph to Idukki district collector has recommended setting up of a special planning system for home constructions in Munnar. It also calls for encouraging single floor building to avoid Pettimudy model issues. After the landslide on August 7 that claimed 66 lives with four still missing, Idukki district collector H Dineshan had deputed a 13-member team to analyze the damages and steps for rehabilitation. The report says the government should provide 3.51 crore as compensation, for which the 95 affected families and the relatives of the deceased are eligible. “After we get the government order, we can distribute the compensation to the victims,” said the collector. The report also suggests studying the actual reason over the landslide. "We don’t know the actual reason yet,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. The report has also suggested improving the condition of the 'layams'. The report has recommended allowing human settlement in Pettimudy only after an environmental impact study was conducted. The report also recommends a high-level probe into the factors that led to a delay in the information of the landslide reaching the authorities. It was alleged that the delay affected the rescue operations at the site. The report also pointed out that there was a lack of proper communication facilities in the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/need-special-plan-for-housing-in-munnar-report/articleshow/77966551.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 7, 2020||Pune||Trio rob businessman of valuables, cash worth Rs 2.8 lakh||PUNE: Three men on a scooter robbed cash and valuables totally worth Rs2.79 lakh from a 30-year-old businessman at Belbaug chowk on Laxmi Road around 12.30am on Friday. Police said the incident occurred when complainant Jitendra Rathod halted his car at Belbaug chowk for a smoke. Rathod, who runs a jewellery shop in Shivajinagar, was in a state of shock for a day. After recovering he filed an offence with the Vishrambaug police. Assistant inspector Yuvraj Patil of the Vishrambaug police said, “Rathod wanted to grab a cup of tea late at night. He left his house in Narveer Tanajiwadi and reached the Mandai area in his car. However, he failed to locate tea stall and stopped at Belbaug chowk.” “The three men soon reached the spot on a scooter and issued threats of dire consequences to him. One of them even grabbed Rathod by his collar. The suspects then robbed his gold chain, gold bracelet and cash, totally worth Rs2.79 lakh,” he said. Patil said Rathod did not retaliate as suspects kept on issuing threats. Later then drove away towards Seva Sadan chowk. Police are scanning the CCTV footage of traffic cameras as well as those of the private establishments on the road to ascertain the identities of the trio, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-rob-bizman-of-valuables-cash-worth-rs-2-8l/articleshow/77967508.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Children more prone to condition||Ahmedabad: Barely six months ago, the parents were scolding children for spending hours on laptops and smartphones. Now, it’s the role reversal where many of them bought the digital devices for the children. City-based experts said that compared to the adult population, they witness more computer vision syndrome (CVS) cases among teens. Dr Manish Raval, a city-based ophthalmologist, said that children visiting experts for eye-related issues and other symptoms such as headaches have increased after the introduction of online classes. “About 95% of the parents that approach us complain of two factors – their wards spend more time on digital screens and they don’t eat properly. Sometimes children also reason that they need the devices for study, but parents must ensure that they don’t spend unhealthy amount of time on laptops and smartphones,” said Dr Raval. City-based experts also suggested to the schools that the online sessions should not exceed 30-40 minutes at a go for toddlers and more than an hour for the students up to class VII. They have also advised at least 10 minute break between two sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/children-more-prone-to-condition/articleshow/77967580.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tensions with China, Covid hit coastal road tunnel work||MUMBAI: Covid-19 coupled with tensions between India and China have delayed tunnelling work for the underground section of the coastal road here. The components of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) were imported from China in April. Since then they have been lying at the work site at Priyadarshini Park, Napean Sea Road, waiting for specialists to assemble them. The TBM will be the biggest yet to be used in any project in India. The coastal road's contractor, L&T, is now trying to mobilise Chinese engineers, who arrived in India earlier for work on the Mumbai and Bangalore Metro railway systems. Experts say big infrastructure projects in Mumbai and the rest of the country are heavily reliant on Chinese heavy machinery and calls for boycotting Chinese goods will only hurt these projects. Biggest TBM in India needs the assembling of 100 partsIt will take two months to assemble the tunnel boring machine (TBM) components at the coastal road work site at Priyadarshini Park. BMC officials say that unless Chinese engineers are allowed to work on the machine, the project will suffer delays. “Around 100 pieces of the TBM, imported from China, need to be put together. Because of India-China tensions, contractor L&T has been unable to get clearances for engineers from the Chinese manufacturer to reach Mumbai for the work. But Chinese engineers already working on the TBMs being used in Metro 3 and the Bangalore Metro can help assemble the coastal road TBM, the biggest in India, as the Metro TBMs are similar machines, size being the only difference,” said a BMC official. “After the machine is assembled, we need to test it to start the actual work. But even for that we need engineers from the Chinese company that manufactured the machine. It was tested in China in December 2019, before being dismantled for shipping to India, but a test needs to be done again after it is assembled,” the official said. As per reports, eight of 18 TBMs currently in the city for the Metro 3 project have been manufactured by Chinese-owned companies. The remaining 10, though are by companies registered in the West, too have been manufactured in China. (Inputs: Manthan Mehta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tensions-with-china-covid-hit-mumbai-coastal-tunnel-work/articleshow/77968880.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pinarayi Vijayan to meet Kerala MPs today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will convene an online meeting of the members of Parliament from the state ahead of the upcoming Parliament session. The meeting will be held at 10am on September 7. The meeting will discuss issues relating to the state that needs to be raised in Parliament. Such a meeting was last convened in January this year ahead of Budget session. Unlike the usual practice of including developmental projects that needs Centre’s intervention and aid, the conference then had Citizenship Amendment Act and national population register as the key agenda points. However, in the upcoming session, it is learnt that the state would request the MPs to seek sufficient financial aid to revive various sectors in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, among other issues. The main criticism about the conference is that many of the agenda points in the last few years have been the same, pointing towards the futility in holding such a meeting every time immediately ahead of Parliament session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinarayi-to-meet-kerala-mps-today/articleshow/77966566.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Funds crunch hits UP govt’s plans for biodiversity parks||LUCKNOW: The plan to develop biodiversity parks in 27 districts along the Ganga has apparently hit a rough patch due to fund crunch. The Uttar Pradesh government had planned the parks on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Sources, however, said that the Centre had turned down the request for funds to create the parks. “As of now, we are not getting any funds from Namami Gange for the parks. We will have to arrange funds on our own,” said sources in the forest department. Parks were to be developed by the forest department to clean the Ganga through phytoremediation technique which is a low cost, solar energy-driven technique that uses plants to remove pollutants from water. River water is channelled through boulders to filter it and is held up in retention ponds which have naturally growing plant species that help increase the level of dissolved oxygen in water. The department had identified sites in at least 22 districts. In districts like Moradabad, a deer park along Ramganga was to be further developed into a biodiversity park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/funds-crunch-hits-states-plans-for-biodiversity-parks/articleshow/77968363.cms||Neha Shukla
September 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Narcotic crook’s dalliance with meow meow foxes DRI||HYDERABAD: Arrest of B Venkat Reddy recently for the second time in a span of three years for producing commercial quantity of narcotics has baffled Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths. The master manufacturer of narcotics, who was arrested twice earlier on the charge of producing ephedrine, has now upgraded himself to produce mephedrone, also known as poor man’s coke, for sale in the country’s commercial capital and export to South East Asian countries and Australia. He was arrested in the third week of August. Venkat Reddy, 51, who according to DRI, a diploma holder, worked in several pharma companies located on the outskirts of the city before venturing into manufacturing narcotics.  As per DRI records, he was caught by the Cyberabad police in 2013 for manufacturing ephedrine at a chemical firm in Chandanagar along with a family member. Subsequently, the DRI Hyderabad unit had arrested Venkat Reddy in 2017 November for manufacturing ephedrine at a chemical factory in the city outskirts at an industrial area in Sangareddy district. After spending close to eight months in prison, Reddy was released on bail. In July-August 2020, a DRI Mumbai team got wind of mephedrone peddling activity after lockdown and zeroed in on certain peddlers, the trail lead to busting of a distributor centre set up in a house in Mumbai and from there to a chemical factory in Jinnaram area on the outskirts of the city. Like in previous two cases, according to investigators, Venkat Reddy leased equipment of a factory in the guise of manufacturing certain legal, but started manufacturing narcotics. “The first two batches of mephedrone he attempted to make before the lockdown didn’t come out well. The next batches he made post lockdown period were close to fine quality (over 200 kilos) and he started sending them to a distributor in Mumbai,” a DRI official said. Venkat Reddy told the investigators that he quickly disposes drugs like mephedrone for Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh a kilo, which later sells at Rs 25 lakh a kilo in international markets of Malaysia, Australia and Thailand. “All payments take place through hawala channels,” an investigator said. DRI believes that Reddy had learnt the cooking, which requires a lot of skill set ranging from procurement of precursors, maintaining and varying temperatures and humidity for specific amounts of time, from a Mumbai-based expert. DRI sleuths, who cited Reddy’s crime history before the court, were baffled why a man in his early 50s, with school-going children, would risk his life by again resorting to manufacturing narcotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narcotic-crooks-dalliance-with-meow-meow-foxes-dri/articleshow/77967571.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Pinarayi Vijayan to meet Kerala MPs today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will convene an online meeting of the members of Parliament from the state ahead of the upcoming Parliament session. The meeting will be held at 10am on September 7. The meeting will discuss issues relating to the state that needs to be raised in Parliament. Such a meeting was last convened in January this year ahead of Budget session. Unlike the usual practice of including developmental projects that needs Centre’s intervention and aid, the conference then had Citizenship Amendment Act and national population register as the key agenda points. However, in the upcoming session, it is learnt that the state would request the MPs to seek sufficient financial aid to revive various sectors in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, among other issues. The main criticism about the conference is that many of the agenda points in the last few years have been the same, pointing towards the futility in holding such a meeting every time immediately ahead of Parliament session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pinarayi-to-meet-kerala-mps-today/articleshow/77972602.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bhopal||Born in gobar and mitti, Corona can’t come near me: Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi||BHOPAL: Mask dangling from her chin, minister Imarti Devi bristled at rumours that she had tested Covid positive. In a video that has gone viral, she is seen lashing out at journalists in Gwalior, saying “Corona cannot come near me because I was born in gobar.” The video is said to be of September 3, when the women and child development minister had gone to meet BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia at his Gwalior residence. Imarti is one of the 22 MLAs who had jumped ship with Scindia to BJP, and had famously said she was willing to jump into a well if "Maharaj (Scindia) asks her to”. In the clip, a group of journalists asks Imarti Devi about her decision to distribute eggs in anganwadis, when she turns towards one of them, and snaps: “Tumahi they, akele tum. Tumey humein corona bata deo? Imarti Devi matti mey paida bhai, gobar mein paida bhai, itte karre kitanu hain ki, Corona ke aas paas nahi aa payein (Only you alone were there. And you told that I have Corona? Imarti Devi was born in soil and cow-dung. There are so strong germs that Corona will not come anywhere near).” Then, tugging at her mask hanging below the chin, she says: “Je toh jabardasti lagagye hain hum (I am wearing this because I’m forced to).” Sources said that on August 1, there were rumours that Imarti had left a meeting midway as she was not feeling well. Rumours swirled that she was infected with Covid-19. It is probably this that irked the minister. Despite several attempts, Imarti Devi could not be reached for her comment. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and eight ministers have been infected and recovered from Covid-19. That’s nearly one fourth of the MP cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/born-in-gobar-and-mitti-corona-cant-come-near-madhya-pradesh-minister-imarti-devi/articleshow/77968360.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Chellanam geotube work to resume in October||Kochi: Even though authorities had promised to complete the geotube work at Chellanam after the monsoon, no works have been started yet. Officials with irrigation department, which has been entrusted with the project, said the works will resume only in October when the weather becomes favourable. Meanwhile, a survey was conducted by the officials along Chellanam coast as part of the proposed maintenance of seawall and construction of groynes, which was a long-standing demand by the residents. Denying the reports that geotube project would be abandoned, Kochi MLA K J Maxi said, The project was re-tendered and the contractor was set to begin the work when pandemic hit the state. When the lockdown was relaxed, monsoon started and the dredger pontoon was destroyed by the waves. Now it is being reconstructed and the work will resume in October,” said Maxi. Irrigation department officials too said the geotube project will be completed as per the contract but construction of groyne and maintenance of broken seawall will be done alongside. “The plan is to construct two groynes each at Malakhapadi and Kannamali. Also, the maintenance work of the existing three groynes will also be conducted. The survey was conducted at Companypady and Bazar, where the seawall was completed broken. The wall will be reconstructed in these areas,” said an official. The plan is to use tetrapods to build the seawall and groynes. Tetrapods are made of concrete, and use a tetrahedral shape to dissipate the force of incoming waves by allowing water to flow around rather than against them, and to reduce displacement by interlocking. “The project is still in the initial phase and funds need to be allotted,” said the official. Meanwhile, residents alleged that all these are mere eyewash by authorities as the LSG elections are nearing. “Our protest has been neglected by governments for years. The plan to construct the groyne is welcoming but it should not remain as mere plan,” said Joseph Arackal, convener, Chellanam Janakiya Vedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-geotube-work-to-resume-in-october/articleshow/77967576.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Agra||85 more Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 85 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 3,376. The patients included a person in-charge of the intensive care unit and a junior resident doctor of SN Medical College. Two undertrial prisoners of Agra district jail who were admitted to SNMC were also found positive. Also, 68 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 3,376 cases reported in the district, 78.5% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 615 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,652 people have recovered. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/85-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/77965674.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Bhagirathi Van to be hub of spiritual tourism||LUCKNOW: Bhagirathi Van along the Ganga, a man-made forest which the state government plans to develop as an ecotourism spot, could be the perfect place for people a looking for a spiritual sojourn. Bhagirathi Van in Kasganj district, where plantation was done over a vast area on July 5 when over 25.8crore trees were planted across the state in a day, is unique in ways more than one. To begin with, the forest has been raised over 316 hectare of land (about 4,500 bighas), which has been reclaimed by the state government from encroachment. A total of 3.5 lakh trees of more than 250 species have been planted here. “We had been meeting villagers and convincing them since October last year, telling them that the land they are tilling is not theirs and belongs to the government. After villagers agreed to vacate the land, we formed a local ‘samiti’ of villagers. It was all done without any public agitation,” DFO, Kasganj, Diwaker Kumar Vashisht said. The forest, which has its base in Puranic scriptures, is at Datlana Khaam village, declared as a Ganga ‘gram’, in Soron block of Kasganj. “It has Soronji ‘teerth’. People from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and other states come to this ‘teerth sthan’,” Vashisht said. The entire reclaimed land was divided into three parts. The forest raised at the spot has trees planted in specific formations to create ‘vatikas’ (gardens) mentioned in religious scriptures. “We planted over two lakh trees in Mahavan forest, which is one of the three parts and has species like Sheesham and Khair, naturally found along Ganga,” he said. The other part is Shreevan, which has connection with ‘Arth Ganga’ under the central government’s Namami Gange project. “It has species which will be economically beneficial to farmers. We had promised farmers we would help them increase their income through this plantation,” he said. The third is Tapovan which has 51,000 trees and Vyas and Vidur ‘kutirs’. Currently, the forest is being managed by the forest department but later local samitis of villagers may look after it. Dhanvantari Vatika has 75 types of medicinal plants and herbs. Nakshatra Vatika has 27 tree species, planted in specific positions so as to represent 27 ‘nakshatras’. Navgrah Vatika, planted to manage planetary influences, is also a part of it. Harishankari, which is ‘peepal, pakad and bargad’ planted together, the three tree varieties representing the Hindu Trinity of Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh, is another attraction. Panchvati, the garden of five tree varieties mentioned in the Ramayana also finds place here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bhagirathi-van-to-be-hub-of-spiritual-tourism/articleshow/77968372.cms||Neha Shukla
September 7, 2020||Pune||One killed, 4 injured as retired police inspector loses control of car in Pune||PUNE: A casual worker was killed and four others injured when a speeding car, driven by a retired police inspector, hit three vehicles before crashing into a roadside tyre repair shop at Balewadi High Street around 12.45pm on Sunday. “We have arrested Sanjay Nikam (58), a resident of Balewadi who recently retired as an inspector with the Pimpri Chinchwad police. A medical examination report has confirmed that he was driving the vehicle in an inebriated condition,” senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police told TOI. Police have slapped charges against Nikam under section 185 (drunk driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act, and for rash and negligent driving causing death and injuries. The deceased, Santosh Rathod (35) of Kalewadi, was standing in front of the tyre repair shop when the car crashed into him. “Rathod died on the spot,” Shewale said. Four others — Rajesh Singh of Tathawade, Yashwant Bhandwalkar of Sinhagad Road, Salman Lala Tamboli and Dashrath Mane of Balewadi — suffered injuries. “Singh is seriously injured,” said Shewale. He said the accident occurred at Mamta Chowk. “The car first hit Singh’s motorcycle, dragging him for a few metres, before hitting a three-wheeler tempo and a scooter parked in front of the shop. It then crashed into the shop, killing Rathod instantly. Mane and Tamboli were sitting inside the shop,” he said. “Nikam was heading towards Mamta Chowk from Baner Road at high speed when he lost control after ramming Singh’s motorcycle,” Shewale said. Local residents rushed to the spot, pulled Nikam out of the car and beat him up. Inspector Maya Devare rushed to the spot with a team and rescued him from the angry mob, he said. Nikam was posted with the Pune city police, the Pune rural police and the Kolhapur police prior to his last posting in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-killed-4-injured-as-retd-police-inspector-loses-control-of-car/articleshow/77967572.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 7, 2020||Chennai||City residents flock to Mahabs, Muttukadu||CHENNAI: People from Chennai flocked to Mamallapuram and East Coast Road on Sunday after the state government lifted the complete shutdown on Sundays. This is the first time the tourist town has attracted visitors since the outbreak of Covid-19. However, all monuments maintained by Archaeological Survey of India remained shut. Many residents drove down the ECR for roadside picnics. Some visited the restaurants by the highway. Scores could be seen taking selfies on the bridge across the backwaters at Muttukadu. At Mamallapuram, visitors went around the Pallava-era monuments but the closed gates disappointed many. With no visible policing, most did not adhere to social distancing norms. Many did not wear masks either. K Mahadevan, a resident of Mamallapuram, said he saw a crowd after many months. “We hope that it would eventually lead to reopening of more shops, especially those selling sculptures, as the number of visitors is expected to go up in the coming weeks.” J Sethuraman of Travel XS said although the number of people visiting the coastal town was high, not many stayed in resorts or hotels. “Close to 40% of the usual Sunday crowd was there today. The police made announcements and encouraged people to take precautions. ” Besides Mamallapuram, temples in the suburbs, which are also popular pilgrim spots on weekends, saw a good number of visitors. At the Arulmigu Kandaswamy Temple in Tiruporur on Old Mahabalipuram Road, 7,000 devotees turned up, the number was about 50% of the average turnout on Sundays during pre-Covid times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-residents-flock-to-mahabs-muttukadu/articleshow/77967573.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chennai||People flood Kasimedu, Chintadripet fish markets||CHENNAI: Seafood lovers thronged the Kasimedu harbour and Chintadripet fish market on Sunday violating golden rules of the pandemic. There was no social distancing and very few people wore masks. A senior fisheries official said more than 60 tonnes of fish had arrived at the Kasimedu harbour in fibre boats and bigger vessels. While wholesale traders visited the market from midnight, members of the public began to turn up in droves after dawn. By 7am, police personnel and officials of the fisheries department were unable to control the crowd. “Many customers have come without a mask. It is so scary,” said Jayaram, a fisherman. The situation was no better at the Chintadripet market where the corporation had allowed 20 shops to sell fish but on weekends retailers open 40 more stalls. On Sunday morning, more than 2,000 people rushed to the market to buy fish. Many were not wearing masks. Officials from the fisheries department and Greater Chennai Corporation expressed concern over the swelling crowd. An official said that despite several warnings, people are not following social distancing norms. “More police personnel are needed in such places to control the crowd. Otherwise, the fish markets will become another Koyambedu from where coronavirus will spread to many parts of the city,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/people-flood-kasimedu-chintadripet-fish-markets/articleshow/77967577.cms||P Oppili
September 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||World Bank-funded waste management project: Preparatory activities to cost Rs 1.13 crore||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government, which had approved engaging a project-management consultant for World Bank-funded Kerala solid waste management project at Rs 120 crore, has now set aside Rs 1.13 crore for project-preparation activities. A major component of project preparation to avail the World Bank share will go into payment of salary to the staff — Rs 91.8 lakh. While the government is promoting virtual meetings in times of Covid-19, Rs 6 lakh has been set aside as meeting expenses on project preparation. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, while announcing the support of the parties for the project after a meeting, remarked on Saturday that the government is going for external funding since the funds allocated to local bodies for waste management are inadequate. This remark conceals the fact as to how nearly 50% of the funds received from the Centre under Swachh Bharat Mission (urban) — SBM(U) — remained unspent in the state between 2015-16 and 2019-20, as per data available till February 2020 which was obtained through RTI. During the five fiscals, the state received Rs 97 crore as allocation from the Centre under SBM (urban). The total expenditure of this allocated sum from the Centre from 2015-16 to 2019-20 was Rs 50.21 crore, leaving an unspent balance of Rs 46.96 crore. As per the reply to the RTI application, Suchitwa mission had allocated Rs 37.38 crore to 57 urban local bodies in the state for solid-waste management. Ground-level implementation of projects using the allotted sum is yet to be ascertained among urban local bodies. The main objective touted under Kerala solid waste management project is to increase the institutional capacity of local bodies. The project is pushed mainly with the contention that local bodies had failed in waste management. Even the document prepared by Suchitwa mission, which has supposedly been the nodal agency for waste-management activities, for solid-waste management project also lists down lapses on the part of local bodies. The service delivery gap assessment carried out as part of the project pinpointed glitches in the existing system. It noted that majority of urban local bodies did not comply with solid-waste management rules by not providing door-to-door collection services and processing of biodegradable waste at city and regional levels. It also noted that compliance by bulk generators to process biodegradable waste within the premises is low and that local bodies did not provide door-to-door collection service for hotels and restaurants. It pointed out that urban local bodies failed in setting up biodegradable waste-treatment facilities, which resulted in biodegradable waste being disposed of in open spaces, water bodies, dumpsites, etc. causing problems of health and environment. While the integrated solid-waste management strategy lays emphasis on local body participation and sanitation agency in addressing problems related to waste management, World Bank-funded project will be mainly reliant on external consultant which will also run state- and district-level project management units in the state for three years and if necessary it will be extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/world-bank-funded-waste-management-project-preparatory-activities-to-cost-rs-1-13cr/articleshow/77967621.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 7, 2020||Chennai||On 1st unlocked Sunday, public places packed||CHENNAI: The city’s meat, fish and vegetable markets, where ensuring physical distancing was tough even earlier, were packed on the first lockdown-free Sunday. The additions were playgrounds and beaches. Somasundaram ground in T Nagar and the Gopalapuram ground were mainly filled with young people, almost all of them without masks in spite of warnings from the corporation and police. Pictures of crowded playgrounds shocked users of social media, particularly Twitter. Many said they had missed physical activity for a long time. “Sunday cricket used to be our only physical activity. Due to lockdown, we missed it a lot. As norms have been relaxed, we played match at an unused plot in our neighbourhood,” said S Vignesh, a college student from Adambakkam. Places of worship like temples and churches were also full. At St Patrick’s church near Alandur, Sunday service was attended enthusiastically. Separate entry and exit ways were created and people were let in only after their temperatures were checked. Around 100 people were allowed into the prayer hall at a time, with only two people permitted to sit on a bench meant for 10. Traffic was like a normal Sunday in most parts, but in a few areas such as Loop Road near the Marina, it was slow moving. “We have been appealing to the public not to be complacent and follow physical distancing and wear masks like all these days. We are aware of the challenges and we hope to streamline them in the coming days,” said a corporation official. At the Marina, the crowd began to swell in the evening and soon became uncontrollable, forcing police to deploy more personnel. “We were stopping them from venturing into the sea. We used a public address system so that out messages were audible,” said a senior officer. Only a few of the beach-goers were seen wearing masks, while others removed it saying they had come to get some fresh air. Most were seen pleading with police to let them get wet in the water, as they had remained indoors for more than six months. On the other hand, traffic policemen said, a majority of the motorists whom they saw had their masks on. “Being a Sunday, there was no traffic pile-up on any of the major roads including arterial stretches like Anna Salai, Nungambakkam High Road and Poonamallee High Road. Most roads had two policemen posted at all signals,” said a senior traffic police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/on-1st-unlocked-sunday-public-places-packed/articleshow/77967578.cms||Srikkanth D
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||International flights from Kushinagar in two months||LUCKNOW: International flights will take off in the next two months from the Kushinagar airport, a key itinerary in the Buddhist circuit, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a joint inspection of the project with Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Sunday. The airport has been taken over by Airport Authority of India. Addressing reporters in Kushinagar, Yogi said the project built over 589 acre would boost tourism and development, besides augmenting employment. “Many countries like Sri Lanka, Thailand, Japan, Singapore and Kampuchea sought direct air access to Kushinagar,” he said. The district administration has already constructed a four-lane road leading to the airport and the CM underlined the need to fortify the airport with barbed wire along the boundary wall. “The state government would lend all possible help in construction of the airport,” said Yogi. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said the Centre has sanctioned 18 air routes for UP and would develop other airports in the state. Additional chief secretary, information, Awanish Awasthi said, the tarmac has been laid out and the terminal building is near completion. “It would be a big infrastructure project that would boost the Buddhist circuit,” he said. Yogi inspected the 3.2km airstrip of Kushinagar airport and held a review with AAI and district administration officials. The project was declared an international airport by the Union cabinet on June 24. And a day after UP notched up the second slot in ease of doing business, the CM said, his government would continue to work to woo more investment. “Giving employment to skilled manpower would be the focus area as this would boost the investment climate,” said Awasthi. The revenue department was doing its bit to provide relief to flood-hit areas. Awasthi said, 14 districts were affected by floods and government-run buses were plying smoothly. Till Saturday, at least 9.6 lakh people travelled in 5900 buses. International flights from Lucknow and Varanasi are picking up pace, he said. In July, 47,372 people arrived by international flights as against 16,431 people in June and 3,425 people in May. Even in August 45,525 people arrived by international flights. In first week of September, over 5,000 passengers travelled on international flights. “They undergo medical check-up and institutional quarantine subsequently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/international-flights-from-kushinagar-in-2-months/articleshow/77968382.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Panel to study condition of Edakkal caves||KOZHIKODE: In a major step towards the conservation of Edakkal caves, the preeminent archaeological site in Wayanad, the state government has constituted a multi-disciplinary expert committee to assess the present condition of the archaeological site and come up with a report on various measures required for its conservation. Edakkal caves, situated on the Ambukuthi hills, are famous for its prehistoric petroglyphs (rock carvings). The panel comprises experts from the fields of archaeology, history, geology, rock mechanics, conservation, etc. Noted historian and director general of Centre for Heritage Studies M R Raghava Warrier is the chairman of the committee. Other members of the committee are retired scientist of Centre for Earth Sciences G Shankar; principal secretary of science and technology department Prof Sudheer K P; associate professor of archaeology and maritime history, Tamil Nadu University, Thanjavur V Selvakumar; associate professor, IIT-Chennai, and rock mechanics expert Vidyabhushan Maji; senior conservator at regional conservation laboratory Nidhin Kumar Maurya; and member secretary of Kerala disaster management authority Sekhar Kuriakose. State archaeology department director is the convener of the committee and conservation officer of the department is the joint convener. Various organizations had for decades demanding higher level of protection to the archaeological site, especially after the Ambukuthi hills and the areas near the caves witnessed rock falls, and cracks on earth surface during the monsoon season over the past two years. Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi (WPSS) which has been in the forefront demanding steps to protect the caves since 1985 welcomed the decision to appoint an expert committee to study the present condition of the archaeological site, though it has been long overdue. WPSS president N Badusha said that except for the 20 cents around the site, the nearby areas have been under the control of commercial lobbies and land encroachment mafia. “We have been demanding takeover of the site by the Archaeological Survey of India and all land encroachments in the Ambukuthi hills should be evicted and that uncontrolled tourism activities should be controlled after conducting a carrying capacity study,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/panel-to-study-condition-of-edakkal-caves/articleshow/77966650.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Rise above the family: Sacked veterans to Sonia||Lucknow: Nine veteran Congress leaders, who were expelled in November last, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi, asking her to "rise above the affinity for the family" and run the organisation by establishing mutual trust and restoring the Constitutional and democratic values. The letter from the UP veterans, dated September 2, comes days after 23 senior Congress leaders wrote to Gandhi, saying uncertainty over the party leadership has "demoralised Congress workers". The nine Congress leaders, including former MP Santosh Singh and former minister Satyadev Tripathi, said Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi built the Congress and the country with democratic values. But it's ironic that for some time, the way in which the party is being run, there is ‘confusion’ and a sense of ‘depression’ among the ordinary Congress worker, they added. “At a time, when the country's democratic values and social fabric is lying scattered, the need of the country is that Congress remain alive, dynamic and strong. You please rise above the affinity for the family, and as per traditions, restore the expression of thoughts, constitutional and democratic values, and run the organisation by establishing communication and mutual trust," the veterans urged Gandhi. Singh and Tripathi were among the 10 senior leaders who were expelled from the primary membership of the Congress on November 24 last year for allegedly opposing its leadership's decisions and tarnishing the party's image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rise-above-the-family-sacked-veterans-to-sonia/articleshow/77968386.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Child chokes to death in locked car in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a tragic incident at Isckon Villa, Indira Bridge, a 5-year-old child got locked in a parked car while playing on Sunday morning. He was discovered dead in the car parked at its slot in Iskcon Villa in the afternoon. According to primary investigation, the child had entered the car whose door had been left ajar. The lock on the door accidentally got activated. No one noticed him, and he suffocated to death inside the car. Airport police have registered a case of accidental death and begun an investigation. The child’s body has been sent for postmortem analysis of reason of death. Assistant commissioner of police, G Division, A M Desai said the child’s family stays in nearby Saraniyavas. “The child’s mother works as a domestic help and goes to several houses. On Sunday morning, as the mother was going to work, the child followed her. He found the left door of a car parked outside Iskcon Villa was open. He crawled into the car and failed to exit as the child lock activated.”. “On the other side, the child’s parents began searching for him but could not find him. Eventually, the owner of a car which was parked beside the car in which the child had got locked saw the child lying on the seat inside. He immediately informed the police,” Desai said. He added, “We got the car door opened only to find the child had died. We had multiple suspicions, but then we got the video of the CCTV camera installed at the gate of the building. The footage showed the child in red dress running after her mother who is walking ahead, and then the suddenly notices the door of the car open. He then opened the door, sat in the car and closed the door.” Inspector of Airport police station, R R Desai said the body of the child has been sent for postmortem. “As of now we have registered a case of accidental death and probing it,” he said. Desai added that they had called forensic experts to learn how the child lock of the car got locked when the 5-year-old entered the car. “We are waiting for the forensic report to probe the case further. As of now, we do not suspect foul play but the real picture will emerge once the postmortem and the forensic reports come in,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/child-chokes-to-death-in-locked-car/articleshow/77967600.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: GPS tracker car thief nabbed||AHMEDABAD: The car thieves have gone hi-tech. Crime branch on Saturday held one such car thief, Satyendra Shekhavat, 40, a resident of Jaipur, near Prahladnagar with a stolen SUV. Shekavat has done his MBA from Pune. “To make a fast buck, he took to stealing of luxuries cars and SUVs,” said a crime branch official. Crime branch sleuths recovered an electronic key-making machine with wires and other tools, power supply machine, five global positioning system (GPS), two Wi-Fi dongles, five keys of different luxuries cars, and three mobile phones from him. DCP Deepan Bhadran said that the accused had stolen cars from Ghaziabad, Ranip area of the city and one SUV from Jamnagar city. “He had stolen three SUVs from Chennai and one luxury car from Bengaluru,” he added. Police said he used to steal cars and sell them in other states to avoid being caught. Crime branch sources said that earlier Shekhavat used to go to garages and service centres during the recess time and when no one was around, used to take away the keys of the cars hanging in the cabin or in the cars. But he used to get caught because of the CCTV footages. He then tried something new. He went to the car service centres during the recess and fitted GPS system in the box below the steering wheel. He then used to go to the key cabin and scanned keys on a key scanner and key-making machine which he had bought online at Rs 2 lakh. Shekhavat then used to put the data in the electronic key making machine and make the key out of the raw key. He used to wait for the car to come out of the service centre and strike at a place where there is no CCTV camera. He did not use mobile phones for communication with customers or any of his friends or relatives. According to crime branch sources, Shekhavat was caught in four offences of car stealing in Sola police station, three in Sarkhej police station, one in Ratlam police station in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gps-tracker-car-thief-nabbed/articleshow/77967610.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Aurangabad||3 booked for duping woman||Aurangabad: Three men have been booked by the Cidco police station on charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust after they allegedly duped a 30-year-old woman on the pretext of getting her a permanent job with a junior college in Dhule district. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, the alleged crime took place in the span of a year between August 2019 and 2020. The three suspects allegedly took Rs 17 lakh from her claiming that they will get her a job as assistant professor for English at Narmadabai Nago Choudhary Arts, Commerce and Science College, situated in Kusumba of Dhule district. After the woman did not find her name mentioned in the list of recruits by the college, she started demanding back her money. When she warned of lodging police complaints, the suspects returned Rs 9 lakh only. Inspector Ashok Giri said that such cases are on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-for-duping-woman/articleshow/77978757.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 7, 2020||Chennai||Inter-district buses from today, services to be skeletal for now||Chennai: With the state government relaxing norms, inter-district buses will start operating from Monday. While the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) is expected to run 400 buses, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will operate 1,500 services. TNSTC has a fleet strength of 3,000 buses and SETC has 1,100 buses. A senior SETC official said 300 buses will be operated from Chennai to other districts. The remaining 100 will be run on the Madurai-Salem, Coimbatore-Tirunelveli routes among others. Each SETC bus has a seating capacity of 43 but only 26 seats will be available for passengers in order to maintain social distancing. A TNSTC official said the buses will ferry 30 passengers against the seating capacity of 55. Buses have been cleaned and disinfected. Passengers with valid tickets will be allowed inside terminals after checking their body temperature and they will be asked to sanitise their hands before boarding a bus. Masks are compulsory throughout the trip. An official said only skeletal services will resume as MTC services in Chennai have not received patronage. He said more buses will be run if the patronage goes up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/inter-district-buses-from-today-services-to-be-skeletal-for-now/articleshow/77967601.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure outsiders don’t get RS berth, Atul Anjan urges Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Veteran communist leader and national secretary of the CPI, Atul Anjan, has urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath not to allow people from outside become Rajya Sabha members from the state. “Only the son of soil should be given a chance,” the CPI advised the CM in a letter, explaining that it had been a practice since the Congress days that powerful people, corporate chiefs and influential politicians come to UP from outside, become a Rajya Sabha member and then never look back. “They hardly take any interest in the development of the state after being elected to the august House,” he told TOI, adding that this November there would be election for nine RS seats in the state and lobbying from these powerful people from outside the state has already started.” Anjan said that Jayant Malhotra, Sanjay Dalima, Anil Ambani and recently Kapil Sibal are some names from outside who were elected from the state in the past but hardly did anything for its development. This has been the practice started by Congress, said Anjan. Its decision to send former PM Manmohan Singh thrice to upper house had no logic, he added. In this background, said Anjan, he was requesting the CM to ensure that no one from outside exploits the state’s vast potential to get a berth in Rajya Sabha and then forget it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-outsiders-dont-get-rs-berth-anjan-urges-yogi/articleshow/77968390.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Agra||Ex-Armyman secures 10th rank in B.Ed entrance exam||AGRA: 41-year-old ex-Armyman, resident of village Vidholi under Khergarh sub-division of Agra district, has secured tenth rank in Bachelor of Education (BEd) joint entrance exam. Ram Awatar Singh Gurjar had retired from Indian Army as a Havildar in 2017 after serving in the signal corps for 19 years. Meanwhile, Neha Agarwal of Firozabad secured ninth rank in the same exam. The number of students who had applied for the BEd entrance test conducted by Lucknow University was over 4.31 lakh. Father of a six-year-old child, Ram Awatar is preparing for the Staff Selection Commission – Combined Graduate Level (SSC CGL) examination. He is awaiting the final result of 2018 SSC exam and hopes to qualify it. He has already qualified UP government's exam for village development officer. Document verification is awaited. Ram Awatar said, “My aim is to qualify the SSC CGL exam. If I’m not selected, I would like to become a teacher after completing the BEd course.” Talking about his preparation for the BEd entrance exam, Ram Awatar said, “I prepared for the exam at home. I took a lot of help from related videos available on Youtube. I focused on the quality of studies rather than just spending time with the books.” Final year BCom student from Firozabad Neha Agarwal secured ninth rank in the BEd entrance exam. The 20-year-old resident of Gandhi Nagar locality took no coaching and relied on self-made notes and a lot of revision to crack the exam. She said, “I never thought I could get the ninth rank. I dedicate it to my parents. My mother has a dream to see me serve the society as a teacher. I will try my best to make her dream come true.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-armyman-secures-10th-rank-in-bed-entrance-exam/articleshow/77965709.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sushant Singh Rajput’s ‘friend’ Sandip Singh had signed MoU with Gujarat govt: Congress||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Congress on Sunday alleged that Sandip Singh, who is being questioned as part of investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Gujarat government for a sum of Rs 177 crore in 2019, even while his company, Legend Global Studio, was making a loss of Rs four lakh at that time. “The Vibrant Gujarat summits are expected to be beneficial to the state. What benefit was Gujarat going to get from a loss making company? Who was being promoted? What partnership do BJP leaders have with this person Sandip Singh. Why are the BJP leaders silent about this,?” questioned Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi. Doshi said just days before Sandip Singh signed the MoU with the Gujarat government, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis released the first poster of his Singh’s film – “PM Narendra Modi”, a biopic on the Prime Minister. “Three days before the MoU was signed, Vivek Oberoi, who played the role of the PM in the movie, joined as a director in Legend Global Studio and then exited within the next week. The state government promoted the actor and the film by signing the MoU,” alleged Doshi. He said, “There were a number of filmmakers in the state who do not get subsidies and other benefits from the government. Many actors do not get assistance which has been announced for them. The Vibrant Gujarat summits are being used to help those persons who have ties with leaders of the BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ssrs-friend-sandip-had-signed-mou-with-gujarat-govt-cong/articleshow/77967631.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Clean air is a fundamental right’||Ahmedabad: City-based doctors joined the global campaign for the first International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, which will be celebrated on September 7. In a national conclave that took place on Sunday, over 2,000 doctors said that air pollution was hazardous to various aspects of mental and physical health and government bodies should prioritize the issue. Dr Sudhir Shah, a city-based neurologist, who was a speaker at the event, said that clean air was a fundamental human right. “We must ensure it for our generation and generations to come. We must not go back to pre-Covid emission levels. Covid-19 has forced us to re-think on several aspects of our way of life and the air quality is one of them,” he said. Talking about the implication of bad air quality on our brain, Dr Shah said that multiple global studies have indicated a connection between the two. “Evidences are emerging where air pollution including CO, NOx and PM could be direct or indirect reasons behind depression, anxiety and cognitive dysfunction,” he said. Dr Shah said: “How we breath is also important as Indian culture stressed on ‘Pranayama’ as part of meditation.”  Participants said that the doctors of various fields must communicate with the masses and policy makers to ensure liveable and sustainable cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clean-air-is-a-fundamental-right/articleshow/77967622.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI poll over, Pragati panel candidates win with ease||AHMEDABAD: A day after polling concluded at the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) — the state’s apex industry body — the results were announced on Sunday. Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group, a logistics firm, was elected as the senior vice-president. K I Patel, the founder of Aries Industries, was elected as the vice-president. The former senior vice-president, Natubhai Patel, the MD of Meghmani Organics, becomes the new president of the industry body. According to the constitution of the GCCI, the senior vice-president is automatically promoted the next year to the post of the president. Other members of the Pragati Panel led by Shah won the elections for various other posts. All the elected members will assume charge on Monday. Commenting on his victory, Shah said: “The priority of our panel will be to take trade and industries out of the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Of the total of 3,200 members, 1,400 voted on Saturday. The Atmanirbhar Panel led by Jayendra Tanna, the president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation, and Bhavesh Lakhani, the convener of the BJP Business Cell, Gujarat, was defeated by a huge margin. Other members of the Pragati panel who won include Ajay Patel of Akash Organics, Ankit Patel of Unique Dyechem, Pathik Patwari of Nexus Infratech, Saurin Parikh of Pashupati Cotspin, and Gaurang Bhagat of Maskati Cloth Merchants’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-poll-over-pragati-panel-candidates-win-with-ease/articleshow/77967624.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Cabinet minister’s PRO gets Rs 1cr extortion threat||Lucknow: The public relations officer of a state cabinet minister received an extortion message asking him to pay Rs 1 crore or he would be shot dead. Police have nabbed the person, on whose name the SIM card was issued, from Maharajganj district. He is being brought to Gonda for interrogation. Ved Prakash Dubey, PRO of cabinet minister Ramapati Shastri, informed the police that he received a message of Rs 1 crore extortion on August 26 morning. “I received a message which read, ‘Give Rs 1 crore or you will be shot dead’. When I called back on the same number, a pre-recorded message said: ‘PRO sahib, pay Rs 1 crore, else you will be shot dead’. After this, the phone got disconnected,” Dubey said. “I again tried to call on the same number the next day but it was switched off. After this, I got busy with my work. I finally informed police about the incident late Saturday night,” the PRO said. Superintendent of police, Gonda, Raj Karan Nayyar said on the basis of the complaint, an FIR was immediately lodged. “The person in whose name the SIM card was issued has been rounded up in Maharajganj. He is being taken to Gonda for questioning,” he added. “The FIR has been lodged under charges of extortion, criminal intimidation, intimidation by anonymous communication, and the IT Act,” said SHO, Nawabganj, Sukhveer Singh. “The person who issued the SIM card has also been identified,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cabinet-ministers-pro-gets-rs-1cr-extortion-threat/articleshow/77968397.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Covid ripple: Students choose family over education||LUCKNOW: The economic ripples of Covid-19 and the trepidation triggered by the pandemic have forced some learners to drop out of college at least for a year, with vulnerable population among low-income families being hit the hardest. This came to the fore in a survey-cum-study on “Covid-19 pandemic impact on youth psychology’ conducted under a tele-counselling program — Muskurayega India — in 75 districts of UP by National Service Scheme, higher education department and Unicef. About 1,123 callers in the 19-25 age group were surveyed by 250 counsellors. 64% of all the respondents said they were facing such issues for the first time in life after Covid-19 outbreak, while 8% statedissues existed earlier also, but things deteriorated during the pandemic and 28% said problems continue as before. Counsellors told TOI that among those (37%) facing education issues, prime concern was uncertainty regarding future/career. Some felt postponement of exams/entrance tests will jeopardise their careers, others said the loss of family income has left them in the lurch. A few had also developed fear of contracting infection if they moved out for work or studies even if issues are resolved. The main worry of students from economically weaker backgrounds was payment of fees after the breadwinner either lost job or income dropped due to lockdown. “All this has taken a toll on the mental health of the youth, leading to stress and depression,” said Anshumali Sharma, UP NSS liaison officer. “We have decided to continue the programme even after Covid-19 crisis is over and soon provide names and numbers of counsellors in our app for the benefit of students,” he added. Dr Sandhya Dwivedi, an NSS counsellor in Firozabad, said “Several students from rural and poor families from across UP said that they have no other option but to drop out for a year from the college as they cannot pay fees or even recharge mobile phones daily for online classes. We persuade them not to drop out and help with study material, besides suggesting taking a part-time employment like tuitions to support their education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-ripple-students-choose-family-over-edu/articleshow/77968405.cms||Aditi Singh
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man says no to marriage, booked for rape||AHMEDABAD: A man from Anandnagar area was booked for rape after a woman from a scheduled caste on Saturday filed a complaint against him, accusing him of reneging on the promise of marriage with her after having raped her several times for the past two years. In her FIR with Anandnagar police station, the woman (35) alleged that the accused, Ajay Rabari (30), a resident of Auda housing scheme, had befriended her and, promising to marry her, had entered into a sexual relationship with her. However, Rabari reneged on his promise and married another woman from his community. When the women found that she had been cheated, she approached Anandnagar police station where she filed the complaint of rape. “We have booked Rabari for rape while also charging him with SC/ST (atrocities) Act. We have launched a manhunt for Rabari,” said an official from Anandnagar police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-says-no-to-marriage-booked-for-rape/articleshow/77967635.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Crime scene rebuilt||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Sunday took Popular Builders owner Raman Patel and his son Monang Patel to their house Popular Bungalow to rebuild the crime scene and learn what had actually happened. The father-son duo maintained that they were unable to recall things. Vastrapur cops are probing a complaint of domestic violence and molestation lodged by Fizu, the wife of Monang. An officer of Vastrapur police said they also took Raman’s brother Dashrath Patel and his son Virendra Patel to Shilp Aperia apartments near Bopal, where they had allegedly confined the complainant and her mother Janki until the two women signed a document for compromise. The officer said, “Raman and Monang did not cooperate with the investigation as they constantly refused to give details about what had happened on August 1.” Fizu had stated in her complaint that Monang, his father Raman and mother Mayurika beat her frequently. She also alleged that Monang had attacked her and her mother, Janki, on August 1, after being provoked by her father, Mukesh Patel, who is a co-accused in the case. On August 26, Virendra and Dashrath had allegedly confined Fizu and Janki to strike a compromise in the case and gave Rs 2.5 crore cash which the city crime branch seized from Fizu’s aunt’s place in Navrangpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-crime-scene-rebuilt/articleshow/77967722.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||More bike patrols planned for Bypass area at night||Kolkata: The main accused in the Anandapur incident — where he had tried to physically assault a 31-year-old woman before hitting her saviour, a 47-year-old woman with his car and running over her leg — probably had a fair idea that he would get caught if he took EM Bypass to flee. There are usually four nakas between Mukundapur and Parama Island and three towards Ultadanga. The accused — later identified as Amitabha Bose — had instead chosen to take the internal roads of Anandapur that run parallel to Bypass and connect with Basanti Highway. In the early hours of the morning, he traced the same path back to try and return the woman’s phone.“It seems the accused, Bose, was aware there would be cops at nakas who would question his movements at night. The night curfew is on from 10pm to 5am and he had to come up with a strong logic for his presence there. Hence, he selected his roads carefully. We already have bike patrolling. We will now cover a wider area and ask the officers to include the inner roads more, a practice that was prevalent in the pre-lockdown days,” said a senior officer.Police sources cited examples of how bike patrols helped solved a murder last month when officers flagged down a taxi to check it and discovered the accused had stuffed a body in the boot. Similarly, it was another bike patrol that helped locate the body of a woman who was murdered and dumped by her neighbour — an app-cab driver — in Tollygunge. “We solved both cases due to the bike patrols reaching the spots when the accused least expected them,” said another officer.Bypass is one of those zones that witnesses the maximum cop presence at night. “We have nakas at Parama Island, Highland Park, Mukundapur Market and Chowbhaga during the pandemic. The special night checks are on at these nakas. But this area is extremely well connected and those who are aware of these roads around Bypass can conceal themselves at night. But we have a robust system of CCTV cameras and hope to track down the vehicle in the Anandapur case in the absence of any other credible leads,” said an officer.There are two more things crucial to keep the fear in the mind of the accused. “The first is installing more cameras that can read licence plates even at night and the second is lighting up surrounding roads. The incident took place on a dark stretch. Street lights always help in controlling crime,” an officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-bike-patrols-planned-for-bypass-area-at-night/articleshow/77966721.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||BJP’s e-book highlights its Covid works||Lucknow: Launching an e-book on organisational work of the BJP during novel coronavirus pandemic, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that it was heartening to note how BJP workers delivered public service without bothering for their lives. The digital book essentially threw light on rehabilitation works done by the saffron party after a corona induced lockdown was imposed forcing many to return to their villages. The programme was organised through virtual participation of senior BJP leaders, including BJP national general secretary Arun Singh. deputy chief minister Keshav Mauryaand BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. “Examples set by BJP functionaries are unforgettable,” said Yogi, underlining how not only his government but also the party carried out relief operations, extending support to the needy. He said that the e-book would help in making forthcoming generations aware of the biggest pandemic of the century. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said that the relief operations were carried out in all 98 organisational districts, 1919 divisions, 27,500 sectors and 1.6 lakh booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjps-e-book-highlights-its-covid-works/articleshow/77968409.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Dissent manifestation of diversity’||Ahmedabad: Justice Kisan Kaul, judge of the Supreme Court of India, in an online session organized by GNLU and CAN Foundation on Saturday, mentioned that diversity exists in thoughts and expressed in opinions. “In a democratic society, dissents are the manifestation of such diversity. In India, dissent has been a part and parcel of our Constitutional Ethos, the Foundational values which were laid down by our freedom struggle. It is in this regard that dissent is a vital feature of our justice delivery system,” said Justice Kaul.  He was speaking at the webinar on theme of ‘Dissents That Made a Difference: India & Abroad.’ Justice Kaul also cited examples of several foreign and Indian judgements wherein the dissenting opinions expressed by a minority have later become the law of the land. “Every society must have opinions and point of view. The debasement, however, is in the manner of dissent…We have lost respect for each other’s opinion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dissent-manifestation-of-diversity/articleshow/77967662.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife, her lover held for murder in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch on Saturday held Kinjal Patel, 28, of Pranav Apartment in Ambawadi, and Amrat Rabari, 31, of village Dhabal in Sabarkantha, for allegedly murdering Patel’s husband Pramod Patel, 43. Crime branch sources said both Kinjal and Rabari were in love for about two and half years and wanted to get rid of Pramod Patel. “They contacted a contract killer through Rabari’s friend Suresh, who is yet to be arrested. The duo gave the killer Rs 50,000,” said a police official. Pramod’s body was found on September 4 near a farmhouse in Sarkhej area of the city with stab wounds on his head, throat and back. ACP B V Gohil said that Pramod was married twice before he married Kinjal in 2012. “Things were not going well between them resulting in frequent quarrels,” he said. Kinjal used to go to Dhabal village to meet a witch doctor. Here she came into contact with Rabari and fell in love with him. “They planned to murder Pramod. Rabari contacted his friend Suresh of Rajasthan and arranged for contract killers,” the official said. Crime branch sources said, Rabari called Suresh to the city and showed him the place where Pramod used to work in a yoga nursery at “Nemichar” farmhouse at Mamadpura owned by Sanjay Alok. He also used to work as his driver. Inspector J N Chavda said that on September 4, Pramod went to his work at the farmhouse. “Since evening, the contract killers were waiting for Pramod to come out of the farmhouse to kill him. But on that day three friends of Pramod had come to the farmhouse. Hence Pramod called up his wife and said that he would be late in coming home. After taking food, his friends slept at the farmhouse and Pramod decided to return home,” added Chavda. Crime branch officials said that Pramod called up his wife Kinjal once again and told her that he was returning home. “Kinjal immediately told Rabari that Pramod that he is getting out of the farmhouse,” added a crime branch source. Rabari then informed the contract killers that Pramod was coming out of the farmhouse. “The killers who were already waiting from him at a distance of about 100 metres, intercepted Pramod who was on a scooter and stabbed him to death and dumped his body in the nearby bushes. After that they left in a car leaving the body there,” said Chavda. Gohil said that late in the night, Rabari called up Kinjal and said that the work has been done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-her-lover-held-for-murder/articleshow/77967676.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||Mini truck rams into bike, four dead||Bareilly: Four members of a family, including a woman and her two minor daughters, were killed after the bike they were riding pillion on was hit by a mini-truck on Budaun-Moradabad state highway on Sunday morning. The victims were on their way to visit a holy shrine in Wazirganj area of Budaun district when the accident took place. All the victims were rushed to the district hospital where Emergency Medical Officer Dr Gajendra Verma declared them ‘brought dead’. Police have seized the truck but the driver managed to escape. An FIR has been registered against him at Civil Lines police station. Ashgar Ali, a resident of Khunnak village of Budaun, said that his wife Mubreen, daughters Sana and Gungun had gone to offer prayers at a shrine along with his nephew Zubair (19) on a bike. Zubair was riding the bike when a DCM mini-truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into their bike in order to overtake another vehicle near GTI Degree College. Ali rushed to the hospital after getting the information but found his family members dead. SHO Civil Lines police station said, “The victims sustained critical head injuries as the truck was moving at a high speed when it rammed into the bike. We have seized the truck and have registered an FIR under IPC section 304a (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) against the driver who is absconding. We will arrest him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mini-truck-rams-into-bike-four-dead/articleshow/77964414.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 116 new Covid-19 cases in Wardha, one death||WARDHA: The district registered over 100 Covid-19 positive patients for the third day in a row on Sunday. Out of the 956 test reports received on Sunday, 116 (75 men and 41 women) were found positive. The case burden of the district has reached 1,718. The day saw a 66-year-old man from Dahegaon village of Wardha tehsil dying due to Covid-19, taking the district’s toll to 32. New cases came from Wardha (45), Hinganghat (35), Ashti (8), Selu (7), Arvi (6), and 5 each from Deoli, Karanja and Samudrapur. On Sunday, 98 patients got discharge from hospital, taking the number of cured to 984 while 702 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/116-new-covid-cases-in-wardha-one-death/articleshow/77968413.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 7, 2020||Salem||Release results early, Vet grads urge TNPSC||Salem: Veterinary graduates have urged the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) to release results of their exam at the earliest. The Tamil Nadu veterinary graduates federation (TNVGF) has also petitioned the animal husbandry department and TNPSC in this issue. Talking to TOI, coordinator of TNVGF Dr M Balaji said TNPSC had conducted the exam on February 23 to fill 1,141 veterinary assistant surgeon posts in the animal husbandry department. “More than 800 veterinarians, who are working in the department temporarily for consolidated pay, had appeared for the exam,” he said. According to Balaji, the service of all the 800 veterinarians has been extended for another two years with the same salary of Rs 40,000 a month, without any other benefits. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/release-results-early-vet-grads-urge-tnpsc/articleshow/77967701.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Sanjay Raut insulted Gujarat, he must apologize’||AHMEDABAD: BJP leader Bharat Pandya has demanded an apology by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for equating Ahmedabad to ‘Mini Pakistan’. The Shiv Sena MP had referred to Ahmedabad in his ongoing war of words with actress Kangana Ranaut. “Raut has insulted Gujarat, Ahmedabad and people of Ahmedabad by referring to the city as “Mini Pakistan. He must apologize,” the BJP state spokesperson said on Sunday. Pandya said that Gujarat is identified with Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who unified 562 princely states into the Indian union. “I appeal to the Shiv Sena to stop defaming Gujarat, Gujaratis and Gujarat’s political leaders in any event,” Pandya added. Earlier today, refusing to apologize to actress Kangana Ranaut, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said that Kangana should apologize to Maharashtra. On being asked whether he will apologize to the actress, Raut said, “If that girl (Kangana) will apologize to Maharashtra then I will think about apologising. She has called Mumbai mini Pakistan. Does she have the courage to say the same about Ahmedabad?” Last Thursday, the actress took to Twitter claiming, “Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai. After Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raut-insulted-gujarat-he-must-apologize/articleshow/77967713.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Now, schools will be ranked on students’ overall performance||JAIPUR: The state government has launched a scheme ‘Honhar Rajasthan’ by categorising schools in three brackets, Gold, Silver and Bronze, on the basis of academic scores and achievements of students. Under the scheme, learning outcomes of students from Class II to VII will be evaluated and accorded the categories for a year. The scheme is meant to evoke a sense of competition among, motivating teachers and identify schools which requires attention. The status will revise every year on the basis of the performances. Claiming it a scheme to improve the quality of education, Govind Singh Dotasra, state education minister, says that categorization of schools will motivate the teachers and students to improve their medal or category by improving their performance. “Other than the allocation of resources, schools which will attain higher rank their teachers will get the preference in transfers. It will bring transparency in evaluating the performance of every teacher while highlighting schools which requires special attention,” said Dotasra. The criteria for the categories is at least 50% of the students in Class II to VII to score up to 50% marks in Maths and English to qualify for the lowest bronze category. Similarly, 65% of students to score 50% in these subjects to get a silver category and 80% and above students to score at least 50% score in the given subjects for the gold category. The school have to nominate themselves for the award or category. Those applying for the gold medal category will face inspection or evaluation from the teachers from other districts. While those applying for the silver and bronze will be examined by the local district team. The minister also added that categorization would help in parents choosing the best government school for their wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-schools-will-be-ranked-on-students-overall-performance/articleshow/77968424.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||Kesavananda Bharati: Seer behind statute’s ‘basic structure doctrine’||A 30-year-old Kesavananda Bharati had approached the Supreme Court in 1970 with a writ petition challenging the contours of Parliament’s power to amend the Constitution which was argued by livewire and legendary lawyer Nani Palkhivala, who was then a youthful 53 years old. The Indira Gandhi government, which had won a massive mandate in 1971, was keen that through the Kesavananda Bharati case, the SC should overturn the subtle limitations the apex court had put on Parliament in amending the Constitution in the Golaknath case of 1967. The SC then had 16 judges and yet Chief Justice S M Sikri constituted a 13-judge bench, the largest-ever till date. The judgment pronounced on April 24, 1973, was historic as well as tumultuous. Historic because 11 of the 13 judges wrote separate judgments. By a wafer thin margin of seven to six, the SC ruled that the party in office, with its brute majority in Parliament, could not amend the basic features of the Constitution, which famously came to be known as the ‘basic structure doctrine’. The seven judges, with Bharati and Palkhivala, formed the nine pillars who were part of this historic verdict, which became the touchstone on which the apex court continues to test the validity of laws. Read Also‘I didn’t travel to Delhi for the case, didn’t meet my lawyer’Republishing a piece from May 26, 2018, based on an interview of Kesavananda Bharati by TOI’s K P Saikiran His name will resound in posterity but he seems oblivious to it. Which perhaps befits his quest, which is basically spiritual. Kesavananda Bharati, now well into his 70s, residesTumultuous because it angered the Indira Gandhi government, which wreaked vengeance on the three senior-most judges — Justices J MSelat, K S Hegde and A N Grover — by superseding them and appointing Justice A N Ray, who was part of the minority six judges, as the successor of then CJI Sikri, who retired a day after the verdict was pronounced. The three superseded judges resigned. Another judge, Justice H R Khanna, was to pay a price for siding with the majority in the Bharati case and aggravating his “crime” against the government by giving the lone dissenting judgment in the ADM Jabalpur case in 1976 to rule that even during Emergency, right to life could not be suspended. He was superseded to the post of CJI by Justice M H Beg. Attorney general K K Venugopal said, “Bharati had approached my father M K Nambiar to argue the case. But because of his ill health, he had guided him to engage Palkhivala as his counsel. Bharati never realised that what he did was going to be so famous and well-known in the country that judges, lawyers and laymen would continue to recount it even half a century later. “His case was the first of the writ petitions challenging a constitutional amendment. Nani did a tremendous job and came out with flying colours. Result is that three judges were superseded. But supremacy of the judiciary became established by that judgment.” Former attorney general Soli J Sorabjee said, "Kesavananda Bharati did an enormous service to the people of India. The SC's verdict fortifying the basic features of the Constitution and putting it beyond the amending powers of Parliament will be remembered as a tremendous contribution in the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence. No tribute can be high for Palkhivala for the manner in which he argued the case." Senior advocate and constitutional expert Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, "Two people made one legal doctrine the pride of India and the envy of the world. They were Bharati and Palkhivala. Their joint contribution in inventing the basic structure doctrine continues to ensure that India can never become a constitutional dictatorship." Watch Swami Kesavananda Bharati passes away at 79||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kesavananda-bharati-seer-behind-statutes-basic-structure-doctrine/articleshow/77968882.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Lightning in Maharashtra's Palghar kills two farmers||MUMBAI: Two tribal farmers died and six men sustained burn injuries as lightning struck them in Kasa and Wada in Palghar district on Sunday. Nitesh Tumbda (22) was in a group of men standing near a temple in Kasa around 3.30pm when lightning struck. Tumbda died on the spot due to severe burn injuries. Farmer Anil Bhinda (19) has burn injuries and is in hospital. Tribal farmer Sagar Diwa(17) from Wada died after he was struck by lightning around 4 pm. Five of his friends sustained burns and were treated at a health centre. The state will compensate families of both the victims with a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lightning-in-maharashtras-palghar-kills-two-farmers/articleshow/77968886.cms||Sandhya Nair
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘College changed timings sans nod’||Ahmedabad: Many colleges affiliated to Gujarat University are allegedly flouting rules relating to changing timings, said GU sources. Recently a college on Ashram Road changed timings reportedly without following the procedure. “If an institution wants to change timings from morning to afternoon or vice versa, the varsity sends a team for investigation,” said a source. “Only after the team approves the request can the timings be changed. In this case, no such procedure was followed.” The Ashram Road college, which operated in the morning shift earlier, has recently changed its timings from 2pm to 6pm, allegedly without necessary approvals. According to sources, a former top office-bearer of the varsity has been associated with the college. The college has not informed the admission committee about the change. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/college-changed-timings-sans-nod/articleshow/77967727.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Salem||Outdoor games, yoga & dance sessions to ease patients’ stress||Salem: The siddha Covid care centre at Uthamacholapuram has started offering outdoor games and yoga and dance sessions for patients to reduce their stress and depression levels. Patients are allowed to play cricket, badminton and volleyball. Also on offer is a new workout method, which is a combination of yoga and aerobics activities. Dr Vetrivendhan, nodal officer for the centre, said, “This is named yogarobics and this will take stress and depression away from patients. All the vital organs in the body will get rejuvenated after the session.” Yoga and dance practices, he said, would strengthen the patients’ lungs and they wouldn’t face any breathing difficulties. A patient said, “I was admitted to the centre on Tuesday. I was under a lot of stress after testing positive for the virus. I feel better after playing cricket with fellow patients for the past two days.” Dr K Selvamurthy, district siddha medical officer, said 240 patients were admitted to the centre since August 3. “At least 184 of them were cured and discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/outdoor-games-yoga-dance-sessions-to-ease-patients-stress/articleshow/77967720.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Open varsity will make a dent in revenue of other varsities||KOZHIKODE: The proposed launch of the Open University in the state would make a big dent in the revenues of the varsities which are currently offering distance education programmes. For instance, the annual income from the school of distance education (SDE) at Calicut University (CU) is around Rs 20 crore, making it the biggest contributor to the varsity exchequer after the government’s state plan grant contribution of around Rs 25 crore. “The delinking of SDE will definitely hit the revenue of the varsity,” said CU registrar C L Joshy. CU has around two lakh students registered under it with an annual intake of around 60,000 students and around 150 employees are attached in the section dealing with SDE. Another major concern being raised by students and other organisations is while currently the varsities like CU are issuing the same degree certificate to regular students and distance education students, the commencement of Open University would put an end to that and they would have to settle for an open and distance learning (ODL) degree certificate which can impact their job prospects. “The varsity has been issuing SDE students the same degree certificate issued to regular students without any differentiation. As certificates from open universities are not normally considered on par with regular stream, it could even affect the job prospects of students,” syndicate member and standing committee convener for SDE Ugin Marolli, said. CU syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said that the main attraction for students to enrol in distance education mode was that the varsity has been following the same syllabi and mode of examination for regular and distance stream students. With growing number of firms and employers in foreign countries, mainly in the Gulf, insisting on degrees under ‘regular’ mode of study for employees and job seekers, the CU had in 2018 decided to provide certificates mentioning mode of study as ‘regular full-time’ even to those who have secured degrees through distance mode. The varsity had been issuing ‘Mode of Study’ certificate to persons who have studied in parallel colleges or SDE stating that they have undertaken a `regular full- time study at a College’ after receiving an affidavit from the student that he has undergone regular full time study in the institution. Meanwhile, state higher education department authorities said that currently no university in the state can look forward to continuing with distance education programmes as they do not have the prescribed NAAC score of 3.26 and above and that the launch of the Open University would end the uncertainty over distance education courses offered by the varsities. Currently, four varsities in the state, Calicut, Kerala, MG and Kannur are conducting distance courses with provisional registration from UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/open-varsity-will-make-a-dent-in-revenue-of-other-varsities/articleshow/77972777.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Petta residents to welcome Metro today||KOCHI: Kochi Metro will start running to Petta from Monday, thus bringing to reality a long-cherished dream of people residing in the neighbourhoods. Had it not been for the restrictions put in place due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the area would have erupted in a celebratory mood. V P Chandran, Kochi corporation councillor representing Chambakkara division said, “the residents of Petta welcome Kochi Metro. All of us have been waiting for this moment ever since the works on Metro began. Residents of Maradu and Tripunithura come to Petta to head for Kochi city.” He said the completion of the construction of Petta bridge and the extension of Metro to Tripunithura will improve transportation facilities in the region. The arrival of Kochi Metro will further improve the significance of Petta Junction. Local people want authorities to carry out renovation and beautification works here. Roy Thekkan, secretary of the coordination council of residents associations of Chambakkara division, said that utmost importance should be given to providing parking spaces near Petta station. “This will be one of the stations where Metro services will terminate and originate. The absence of parking facilities would create traffic blocks,” he said adding that sufficient feeder services should be arranged to provide last-mile connectivity. “Moreover, after widening the Vyttila-Petta Road, no measures have been taken to ensure marking on the road. Pedestrian markings and signals should be provided at appropriate places. Sufficient number of police personnel should be posted at Petta to regulate traffic,” he said. Local people are of the view that the Metro operations “will be in full swing” only when issues related to Covid could be well-addressed. “We will miss the joy ride, crowd and celebrations due to the Covid restrictions,” said Vaishnavi Unnikrishnan, a student and resident of Petta. As schools and colleges remain closed, the student community will not be using the Metro. In the present circumstances officegoers are expected to take the Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/petta-residents-to-welcome-metro-today/articleshow/77967731.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 13 detained at Amausi with Rs 71 lakh worth cigarettes, gold||LUCKNOW: In one of the biggest crackdown against smuggling of foreign origin goods via flights post Covid-19 lockdown, at least 13 passengers were detained along with over Rs 71 lakh worth cigarettes, perfumes and gold by the custom department at Lucknow’s Amausi airport. The smuggled goods were seized on Saturday from back-to-back two flights — Fly Dubai and Air India Express — which were coming from Sharjah and Dubai. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner, customs, Amausi airport, Niharika Lakha, said, “Total Rs 71,04, 011 worth of goods were seized from the passengers of two flights. The smuggled goods included ESSE Lights brand cigarettes worth over Rs 53 lakh, perfume worth Rs 2 lakh and 288 gram of gold worth Rs 15,28,011.” According to custom department, three gold biscuits were found concealed in the inner side of the belt area of jeans, while suitcase full of cigarettes and perfume were caught during luggage scanning “Majority of the detained passengers were from Delhi, Rampur, Gorakhpur and Patna. They all were heading Delhi with the smuggled goods. However, it is yet not ascertained whether all the accused men were working as individuals to earn quick buck from selling foreign origins goods in national capital, or work as gang, or for a gang,” said a custom official. Sources claimed that about four lakh pieces of South Korean brand cigarettes, which are meant specifically for women because of their lower tar and nicotine content, were supposed to be taken Delhi via expressway after landing at Amausi airport. Further, at least 26 bottles of perfume were recovered with each one costing above Rs 58,000. “During interrogation with detained passengers, we found that they were involved in the smuggling business for long time. As soon the air service restriction was removed they started their operation in order to fulfil the massive demand of their clients based in Delhi and NCR area,” said source. Till the filing of this report, the custom department was still questioning the detained passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/13-detained-at-amausi-with-rs-71l-worth-cigarettes-gold/articleshow/77968438.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paramedical seats: Full house likely||AHMEDABAD: After the extension of deadline, 31,114 candidates have registered against 31,649 PINs distributed paramedical courses. As many as 30,944 candidates have confirmed their registration, said sources in the admission committee. With the total number of seats in paramedical courses being 27,200, very few seats are expected to go empty this year, said sources. Admissions have started from August 24 and September 1 was the earlier deadline for registration to various courses including physiotherapy, nursing, naturopathy, occupational therapy and audiology, among others. About 27,000 candidates had registered in this time period. The committee extended the deadline to September 5 citing heavy rainfall as the reason for the change. Last year, a similar number of registrations were received by the committee. A merit list will be announced at the end of this month. The full admission schedule is expected to be announced in the first week of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paramedical-seats-full-house-likely/articleshow/77967721.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Owners of dilapidated houses inside Sonar Fort get notices||Jaisalmer: After heavy rain lashed Jaisalmer for the past few days, more than 4,000 residents of Sonar Fort are worried a lot due to collapse of two to three houses. Three days ago, there was six inches of rain, and there is information that many dilapidated houses in the fort have developed cracks and two to three houses have collapsed. The municipal council in last two three days surveyed the fort and served notice to 13 owners whose houses are lying closed and notice has also been pasted outside the house. The residents of the fort are scared as there are around 49 houses and godowns which are lying closed and are in dilapidated condition. The house owners are either outside the state or there are many shareholders of the house and it is not decided who will repair the house and these houses are developing cracks inside and sometimes some part of the house collapses. The rainwater gets collected in these houses and causes damage to the foundation of the house as the water does not come out. The houses nearby these houses are suffering the damages and their walls are getting hollow. Collector Ashish Modi confirming this said that many houses in the fort are in dilapidated condition and they become a danger to the nearby houses during the heavy rains. There is always a possibility of problem because of these dilapidated houses and could prove dangerous to people. When it rained heavily, a team was deployed at the fort that cordoned-off these dilapidated houses. The need of the hour is to make a list of such houses and take the right step and in a time bound manner these should be restored or should be demolished before any casualty takes place, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/owners-of-dilapidated-houses-inside-sonar-fort-get-notices/articleshow/77968441.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Oxygen suppliers instructed to ensure smooth supply to hospitals||Nashik: Joint commissioner of Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) Madhuri Pawar has instructed the oxygen suppliers across the Nashik district to ensure smooth supply of medical oxygen, at reasonable rates, to all the hospitals that are treating Covid-19 patients. Pawar also checked the availability of medicine used for treating Covid-19 patients. “Necessary drugs or medicines used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients are available with 40 pharmacies across the district,” she revealed.The availability of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections along with FabiFlu tablets was also checked with the pharmacies concerned and the same is being informed to the district civil surgeon on a daily basis. Meanwhile, the oxygen suppliers have also been instructed to check the equipments used in the hospitals for treatment of the patients and if any problems are spotted, they should be resolved at the earliest. The FDA has observed that most of the Covid patients are in need of medical oxygen treatment. Hence, it is important that the equipment used for oxygen treatment functioned properly. The oxygen suppliers have been instructed to check the system used for joining the oxygen tanks to machinery in the hospital and the oxygen stock from time to time.Pawar has also given a list of chemists having stocks of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections and FabiFlu tablets along with their phone numbers to the district civil surgeon so that the chemists concerned can be contacted whenever there is a need for the medicines.FDA raids illegal manufacturing unit of Unani medicine at a school in JalgaonThe FDA raided an illegal manufacturing unit of Unani medicine that was operating in a room of a private school in Jalgaon district on Saturday. The manufacturer was into manufacturing a medicine claiming that helped prevent common cough, cold and pneumonia and also boost immunity. Drug Inspector Anil Manikrao of Jalgaon district said that it is necessary to acquire FDA license for manufacturing any Unani medicine. “After we got information about the manufacturing unit in a room of a closed private school in Bhusawal, the concerned place was raided and medicine and equipment worth over Rs 2 lakh were seized. The concerned manufacturer, however, has not been found as the room of the school was opened by the watchman. The case is being investigated further,” Manikrao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oxygen-suppliers-instructed-to-ensure-smooth-supply-to-hospitals/articleshow/77965785.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four booked for assault on policemen||Ahmedabad: Airport police on Saturday booked four persons, Ramji Bharwad of Vatva, Vanabhai Bharwad of Vatva, Ramesh Bharwad of Vasna and Vaghji Bharwad of Vejalpur for entering into heated arguments with police near Indira Bridge and also beating up a home guard jawan with a wooden stick. Police sais that when they stopped the auto in which the accused were travelling they got angry and started abusing them. “However as other policemen and home guard jawans intervened Ramesh Bharwad pulled out a wooden stick from the auto and hit a home guard jawan on his leg. We called in reinforcements and took all four to the police station and booked them for assault on police,” said a senior official of Airport police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-booked-for-assault-on-policemen/articleshow/77967723.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP puts blame on state govt for crimes against SC, ST||JAIPUR: The state BJP on Sunday held the Congress government responsible for rising crimes against ST and SC communities. In a press conference, BJP MLA Ramganjmandi Madan Dilawar said the SC and ST communities were living in fear as police were not acting on their complaints. “Since the government came to power, crimes against SC and ST have increased manifold in the state. Incidents such as gangrape involving girl child, murder, theft and dacoity are on the rise, especially among the vulnerable class. In many cases, it is learnt police have refused to file a complaint,” said Dilawar. He shared his experience on how victims of crimes have told him that the struggle to file an FIR even in cases where the accused are identified. He warned the government that if crimes against vulnerable communities didn’t stop, BJP will take hold a statewide stir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-puts-blame-on-state-govt-for-crimes-against-sc-st/articleshow/77968426.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Open varsity will make a dent in revenue of other varsities||KOZHIKODE: The proposed launch of the Open University in the state would make a big dent in the revenues of the varsities which are currently offering distance education programmes. For instance, the annual income from the school of distance education (SDE) at Calicut University (CU) is around Rs 20 crore, making it the biggest contributor to the varsity exchequer after the government’s state plan grant contribution of around Rs 25 crore. “The delinking of SDE will definitely hit the revenue of the varsity,” said CU registrar C L Joshy. CU has around two lakh students registered under it with an annual intake of around 60,000 students and around 150 employees are attached in the section dealing with SDE. Another major concern being raised by students and other organisations is while currently the varsities like CU are issuing the same degree certificate to regular students and distance education students, the commencement of Open University would put an end to that and they would have to settle for an open and distance learning (ODL) degree certificate which can impact their job prospects. “The varsity has been issuing SDE students the same degree certificate issued to regular students without any differentiation. As certificates from open universities are not normally considered on par with regular stream, it could even affect the job prospects of students,” syndicate member and standing committee convener for SDE Ugin Marolli, said. CU syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said that the main attraction for students to enrol in distance education mode was that the varsity has been following the same syllabi and mode of examination for regular and distance stream students. With growing number of firms and employers in foreign countries, mainly in the Gulf, insisting on degrees under ‘regular’ mode of study for employees and job seekers, the CU had in 2018 decided to provide certificates mentioning mode of study as ‘regular full-time’ even to those who have secured degrees through distance mode. The varsity had been issuing ‘Mode of Study’ certificate to persons who have studied in parallel colleges or SDE stating that they have undertaken a `regular full- time study at a College’ after receiving an affidavit from the student that he has undergone regular full time study in the institution. Meanwhile, state higher education department authorities said that currently no university in the state can look forward to continuing with distance education programmes as they do not have the prescribed NAAC score of 3.26 and above and that the launch of the Open University would end the uncertainty over distance education courses offered by the varsities. Currently, four varsities in the state, Calicut, Kerala, MG and Kannur are conducting distance courses with provisional registration from UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/open-varsity-will-make-a-dent-in-revenue-of-other-varsities/articleshow/77972774.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Open varsity will make a dent in revenue of other varsities||KOZHIKODE: The proposed launch of the Open University in the state would make a big dent in the revenues of the varsities which are currently offering distance education programmes. For instance, the annual income from the school of distance education (SDE) at Calicut University (CU) is around Rs 20 crore, making it the biggest contributor to the varsity exchequer after the government’s state plan grant contribution of around Rs 25 crore. “The delinking of SDE will definitely hit the revenue of the varsity,” said CU registrar C L Joshy. CU has around two lakh students registered under it with an annual intake of around 60,000 students and around 150 employees are attached in the section dealing with SDE. Another major concern being raised by students and other organisations is while currently the varsities like CU are issuing the same degree certificate to regular students and distance education students, the commencement of Open University would put an end to that and they would have to settle for an open and distance learning (ODL) degree certificate which can impact their job prospects. “The varsity has been issuing SDE students the same degree certificate issued to regular students without any differentiation. As certificates from open universities are not normally considered on par with regular stream, it could even affect the job prospects of students,” syndicate member and standing committee convener for SDE Ugin Marolli, said. CU syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said that the main attraction for students to enrol in distance education mode was that the varsity has been following the same syllabi and mode of examination for regular and distance stream students. With growing number of firms and employers in foreign countries, mainly in the Gulf, insisting on degrees under ‘regular’ mode of study for employees and job seekers, the CU had in 2018 decided to provide certificates mentioning mode of study as ‘regular full-time’ even to those who have secured degrees through distance mode. The varsity had been issuing ‘Mode of Study’ certificate to persons who have studied in parallel colleges or SDE stating that they have undertaken a `regular full- time study at a College’ after receiving an affidavit from the student that he has undergone regular full time study in the institution. Meanwhile, state higher education department authorities said that currently no university in the state can look forward to continuing with distance education programmes as they do not have the prescribed NAAC score of 3.26 and above and that the launch of the Open University would end the uncertainty over distance education courses offered by the varsities. Currently, four varsities in the state, Calicut, Kerala, MG and Kannur are conducting distance courses with provisional registration from UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/open-varsity-will-make-a-dent-in-revenue-of-other-varsities/articleshow/77972773.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||10/80 new special trains to pass through Nagpur||NAGPUR/NEW DELHI: After Unlock-4, the Indian Railways has also geared to boost passenger traffic across the country. Of the existing 230 trains it operated since June, 80 more trains were added to the fleet. Of these, 5 pairs of trains will pass through Nagpur. According to railway officials, the 10 trains include 02976 Jaipur-Mysuru (Tuesday & Thursday), 02975 Mysuru-Jaipur (Sunday & Friday); 02591 Gorakhpur-Yeshwantpur (Sunday & Tuesday), 02592 Yeshwantpur- Gorakhpur (Tuesday & Friday); 02669 Chennai-Chhapra (Tuesday & Sunday), 02670 Chhapra-Chennai (Tuesday &Thursday). Similarly, other trains include 08405 Puri-Ahmedabad (Thursday), 08406 Ahmedabad-Puri (Saturday), 02615-02616 Chennai-Delhi-Chennai will run daily. Meanwhile, 07007-07008 Secunderabad-Darbhanga-Secunderabad will not touch Nagpur but will pass through Ballarshah and Gondia stations. All these trains will start from September 12 from their originating stations and bookings for will start from September 10. Reservations for these trains will start from September 10. The railways will also introduce “clone trains” that will run just ahead of the ones which have a long waiting list for more than seven to ten days. Railway board CEO and chairman, VK Yadav said one of the intentions of running some of these trains is to facilitate the return of migrant workers. “While deciding the routes we took note of some factors including the routes where the demand is high and also considered the Shramik Specials that were run to take migrant workers back to their native places. There is a trend of migrant workers returning to their place of work and hence some of the trains will cater to that need,” he added. The list of 40 pairs of trains shows that a few will run on routes including Delhi-Gorakhpur, Yashwantpur-Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur-Valsad, Chhapra-Chennai, Korba-Vishakhapatnam, Puri- Ahmedabad, Dhanbad-Ferozpur and Bhagalpur-Delhi. Large number of migrant workforce comes from places such as Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur, Luchnow and Puri. TOI on September 1 had reported the railways move to introduce around 100 new trains. Yadav said while the average occupancy for the existing 230 special trains was around 75% on an average, it has now increased to over 80%. Only in the case of 12 trains the booking is very low and railways may discontinue services on a few such routes. On the clone train issue, Yadav said wherever there is a demand for a particular train and wherever the waiting list is long, the railways will run such trains ahead of the actual trains. “These will have lesser stoppages and hence would cater to the need of passengers travelling for long distances. Such trains will be run, if there is enough booking as well,” the railway board chief said. The clone train was first contemplated in 2016. Yadav also said all trains that are currently in operation will be monitored regularly to find out which trains have a long waiting list and railways will run more trains on such routes. Moreover, whenever there is demand from states for exams or other similar purposes more trains would be operated. He added that special trains are being run for students for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and also other such requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10/80-new-special-trains-to-pass-through-nagpur/articleshow/77956106.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-positive man, turned away by 3 hospitals, dies in Doon||Dehradun: A Covid-19-positive daily wager died after being turned away by three hospitals, which cited unavailability of ICU beds. He was declared dead by the time he was finally taken to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) on Saturday. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anoop Dimri has sought details from all the hospitals that allegedly turned the man away, saying action will be taken based on the report. The 38-year-old man had initially been admitted at a private hospital in Saharanpur Road area last week, after he complained of palpitation and breathlessness. As per procedure, a Covid-19 test was prescribed and the patient turned out to be positive. Not being a Covid facility, the hospital referred the man to GDMC. According to the man’s family, when they took him to GDMC on Friday, the hospital turned them away. The family then took him back home but the next day, when his condition worsened, neighbours helped the family reach Himalayan Hospital, which the family alleged also did not admit him, saying their ICU was full. The family then went to Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital (SMIH), which also said their ICU has no space. At this stage, the family contacted former Congress MLA Raj Kumar, who helped the man get admitted at GDMC (where he had been originally referred). However, it was too late by then. “The family contacted me via a local source. I spoke to Dr (Ashutosh) Sayana, principal of GDMC and he agreed to admit the man. However, he was declared dead by the time the family reached there,” said Kumar. The deceased is survived by his wife, a 3-year-old child and an elderly mother. Opposition Congress has sought an explanation from the state government, questioning the preparedness at major hospitals in the face of rapidly rising number of Covid-19 cases. When contacted, chief medical superintendent of Himalayan Hospital Dr SL Jethani said, “Our ICU is full and we have no option but to refer a patient elsewhere in case they need an ICU bed.” Authorities of SMIH cited the same problem. “Our ICU beds were full. We had no option but to refer the patient to Doon Hospital or AIIMS Rishikesh,” said the public relations officer (PRO) of the hospital. Dr Sayana said that even though Doon Hospital’s ICU was also full, it does not turn away critical patients. “The man may not have been admitted to GDMC when he was originally referred here due to some communication gap between the family and the doctors. We try to stabilise the patient when it’s an emergency case even when we don’t have ICU beds available. I have sought details from doctors,” he said. To recall, a five-months pregnant woman had died on August 20 after having to shuttle to and fro between two hospitals 5 km apart in Almora. She eventually tested negative for the virus but the confusion, caused by unavailability of antigen test kits and oxygen cylinders, claimed her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-positive-man-turned-away-by-3-hospitals-dies-in-doon/articleshow/77965792.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Actress awarded Rs 5 lakh for unauthorized use of picture||AHMEDABAD: The city civil court has ordered a Rajasthan mehndi manufacturer to pay Rs 5 lakh compensation to an actress from Ahmedabad, Pooja Gor, for using her photograph on a product label without her permission. Gor had sued Kanak Products of Rajasthan for selling the mehndi product with the label ‘Pratigya’ and bearing her picture. She came to know about the label in 2011 and filed a suit for copyright violation, seeking Rs 20 lakh in damages with 18% interest. She submitted in court that she became famous after playing a role in a TV serial “Man ki Awaz — Pratigya”. In public, she was known as Pratigya. She contended that Kanak Products’ conduct was nothing but fraud and also an infringement of her copyright with regard to her photograph. She said it was blatant piracy of her photograph and an invasion on her goodwill and reputation. She further submitted that any use of her photograph by the company was unsanctioned and illegal under the provisions of the Copyright Act and under common law. It was argued that Gor is the true and lawful owner and proprietor of any picture or photograph of hers. She can restrain any person, firm or company from committing any act of infringement of copyright. The court order came nine years after she filed the suit. The court accepted her contention, but said that she could not bring on record the evidence regarding the business of the firm in selling the product with a disputed label. So it was difficult to compute the damages done. But for the infringement of copyright, the court ordered the company to pay Rs 5 lakh compensation with 6% interest from 2011. The court has also issued directions to the company not to continue the use of Gor’s photograph for its product label.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/actress-awarded-rs-5-lakh-for-unauthorized-use-of-picture/articleshow/77967739.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Sarpanch, official in ACB net for Rs 25,000 bribe||KOTA: The ACB on Sunday arrested the village development officer and sarpanch of Panchyat Samiti Mandana in Kota after official allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 20,000. The two accused had demanded Rs 25,000 for conversion of agriculture land for industrial purpose and issuing a NOC. They had accepted Rs 5,000 at the time of verification of the complaint on Wednesday last week. According to DSP, ACB, Bundi, Tarunkant Somani, Rajendra Kumar Gochar, 38, a resident of Borekheda of Kota city lodged a complaint with ACB Bundi that Mahaveer Prasad Jain, 54, a resident of RK Puram in Kota and posted as village development officer in Mandana and sarpanch Babli Meena had demanded a bribe of Rs 25,000. Verification of the complaint was carried out on the same day when Jain had taken a part of the bribe amount, he added. The accused officer called Gochar with the remaining bribe amount to his house in RK Puram on Sunday, where the ACB sleuth, already alert, nabbed him and recovered the bribe amount of Rs. 20,000 from his possession, Somani said. Meanwhile, a separate ACB team arrested sarpanch Babli Meena from her house, he added. Further investigation into the matter is under way, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-official-in-acb-net-for-rs-25k-bribe/articleshow/77968445.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Last glimpse bares Covid body goof up seconds before funeral||Nagpur: Seconds before cremation, daughter of a Covid-19 victim wished to see face of her father for the last time as the body lay on the pyre. She was shocked to see a woman’s face instead. The hospital where her father died had handed over the body of a woman. Later, relatives of the deceased (63) went on to level allegations of injuries and blood stains on the body of their family member, raising suspicion. Former corporator Premlal Bhandakkar told TOI, “All of us are in a shock due to utter negligence of the administration of Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH), Hingna. We could have never known about it had not the daughter of my deceased brother-in-law wished to see his face. Inquiry should be conducted followed by action,” he said. Bhandakkar said, “My sister and brother-in-law tested positive and got admitted to LMH on August 26. We were never informed about their health status. Fortunately, my sister recovered and discharged on Saturday. We received a call at 8.30pm on Saturday that my brother-in-law has passed away. Then a call came from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) asking us to reach hospital at 11.30am on Sunday. NMC’s hearse with four workers in PPE kits were ready. The LMH staff asked NMC workers to bring the body from an upper floor.” “The NMC staffers said it was the hospital staff’s duty to carry the body up to the entrance. Son of the deceased was asked to sign on a paper. Hospital staff pasted a sticker with the name of my brother-in-law on the body bag. We took the body to Gangabai ghat for cremation. After laying the body on the pyre, the deceased’s daughter, who is a doctor, requested that she be shown his face for the last time. However, we were shocked to see a woman’s body inside the body bag,” said Bhandakkar. “We immediately contacted LMH which traced my brother-in-law’s body which was handed over to the relatives of the deceased woman and was taken for cremation to Mokshadham. Fortunately, the cremation had not been performed. Hospital staffers rushed there and exchanged the bodies,” he said. The videos showing sticker of a man’s name on the body bag of a woman deceased and vice versa are in possession of TOI. The deceased woman was a resident of Bhim Nagar in Hingna. The relatives were unaware of the exchange of bodies till the hospital staffers reached Mokshadham. The deceased man’s son-in-law Dhiraj Dalal expressed his displeasure over police ignoring their complaints. “We contacted Kotwali and Lakadganj police who arrived at Gangabai ghat. We showed blood stains and bandages on the body and also informed no surgery was performed at the hospital before his death. The constables advised us to approach Hingna police as the patient died at LMH. Government agencies should try to help grieving people and not saddle them with jurisdictional constraints. In our case, we were already baffled to see blood on the body of our Covid patient, which is not normal,” he said. Later, the cremation was performed at around 3.30pm. Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar said he inquired with senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Bhosale of Kotwali police station who said no complaint was filed by the aggrieved family. “We cannot suo moto proceed with the probe unless a complaint is lodged. If a complaint is lodged, we will transfer it our Hingna counterparts,” he said. Dean of LMH Dr Kajal Mitra denied any goof up by the hospital. “Hospital is strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol. The relatives of the deceased were first shown bodies. Two bodies with separate code numbers were released for two ambulances. Family members of the deceased and NMC employees were also present then. The goof up must have happened when the NMC employees loaded the bodies in ambulances,” he said. Dr Mitra added, “When we came to know about it from a relative, we sent our ambulance and exchanged the bodies. NMC should conduct enquiry to find who is responsible for the goof up.” On allegations of blood stains and injuries on the body, Dr Mitra said he did not get any complaint from anyone so he will not be able to comment on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/last-glimpse-bares-covid-body-goof-up-seconds-before-funeral/articleshow/77967734.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Police nab key accused in Prajapati gang rape case||Lucknow: In a sharp twist to the gang rape case against former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati, who’s out on interim bail since Friday, police arrested a witness in the crime, Ram Singh Rajput, on Sunday and booked him for gang rape of the Chiktrakoot woman corporator and her daughter. In 2017, the corporator had accused Prajapati of gang rape and an FIR was lodged at Gautampalli police station on Supreme Court’s directive and an on-the-run Prajapati was arrested and jailed. However, two years later, the rape survivor lodged an FIR against Ram Singh and his four aides and withdrew her charges against Prajapati, calling him a ‘father figure’. After Rajput’s arrest on Sunday, the woman corporator told reporters in Lucknow that Rajput had kidnapped her daughter and then implicated the former minister Gayatri. “Rajput had framed a complaint in English through his lawyer, Dinesh Tripathi, and forced me to sign on it. This was sent to the then DGP. Rajput and his aides, Ashu Gaur, Dinesh Chand Tripathi and two unidentified persons served tea laced with sedatives and raped me at a flat in H-3 block at Park Road. They filmed me in the nude and tried to blackmail me. Rajput also raped my daughter at different hotels in Lucknow and Delhi and kept terrorizing her,” she said. Talking to TOI, SHO Gautampalli, Satya Prakash Singh, said, on basis of FIR registered on December 27, 2019, charges of rape, sexual assault, causing hurt by poisoning, dishonesty, punishment for wrongful confinement, and POSCO Act, 2012, has been slapped against Ram Singh, Ashu Gaur, Dinesh Chand Tripathi and their two unknown aides. Ram Singh is already being tried for being the witness to the crime, police said. Prajapati was arrested on March 15, 2017, and has been in jail since then. He was released on interim bail on Friday on medical grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-nab-key-accused-in-prajapati-gang-rape-case/articleshow/77968447.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM kickstarts dengue fight from home||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday kickstarted 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute, Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign, by inspecting his residence for stagnant clean water and draining it out to avoid breeding of mosquitoes to tackle vector-borne diseases. “The rainy season is here again, and it is the first week of September. We all know that at this point, the breeding of mosquitoes that spread dengue is at a peak. We have to save ourselves and our family from dengue,” Kejriwal said. “Last year, we participated in a massive campaign against dengue, 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute — Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar; we will do that again this year,” he added. Kejriwal said Delhi had recorded a big decline in dengue cases last year compared to thousands of cases witnessed a few years ago. “Like last year, today is the first Sunday, and for the next 10 Sundays, please spend 10 minutes to inspect your homes for stagnant clean water at 10am. Please drain the standing water and replace it. I hope and believe that the people of Delhi will again participate and save Delhi from dengue just like they did the last time.” In 2019 too, the campaign was launched in September and there were 2,036 cases in Delhi and two deaths due to dengue compared with 2015, when the cases were 15,867 and there were 60 deaths. Besides government officials, the campaign also garnered support of many celebrities and autonomous bodies. Kejriwal has appealed to the ministers, the MLAs and Delhiites to begin the campaign from their own home and continue it on every Sunday. All Delhi cabinet ministers also inspected their homes on Sunday and took to social media to spread the message. A doctor will share advice on the dos and don’ts to prevent dengue in the second week, a Delhi government statement said. The campaign also requests each Delhiite to call 10 friends or relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue, malaria and chikungunya, all vector-borne diseases. The government said residents welfare associations would be asked to help in the fight and promote the campaign. Many celebrities and social media influencers will also take part by recording messages, which will be shared on social media, the government release stated. At various stages, children will be assigned homework to call their friends to take part in the campaign. Offices will also be encouraged to follow the good practices and promote them on their premises and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-kickstarts-dengue-fight-from-home/articleshow/77967779.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's ex-deputy CM Sachin Pilot turns 43, loyalists to showcase his popularity||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will turn 43 on Monday, but his supporters and well-wishers will not be able to congregate at his residence or the party headquarters here like they had been doing every year. Owing to the spread of the contagious coronavirus in the state, Pilot has appealed to people to stay where they are and, instead, try to donate blood for the needy in these difficult times. Turning it into an opportunity, Pilot loyalists have decided to create a record in blood donation by setting a target for themselves to collect as many thousands of blood units as his age — that is 43,000 units. In Jaipur, blood donations began a day in advance with at least five camps being organised here on Sunday. “I have appealed to everyone to not congregate in Jaipur in order to wish or greet me on my birthday on September 7. The health and safety of the people is of paramount importance and we all have to follow the protocol and guidelines issued by the authorities,” Pilot said in a statement on the eve of his birthday. The blood donation exercise, at the same time, is being seen in the political circles as a show of strength by the Pilot camp that has been openly at loggerheads with chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the past two months. By organising blood donations in every nook and corner of the state, the Pilot camp intends to establish the extensive popularity of their leader. Hoardings and posters with big pictures of Pilot had already been put across the state by party leaders and workers inviting people to participate in the blood donation camps. The social media platforms, too, were aptly used to send across the message that the birthday was an occasion to do more than just a public service. The blood donation camps would be organised in all 200 assembly constituencies of the state on Monday. The next day, newly appointed AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken would be returning to the state for the party cadres’ feedback exercise that had to be aborted last week due to the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Maken is part of the three-member AICC panel that the Congress central leadership formed last month to consider issues raised by Pilot when he revolted against Gehlot’s leadership. With loyalties among the state Congressmen divided like never before, Pilot’s birthday celebrations have come as an opportunity for the Gehlot camp, too, to identify the former’s loyalists that remained unnoticed during the rebellion in July-August. The Gehlot camp would be keenly following the blood donation organisers in every block of the state. The tussle between the two camps could further intensify in the coming days, said party sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-turns-43-loyalists-to-showcase-his-popularity/articleshow/77968446.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid care centres to come up in Maharashtra's Sinnar taluka soon||NASHIK: Officials of the district administration’s health department are planning to start more Covid care centres (CCC) in the Sinnar taluka considering the increasing number of coronavirus cases there. Officials said these centres can be used to treat patients with mild symptoms. A senior health official said that currently, there are around 250 Covid patients in the Sinnar taluka. About 50 of them are in home quarantine given their mild symptoms, the remaining are placed in the two Covid facilities at the taluka headquarters. The official added that the risk of infection spread was more given that a large number of people were neglecting basic precautionary measures. As a result, institutional quarantine is important. “Things are in the planning stage. Lack of doctors has become a main problem across the district as the recruitment drive taken up by the district administration to hire doctors, nurses, etc. is not getting the expected response. The new CCC would need doctors to monitor the health of patients admitted there,” said the officer preferring anonymity. In view of the aforesaid circumstances, the health department at the taluka level is focusing on keeping a close watch on high-risk contacts of the confirmed Covid-19 patients. The officer said that once the high-risk contacts start staying indoors, the spread of infection would automatically come down. To serve the purpose, the health department is taking help of gram panchayats and officials of the revenue department as well as police to ensure that the high-risk contacts observe strict home quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-care-centres-to-come-up-in-sinnar-taluka-soon/articleshow/77965801.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: First 100 vaccine volunteers enter key week||PUNE: All the first 100 volunteers who had signed up for human trials of the Oxford vaccine have now received their shots. With this, the candidate vaccine is one step closer to phase 3 of the trials. The 100 volunteers will now be observed for a week, during which they will be monitored for any side-effects. The vaccine — Covishield — is being jointly developed by Oxford University and pharma firm AstraZeneca. It will be manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute. As part of the phase 2 trial design, a total of 100 healthy adult volunteers received the first dose of the vaccine at four trial sites: three in Pune and one in Mysuru. Nationwide, the vaccine trial involves a total of 1,600 volunteers across 17 selected sites, including four Pune hospitals. Of the 100 vaccinated volunteers — the first to receive the shots in the country — some 68 are from Pune. A senior official from the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “Covishield will enter its phase 3 human trial if the week-long study finds it safe in the 100 vaccinated volunteers. Study data will be submitted to the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) before phase 3 starts.” The phase 2 trial of Covishield was launched in Pune on August 26, when two volunteers received their shots at Bharati hospital. Since then, the BJ Medical College and Sassoon Hospital and KEM hospital too have joined the trials. Doctors from Jehangir hospital said they are set to start enrolling volunteers from this week. Besides Pune, phase 2 volunteers were vaccinated at the CS Medical College and hospital in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-100-vaccine-volunteers-enter-key-week/articleshow/77967724.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Road caves in at Coonoor town||Udhagamandalam: A portion of road on VP Street in Coonoor town caved in on Sunday following the heavy rain. Two vehicles parked on roadside subsequently fell into a nearby water channel. Srinivasan, Coonoor tahsildhar, said, “The road, which leads to Krishnapuram, was already in a bad condition. The road caved in after its sidewall collapsed in the downpour today (Sunday). Efforts are on to retrieve the vehicles fallen in the water channel. We have advised residents in the area not to park vehicles on the roadside.” For the past few days, the Nilgiris has been receiving moderate to heavy rainfall. Coonoor alone had recorded 40.5mm rainfall in 24 hours that ended on Saturday 7am. According to the official, the continuous rain in Coonoor town and surrounding areas has slacken the soil stability. The district administration, meanwhile, said the flood control room at the collectorate was functioning round-the-clock. Similarly, flood control rooms have been opened at revenue divisional and taluk offices in the district with specific telephone numbers. All measures, including readying community halls as relief centres, have been taken to face any eventuality during the monsoon, a source with the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/road-caves-in-at-coonoor-town/articleshow/77967728.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad prepared for II PU supplementary examination||Dharwad: The stage is set for conducting PUC II year supplementary examination in Dharwad district which will be held from September 7 to 19. Deputy director of PU education Chidambar K on Sunday said that the examination will be held in two sessions — from 10.15am to 1.30pm, and from 2.15pm to 1.30pm. Though the district has 13 examination centres, the second session will be held at six centres only. While Dharwad city has four centres, Hubballi city has six, Navalgund, Kundgol and Kalghatagi have one each. In all, 8,916 candidates (5,541 boys and 3,378 girls) have registered their names for the exam. While 3,402 candidates will appear for arts stream, 3,194 are commerce students and 2,323 are science students. Anjuman PU College in Dharwad has been designated as a reserved centre to accommodate candidates who could be Covid-19 symptomatic during the exam. “In order to ensure that the candidates and staff of the centres are protected from Covid-19, the norms issued by the department of health and family welfare will be strictly followed,” said the DDPU. He said measures like sanitisation of centres before and after the examination on each day in the presence of Asha workers will be ensured. The staff engaged in exam duty will be present at the centre at 7am on all the days during the exam to make necessary preparations to follow the protocol. All other measures like installing CCTVs, appointment of vigilance squads, security and maintenance of confidentiality of question papers, closure of photocopy shops in 200m radius of examination centres during the examination and imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC will be followed to ensure hassle-free examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-prepared-for-ii-pu-supplementary-examination/articleshow/77966426.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Niligiris forest division struggles to remove encroacments||Udhagamandalam: At least 300 acres of reserve forest in the Nilgiris division were encroached by tribals for cultivation. District forest officer, Nilgiris division, Guru Swamy Baddal said Kota and Toda tribals had gradually encroached forest areas in Sholur panchayat in Ooty taluk, Nanjanadu panchayat and TR Bazar in Gudalur taluk over the years since 2013. An extent of 110 acres of forest land was brought under cultivation in and around Ajjur, a Badaga village in Kotagiri taluk. “In Sholur panchayat, Kota tribals had encroached over 150 acres of forest land. In several places, we find it difficult to identify the encroachers. Recently, when officials tried to remove a shed erected on a forest land, they were attacked,” said Baddal. A case was registered in this connection.At TR Bazaar in Naduvattam area, over 30 acres of land have been encroached and being cultivated. Most of the encroached lands were grasslands, the DFO said. Police have eviced 14 Todas from the encroached lands in Nanjanadu panchayat so far.Twenty years ago, a settlement officer earmarked 110 acres of forest land (encroached) to be cleared of encroachments at Ajjur village. However, the forest department is unable to execute it. In 2017, the Madras high court also directed the forest department to evict the encroachments.“We need more manpower and support from other departments to remove encroachments. The villagers are uncooperative,” said Baddal.As per revenue records, Todas were grazing rights over grassland in forest areas close to their habitat during the British period. “They have only grazing rights over certain pieces of government land. They cannot cultivate in these areas as per the Forest Act,” Baddal said.“A detailed report of the encroachments by the tribal communities in the Nilgiris has been sent to the higher officials for further action. Survey of forest lands in Nilgiris division will be conducted soon by a special team,” said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/niligiris-forest-division-struggles-to-remove-encroacments/articleshow/77967741.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi Police arrests 4th man from Pilibhit in fake currency case||Pilibhit: A Delhi Police special cell team arrested one more person from Pilibhit city on Saturday night in connection with the printing and circulation of fake currency notes.The man was identified as Nitin Patel of Gopal Singh locality in Pilibhit city. He had been arrested by the district police in April last year in connection with a fake currency case.At that time, district police had seized electronic devices and paper used to print fake currency notes from his house.The Delhi Police team has been here ever since it arrested two grain traders of Pilibhit with fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 1.20 lakh in Delhi.Following their leads, one Aqil Darzi, a resident of Awas Vikas colony in Pilibhit city, was nabbed by the team on Friday evening from Bareilly's Bahedi town. A scanner, computer, printer, the currency paper and partially and fully printed fake currency notes were seized from Darzi's house in Pilibhit city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-police-arrests-4th-man-from-pilibhit-in-fake-currency-case/articleshow/77964446.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Colleges anxious over online counselling of students in season of social distancing||KOLKATA: Colleges are taking to their websites to inform applicants about certain aspects of their institutions, like medium of instruction, combination of subjects and even mandatory attendance, after the admission process to undergraduate courses was shifted online due to the pandemic. Earlier, college authorities would get an opportunity to meet the applicants for counselling, before they finally paid their admission fees, where they could explain the hurdles that the students may face after admission. But this year there is no scope of one-on-one interaction. Several colleges are now putting up notices on their websites so that the students can make an informed choice before taking admission. For instance, the medium of instruction in Loreto College is English and it is mandatory for students to communicate in English. “All classes in Loreto College are conducted in English, so students must have a grasp over the language to study and understand the text. Previously, we would interview every candidate and explain this to them so that they did not face any difficulty while studying here. This year, since the entire admission is happening online, we have notified this through our website,” said a member of the admission committee in the college. Similarly, in Lady Brabourne College, the medium of instruction is English, except for the Urdu, Bengali and Hindi departments. In fact, the college usually conducts an entrance examination for admission in the English Honours course, which has now been done away with. Several students who want to pursue commerce at the undergraduate level also enrol for professional courses simultaneously, for which they attend private tuitions. Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration in Bowbazar, which is one of the most sought-after colleges for commerce, lays a lot of stress on attendance. “We have morning, as well as day, batches and attendance according to the university guidelines is mandatory,” said an official. Several colleges have also requested candidates to be prepared to accept elective subjects other than those they may have opted for at the time of admission. For example, there are less than 50 seats in the journalism and mass communication department in The Bhawanipur Education Society College, but the applications received are in thousands.  “Not everybody opting for the subject will be able to study it due to the limited number of seats. Seat allocation will be strictly on the basis of merit,” said Miraj D Shah, vice-chairman of the college. Several candidates also apply for multiple Honours subjects to better their odds. However, this time, at all colleges affiliated to Calcutta University, they will have to pick just one at the time of admission. If they have paid the fees for multiple subjects, the students will be required to generate cancellation vouchers for those subjects s/he will not be studying. “Request for cancellation of admission can be made online on the admission portal of Bethune College,” said a college official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-anxious-over-online-counselling-of-students-in-season-of-social-distancing/articleshow/77966788.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s tally of critical cases rises 5x in a fortnight||NASHIK: There has been a sharp increase in the number of critical Covid-19 patients in the city over the past fortnight. According to the data available with the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), there has been nearly a five-fold increase in the number of patients on ventilator support — from 21 on August 21 to 103 on September 5. On August 31 alone, 102 patients were placed on ventilator support. Similarly, the number of patients on oxygen beds went up from 241 on August 21 to 672 on September 5. The number of patients placed in the ICU continued to be around the 260-mark during the fortnight. This scenario comes at a time when the Centre has expressed its concern about the pandemic in Nashik. The Union health ministry on Saturday said that Nashik needs to put in place “effective containment and contact tracing” strategies. Although the NMC health officials admitted that there has been a rise in the number of critical Covid-19 patients in the city, they added that the situation is “under control.” “Off late, there has been an increase in critical Covid-19 patients. But, the fatality rate is dropping. This means a sizeable section of critical patients is getting healed due to the efforts of doctors and other medical staff,” said NMC officials. At present, the fatality rate is 1.7%, down from last week’s 2.1%. Officials put forth several reasons for the rise in the number of critical patients. “There is a steady flow of serious patients from rural parts Nashik and neighbouring districts who are getting admitted to private and government hospitals in the city,” said NMC officials. “Moreover there are patients who, despite having Covid-like symptoms, do not get tested early. When things go out of hand, they are rushed to hospitals and their condition turns critical,” said the officials, adding that the overall positive cases have increased due to recent festivals and easing of restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-tally-of-critical-cases-rises-5x-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/77965807.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 7, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: 55-year-old man killed by lightning||UDAIPUR: Heavy rain with thunderstorm hit the city on Sunday afternoon. A 55-year-old man was killed due to lightning in Madri area. Similarly, four buffaloes were also killed by lightning in Tidi area. The downpour triggered waterlogging in several parts of the city. The man was killed by lightning while crossing a bridge at Madri Road number 1. The Savina police team arrived and shifted the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/55-year-old-man-killed-by-lightning/articleshow/77968470.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Colour-coded metro passes to help police regulate entry to stations||KOLKATA: A uniquely designed bot (web robot) will help keep the passenger count on Metro trains below 400 per rake every trip to maintain social distancing norms. The boarding pass on the mobile phone of a passenger will change its colour every hour. This colour code can easily be spotted by the cop at the entrance to the metro subway and help him allow passengers into the station according to the right time slot. A bot is a software that runs automated tasks over the internet. Typically, bots perform tasks that are simple and repetitive, much faster than a person. “It is a conversation user interface (UI) and artificial intelligence (AI) that do the job. The slot can be booked on the Metro website, Pathadisha app and Metro app,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, an architect of the system and director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the state transport department. The system will receive, analyse and process a huge amount of data from multiple sources — such as from the platform, the train and the slot-booking server — to strike a balance so that a train does not carry more than 400 passengers — 128 seated and 272 standing passengers per trip. The system will constantly study the origin-destination of a passenger and create the slots. Each colour-coded boarding pass will be valid for an hour. The next slot will have a different colour. “We initially thought that QR codes would suffice. But it would have been physically impossible to scan each pass and allow a passenger to enter the station. This is why the colour patch was added. Police personnel, RPF and metro officials will know the prevailing colour code for a particular hour. “It was an impossible task to take head count of passengers and allow only a limited number of passengers to enter the subway. There would have been long queues at every entry point and a law and order situation would have ensued. Even then, the number of passengers per train would have been skewed. This is why we opted for a digital solution,” said a senior state official. “This is a very interesting solution to a very complex issue ever tried in the Covid-19 phase. This, I hope, will pave the way for seamless integration of all public transport modes. If that happens, the system will leave its mark in the history of transportation,” Rakhi Basu, transport specialist, World Bank, said. The passenger will need to fill in his details and choose the available slot he wants. “We are also working on SMS IDs instead of colour-coded passes for analogue phone users,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colour-coded-metro-passes-to-help-police-regulate-entry-to-stations/articleshow/77966792.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||48 test +ve in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 48 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the count to 1,897. While 1,502 patients have recovered from the virus attack so far, 381 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals and Covid care centres. Among the positive cases were a 52-year-old woman running a milk booth at Kotagiri, a female staffer of primary health centre in Ooty and a shopkeeper in Ooty market. An official said six people from Kodamalai village were tested positive for the virus after attending a wedding at Ajjur village. “Another five people from T.Oranalli contracted the virus after attending a funeral at Puduhatti village.” According to the source, three people were found to be infected after they approached hospitals in Coimbatore for treatment for other health problems. Another two men were tested positive for the virus after visiting Thanjavur and Madurai districts. “The remaining cases are contacts of earlier positive cases,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/48-test-ve-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77967744.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Task force to draw NEP road map||Ahmedabad: The state government will form a task force led by education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama for studying and implementing the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The task force consists of 15 members including officials of the primary education department and academicians. On Teachers’ Day, chief minister Vijay Rupani said his government aims to become the first to implement the NEP 2020. He was speaking at an event in Gandhinagar to felicitate 44 teachers, on September 5. The new NEP has been translated into Gujarati and the task force will create a road map for Gujarat, the CM had said. On the basis of this road map, the state will make drastic changes in education policies, covering KG to PG (kindergarten to postgraduation). “In the age of industrialization when people care only about themselves and their careers, teachers, who despite being paid low salaries, create a new generation and prepare people to take care of India of the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/task-force-to-draw-nep-road-map/articleshow/77967743.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bar patrons make the most of open weekend||Kolkata: Footfall surged across Kolkata’s restaurants and pubs on the first weekend after bars were allowed to reopen on September 1. Several had a packed house for the first time since the pandemic-induced lockdown began in March. The crowd had started building up immediately after the no-alcohol order was lifted last Tuesday and it reached a peak on Friday and Saturday, with a 100% turnout during lunch and dinner hours. Long queues returned outside several Park Street and central Kolkata restaurants and eateries inside malls, too, recorded a 100% jump in footfall.Most restaurants said liquor sales were higher than what they would be on the weekends before the pandemic. “Around 65% ordered liquor, which helped to drive the sale of food. People had been waiting for a drink outside their homes and it was quite evident. Food orders, too, were good and this should continue,” said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis on Park Street. The restaurant remained packed during lunch and dinner hours on Friday and Saturday. “Serving liquor has made a substantial difference. To celebrate the return of our patrons, we are offering a free starter with two drinks,” added Daryanani.Central Kolkata restaurants saw a return of the evening crowd that had thinned during the pandemic. “This weekend was no different from those of the pre-Covid era,” said Sudesh Poddar who owns Songhai on Waterloo Street. “Being located in an office area, we get a bigger crowd in the evenings. We remained full on both Friday and Saturday evenings. Unfortunately, we will miss out on the next weekend since there will be a lockdown on Saturday. But with liquor back, weekends should now be better,” he said, adding that liquor was once again contributing 60% of the total sale volume at Songhai.Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street remained packed from Friday to Sunday and queues were back outside. “This is the second time since we opened post-lockdown that people were waiting to get in. On August 15, too, we had a big turnout but the footfall had dropped subsequently,” said owner Nitin Kothari. He added that though people visit his restaurants primarily for food, liquor makes a difference. “Almost 80% of the tables ordered a drink,” he added.Sales at restaurants in malls also doubled over the weekend. At Acropolis, of the four restaurants in the mall that serve liquor, three did brisk business. Lounge bar Hoppipola will open shop only on September 14.South City, too, recorded a 100% growth in food and beverage sales. “We have seen a perceptible increase in F&B sales since September 1 when serving alcohol was permitted. This weekend, we saw a huge jump and record occupancy during lunch hours,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree.It has helped that most restaurants haven’t hiked liquor prices despite a 30% increase in May. “Our prices will be unchanged till at least the Pujas,” said Daryanani. Other Park Street restaurants, too, will stick to old prices. But some, like Songhai, have raised prices slightly to cover the cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bar-patrons-make-the-most-of-open-weekend/articleshow/77966796.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 7, 2020||Mysuru||Rowdy sheeter arrested for burning man alive in Karnataka||HASSAN: Police on Saturday arrested a rowdy sheeter who allegedly burnt a man alive near Holenarsipur town. The incident, which happened on August 10, was captured in the nearby CCTV. The accused has been identified as 40-year-old Mehaboob Khan is the accused from Jandalu village around 2 km away from the town. He was booked as a rowdy sheeter after an attempt to murder case. According to police, Khan broke into a fight with 48-year-old Ramesh at a wine shop near Holenarsipur town on August 9. Ramesh, a metalworker at the jewellery shop run by his father, was living alone after his wife and daughter left him, said police. Khan, already wanted in an attempt to murder case, noticed that Ramesh slept outside his father’s home near the wines shop, drew petrol from his bike and came to the spot where the victim was asleep. He dragged Ramesh onto the street, poured petrol, lit the fire and fled the spot. The incident was recorded in the nearby CCTV, said the police. Although Ramesh was rushed to the hospital immediately, he succumbed to the burns on August 22. “Ramesh’s wife has lodged complaint in the town station accusing his brother and family of the murder for property gain,” said DySP Lakshmegowda. Hotel raided SP R Srinivas Gowda on Saturday night conducted a random raid at a hotel on the outskirts of Channarayapatna following a string of murders in the region. The cops searched vehicles parked in the premises of the hotel with an attached bar located close to Arsikere - Mysuru road around 4 km away from the town centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rowdy-sheeter-arrested-for-burning-man-alive/articleshow/77965702.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||RBI’s new move to help farmers set up small solar plants||Jaipur: The push by Rajasthan government to wean away farmers from using subsidised conventional power and facilitate a shift to renewable energy found a helping hand from RBI which made small solar plants on barren land eligible for loans in the revised priority sector lending norms. On the basis of the new guidelines issued on last Friday, farmers now can get priority loans for installation of standalone solar agriculture pumps and solarisation of grid connected agriculture pumps. Similarly, farmers can also avail priority loans for installation of solar power plants on barren land or in stilt fashion on agriculture land. Rajasthan has been aggressively driving the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthaan Mahabhiyaan (Kusum) Yojana to encourage more farmers to use their barren land for setting up micro solar plants at substation level. Under the scheme, farmers can set up plants with capacity ranging from 0.5 to 2 megawatt and the power will be bought by discoms at Rs 3.14 per unit which is much higher than the rates discovered through auctions. The farmers who do not have no money to invest, can also lease out the land to private developers and receive an annual income. “Rajasthan government has pursued aggressively with the Centre for policy changes so that the scheme intended at increasing farmers’ income takes deep roots as the benefits are multiple. Since the plants would be located within 5 km of a sub-station, the transmission losses would be minimal and cost of power will be cheaper. Rajasthan is the first state in the country to implement the Kusum scheme successfully,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and chairman, Rajasthan Renewable Corporation Ltd. The government also thinks that as the farmers shift to renewable energy, the cross-subsidy burden will be less. Currently, general consumers pay for the power subsidy given to farmers. Under the scheme, Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy gives subsidy of 40 paise per unit to the government, effectively bringing down rates for discoms to Rs 2.74 per units who ultimately buy the power from the farmers. But the solar industry in the state said that banks are still not forthcoming to finance solar projects. “It’s a new sector and bankers still have to understand the dynamics of the business. Secondly, often the payments are held by discoms that is discouraging banks. If the government wants to increase finance to the solar sector, there has to be a lending target for the banks within the priority sector lending,” said Sunil Bansal, solar expert and general secretary of Rajasthan Solar Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbis-new-move-to-help-farmers-set-up-small-solar-plants/articleshow/77968454.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 7, 2020||Surat||Plasma donation in Surat inches close to 1,000 mark||SURAT: Surat city that has been leading in convalescent plasma donations in the state is now just a few steps from crossing the 1,000-mark. According to different blood banks in the city, till Sunday, a total of 939 people had donated their plasma and many more were looking forward to helping other Covid-19 patients with similar donations. This blood banks at Surat have achieved this milestone in just over two months. While the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER Hospital and at New Civil Hospital (NCH) got permission for plasma collection in first week of July, two more city-based blood banks Later, on 28 July, two more city-based blood bank — Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra and Surat Raktadan Kendra — got nod for plasma collection from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Sources said at the blood banks said that till date 1,569 units of plasma have been issued to patients for convalescent plasma therapy in the city SMIMER Hospital is leading in plasma collection since the beginning and now it has collected plasma from 535 donors. About 222 people donated their plasma at NCH while, 150 and 32 people donated their plasma at Lok Samarpan Raktadan Kendra and Surat Raktdan Kendra respectively. “A large number of people, employees of industrial units, are donating plasma. Many diamond units are encouraging their employees to donate plasma and help other patients under treatment,” said an official of one of the blood banks. “Forty-two of our employees have donated plasma till now. We encouraged our employees to help Covid-19 patients,” Nagji Thummar, owner of Gopinath Gems, told TOI. As per the ICMR guidelines, a Covid-19 infected patient can donate plasma 28 days after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/plasma-donation-in-diamond-city-inches-close-to-1000-mark/articleshow/77965858.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BSF jawan shoots self with rifle in Barmer dist||JAISALMER: A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan deployed at the international border adjoining Munabao in Barmer district shot himself with his service rifle on Saturday. He was immediately rushed to the nearest health centre where doctors declared him dead. Though the cause of the death is yet to be ascertained, it is suspected that love affair may be the reason behind the incident. Senior BSF officials have reached the spot and started investigation into the case. According to BSF sources, jawan Pradeep Kumar (40), a resident of Uttarakhand, was on duty at border check-post (Maratha hill) of 13th battalion. All of a sudden, Kumar shot himself with his service rifle. His colleagues took him to a nearest health centre where the doctors declared him dead, sources said. Gadra Road police station SHO Amar Singh said that Munabao area company commander O P Moga on Sunday informed that 13th battalion jawan Kumar during duty shot himself in the head and committed suicide. Singh reached the spot and seized the rifle and bullet and the body was taken to mortuary. After post-mortem, the body was given to the BSF officers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawan-shoots-self-with-rifle-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/77968471.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro's reopening: Kailash Gahlot takes stock at Rajiv Chowk station||NEW DELHI: State transport minister Kailash Gahlot inspected the Rajiv Chowk station ahead of the resumption of Metro services in the city from Monday. Gahlot visited the station at Connaught Place — among Delhi Metro’s busiest — on Sunday to take stock of the preparations made by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and Delhi government’s transport department for the resumption of services. “I am glad that Metro services are finally resuming in the city. I personally inspected the station and am satisfied with the arrangements in place. I'm happy to note that Rajiv Chowk, despite being one of the busiest stations, has ensured that all precautions are in place as per the SOP,” Gahlot said. “We are also deploying civil defence volunteers for crowd management — inside and outside the stations. I appeal to all commuters to follow social distancing at the stations. I am assured that if both management and Delhiites responsibly follow the protocols in place, we will be able to set another benchmark in the ‘Delhi model’ of fighting Covid,” the transport minister added. Delhi Metro operations will resume in a graded manner with staggered timings from September 7, but will be fully operational by September 12, when all the corridors become operational. Enforcement teams are also going to be deployed at Metro stations to manage crowds, ensure social distancing and guide commuters. Gahlot said an automatic sanitizer dispenser machine has been made available at every entry point for use by the passengers. The minister also inspected the ingenious way DMRC has come up with to avoid contact with elevator buttons by providing a foot-operated lift mechanism. He said that DMRC has also made a proper announcement system to regularly inform commuters about safety measures with train coaches also having instructions on walls about all protocols to be followed while commuting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gahlot-takes-stock-at-rajiv-chowk-stn/articleshow/77967795.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nashik||8ft Indian python rescued from Mahadevwadi in Satpur||Nashik: An eight-feet-long Indian python was rescued from urban areas of Nashik city on Saturday night. The reptile was found resting under a four-wheeler near Ganesh Apartment at Mahadevwadi in the Satpur area of Nashik city on Saturday night by local residents. Upon spotting the python, people raised an alarm and informed the local snake catchers. Later, the locals also informed the forest department who sent their snake catchers to rescue the python. Forest officials said the python was a non-venomous species. The forest department released the python in the forest of Harshul in the Trimbakeshwar taluka on Saturday night. According to forest officials, python spottings are not very rare in Nashik given that the city has a very good green cover and such reptiles are found in large numbers. Usually, these reptiles move along the banks of the Godavari and Nandini rivers and their rivulets where there is an ecosystem that nurtures these creatures. Officials said the python must have been swept into the city via one of the nalas, rivulets or the Nandini river that comes from the neighbouring Trimbakeshwar taluka, which is thickly forested. “On many occasions, such reptiles have been rescued by forest department officials,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8ft-indian-python-rescued-from-mahadevwadi-in-satpur/articleshow/77965814.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s reopening: Yellow to cross the line first||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is now ready to resume its services after being shut for 169 days. On Monday, services on Yellow Line (Samyapur Badli-Huda City Centre) linking north Delhi to Gurugram will start at 7am. Train services will be available in two shifts, from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. The rest of the corridors will open in a graded manner five days later from September 12. The operation time will expand gradually and services will be restored to the usual 6am to 11pm from Saturday. #DelhiMetro to resume services from 7am today after being shut for 169 days due to #COVID19. (Visuals from outsid… https://t.co/zMtoZsGvfo— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1599440522000Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said commuters would need to follow a new normal of social distancing, face mask and hand sanitisation. They would also need to keep 15-30 minutes of extra travelling time at hand. Read AlsoReady to get back on track, Delhi Metro urges people to ‘break the peak’Delhi Metro is finally going to resume its services from Monday after more than five months. But for commuters, waiting eagerly for the capital’s lifeline to come back on track, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has one request — “break the peak”.From the station entrance to frisking points, platforms and trains, social distancing would be stringently maintained. Trains would halt for 10-20 seconds extra at all stations to allow boarding and deboarding with a distance among passengers. After every trip, all trains would be thoroughly sanitised. This would mean your travel time would be higher than earlier. Read AlsoDelhi Metro services resume tomorrow - what you can expect and what is expected ofThe Delhi Metro is ready to resume its services from Monday, September 7 after being shut down for 169 days.DMRC has advised commuters to only use earmarked gates. Only a couple of gates at a station would be kept open for segregated entry and exit of passengers to maintain social distancing norms. Details of earmarked gates are available at http://delhimetrorail.com/corona/entrygatedetails.aspx. A metro train leaves from Huda City Centre metro station in #Gurugram for Samaypur Badli metro station in #Delhi… https://t.co/2gIJFrb3Pm— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1599441755000“Apart from regular front line staff at the stations, around 1,000 additional employees have been deployed across the network to assist and guide passengers in the wake of the new norms for travelling, which may take some time to settle in,” Dayal said. Read AlsoDelhi Metro services to resume from Monday: All you need to knowFollowing a pause of over five months due to Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Metro is all set to resume its services in three stages from September 7-12.Making an appeal to passengers to cooperate with the personnel on duty and keep listening to announcements, Dayal said, “All staffers have been advised to manage passengers with a positive and caring attitude in these testing times with the initial focus being on sensitising rather than punitive measures. The new norms are to be followed continuously during the entire journey for their own and everyone else’s safety.” Read AlsoDelhi Metro's reopening: Kailash Gahlot takes stock at Rajiv Chowk stationState transport minister Kailash Gahlot inspected the Rajiv Chowk station ahead of the resumption of Metro services in the city from Monday.DMRC has made an appeal to commuters to avoid travelling unless it is absolutely necessary. “Commuters must try to break the peak by staggering travel timings. They should avoid peak hours, when they are likely to end up missing a train or two. This will also help DMRC in optimum utilisation of train operations. We appeal to commuters to talk less during travel to prevent the possibility of short-range aerosol transmission,” Dayal said. #DMRC will resume services from 7am today on Yellow and Rapid Metro lines(Visuals from Huda City Centre metro sta… https://t.co/hpvGtHmmbh— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1599441581000To prevent overcrowding in trains and at stations, DMRC might start empty trains from terminal stations or short loop some of them to manage crowded zones on a particular section. “This dynamic regulation of train movement will be based on the ground situation,” said the official. Smart cards are a must now as tokens won’t be issued. “It is contactless, easily rechargeable online and a discount up to 20% is offered on every travel. Tokens will not be available at the stations for now as they need frequent human interface and pose a risk of infection,” he said. People have been advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for faster frisking at entry points. Only pocket-sized hand sanitisers less than 30ml would be allowed from the safety point of view. “DMRC is also in touch with the authorities to provide around 1,000 civil defence volunteers. Some major stations have been identified where law enforcement agencies, such as local police, will be roped in to monitor law and order in vulnerable areas,” said Dayal, adding that a request had been made to the authorities to arrange for antigen testing of around 15,000 employees who would be catering to the public throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metros-reopening-yellow-to-cross-the-line-first/articleshow/77967766.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Salem||Farmer who set himself ablaze dies, kin protest||DHARMAPURI: Tension prevailed for a while at the government medical college hospital in the town on Sunday after relatives of the farmer, who set himself ablaze during an eviction drive protested, demanding action against errant government officials after he died on Saturday. On Friday, a team of revenue department officials had gone to Kittesampatty village near Karimangalam to evict villagers who had allegedly encroached government’s poramboke land. The villagers got into an argument when tahsildar Kalaiselvi asked them to vacate the land, police said. Within minutes, farmer G Chinnasamy, 65, set himself ablaze after dousing himself with kerosene. Officials and fellow villagers put off the fire and rushed him to the Dharmapuri government hospital with 60% burn injuries. However, the farmer succumbed on Saturday night. On Sunday, irate relatives of the deceased gathered in front of the hospital and raised slogans against errant officials. Dharmapuri MP Dr Senthil Kumar, DMK district secretary ‘Thadamgam’ Subramani and others joined their protest. The protest was called off after an hour following assurance from police officials of stern action against officials, if they are found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/farmer-who-set-himself-ablaze-dies-kin-protest/articleshow/77967792.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||Arts rides wave with changes in job scene & lure of govt services||PUNE: Till recently, when the standard X marks were not up to their expectations, students would take up arts. The faculty was regarded as one for low scorers. As against this, in the past four or five years, trends and choices have changed with new avenues opening up in the field and students thinking of careers beyond medicine and engineering. Going by the first round merit list for first year junior college (FYJC, std XI), the cut-off for arts stream exceeded science for the first time in many years. The trend surprised principals of top colleges who said that subjects in humanities, behavioural studies, inclination towards government jobs through competitive examinations and good amount of extra time after regular arts classes to pursue extra-curricular activities were prime reasons students were taking up arts. The arts stream allows students to take up another parallel course which may enhance their talents or hobbies apart from the new age avenues that the stream offers in core subjects like psychology and sociology. Principal of Sir Parshurambhau (S P) College, Dilip Sheth, said, “Students take up music, adventure, designing, sports, performing arts among other courses which eventually make their careers.” Approach To Teaching According to Preeti Joshi, head of the School of Liberal Arts at the MIT World Peace University practical aspects like hands-on assignments and projects and a focus on skill development in the subject of choice is enhancing employability. Mandatory internships and interaction with domain experts are on the rise. “Programmes like Liberal Arts, interdisciplinary perspective and the changing approach in the arts stream is enabling them to explore their careers in content development, film making, yoga, documentary writing, journalism, anchoring, psephology and counselling,” she said. Gain For Humanities  The flexibility of choosing the subject combination as per the interest and aptitude is what makes Liberal Arts an attractive option. People are waking up to multidisciplinary learning. “Even in the new education policy, silos are considered harmful. In liberal arts, you can major in one subject and minor in another. Liberal Arts would give us a broad-based education to understand many things together and choose what you like the best in higher studies,” Avinash Kumbhar, head of Interdisciplinary School of Science at SPPU said. Multinationals Recruit “Even technology needs design now. Every new gadget needs to be of the best design and should have an aesthetic sense. Hence, arts is needed everywhere. Due to the pandemic, government jobs are even more wanted. Hence, more students are taking up arts so that they can prepare for competitive exams,” Kumbhar said. Not Really Indicative Fundamental science institutes like the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, and Indian Institute of Technologies have departments for humanities and social science. Jayant Udgaonkar, director of IISER Pune, said, “We need science students to be aware of issues in society, how to write well and so on. But cut-off marks in arts alone cannot be indicative of better students choosing humanities over science faculty. There has always been a rush for economics. Increased job opportunities could be one reason for this change.” Principal of St Mira’s College, Gulshan Gidwani, said, “Many students are looking at psychology since there has been a spike in mental health issues. Others are looking at English since they can opt for script writing and editing.” Changing Outlook Fergusson College principal Ravindrasinh Pardeshi said in the past decade he has not witnessed the arts cut-off overriding science. He attributed the trend to changing outlooks among students. Pardeshi said, “Students are opting for competitive exams. Science faculty students are switching to arts for the first year of graduation to pursue a career in public administration, political science or language specific.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/arts-rides-wave-with-changes-in-job-scene-lure-of-govt-services/articleshow/77966839.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kesavananda Bharati, the man who made history, dies||Kozhikode: Kesavananda Bharati, head of Edneer mutt in Kasaragod whose petition led to the landmark 1973 Supreme Court judgment on the ‘basic structure’ of Constitution and rights related to religion, equality and property, died on Sunday. A proponent of Advaita and patron of yakshagana, the 80-year-old seer had undergone treatment at a Mangaluru hospital for cardiac and respiratory issues in recent months. Born to Manchthaya Sreedhara Bhatt and Padmavathi Amma, Bharati was appointed chief pontiff of Edneer mutt in 1961 at the age of 19. The historical Kesavananda Bharati case had its genesis in 1969 when the Kerala government decided to take over land owned by the mutt under the Land Reforms Act. Bharati moved the Supreme Court and the case soon became a cause celebre since it revolved around protection of rights guaranteed under Article 25 (Right to practice and propagate religion), Article 26 (Right to manage religious affairs), Article 14 (Right to equality), Article 19(1) (f) (freedom to acquire property) and Article 31 (Compulsory Acquisition of Property). Nani Palkhivala appeared for Bharati before a 13-member bench headed by then chief justice of India S M Sikri. The arguments lasted for 68 days and the final 7:6 verdict was delivered in 1973. The verdict upheld the scope for judicial review to ensure that the basic foundation and structure of the Constitution is intact. The verdict held that though Parliament has power to amend the Constitution under Article 368, it did not have the power to change its basic features. Prime minister Narendra Modi, vice president Venkaiah Naidu and CM Pinarayi Vijayan, among others, condoled the death of the pontiff. “We will always remember Pujya Kesavananda Bharatiji for his contributions towards community service and empowering the downtrodden. He was deeply attached to India's rich culture and our great Constitution. He will continue to inspire generations," Modi tweeted. In an interview to TOI, Bharati had said he filed the petition “not because I lost my property but due to the feeling that what the government did was not right”. He added that “one has the right to earn. Whatever he earns may be in the form of cash, kind or property. When the government decided that properties beyond a limit will be taken away, we decided to approach the highest court.’ "Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, the seer of Edneer Mutt was a rare blend of philosopher, classical singer and a cultural icon," Naidu said. Vijayan said the Swami is known all over the country because of the most important constitutional case in independent India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kesavananda-bharati-the-man-who-made-history-dies/articleshow/77967798.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||RLV College former principal passes away||Tripunithura: M Balasubrahmanyam (64), mridangam artist and director of South Zone Cultural Centre, died in Thanjavur on Sunday, a day after he tested positive for coronavirus. He is the former principal of Radha Lakshmi Vilasam (RLV) College of Music and Fine Arts, Tripunithura. He has played a pivotal role in bringing many novel changes in the college including the introduction of many new courses related to music and fine arts. He is a native of Thiruvananthapuram. After passing out from Swathi Thirunal Music College, Thiruvananthapuram, with mridangam as his optional subject, Balasubrahmanyam had joined RLV College as a mridangam tutor. It was Balasubrahmanyam who introduced an eight-day annual Cultural Study Tour for RLV students giving them an opportunity to visit renowned art centres in India including Kala Kshethra, Brihadheeshwara Temple, etc. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rlv-college-former-principal-passes-away/articleshow/77967788.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow figures prominently in Rajnath Singh-Brigadier General Amir Hatami talks||LUCKNOW: In the course of his conversation with his Iranian counterpart Brigadier General Amir Hatami, Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh said that Muslims in India were not discriminated in any way and also informed that his constituency of Lucknow has Shia Muslims who support him wholeheartedly. Sources said the Iranian side had not raised any concerns but the conversation took a turn towards Lucknow and Singh spoke of his experience in representing the Lok Sabha seat. Rajnath, en route from Russia to Delhi, had a brief halt in Tehran on Saturday night. The link with Lucknow also emerged as Iran is predominantly a Shia Muslim country. During his meeting with Brigadier General Hatami, the defence minister apart from discussing national and international affairs and other diplomatic issues spoke on other issues as well. Singh said there was no discrimination against Muslims in any walk of life in India. Rajnath also informed him that he was a second time MP from Lucknow and that the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was also MP from Lucknow, used to enjoy support of Shia Muslims. Lucknow's history, culture and heritage as well as the Shia community figured prominently in Rajnath’s informal discussions with his Iranian counterpart. Rajnath apprised him of Awadhi dishes for which Lucknow is famous across the world. Rajnath said that he had flagged off the inaugural flight from Lucknow to Nazaf, a Shia pilgrimage in Iraq, last year the demand for which was raised by local Shia Muslims of Lucknow. Rajnath also informed the Iranian delegation that new museum on the history and heritage of the city of nawabs is also coming up soon after ASI's permission already granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-figures-prominently-in-rajnath-brig-gen-hatami-talks/articleshow/77968474.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Cochin Art Fair goes virtual this year||KOCHI: The fifth edition of the Cochin Art Fair organized by Cochin Art Cube and curated by O Sundar has returned as a virtual exhibition. The exhibition launched in 2016 to celebrate the vibrant art scene of the city features work by several established and upcoming artists. “Since it was not possible to organize a physical show, we decided to make this edition a virtual show. There are many budding artists who are showcasing their works in the fair. We also have established artists like Bose Krishnamachari, V N Jyothi Basu, Bara Bhaskaran, Shibu Natesan, Surendran Nair and T V Santhosh,” said Sundar. Stretched Human Bodies, a work by Bose Krishnamachari, founder of Kochi Muziris Biennale and chairman of Kochi Biennale Foundation, is one of the major attractions of the virtual show. The work is part of the Stretched Bodies series he had been experimenting with for more than a decade. Riyas Komu presents a series of etchings that portray bodies that hang from tree branches striking yogic asanas, a comment on death as a social and political experience of our time. “With spirits bent, hung over branches, the many posters of the dying body as various asanas of death is a brute reality of the nation seeking health at the expense of death of the other,” says an attached note. Bhaskaran’s Seeds of the Dispossessed, portrays five works made out of scrawls and scribbles that make one think about biblical seeds that have sown among thorns and thrown on the wayside. P S Jalaja, a Kochi-based artist, has two works in the series Boat People, which reflects on human migration and the triumphs and perils of displacement. The art works can be accessed in the blog cochinartfair.blogspot.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cochin-art-fair-goes-virtual-this-year/articleshow/77967810.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha MP Tadas lends support to Mahendri sanctuary proposal||Nagpur: At a time when getting political support for creating new protected areas is difficult, the proposed Mahendri wildlife sanctuary in Amravati district received a shot in the arm with Wardha MP Ramdas Tadas declaring support. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Tadas said, “I have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about Mahendri reserve forest, which falls in my constituency, to declare it as a sanctuary.” Tadas said the issue was raised at state wildlife board meeting by members from the region on August 7. The sanctuary proposal is hanging fire for the last 20-25 years. “I support Mahendri sanctuary as it will go a long way in protecting precious wildlife in the forest area,” said Tadas. Tadas said the forest had presence of tiger, leopard, sloth bear, sambar, deer, wild dogs, wild boar, fox and other animal species. If declared a sanctuary, these animals will be better protected and it will pave way for their safe passage to other forest areas. “Mahendri is one of the potential areas that can be notified as a sanctuary to protect tigers and other wildlife species. Once notified, it will act as important corridor for tiger movement between Bor and Melghat tiger reserves,” said Tadas. At the state wildlife board meeting, Thackeray has already directed to expedite the proposal. State’s chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar said, “We have asked CCF (Amravati) to submit the sanctuary proposal. We have not yet received it.” Listing out the benefits of declaring the area as sanctuary, the BJP MP said, “Locals will benefit from eco-tourism by way of direct and indirect employment. People can set up home-stays for visitors. Villages like Shekhdari, Bhembdi, Pandhari, Eklavihir, and Wai on the fringes of the proposed sanctuary will benefit.” Tadas said Shekhdari lake and water fall can be developed as additional tourist attraction by starting boating facilities. Locals can start food stalls and eateries generating employment. Mahendri is connected by road with Nagpur, Amravati, Wardha, Betul, Multai, Morshi and other towns. “There are other lakes like Naghthana, Wai, Jamgaon Pandhari and Eklavihir which will be protected by way of soil conservation works if Mahendri sanctuary is notified,” said Tadas. Tadas in his communication has also said once the sanctuary is declared, apart from eco-tourism, people can reap benefits of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme by getting solar fencing to farms, subsidised LPG kits etc. The proposal was first mooted by Kishor Rithe’s Nature Conservation Society, Amravati (NCSA) in 1994-95. Since then the proposal was discussed several times in the state wildlife board (SWBL) meetings but no decision was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-mp-tadas-lends-support-to-mahendri-sanctuary-proposal/articleshow/77967819.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 7, 2020||Pune||Engineering, biz administration & comp science under the same roof||The JSPM’s Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering (RSCOE) is an autonomous institute affiliated with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). RSCOE started it’s journey in 2001 with just three courses and an intake capacity of 150. At present, the intake capacity 1,000 students per year. As an autonomous institute, the curriculum is designed with inputs from industry partners to include the requirements of the industry, including futuristic technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), robotics and 3D printing from the first year itself. ROSCOE has also signed various MoUs with foreign institutes.  Courses offered [approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) & affiliated with SPPU) Bachelor of Technology (BTech) in civil engineering, computer engineering, information technology, electrical engineering, electronics and telecommunication engineering and mechanical engineering. Master of Technology (MTech) in structural engineering (civil), computer engineering (computer), VLSI and embedded system (E & TC) and design engineering (mechanical) Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Master of Computer Application (MCA)  Admission procedure For rules, regulations and schedule log on to http://www.dtemaharashtra.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineering-biz-administration-comp-science-under-the-same-roof/articleshow/77966854.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Opening of offices and shops pushes Delhi’s power demand by over 50%||NEW DELHI: The easing of lockdown restrictions and gradual opening of offices, shops and other facilities have resulted in increased power demand. Since the lockdown restrictions are being removed since May 18, Delhi’s peak power demand has gone up by 50% and, compared to the peak power demand since April 2020, has already increased by over 87%. From March till mid-May, the only power demand in Delhi was from domestic users as institutional and commercial establishments remained shut to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. “This year, because of the lockdown and weather, peak power demand recorded has been muted,” said an official of BSES discoms, BSES Yamuna and BSES Rajdhani. The highest demand was 6,314MW on June 29. However, after the end of the Lockdown 3.0 on May 17, Delhi’s peak power started increasing and the gap narrowed. “In fact, in July and August, Delhi’s peak power demand surpassed last year’s peak power demand on corresponding days on 13 occasions — seven in July and six in August — by up to 19%,” he said. The official pointed out that cooling load was the main reason behind the increase in Delhi’s power load. According to estimates, around 50% of Delhi’s power demand in the summer is because of the cooling load of airconditioners, coolers and fans, he added. However, with the capital now slowly approaching the winter season, it is unlikely that the peak power demand will go further up. Though appliances like heaters and geysers consume a lot of power during winter, the consumption is not as high as in summer. “During the year, BSES discoms invested substantial resources to strengthen the network. Besides making arrangements for adequate power supply, BSES discoms have been undertaking several unique measures to ensure reliable power supply during summer months,” the official said. “Apart from maintenance, BSES also does extensive predictive checks to identify hotspots or to pre-determine potential faults and take remedial measures. Thermo scanning of distribution transformers and feeders is an important tool,” he said. ‘BSES utilised the lockdown period to strengthen its infrastructure in a targeted manner, depending on the power load,” the official added. Delhi’s all-time high peak power demand was recorded on July 2, 2019, when it clocked 7,409MW, an increase of over 250% from the peak of 2,879MW recorded in 2002. If Delhi’s peak power demand since 2009 is analysed, it has peaked eight times in July, four times in June, including this year, and once in August. Watch Delhi’s power demand goes up by over 50% as economy opens up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opening-of-offices-and-shops-pushes-delhis-power-demand-by-over-50/articleshow/77967802.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 7, 2020||Pune||Distances shrink in rush to shop & meet people||PUNE: Groups of people walking close together or standing in close proximity at the grocers, hawkers, fruit sellers, outside tea shops and even in retail outlets other places has become a common sight across Pune as more establishments open for business. However, experts said complacency among citizens about social distancing norms could sending the number of Covid-19 cases soaring in no time. The World Health Organisation is clear about what one should do outside to prevent catching the virus __maintain at least 1 metre or three feet distance between yourself and others. There is also advice against going to crowded places as one is more likely to come into close contact with someone with Covid-19 and it is even more difficult to maintain physical distance of one metre or three feet. But such caution is being disregarded. Market places, which had defined queues during the lockdown, now witness a surge in people making purchases standing shoulder to shoulder. City-based working professional Shreya Joshi said, “Shopkeepers have retained the rope at the entrance to their shops to maintain distance from customers, but there is no distancing among them. People crowd close to the rope to make their purchases instead of waiting in lines and at a distance from each other. Most shopkeepers are hard pressed, and don’t seem to keep their customers in line, as long as they are at a distance from them.” A green grocer in Sahakarnagar said customers are most reluctant to follow the queue system after the unlock phase began. “Many insist on coming into the shop even when there are already two customers present. Some get belligerent if I insist on the queue system,” he said. In Kothrud, citizens follow social distancing when at grocery stores, medical shops or even at liquor shops. “But, when it comes to vegetables, all safety measures are compromised. During the lockdown, most bylanes in Kothrud had turned into small markets and one can see more than five people standing around the vendors. Many, including the vendors, do not bother to wear masks,” a local resident said. The rain has brought more blatant disregard for social distancing. The Pune police have been taking action against people and shops flouting social distancing norms, yet it is not a deterrent. “We have filed cases under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against many shop owners and people for not maintaining social distancing norms,” Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said. Complacence, Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe, said will make this battle against Covid-19 difficult. “There is a long way to go. We have told the civic administration to conduct more awareness drives at public places compelling people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms,” he added. Jitendra Oswal, deputy director of Bharati Hospital, said Pune is in the fifth month of the pandemic. “Designated hospitals are getting more and more sick patients with the contagion. About 60% of them require ventilators. We cannot afford to lower our guard during such a critical phase of the pandemic. Masks and social distancing are absolutely necessary. ” Senior physician Vilas Gundecha of Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital said people have the wrong notion that if they mingle with their own extended family members and friends, they won’t contract Covid-19. “However, they need to understand that even if one of them is pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic it can be transmitted. It is absurd to stop using masks and ignore social distancing when the active transmission of the virus is at its peak in Pune,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/distances-shrink-in-rush-to-shop-meet-people/articleshow/77967799.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||Venture into the unexplored, choose a career in adventure||By: Umesh Zirpe Each year, thousands of students complete their high schooling or junior college and set out to carve out a career path for themselves. While the majority of the students and their parents go for the traditional career options like a doctor, engineer, CA, and so on, not everyone fits the mould. A fewer number of people understand it and encourage their children to pursue the path less explored. Today, I am here to share with you one of such less explored but highly potential career options — Mountaineering and Adventure Sports. I have been visiting the mountains for the last 40 years. I have led expeditions to Mt. Everest, Mt. Kanchenjunga, and several other high-altitude peaks around the world. My mountaineering journey helped me to understand the likings of young lads for mountains and adventure sports. I have seen the growth in people in different aspects due to their disciplined mountaineering and adventure sports. Donning adventure skills open a plethora of career options. Let me give you an example for starters. Khoo Swee Chiou, a Singapore-based adventurist, has a glamorous adventure profile. He climbs peaks, swims oceans, skis mountains, skates across the globe. He writes his adventure experiences, conducts workshops, delivers keynote speeches, and earns in millions. Let’s explore more. If a student is interested in adventure sports, mountaineering and has a good physical as well as mental fitness, she can pursue dedicated courses in relative fields through reputed institutes. These are affiliate courses. One doesn’t need to enrol for a long term, full-time courses. The next question can be how can it make oneself employable? There are several ways for a mountaineer and adventurist to earn decent money through their passion. The experienced mountaineer, who has climbed peaks and made a handful of successful expeditions, can be employed in many ways. She can contribute as an outdoor expert and guide. She can work as a freelancer or join a reputed institute as an expert. Mountaineers are always considered as great hustlers and great hustlers make greater entrepreneurs. Mountaineer, a domain expert, can start his manufacturing unit of adventure equipment. In 2025, the adventure equipment industry is expected to be a 25-billion dollars industry across the world. A certified and trained rescuer can also be one of the career choices for adventure enthusiasts. Adventurist, mountaineers have a great advantage to make the greatest career in these sectors. Currently, a mid-range adventure expert is making enough money in comparison with doctors and engineers. Students who just have surpassed the high school and junior college should look towards adventure sports as a career option because it will help them earn good money along with having a disciplined life like a defence veteran. The author is a senior mountaineer at Giripremi, Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/venture-into-the-unexplored-choose-a-career-in-adventure/articleshow/77966850.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Unlocked, people celebrate Sunday||Almost after a month, people had a Sunday without complete lockdown in force and they used the most of it, by throwing social distancing norms to the wind as they flocked to meat shops and gathered for wedding ceremonies across the state. Many of them didn’t even bother to wear face masks. While complete lockdown on Sundays were imposed in most part of the state only in August, in Madurai the same was enforced in June to control the Covid-19 spread. So, there were a slew of wedding ceremonies in Madurai. The very reason for conducting a wedding on a Sunday is that it will help many to participate, said Ganeshan, whose niece got married with a participation of about 200 guests in Madurai. Thangaraj, who conducted his daughter’s wedding in Madurai, said he took great effort to keep the number of guests below the stipulated 50. He said he ensured guests kept moving without spending a lot of time in the wedding hall or dining hall. Many marriages took place across Madurai, where a large number of people turned up for the functions and many of them were seen without masks. “Wearing a mask while going to a wedding spoils my look. So, I carried my mask in my bag to wear if somebody questioned me,” said K Jothi, of Chinthamani. Officials said monitoring of marriage halls would be tightened in the coming weeks. Police had a tough time in Salem since scores of people on cars and two-wheelers started coming towards Yercaud. They were stopped at the foothills and sent away. “Only Yercaud residents can travel to and from the hill town without an e-pass. But many from Salem had planned for a trip to Yercaud since it was a Sunday and there was no lockdown. We sent them away, saying they need e-pass,” said a police officer. In Coimbatore, the response was mixed. Some shops ensured social distancing, while others ignored. However, except for meat and fish stalls, which had long queues, all other commercial establishments remained closed in the city. Shopping malls also received only a few footfalls, despite the fact they were opened only a few days ago. All the churches organized Sunday masses after a long time. Devotees were let in after thermal screening. Seating arrangements were made taking into account social distancing. In Trichy, normalcy was restored to almost the pre-covid days, with markets witnessing huge crowd. V B Jeganath, a resident of Karumandapam, said, “Many people were seen on roads without face masks. While people fail to understand that Covid-19 is still active, authorities lack the will to penalise offenders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unlocked-people-celebrate-sunday/articleshow/77967800.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||Mask fines: Rs 25 lakh collected from 5,000 citizens in 48 hours in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation and the police this week stepped up action against individuals without masks in public. Over the last two days, more than 5,000 citizens have been fined for not wearing a cover over their nose and mouth. Officials said they collected nearly Rs 25 lakh in fines over the two days. Authorities said the civic body has been taking action against those found flouting the mask rule for the last two months. The fine has been set at Rs 500. One official said, “The PMC has been spreading awareness on importance of masks. Warnings were issued a number of times. So there's now need to issue separate notices to individuals. If a person is found without a mask, the civic body can directly go ahead with a fine.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, during a situation review meeting on Saturday, had said fines against offenders can be increased. “Those who are not following hygiene and social distancing rules are triggering the spread of Covid-19 in Pune and nearby areas,” Pawar said during the meeting. Citizens welcomed the drive against rule-breakers, but said more needs to be done. Abhijit Kumar, a bank employee, said, “In Hadapsar, where I live, it seems the pandemic is over. I see scores of people moving about without masks. Many of us want the PMC to increase the no-mask fine. I think it should be at least Rs 1,000.” In Kothrud, resident Sunil Gangadharan said shops must refuse service if customers don’t wear masks. “It’s the only way to control the spread and live without more lockdowns,” he said. Senior PMC officials said the police department will now help enforce the mask rule. “We decided to rope in the police too. They have the right to take action,” Vikram Kumar, commissioner of PMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mask-fines-rs-25l-collected-from-5000-citizens-in-48-hrs/articleshow/77967803.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile shop owner steals from friend’s house, held||Coimbatore: A mobile shop owner has been arrested for stealing a laptop, a television set and 10 old phones from his friend’s house at Periyagoundanpudur near Pollachi. The Pollachi town police identified the accused as V Ramkumar, of Rangasamuthiram. He runs the mobile shop on Venkatramanan Street in Pollachi. An investigation officer said Ramkumar was held based on a complaint lodged by M Maheswari, of Periyagoundenpudur. The officer said the woman’s elder son Vishnukumar had taken a car from Ramkumar, who was his friend, for his personal use and he was involved in an accident. “Ramkumar took the car to a workshop and demanded Rs 5,000 from Vishnukumar to repair the vehicle. Vishnukumar paid him Rs 2,000 and promised him to settle the remaining amount soon,” the officer said. When Vishnukumar failed to pay the remaining amount, Ramkumar fought with him on Friday, broke into his house and made away with valuables. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-shop-owner-steals-from-friends-house-held/articleshow/77967814.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Back to nature: 1,100 throng organic market at Delhi's Sunder Nursery||NEW DELHI: Sitting under a tree, Gracelle Gerber spent hours at Sunder Nursery watching people enjoy the organic and natural lifestyle market, which reopened on Sunday following Covid-19 safety measures.“It feels great to be surrounded by people. As there’s a lot of space, we can maintain social distancing. My dog, Mia, and I were alone in the house during the lockdown and it’s a nice feeling to see people,” said the communications consultant. Nearly 1,100 people turned up at Sunder Nursery on Sunday. The 90-acre park boasts of six world heritage monuments, biodiversity zones, landscaped gardens and lakes. People had come there with their family members, pets and friends to enjoy a tranquil corner while sipping coffee or gorging on kebabs and brown rice dosa. Pankaj Gulati, a banker visiting the park with his family, said, “When we heard that the market was reopening, we got excited. Our daughter loves to purchase organic stuff from here.” The organisers of the weekly market had reduced the number of stalls by half to ensure social distancing. Testing of fresh produce, food and beverage items was temporarily stopped as a precautionary measure. Slogans like “Please share the table with your family/group only” and “Wear a face mask” had been prominently displayed at many places. Though the footfall was less compared with pre-Covid times, shopkeepers were hopeful that the number of visitors would increase over the next few weeks. “We have reduced the market size by almost half to create a distance between stalls. Business is slow, but our regular customers are back,” said Meenu Nageshwaran, founder, The Earth Collective. Jaya Mishra, who runs Desi Utpad by Jaya, said, “I’m amazed to see so many visitors on the first day as I was not expecting it. We delivered vegetables through online booking during lockdown, but most people prefer to pick and choose them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-to-nature-1100-throng-organic-market-at-sunder-nursery/articleshow/77967876.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Riots: Delhi court seeks HC norms on interim bail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Monday refused to release a man on interim bail for appearing in his Class X exams, observing he was accused in a rioting and murder case and the jail already had a facility where he could prepare. Directing the jail superintendent concerned to provide Suhaib Saifi with the relevant study material, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said, “The applicant is an accused in a case of rioting and murder and there is already facility available in the jail to prepare for examination, I do not see any ground to grant interim bail to the applicant on this ground.” The court in its order also noted a “specific trend” where it came across a number of accused persons applying for interim bails on one ground or the other. “If the court grants interim bail, let us say for a period of one week or 10 days depending upon the requirement/urgency in the matter, then invariably the accused persons file applications for extension of interim bail,” it said. The court was referring to the directions of Delhi High Court’s full bench that had become a ground for applying for extension of interim bails. “This court has doubts as to whether the directions of the high court passed in its decisions will apply to the cases of riots or not…,” it stated. The court accordingly sent its order to the high court’s registrar general seeking an “appropriate guideline” to follow while dealing with interim bails of the riot accused persons and if such bails, granted on humanitarian grounds, could be extended from time to time. The court earlier referred to a specific bar created by minutes of Delhi High Court’s high-powered committee on May 18, whereby those facing investigation in cases under CBI, ED, NIA, Special Cell, Crime Branch, etc., were barred from being considered for interim bail. The court also opined that interim bails granted purely on humanitarian grounds for a limited period should not come within the purview of the directions of the full bench because “what cannot be granted to an accused directly under the minutes of May 18 couldn’t be deemed to be accorded indirectly” under the directions of the full bench. Saifi, for whom advocate Jatin Bhatt sought interim bail for a month owing to two papers — science and maths — scheduled on September 23 and 25, respectively. Records showed that Saifi had earlier appeared for his social science paper from jail itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-court-seeks-hc-norms-on-interim-bail/articleshow/77986764.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||No new patients at jumbo unit till Tuesday: PCMC||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body will not allow any fresh admissions to the Pimpri-based jumbo Covid-19 care facility till Tuesday. Pimpri Chinchwad additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil, who is also the chairman of the jumbo unit’s coordination committee, said they were increasing the number of beds in a phased manner and that a sudden spike in admissions can burden the new set-up. As of Sunday, around 300 patients were being treated at the makeshift facility, he said. “We have already seen four or five deaths in the new facility, which started admitting patients from September 1. People are rushing there with patients, while the system is not ready to take such load, at least for now. We have seen ambulances rushed to the site without first confirming the availability of the beds. All the beds are currently occupied and until existing patients stabilize, there will not be new admissions till Tuesday,” said Patil. “For a facility that is not even a week old to handle 800 critical patients without adequate preparation would be a disaster. And to avert such incidences, we are going to expand it in phased manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-no-new-patients-at-jumbo-unit-till-tomorrow/articleshow/77967806.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Defenceless against Covid, 70% skip NDA entrance exam in city||Nagpur: Fear of rising Covid-19 cases in Nagpur seems to have played a role in dismal attendance for National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance test held on Sunday. Around 30% students appeared for the exam in Nagpur, for which special trains and state buses were pressed into service. Ravindra Khajanchi, resident district collector (RDC), said, “Usually, the attendance for this exam is around 70%. Though no one can accurately claim to know what caused the sharp drop in attendance, but the only logical conclusion seems to be fear of Covid-19.” There were 69 centres in city, and Government Polytechnic Nagpur (GPN) seemed to have fared extremely well in the attendance column. MS Deshpande, coordinator for the exam at GPN, said, “We recorded 53% attendance this time. In a normal year, this figure would have been easily around 75%. The exam went off smoothly and students themselves cooperated and followed the standard operating procedure (SOPs).” Academics feel the decision to conduct the exam now was an error. Headmasters Association president Madhusudhan Mude said, “Conducting this exam was like an invitation to the pandemic to grow exponentially. At the moment, India is going through a phase where cases are increasing. We have entered a crucial phase and I hope the government gives another chance to those who were unable to appear for the test.” Though the Central Railway had made all possible arrangements by running 10 special trains from all directions in Maharashtra to Nagpur, the poor turnout of examinees came as a big disappointment for the transporter. As per official figures, only 496 students travelled by 10 special trains to Nagpur, which comes to 50 students per train of 18 coaches. The officials were expecting many students to travel by trains but it did not happen. Nagpur and Mumbai were the only two centres for NDA exam. At least 30,000 students were expected across Central India in Nagpur and hence Central Railway had announced special trains from Pune, Mumbai, Kolhapur, Panvel, Akola, Ahmednagar, Ballarshah, Nashik, Jalgaon, and Amravati. When asked, Central Railway chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar said, “Our motive was social. The trains were announced on September 4 and exam was on September 6. It is possible that students may have made own travel arrangements well in advance.” Nagpur railway officials admit, “Had these trains announced a week ago, almost all the trains would have run to its capacity. It made no sense as railway suffered crores of rupees towards operational loss by running these long-distance trains without passengers.” They said on June 1, when 230 trains started, they operated with 60% occupancy and this was one of the reasons why no additional trains were started even as lockdown was relaxed in subsequent months. This is also an indication that people are still avoiding travel owing to Covid-19 spread. Talking to TOI, MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare said, “MSRTC buses ferried at least 1,300 NDA examinees. We received 20 long-distance buses with examinees from Kolhapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Buldhana, Pune, and Aurangabad. These students had planned trip well in advance. Had railway announced an early schedule, these candidates would have shifted to railways.” “We too are disappointed with the thin attendance. Apart from our regular schedules of 150 buses, we had arranged 120 additional buses for examinees but only 25 were utilized for cities like Amravati, Yavatmal, Wardha, Hinganghat, Pune and Aurangabad. We found that 70% of the students had arrived here by private vehicles. Many from nearby tehsils like Katol, Umred, Saoner etc arrived on two-wheelers,” said Belsare. Shubham Singh, one of the aspirants from Pune, said, “Had the railways not announced special train, I was planning to cancel the trip. Private buses charged heavily. However, there were others who came by private vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/defenceless-against-covid-70-skip-nda-entrance-exam-in-city/articleshow/77967817.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 7, 2020||Kozhikode||The Sage Who ‘Saved’ Democracy||His name will resound in posterity but he seems oblivious to it. Which perhaps befits his quest, which is basically spiritual. Kesavananda Bharati, now over 70 years old, resides in the remote northern Kerala hamlet of Edneer in Kasaragod, almost in the middle of nowhere. As head of Edneer Mutt, which follows the teachings of Adi Shankaracharya, he leads a largely anonymous life. After his usual morning pooja that begins at 5 am, followed by a late breakfast, he spared some time to talk about his memories of the case still considered the greatest constitutional case in this country, one that settled a core dispute between Parliament and Supreme Court. When the Kerala Land Reforms Act was enacted, Kesavananda Bharati challenged it on the grounds that it was against the Indian constitution. He explains the logic behind approaching the court against the law: “I approached the court not because I lost my property, but due to the feeling that what the government did was not right. One has the right to earn. Whatever he earns may be in the form of cash, kind or property. When the government decided that properties beyond a limit will be taken away, we decided to approach the highest court”, he says. From the very beginning, the case had serious political implications. That became clear when parliament’s amendment of fundamental rights affected the propertied class, mainly zamindars, sugar mill and coal mine owners in addition to former princes who were still wielding considerable political clout. There were several petitioners, but Kesavananda Bharati’s petition was listed at the top, as it challenged the Kerala Land Reforms Act. The task of taking his petition to the highest court was undertaken by a prominent lawyer from his home district of Kasaragod, M K Nambiar, father of present attorney general K K Venugopal. “It was M K Nambiar who did all the formalities and engaged a team of lawyers in New Delhi. I never travelled for the purpose,” Bharati says. Kesavananda Bharati’s lawyer was none other than Nani A Palkhiwala. “I have never met him. I heard that some major corporate firms joined the case. I did not pay any fee to Palkhiwala as I could not afford it. I heard that the companies who joined the case bore the expenses,” he reveals. Bharati says that the case followed him wherever he went, as people appreciated its cause. “In my travels across the country, people who had read about the case would ask if I was the same Kesavananda Bharati who initiated the case? They would praise me, though I was only an instrument in the delivery of such a historic verdict,” he recalls. Some people felt it was contradictory that a man of his stature, who has supposedly given up all kinds of worldly belongings and material pleasures, should engage in a legal battle for property. “Once some law students asked me this question. But to such questions, I can give only one answer: We are only trying to help the needy fight for their fundamental right to own property. You can check our bank account and find it out for yourselves. When the government deprived us of our legal right to own properties, it was my duty to question it in spite of the fact that it is not my personal loss,” he explains. The case was decided by the biggest ever bench of the Supreme Court with 13 members including the then chief justice S M Sikri who was about to retire at that time. The government did not follow the precedence of announcing the new chief justice, which apparently was to wait to know the outcome of the case. The court finally ruled that though parliament has the power to amend the constitution, it cannot use that power to alter or destroy its basic structure. Kesavananda Bharati could not regain his lost land, but he says he does not have any regrets. “We lost the land. But when I learnt what the outcome of the case was, how it contributed to democracy, it gave me utmost satisfaction,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/the-sage-who-saved-democracy/articleshow/77967816.cms||KP Saikiran
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Dist has got 90% of average annual rain||Nashik: The district has received 90% of its annual average rainfall till Sunday, and the collective water stock across 24 medium and major dams in the region has touched the 86% mark. While the showers started on June 1, with the Nisarg cyclone passing by, the district witnessed a dry spell in July. In fact, the water resources department (WRD) had to issue letters to all water users’ association, asking them to ensure judicious use of water as the dam stocks were depleting. The revival of rain in August, which is continuing till date, helped the district receive 90% of its average annual rainfall so far. The water level in the dams across the district, that stood at 42% on August 5, has now increased to 86% with at least seven major and minor dams overflowing. The monsoon has been very active across the district in August. Earlier, during the dry spell, some farmers had to resow their fields and at some places, the crops wilted. But the revival of the rain has helped produce better crops, said the sources in the agriculture department. The water stocks in dams supplying drinking water to the Nashik Municipal Corporation have reached 87% of capacity. The Gangapur dam has reached 96% of its capacity, followed by Gautami-Godavari dam (80%). The Kashyapi dam, which is owned by the NMC, has 68% stocks because of poor rainfall in its catchment areas towards the west of Trimbakeshwar. However, the current storage in the Gangapur dam complex that comprises all the three dams mentioned above is satisfactory. So, there will be no problem in the supply of drinking water. The WRD sources said they hope to see 100% water storage in dams by the end of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-has-got-90-of-average-annual-rain/articleshow/77965864.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||Minor Dalit girl found hanging, family suspect rape-cum-murder||Bareilly: A 14-year-old Dalit girl, a student of Class IX, was found hanging in her house under mysterious circumstances in a village under Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday morning. Her parents, who spotted the girl’s body hanging in her room during early hours on Sunday, alleged that their daughter was sexually assaulted and then hanged by her tormentor. Police sent the body for autopsy and started the investigation. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satyendra Kumar said, “The death looks suspicious. A panel of experts will conduct the autopsy and further action would be taken based on the autopsy report and police investigation.” Three girls have been raped and murdered in Kheri district since August 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-dalit-girl-found-hanging-family-suspect-rape-cum-murder/articleshow/77965103.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 7, 2020||Pune||Pune start-up earns BIRAC grant worth Rs 50 lakh||PUNE: The Biotechnology Industry Research Association Council (BIRAC) has awarded Pune-based Atal Incubator Centre (AIC) incubatee Pramod Priya Ranjan a grant worth Rs50 lakh by for designing an innovative menstrual cup that also happens to be the first such product to be designed in India. Tell us about the start-up Along with Dr Nachiket Thakur, co-founder and director of this start-up called Care Form Labs Pvt Ltd, I incubated this start-up at MIT Art Design & Technology Incubator Forum, Pune. It was selected among the top 14 finalists at the National Innovative Challenge, 2020, by Youth Co: Lab supported by United National Development Program and NITI Aayog. What was the grant allocated for?The grant has been awarded under the scheme called Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) held in January 2020. The list of awardees were announced on August 23. The grant was allocated to the company purely for product development of an innovative menstrual cup. My team and I have been working on the cup for over a year. Currently, the process of due diligence is underway and we will likely seek Rs30 lakh for this. What is so innovative about the menstrual cup?The menstrual cup is a sustainable, economical and hygienic alternative to sanitary napkins and tampons. It can last for five years and costs a few hundred rupees. It is made of medical grade silicone, which makes it hygienic, rash-free and odour-free. The team has filed for a patent in India. We are also in the process of filing International Patents. This is first menstrual cup to be designed in India with Novelty (Innovation). The aim is to create a sustainable menstrual hygiene brand and this is our first product. We will be expanding the product portfolio after the soft launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-start-up-earns-birac-grant-worth-rs-50-lakh/articleshow/77966862.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 7, 2020||Pune||Fear of the disease more dangerous than the virus, says recovered dentist||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Last month, Ashok Jain, a dentist, was in his hometown Wai with his extended family, mourning the passing away of his mother when he felt slightly feverish. He isolated himself immediately and got himself tested for Covid the next morning. The result was positive. “Being a medical professional, I was taking utmost precaution. Even if you know all the information available about the virus, it makes you nervous and afraid because of all the negative stories going around. Denial is the first reaction, then you worry whether you’ve infected your family members. So, I asked everyone in my family to get themselves tested. Thankfully, all of them tested negative,” said Jain (50). Due to co-morbidities, such as ankylosing spondylitis and blood pressure, he was admitted to Bharati hospital for 10 days. “When you are admitted to a hospital, you usually have doctors and nurses checking on you every now and then. But in case of Covid patients, these visits are less. However, the nurses would encourage us by telling stories of patients in critical condition who had recovered and were discharged,” he said. Even then, his anxiety grew. “The fear and paranoia which comes with the disease is more dangerous than the virus itself. While I was in hospital, I took the time to retrospect. I started doing yoga and pranayam. I realised there was enough time for me to pursue a diploma in cosmetic dentistry,” he said. After his discharge, the resident of Pune-Satara Road incorporated yoga in his daily schedule. “I do certain asanas to control my anxiety, a few deep breathing exercises and pranayam. This is a very deceptive disease. When you have dengue or something similar, you know you will take time to recover. But with Covid, you feel good when you’re discharged, but then you suddenly feel breathless doing the most effortless activity. Certain symptoms keep showing up even after discharge. Health and rehabilitation is a critical part of complete recovery post-Covid, but it is being ignored. Covid patients should be made to go back to hospitals for re-evaluation after 7-10 days because something or the other might be happening to their lungs, blood, enzymes.” Friends and family have helped him through his illness. “When I came home, my friends from college had a sort of reunion after 25 years on Zoom he said. He has resumed his practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fear-of-the-disease-more-dangerous-than-the-virus-says-recovered-dentist/articleshow/77967812.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar’s de-addiction centres empty out amid pandemic||Haridwar: The fight against drug abuse has taken a back seat in Haridwar as around 70% of the drug addicts enrolled in the city’s rehabilitation centre for de-addiction programme have moved to their native villages during the Covid-19 lockdown. According to the health department, more than 400 intravenous drug abusers were identified earlier in the area and most of them were regular to the de-addiction centre. However, several among them left the city and the programme during the lockdown. At present, only 125 such addicts are taking treatment at the centre. Notably, the counseling of these drug abusers is being conducted by the doctors at the Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) centre under National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). This is being run at Mela Hospital in Haridwar. A total of 400 drug addicts were registered with this centre between 2014 and 2019. Data reveals that around 25% of drug addicts were found HIV positive and around 50 died of different medical conditions. “The de-addiction programme has been worst affected due to Covid-19 lockdown. Most of the drug users left the city after lockdown. Currently, only 125 drug users are taking medicines continuously. However, we are trying to track those who escaped from the de-addiction programme but it is not easy as they were homeless in Haridwar. Shortage of staff and burden of Covid-19 duty is also a major problem before the doctors and medical staff to run the programme smoothly. A few new cases of drug abuse were reported from the city during the pandemic,” Dr Ajay Kumar, OST programme head in Haridwar, told TOI. The drug abusers enrolled with the programme mainly included college students, sex workers, and unemployed youths. A majority of them came from financially weak backgrounds and lived on the banks of Ganga in Haridwar. “A decline in the number of drug abusers taking treatment is a very serious matter as 25% of them are HIV positive. Type-IV drugs come cheap and are used the most by the drug abusers but the police and the local administration have failed to take action in this regard,” social activist Dr Vishal Garg told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwars-de-addiction-centres-empty-out-amid-pandemic/articleshow/77965871.cms||MS Nawaz
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Special team to ensure protocol adherence in industrial units||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani has formed a team consisting of officials from the directorate of industrial safety and health to make sure that industries here follow the guidelines to contain Covid-19. The move comes after several cases were reported from two industries on the city outskirts.The seven-member team will monitor the industries functioning in the 11 blocks of the district, the collector said. “Even though most of the industries are following the guidelines, Covid-19 cases were reported from some industries. The teams will ensure that the guidelines are followed,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-team-to-ensure-protocol-adherence-in-industrial-units/articleshow/77967821.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP tests record 1.55 lakh samples in past 24 hours||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh achieved a new high of getting over 1.5 lakh samples tested in a single day, the highest in the country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in March. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the state tested 1,55,986 samples in the past 24 hours. "This is a national record of testing in a single day. We have been insisting on increasing the number of tests to arrest the spread of Coronavirus. The new record would help in our endeavour,” he said, adding that the state has been able to test more than 65 lakh samples till date. UP have been testing on an average 1.4 lakh samples each day ever since it touched the 1.5 lakh-mark late last month. The state recorded as many as 6,777 cases the past 24 hours. Prasad said that the total active cases in the state were 61,625, of which more than 32,000 were in home quarantine, The state has recorded 3,920 deaths since the outbreak of Corona pandemic in March. Lucknow recorded the maximum number of 999 cases, followed by Kanpur and Gorakhpur, where 433 and 364 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Under surveillance activity, as many as 3,22,488 teams had fanned out in over 90,700 areas to contact over 2,16 crore households in which 10 crore people stay. Prasad said that in the absence of a vaccine, prevention and following due protocols were the only way to prevent the virus from infecting people. “Following safety measures would also help the people in keeping other diseases at bay,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tests-record-1-55-lakh-samples-in-past-24-hours/articleshow/77968478.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra’s largest university sees over 50% vacant teaching posts||PUNE: The number of vacant teaching posts at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) are now higher than the teachers available at the varsity in the absence of approval from the state government for recruitment. The situation at affiliated colleges is also equally bleak. “Of 386 sanctioned teaching posts, only 192 (49.7%) posts have been filled, leaving 194 (50.25) vacant,” said Prafulla Pawar, SPPU registrar. Sopan Rathod, president of SPPU Teachers Association and a university senate member, said that since 2005-06, there has never been a recruitment drive to fill all vacant posts. “They would open the recruitment process for a small number of vacant seats, say 25% or 15%. By the time, the roster was approved, advertisements for the posts were published and interviews held, the government would put a ban on recruitment. This has been going on for so long that now we are facing a situation where some departments hardly have full-time teachers,” said Rathod. While ad hoc teachers at the university get a better salary, the same cannot be said about the teachers on clock-hour-basis at affiliated colleges. “Some temporary teachers at affiliated colleges earn as little as Rs5,000 to Rs15,000, per month. The quality of teaching automatically goes down. There are some colleges where sanctioned posts are 15 whereas 14 teachers have retired,” added Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/states-largest-university-sees-over-50-vacant-teaching-posts/articleshow/77966870.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Chennai men fined for using drone cam in tiger reserve||Coimbatore: The Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) officials on Saturday slapped a fine of Rs 3,000 each on five Chennai residents for flying a drone over the reserve forest.Due to the pandemic crisis, the forest department had restricted the entry of tourists to the Highforest area and Nallamudi viewpoint in Manampalli forest range. However, K Vignesh, 24, A Ravishankar, 24, S Prabhu, 33, S Senthilkumar, 23 and A Vasanth Joe Manuel, 25 managed to enter Nallamudi viewpoint illegally and used a drone camera to capture video and photographs of wild animals, frontline staff of the department, apprehended them, said.The men told the officials that they had visited Valparai before reaching the reserve forest and were not aware of the restriction on drones. The department slapped them with the fine and seized the drone before letting them go.Drone cameras should not be used at tea estates and reserve forest in ATR, deputy director S Arockiyaraj Xavier said. “We will book such people under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, arrest them and also seize the drone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chennai-men-fined-for-using-drone-cam-in-tiger-reserve/articleshow/77967824.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Pune||Youths get trained for work with skilling courses||PUNE: Ashok (name changed), a youth from the slums of Mula Road in Khadki, enrolled in the SOS Children’s Villages and HSBC software development’s youth skilling program. His father is employed as a salesman in an outlet of a telecom company, while his mother works as a cleaner in the nearby apartments. The family struggled financially through the years, but Ashok passed his std XII exams. Even though he wanted to pursue further studies, he had to discontinue his dream of going to college and took up odd jobs to support his family. He is now pursuing a diploma in computer hardware from a computer institute in Pune, with support from the SOS-HSBC youth skilling program. Like Ashok, nearly 430 disadvantaged youth from the city including 244 boys and 156 girls are getting job-oriented training with youth skilling programme run by the SOS Children’s Village jointly with HSBC Software development. They are mostly school and college dropouts who could not complete their education due to financial constraints. A large percentage of those who have completed their training programme have managed to enter the formal job market after completing training. Ashok said, “While going through the training syllabus, I realized that the field of computer hardware can offer good career opportunities. However, I had no previous knowledge about this subject. But I am being supported by my trainers and sponsors. I have a bright future ahead once I complete this course. With this skill, I can stand on my own feet and support my family with dignity.” Since the lockdown began, Ashok has been studying online with the study material provided by the Institute by borrowing a laptop from his friend for online classes. He has often faced difficulties in attending classes because of poor network connectivity in the slum where he lives, but his teachers at the Institute have been most understanding and are helping him in every possible manner. Ashok is determined to complete the course and find a respectable job in the field of computer maintenance and repair. The Pune branch of SOS Children’s Villages of India, in association with HSBC Software Development (India), has been training vulnerable youth from poor socio-economic background over the last one year in various job-oriented courses to enable them to get gainful employment in the formal economy. Sudarshan Suchi, secretary general of SOS Children’s Villages of India, said, “We picked up young people from Pune who had discontinued their formal education due to finances. We went by whatever educational background they already had and enrolled them in training programmes in institutions in Pune according to their aptitude and aspirations. The job-oriented training has improved their employability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youths-get-trained-for-work-with-skilling-courses/articleshow/77966878.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand cabinet minister Madan Kaushik tests Covid +ve||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported 668 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 24,629. Among those found infected on the day were state government spokesperson and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik and one other family member. After finding out about his infection via antigen test, Kaushik urged all the media persons and party leaders who have come in his contact in the past few days to get themselves tested. On Friday, Kaushik had attended a cabinet meeting with several other ministers and the chief minister. The health department has also sent the sample of the cabinet minister for RT-PCR test for dual confirmation. It has also been learnt that a BJP worker with whom Kaushik had met on Saturday tested positive on Sunday. The party functionary has now been sent into self-isolation. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed, “Among the 668 positive cases of coronavirus found on Sunday, the maximum of 235 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 103 cases from Haridwar, 69 from Udham Singh Nagar, 54 each from Uttarkashi and Tehri, 39 from Nainital, 38 from Pauri, 31 from Rudraprayag, 21 from Pithoragarh, and 18 from Chamoli.” The official added that deaths of 11 Covid-19 patients were also reported on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 341 in the state. Of these, five deaths were reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, four from AIIMS in Rishikesh, and two from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Meanwhile, the infection rate of the state has now reached 5.7. Till Sunday late evening, test results of more than 14,000 samples were pending. In some relief for the state, as many as 590 patients have also recovered from the infection. With this, the cured cases reached 16,573 in Uttarakhand and the recovery rate of the state stands at 67.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-minister-madan-kaushik-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77965874.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||State records 5,783 fresh Covid cases, 88 deaths||Covid-19 cases recorded a marginal drop in the state on Sunday when it added 5,783 new cases to its tally. At 5,820, the number of patients who were discharged on the day was a little higher than the new cases. The active cases in the state now stands at 51,458. The toll, meanwhile, rose by 88. While Chennai accounted for 17 deaths, Coimbatore and Cuddalore reported five deaths each. In a positive sign, Chennai continued to record less than 1,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. With 955 new cases, it accounted for 16 % of the fresh cases in the state. In Coimbatore, which recorded 538 new cases, collector K Rajamani said they were working on to increase manpower to conduct door-to-door surveillance and the number of fever camps in the city, from where most of the cases were being reported. After a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases for the past few days, Cuddalore saw a drop in the number to 388. So were Tirupur and Salem, which recorded 153 and 122 cases, respectively, much lesser than the cases they used to report in the past couple of days. In fact, Salem was one of the very few districts with a very high fluctuation in the number of fresh cases. On September 2, the district had reported 403 cases and the very next day the number dropped by 50 % to 214. For the next few days, the cases hovered in the range of 200 and on Saturday it reported 250 cases, before it plummeted to 122 on Sunday. R Sadeesh, Salem corporation commissioner, said, “Till last week, the numbers were high, as we have been tracing contacts of people who tested positive earlier. Now, we have traced almost all the contacts and hence numbers have come down.” However, northern districts such as Chengalpet, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruvallur saw more cases than Saturday. The southern districts added 806 new Covid-19 cases on the day. With this, there are 7,626 active cases in the southern region, where toll touched 1,675 with 13 deaths. Tirunelveli district reported 132 new cases. Three other districts, including Madurai, also saw more than 100 new cases. Though Thanjavur topped the chart with 150 new cases in central zone, it was Nagapattinam, which has emerged as a cause for concern. There is a steady spike in fresh cases in the coastal district, where 136 people were tested positive on Sunday, in recent days. “Clearing back log of pending test results is the reason for the spike in the district,” health officials said. With just 17 new cases, it was Perambalur in central zone that recoded the lowest number of fresh cases in the state on the day, followed by Dharmpauri, which logged 24 cases, in west zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-records-5783-fresh-covid-cases-88-deaths/articleshow/77967822.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||When Indian soldiers went to China to crush a rebellion||Jaipur: Long before tension escalated between India and China in Himalayan region in the 1960s, Indian forces have had the experience of fighting the Chinese deep inside their territory around 120 years ago. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/when-indian-soldiers-went-to-china-to-crush-a-rebellion/articleshow/77972235.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/when-indian-soldiers-went-to-china-to-crush-a-rebellion/articleshow/77968480.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||7 trapped in debris as house collapses in Coimbatore||Coimbatore: A two storey residential building completely caved in at Chettiveedhi near Selvapuram in Coimbatore on Sunday night, trapping three residents in the house and four more people in the adjacent house. The house owner, identified as Vanaja, 65, and her grandson Dhanveer, 6, have been rescued by fire and rescue services personnel while efforts are on full swing to rescue five others. Vanaja who had escaped with minor injuries was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.“Her daughter in law Swetha , who is also trapped under debris, is responding to us. But there is no sound from the adjacent house. We are cautiously removing the debris one after the other,” said a fire service personnel. Vanaja’s son Kannan was not at home when the accident happened. The condition of four people living in the adjacent tiled roof house was not known. The adjacent house too was totally damaged as the debris of the building fell on it. According to residents there, the incident happened around 9pm when the house, said to be 25 years old at a place called K C Thottam caved in with a huge noise. The neighbours rushed to rescue but the residents of the house were completely trapped in the concrete boulders. They informed police and fire service personnel. Around 20 fire service personnel visited the spot and jumped into rescue operation. Collector K Rajamani and police commissioner Sumit Saran also rushed to the spot. Since the street was narrow and could accommodate only one vehicle at a time, they could take only one earthmover. It also started drizzling slowing down the rescue operations.Police said that though they were yet to come to ascertain the exact cause of the building collapse, the structure could have been weakened by the incessant rains over the past few days. Since the locality is within a containment zone where there were many Covid cases, police had tough time controlling the crowd and asking the residents not to congregate. Meanwhile, 10 families living near to the collapsed building were asked to vacate their houses as precautionary measures by the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/7-trapped-in-debris-as-house-collapses-in-coimbatore/articleshow/77967836.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, family puts up banner with Covid negative test results||Coimbatore: A banner installed in front of a house at Ramachandra Nagar near Hopes College thanking the corporation for identifying four from a family as Covid-19 positive has created a furore. The banner was put up by the family members themselves, who later tested negative for the virus. “Four of my family members, including two children, took Covid-19 test at a fever camp conducted in our locality on August 31. On September 3, we received a call from the primary health centre (PHC) and authorities said all four of us are positive for the virus,” said Ilavarasan, who put the banner. As none of them had any symptoms, they got tested again at a private laboratory in the city on September 4, results of which found all of them negative.“After the corporation blocked the entrance to our house with metal sheets and announced it as a containment area, our neighbours started behaving differently... it was so humiliating. That’s why I placed the banner with negative test results in front of my house,” Ilavarasan added. When contacted, a corporation official said, “when you repeat a test almost five days after the initial test, the results may vary. As all the four patients are asymptomatic, we don’t know in which stage they took the tests. In this case, an elderly person from their family had died of Covid-19 on August 31 and that’s why they were tested. They might have been in final stage of the infection when they were tested and that’s why the test results that was taken after five days gap has opposite results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-family-puts-up-banner-with-covid-negative-test-results/articleshow/77967833.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP members stage protest against cement factory||Coimbatore: BJP members headed by the party’s south district president K Vasanthrajan on Sunday staged a protest against the ACC cement factory at Madukkarai for polluting the locality.Police had booked cases against several residents, mostly women, who raised voices against the plant a few days back, the protesters said. Demanding that the cases against the residents of Kurumbapalayam village be withdrawn and that the factory follow pollution norms, the cadres blocked the road towards the Palakkad highway.The cement plant is polluting the locality, Vasanthrajan said. “Flora in the locality is covered with a cement-coloured film. The plant has not installed pollution control devices. It has been dumping clinker, a raw material for making cement, in the open, which has been causing pollution.”Cases were filed against the residents of Kurumbapalayam for protesting against the plant, the BJP leader said. “Those cases should be withdrawn. Emissions from the plant have been affecting farmlands,” he said.Repeated attempts to get the version of ACC representatives went futile. A representative told TOI that only their corporate communications team could respond to the allegations, and members of the team couldn’t be reached on Sunday.Meanwhile, Madukkarai police filed a case against the BJP functionaries who staged the protest for not maintaining social distancing norms. They have named 12 people in the case, along with others who participated in the protest.All those who participated in the protest were given masks and sanitisers, said Vasanthrajan. “We also ensured that protesters maintain physical distance. But, some of them could have failed to follow it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-members-stage-protest-against-cement-factory/articleshow/77967831.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured, starved makna counting his last breath||COIMBATORE: Forest department officials on Sunday expressed their inability to save a tuskless male elephant (makna) that suffered mouth injuries after reportedly biting a crude bomb placed by poachers. The 40-year-old animal, nicknamed ‘Bulldozer’, is starving and is likely to die within a week, the officials said. The ailing elephant used to frequent the Coimbatore range as well as the Mannarkkad division in Kerala. The Kerala forest department tranquillised it on August 17 to treat the wounds. Three teams have been monitoring the elephant after it was spotted at Devarayapuram in Boluvampatti forest range here on August 27, district forest officer D Venkatesh said. “We placed fruits and rice flour mixed with medicines and the animal responded well initially. Meanwhile, it damaged seven small houses at Marudhamalai, Nanjundapuram, Varapalayam and Jambukandi Pirivu in search of food,” he said. According to forest veterinarians, the makna is likely to die within seven days. “The elephant’s tongue has been severed and it is not able to eat or drink. We can to tranquillise it again as it is very weak,” said Venkatesh. Bulldozer had raided the special task force (STF) temporary camp kitchen at Mangarai in search of food on Saturday, only to be chased away. From there, it left for Jambukandi Pirivu to damage a house. It was spotted at Thuvaipathi tribal settlement near Anaikatti on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-starved-makna-counting-his-last-breath/articleshow/77967834.cms||A Subburaj
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Mass multiplication of coconut in focus||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is attempting to mass multiply coconut tree varieties through tissue culture. Demand for coconut has increased by 500% in the last decade due to increased consumption of tender coconuts, coconut oil and other parts of coconut tree and fruits in industry, a release from TNAU said. “This has widened the gap between supply and demand. To meet the demand, production and productivity have to be increased. Establishing elite coconut gardens and rejuvenating existing aged coconut orchards, require quality seedlings of elite coconut varieties. Current multiplication ratio of 1:1 enables supply of only 30% of the demand, which is three million to 3.5 million seedlings, against the demand of 10million seedlings,” it said. To bridge the gap, the multiplication rate has to be increased to at least 1:20 without compromising on quality and genetic uniformity. TNAU has made an attempt to mass multiply elite coconut varieties through tissue culture. The attempt is supported by the Tamil Nadu innovation initiative of the state planning commission. TNAU’s Centre for Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology has optimised a method for in vitro culturing of coconut embryo and to regenerate them into whole plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mass-multiplication-of-coconut-in-focus/articleshow/77967837.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Govt doctor turns auto driver in Karnataka, blames babus for his plight||BENGALURU: While the state faces a massive shortage of staff to tackle the Covid-19 situation, a 53-year-old district reproductive and child health officer is running an autorickshaw for a living after his salary was withheld for 15 months. Dr Ravindranath MH served in the health and family welfare department in Ballari district for 24 years before turning into an autorickshaw driver in Davanagere city. The doctor blames IAS officers for his plight. He says his troubles began when he refused to help an IAS officer get a posting in 2018. “A zilla panchayat CEO, who later took charge, continued to harass me,” Ravindranath said. “They found a technical error in outsourcing health staff and although I proved to them it was not my mistake, I was suspended on June 6 last year. Four days later, I appealed in the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal (KAT) which in October reversed the government order and ordered I be reinstated.” He was then posted as a senior medical officer at Sedam General Hospital, Kalabaurgi district in December. “I have served 17 years in rural areas with distinction and have been awarded for improving the public healthcare system in Ballari district,” Ravindranath said. “The taluk post was a demotion, but I reported for duty and applied for leave the very next day to fight this case. I approached KAT seeking a direction to appoint me at a district-level hospital. In January, KAT gave the department one month to appoint me in district level hospital.” Ravindranath says brass have ignored KAT’s orders. “I am yet to get a posting. When I wrote seeking a transfer, officials responded saying my presence was required in Sedam due to Covid-19. When KAT gave its ruling, there was no pandemic. Hundreds of medical staffs were transferred during this time including a doctor from Sedam General Hospital. I have filed a contempt petition and a hearing is scheduled for September 11.” The doctor decided to shift to his home town Davanagere to eke out a living. Asked why he chose to be an auto driver instead of practising privately, Ravindranath said, “If I open a private clinic, I’ll have to go to the same officials to get a licence. I am sure they would not oblige. I did not have enough funds to start a business. I approached a couple of banks to get loans, but they refused to sanction an autorickshaw loan to one who has worked in the healthcare sector. Eventually, an agency financed me, and I have started my new journey.” He said health officials are feeling the stress and should not end up like Nanjangud taluk health officer (THO) Dr SR Nagendra who ended his life last month. He said there are plenty of other options to survive. Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said he was unaware of the case and will look into now that it has come to his notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-doc-turns-autorickshaw-driver-blames-ias-officers-for-his-plight/articleshow/77966230.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Deep Singh: The gallant officer who commanded Ganga Risala in China||JAIPUR: Lt. Col Rai Bahadur Deep Singh was born in Garhsisar village of Bikaner state in 1870. He completed his studies from Mayo College in 1888 and was later appointed as the guardian of Yuvraj Ganga Singh by then Maharaja of Bikaner Maharaja Lal Singh. It ws on his behest, the Bikaner Camel Corps also known as Ganga Risala was raised. For his exemplary services in the armed forces, Deep SIngh was awarded Order of British Empire in 1910. Major Chandrakant Singh (retd.), a military historian and the great-grandson of Deep Singh, said his great-grandfather’s legacy inspired his family to take up career in armed forces. “Armed forces have always been the first choice for people in my family. Deep Singh’s youngest son, i.e. my cousin grandfather, joined the army and received the Mahavir Chakra in 1947 for the Kashmir battle. I fought in the Bangladesh war in 1971 and received Veer Chakra. We have lived in his shadow and are trying to keep his legacy alive,” said Singh. Deep Singh was a commanding officer of Bikaner State Forces in China during the Boxer Rebellion. “After returning to India, both of them were among the founding members of Imperial Cadet Corps in 1903 which functioned till 1914 in Dehradun. Its purpose was to train Indians to become officers in the army. Sir Pratap Singh was the patron of Cadet Corps and Deep Singh was an adjutant. Later, on the same premises, Prince of Whales Royal Military College was opened up which is now being run as a public school under Rashtriya Indian Military College,” said Singh. Today, the legacy of Deep Singh and thousands of such soldiers who fought in foreign land has been forgotten but their contribution to the Indian armed forces will always be remembered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deep-singh-the-gallant-officer-who-commanded-ganga-risala-in-china/articleshow/77968482.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Court allows govt to withdraw case against judge accused of child abuse||Haridwar: The court of the second additional district judge (ADJ) on Saturday allowed the government to withdraw criminal charges against the former civil judge of Haridwar, Deepali Sharma, who is the accused in a 2018 child abuse case. State police had filed a chargesheet against Sharma but the state government decided to withdraw it citing “public interest”. Earlier, the lower court had dismissed the government application to withdraw criminal charges after which the prosecution, on behalf of the government, had moved the district judge court from where the case was referred to the second ADJ court. On Saturday, the woman judge was cleared of all charges by the second ADJ court. Meanwhile, social activist JP Badoni, who opposed the government decision before the court, has said that he will move the higher court against the ADJ court’s decision. Badoni told TOI, “I am not happy with the decision of the court and I will challenge it in the higher court. The government raises the slogan of Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao but a gives clean chit to the accused in minor girl's abuse case on behalf of public interest. I just want to know what is the public interest in this matter.” Notably, the 14-year-old minor girl was rescued from the house of women Judge Dipali Sharma located at Judges colony in Roshnabad in the presence of a senior judge and other police officers on January 29, 2018. Subsequently, a case was registered against the women judge under section 323 (punishment of voluntarily causing hurt), section 370(1), (4),(7) (trafficking of person), section 506 (punishment of criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act in SIDCUL police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/court-allows-govt-to-withdraw-case-against-judge-accused-of-child-abuse/articleshow/77965886.cms||MS Nawaz
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Daily travellers demand MST coach in special train||Nashik: Welcoming the decision of the Central Railways (CR) to start (02109 – 02110) Mumbai-Manmad-Mumbai special train, the daily travellers have demanded that the season ticket holders should be allowed to travel on the MST coach of the train.The CR has announced starting of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Manmad-CSMT train from September 12, but with a condition that only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to board the train with halts at Dadar, Kalyan, Deolali, Nashik Road, Niphad and Lasalgaon.All Covid-related guidelines will be followed.According to the current Railway guidelines, the holders of season tickets will have to pay Rs 90 as reservation charges for the seats to travel between Nashik-Mumbai-Nashik on a daily basis.“We have the MST coach in Panchavati Express. Since those cannot be reserved, allow the MST ticket holders to travel in the two coaches of second class instead of forcing them to book the ticket of Rs 90 per day,” Gurmeet Singh, member of Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (Bhusawal division), said.Similar demand was put up by Kiran Borase, who travels to Mumbai every day, saying that if first-come-first-serve-basis was allowed most of the people would be able to travel in the MST coach, while those coming later could be asked to purchase the reservation tickets that could be allotted on the spot and shifted to the neighbouring coaches. Meanwhile, a railway official said that only confirmed ticket travellers will be allowed to travel and there cannot be any change unless the Railway Board decides on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-travellers-demand-mst-coach-in-special-train/articleshow/77965891.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||3 or more cases reported from 93 streets||Coimbatore: The district has reported 538 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 18,955. The number of active cases in the district stood at 4,796. Cases were reported from Singanallur, Ganapathy, Ramanathapuram, Sowripalayam, Amman Kulam, Uppilipalayam, Gandhipuram, among other areas, in the corporation limit Cases were also reported Karamadai, Sulur, Thondamuthur, Thudiyalur and Mettupalayam blocks, according to health officials. The state media bulletin had reported five deaths that took place in the district on Friday and Saturday. With this, the death toll has increased to 328. On Sunday, 473 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals and Covid care centre, taking the total number of people discharged from the district to 13,831.Of the total Covid cases reported in the district so far, more than 85% were from the corporation limit, district collector K Rajamani told reporters in the city on Sunday. Of which, most of the cases were reported from the hotspots and identified through contact tracing and fever camps. “The city corporation has been analyzing all the 5,971 streets in its limit. Of which, about 93 streets had reported three or more cases and close to 1,050 streets had reported less than three cases. Most of the streets falls in three zones – south, central and west,” the collector said. “We are working on to increase the manpower to conduct door-to-door surveillance and to increase the number of fever camps being organized in the city,” he said. “Including the domestic breed checkers (DBC), the corporation has involved close to 1,800 workers in the door-to-door survey and each one will have to monitor 300 houses continuously to identify persons with symptoms. Even if a person covers 50 houses a day, he could finish a round in a week,” he explained. By doing so, we would be able to identify a person with symptoms and subject him/her to testing, he added. Tirupur reported 153 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 3,459. The total number of active cases in the district stands at 1,079. The bulletin had included four deaths that took place in the district between Friday and Sunday. With this, the death toll has increased to 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-or-more-cases-reported-from-93-streets/articleshow/77967835.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Denied admission by Mayo, +ve man travels with family to Amravati hosp||Nagpur: After testing positive for Covid-19, a 33-year-old man from Sahakar Nagar at Kharbi, was forced to travel to Amravati with his wife and children, and get admitted at the state government-run Superspeciality Hospital there. He has alleged Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), also run by the state, denied him admission in Covid presumptive ward. NGO Together We Can, which contacts positive persons for daily update of health status and location on behalf of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), came across this case. The man told TOI, “I was having severe breathlessness and fever on August 28. I went to a private hospital, which did CAT scan of my chest. The doctor advised me to also get test for Covid-19 done. I gave swab samples at NMC testing centre.” The reports were to come after a day or two. Since the man was afraid, as doctor at private hospital had said CAT scan report showed symptoms of novel coronavirus, he went to IGGMCH and tried to get admitted “I showed CAT scan reports there. The doctor said there were no beds available in IGGMCH. He gave a prescription to be taken at home. I returned home as I had no other option. I started to take medicines suggested by doctor of private hospital. My test report came positive next day,” he said. The man added, “I have been living in Nagpur for last 10 years. My native place is Daryapur in Amravati district, where my parents live. I consulted relatives there, who recommended the good facilities at Amravati government hospital. We hired a vehicle and I went to Daryapur with my family. An ambulance came to my home to pick me up after I contacted the municipal council told them I had tested positive. I was admitted in Superspeciality Hospital at Amravati, where I am undergoing treatment for last 8 days.” IGGMCH doctors did not respond to TOI calls and messages. As per guidelines, IGGMCH and GMCH are supposed to admit suspected patients in presumptive ward, take samples and start treatment. But the two hospitals are reportedly denying admission citing lack of beds and insufficient manpower. The man also said he did not consult private hospitals for admission in Nagpur as he had heard they do not entertain medical insurance and charge a lot. However, the man did not consult NMC’s helpline number (0712-2567021). The civic body has started 24X7 helpline where any person can call and know vacancy in government and private hospitals. The patients can even lodge complaints if they are not getting beds in any hospital. TOI had on August 12 reported a case where a comorbid patient was not admitted after collection of samples at GMCH. He had died at home a day later, before receiving his reports. TOI has been highlighting how Covid as well as non-Covid patients are finding it difficult to get beds in government as well as private hospitals. Some positive patients from the city are admitted in Covid hospitals at Kamptee too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/denied-admission-by-mayo-ve-man-travels-with-family-to-amravati-hosp/articleshow/77967853.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city registers 768 Covid cases||NASHIK: Nashik city registered 768 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 30,053. With 4,367 active patients, the city has seen 25,160 people being discharged till date, including, 821 who were discharged from various care facilities on Sunday. With eight fresh Covid-related casualties, the death toll in the city 526 in the city. Of the recent deceased, three people were aged 80 and above. Nashik Rural, on the other hand, saw rise in coronavirus cases with the addition of 351 patients, taking the total numbers to 10,562. Of these, 7,596 have been discharged from various facilities after recovery. Of the total 43,690 cases in the district, 35,066 have been discharged with the recovery rate of 80%, while 933 have succumbed to the infection. The death rate at present stands at 2.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-registers-768-covid-cases/articleshow/77965900.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Forest dept to penalise people for poisoning trees to fell them||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has issued an order for taking legal action against anyone who deliberately poisons trees with acid or other chemicals for seeking permission to fell them. The orders are applicable across the state for all those people who have trees in their personal premises. The officials have been directed to ensure that every tree, for which they give permission for felling or cutting, is properly examined. The orders make it clear that the officials must find out the actual cause behind drying of the tree(s) and do soil testing so as to ascertain any foul play. These directions have been signed by Jairaj, the head of the forest force. The order copy has been issued to all the divisional forest officers. It reads, “The owner of any such land where a tree is deliberately felled will be prosecuted under respective legal acts. And such cases should not be compounded and the person in question should be arrested and presented before the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-to-penalise-people-for-poisoning-trees-to-fell-them/articleshow/77965901.cms||Shivani Azad
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||Govt enhances compensation for flood-hit in Ngp div||Nagpur: The state government today announced enhanced compensation for flood-hit people of Nagpur division. Each family would be provided Rs5,000 for clothes and household utensils, and 10kg wheat, 10kg rice and 5 litre kerosene. The government will provide free of cost 5 brass sand and 5 brass murrum for persons whose houses were completely damaged in the floods. The farmers will get double compensation for their crops. The owners of kiosks, shops, small industries etc whose establishments were damaged would also get relief. Minister of state (MoS) Omprakash alias Bacchu Kadu had earlier demanded higher compensation for the flood victims. Talking to media at Shingori village, Kadu said, “People whose house has been completely damaged will get Rs95,000, but those with partially damaged houses will get only Rs5,000. This is clearly inadequate. I will urge the government to increase the amount.” When asked about the delay in disbursement of relief announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Kadu promised it would be done on either Monday or Tuesday. The minister had toured some flood-hit villages of Bhandara district. He admitted that clay houses have been completely washed away while the cement ones have been heavily damaged. BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule had described the relief announced by CM as measly and demanded that six government resolutions (GR) issued for flood-hit people of Western Maharashtra by BJP government be implemented in toto for Nagpur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-enhances-compensation-for-flood-hit-in-ngp-div/articleshow/77967887.cms||Ashish Roy
September 7, 2020||Surat||80-year-old kicked out of home in Surat||Surat: 80-year-old handicapped Godawari Rakholiya was crying while sitting by the roadside near a shelter home for children in Katargam on Sunday afternoon when she was spotted by some locals. When asked she replied that her two grandsons had kicked her out and had called in an auto rickshaw to drop her at some old age home. She was later brought to Katargam police station by some alert citizens who took the police’s help to send her back to her home. Rakholiya alleged that her elder grandson Manish, a diamond artisan, had asked an auto rickshaw driver to drop her at some old age home. Meanwhile, after picking her up from her home in Nana Varachha the auto driver dropped her near the children’s home in Katargam, thinking that it was an old age home, and left. Rakholiya was in old clothes, with two small bags and a walker. “My son’s wife hit me recently and I don’t wish to go back since they will hit me again. My hand was twisted by her out of anger,” alleged Rakholiya while crying. Rakholiya was later helped by representatives of Friends for Women and Children (FFWC), an initiative of the CID of the police department. They brought her to the police station and her family members were contacted. “All in our family are unhappy due to my grandmother’s nature. My elder brother Manish could have sent her to our relative’s place but the auto rickshaw driver dropped her outside the children’s home,” younger grandson of Rakholiya, Ghanshyam, told TOI. Ghanshyam is a marketing executive in a private firm. Rakholiya’s husband, Hirjibhai, died around eight years ago due to age. Her only son Raghav, the father of Manish and Ghanshyam, died of heart attack in July. “My father was suffering from pneumonia and some other health issues. Then he suffered a heart attack and died,” said Ghanshyam. “The woman lived with her son till the time he was alive and soon after his death the family started harassing her. She was sent to live at her daughters’ home too but they kept her for a few days and sent her back,” said Piyush Shah, a member of the FFWC. Rakholiya is the mother of three daughters of whom two live with their families in the city while one lives in Ahmedabad. “After the police’s intervention, the family agreed to keep the woman at their home and they took her back,” Shah added. Rakholiya family is from Velavadar in Bhavnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/80-year-old-kicked-out-of-home-in-surat/articleshow/77965963.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Social functions turning spreaders||Kochi: Social functions like marriages and funerals, despite being subject to restrictions, are leading to the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Recently, after a marriage function, which organizers claimed was attended by only a limited number of persons, 16 people tested positive in Mookkannur panchayat. “Only a limited number of guests are learned to have attended the function. All those attending were from 20 houses in a single colony. The infection spread through contacts. Soon after the function, one of the guests developed symptoms and tested positive. Two members from the house, which hosted the marriage, developed symptoms the next day and the rest of the cases emerged after that. A total of 16 from the colony have tested positive so far and all are connected to the marriage held on August 24. We have sought the guest list. The colony has been declared a containment zone. Thirty-four samples were drawn on Saturday and one of them tested positive,” said V C Kumaran, ward member. In another incident in the same panchayat, three people who attended a funeral tested positive after they came in contact with an asymptomatic person during the ritual. Local-body officials however dismissed fears of the infection spreading to more areas. Two teams collected samples from the area on Saturday. “We expect eight more persons to test positive. As many as 83 samples were collected on September 1 and many tested positive. The infection has not spread across the local body. It is limited to only two or three belts. Nine people were infected in an area where a Kudumbashree meeting, attended by 30 members, was held. We have taken measures to contain the spread of the infection and testing has been beefed up. Besides collecting samples, we have been sending suspected cases to Angamaly taluk hospitals for testing,” said Biju Palattty, vice president of the panchayat. District health officials said similar cases, where social functions led to spread of the infection, have been previously reported. Ernakulam has recorded as many as 1,246 contact cases in the last seven days with the highest single-day spike of 271 reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/social-functions-turning-spreaders/articleshow/77967880.cms||T C Sreemol
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||NDA exam: Long journeys and anxiety over ‘infection’||Nagpur: Though attendance for NDA exam was very low, those who did appear went through gruelling hours of travel. Since last week, the Bhonsale family from Baramati were contemplating how to send their son Sukesh to Nagpur, which is almost 750km travel. “For me, the issue was not just about reaching Nagpur by train or bus, but also about getting to the exam centre afterwards. We were not sure what kind of local transport will be available and what if I faced difficulty in reaching the centre,” said Sukesh. Then his paternal uncle Chandrashekhar decided to drive down in their own vehicle. “We started at 6am from Baramati on Saturday and drove at a very normal speed. Halted regularly for rest on the roadside, apart from fuel and food. Finally reached Nagpur at 4am today and checked into a small lodge near the station,” said Chandrashekhar. Kamlesh Revankar, a Washim resident, drove down around 300km with his father and cousin in a private car. “We avoided public transport because of Covid-19 fear. We can never be sure who has the virus, and then we will be constantly touching the seats, windows, railings through the long journey. So my father decided that it’s best to spend money on personal travel rather than risk public transport,” said Revankar, who trained for NDA exam at Aurangabad. Jaideep Shelar (name changed) and his father drove down from Akola, about 250km away, and were lucky to have ‘accommodating’ relatives in city. “My eldest sister shifted to Nagpur after marriage and we reached their home last night. However, we will leave for Akola directly from the exam centre,” said Jaideep. But private vehicle and hotels were not something the Shinde family from Nanded, about 400km away, could afford. Suryakant Shinde boarded a private bus with his father on Saturday night, and waited outside the exam centre afterwards. His father Mandar said, “We paid almost Rs1,000 per ticket, which is obviously costlier than normal fare. There was no chance of going to a hotel or lodge because we are here only for a day and it would have affected our budget.” The Shindes had their breakfast at a makeshift tea stall near NMC Mangalwari Complex and waited outside the centre till entry time. “Our bus for return trip leaves at 8pm tonight, so hopefully the trip was worthwhile,” said Suryakant. But the trouble and anxiety was not restricted simply to issues outside the exam hall. Even inside the premises, the tension was palpable as students were vary of getting ‘infected’. Siddesh Zade, a local student, said one of the candidates at his exam centre near RBI Square did not seem well. “He was seated in my room and once inside was wearing a lot of protective clothing, almost like a PPE kit. It was evident that he was not well and ultimately left without appearing for the second paper,” said Zade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nda-exam-long-journeys-and-anxiety-over-infection/articleshow/77967905.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 7, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP leader’s nomination to BU syndicate slammed||COIMBATORE: The nomination of professor P Kanagasabapathi, who was appointed the state BJP vice-president two months ago, to the Bharathiar University syndicate for the second consecutive term has raised concerns in academic circles. His term as syndicate member had ended only in August. Academicians and representatives of teachers’ association said while the nomination was not legally questionable, it raised ethical concerns. They said governor Banwarilal Purohit, who nominated Kanagasabapathi to the post, should have taken cognisance of the fact that the professor was now a political party representative and nominated another academician instead. A communication from the university registrar on Saturday said Purohit, who is also chancellor of the varsity, has nominated Kanagasabapathi and a representative of a private college as syndicate members and they would serve a term of three years from September 4. As per the Bharathiar University Act, the governor could nominate three academic experts as syndicate members. A sitting syndicate member of the university said giving a member a second term, knowing well that he was now a party functionary, was ethically wrong. N Pasupathy, president of Association of University Teachers (AUT), said though they were aware of Kanagasabapathi’s ideological background, they had not opposed his nomination to the university’s syndicate the first time. “But now he is the sitting vice-president of the BJP. His term as a syndicate member now would set a wrong precedent. We seek the governor to reconsider the decision.” He, however, said they were not questioning Kanagasabapathi’s integrity or credentials. “His party position could prove to be a political interference in the syndicate.” Academicians said while there wasn’t any hard and fast rule that politicians can’t be university syndicate members, Kanagasabapathi’s nomination could have been avoided. E Balagurusamy, former vice-chancellor of Anna University, said the nomination was legally correct, but ethically wrong. “He is an academician. He deserves the nomination. But it could have been avoided.” As Kanagasabapathi had already served a term, there was no necessity to give him a second term that too while holding a party post, he said. When contacted, P Kaliraj, BU vice-chancellor and chairperson of syndicate, said he didn’t see the nomination as a political one and the move didn’t mean that the syndicate would come under any political influence. “In the syndicate, there are people from various backgrounds. Kanagasabapathi is an academician. There were no controversies during his earlier term. I see him as an individual. There would be no problem because of his nomination.” On his part, Kanagasabapathi said he was nominated based on his academic credentials. “I am basically a teacher and an academician. I was one among the first set of University Grants Commission research fellows and have been part of various research bodies. Books I have authored are part of curricula. I was nominated based on these factors. In my earlier term, I had voiced against irregularities. My nomination is not biased.” He also said politically-affiliated people have served as syndicate members in other state universities also. Kanagasabapathi was earlier the BJP’s state intellectual wing president. He was made state vice-president in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-leaders-nomination-to-bu-syndicate-slammed/articleshow/77967848.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Discharged after testing negative, Bengaluru woman infected again||BENGALURU: A 27-year-old woman from Bengaluru had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 6 and was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road the next day. She was discharged on July 25, a day after she tested negative for SARS-CoV2. Exactly a month later, on August 25, the woman was back in hospital with symptoms of cough, fever and sore throat. She consulted doctors who again collected swabs samples for testing. She tested positive again. She is suspected to be a case of reinfection of SARSCoV2 in the city. The woman had returned to work after being discharged. However, when she developed the same symptoms a month later, doctors immediately conducted a rapid antigen test. “When the rapid test showed she was positive, we conducted an RT-PCR test which also showed she was infected. We also did an antibody test, only to find out there were no antibodies present,” said Dr Pratik Patil, consultant, infectious diseases, Fortis Hospital. Doctors say the positive test can mean one of two things. “Either her body did not develop antibodies at all, or the antibodies didn’t last for more than a month,” said Dr Pratik. To declare a case of reinfection, it has to be proved that the genetic sequence of the virus is different in both infections. However, in this case, the hospital does not have the swab sample taken in July when the woman was first infected. That swab sample was destroyed scientifically soon after she was tested as it was a biohazard. “We have not been able to do genetic culture tests in her case,” Dr Pratik said. No channelThe first documented case of a Covid-19 reinfection across the globe is that of a 33-year-old man from Hong Kong, who first tested positive in March. Then in July, after a gap of four and a half months, he tested positive again. Scientists from University of Hong Kong conducted genetic sequencing of the virus from his two infections and declared that they did not match, indicating reinfection. When the Bengaluru woman tested positive for the second time, the hospital said it informed health and family welfare department officials. “Our concern was to bring it to the notice of the health department. But we were told that there were no such official channels to report cases of reinfection,” Dr Pratik said. However, Dr Arundhati Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, whose team prepares the state’s Covid-19 bulletins daily, said she was unaware of the case. “We will check,” she said. The woman has recovered now and is all set to be discharged. No pre-discharge test is being done now, as per the current testing protocol which does not mandate a test if there are no symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/discharged-after-testing-negative-woman-found-infected-again/articleshow/77966259.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 7, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Bodies of 2 Covid-19 victims swapped, kin of one realize it moments before cremation||MEERUT: A yearning to see the face of their elderly patriarch, one last time, just moments before he was to be placed on the pyre, put a sudden halt on all the rites. On Sunday morning, the grieving family in Meerut not only lifted the shroud but also the curtain on a government hospital’s alleged “apathy” towards the dead. The family was about to cremate the body of another man, who was in his 50s and was from Ghaziabad’s Modinagar area. He too succumbed to Covid-19 at Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College where the 84-year-old man of Meerut had died. But the bodies were swapped. By the time the Meerut family contacted those in Modinagar, it was too late. They were returning home after cremation, carrying the old man’s ashes in an urn with no inkling that their kin’s body was still lying 40km away. And, to the shock of the elderly man’s family, when they contacted LLRM Medical College seeking answers, they were “scolded” by the authorities for unpacking the body of a Covid-19 patient. The nephew of the octogenarian said, “We opened the sheet because some family members insisted on seeing him one last time. To our shock, the body was not of our uncle. It was someone else. When we contacted LLRM Medical College, instead of accepting their fault, the officials started shouting at us for unpacking the body.” Meanwhile, the family of Modinagar was also in a state of shock. The son of the 50-year-old man said, “I got a call on Sunday morning that my father’s body is yet to be cremated. And we have performed the last rites of someone else.” Later on Sunday, the body of the middle-aged man was handed over to the Modinagar family. And, in return, the Meerut family was given the urn of ashes. A probe was also set up by Meerut’s district magistrate (DM) Anil Dhingra. “A team of additional district magistrate (city) and chief medical officer is formed to look into it,” the DM said. When contacted, LLRM Medical College’s principal Gyanendra Kumar said, “The doctor, nurse and ward boy on duty have been asked to give an explanation in the matter. Action will be taken against whoever is found at fault.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bodies-of-2-covid-19-victims-swapped-kin-of-one-realize-it-moments-before-cremation/articleshow/77965925.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 7, 2020||Lucknow||Amid border row, N Railway sends 8.7k ton sugar to Nepal||LUCKNOW: Amid the ongoing border tiff with Himalayan neighbour, a pinch of sugar was added by Indian Railways which resumed trade between two nations. For the first time in northern railway freight operations, 8,700 tons of sugar was dispatched to Nepal in five rakes. The consignment was dispatched from Bijnor, Moradabad and Bareilly by northern railway. Also for the first time the NR Delhi division dispatched 2,667 tons of organic manure in two rakes to West Bengal (Hatia) from Adarsh Nagar. Rajiv Chaudhry, general manager, northern and north central railway, said, “The decision of setting up of business development units at zonal and divisional levels has now yielded results.” Chaudhry said: “ The sugar consignment for Nepal will strengthen and sweeten ties between India and Himalayan state, while organic manure will help the tea plantation of West Bengal.” Earlier, in August, the north eastern railway used redundant passenger coaches and transformed them into automobile carriers to transport 118 mini-trucks to Bangladesh and 175 tractors to Fatuha. Bihar, as demand for freight service, grew post-Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-border-row-n-railway-sends-8-7k-ton-sugar-to-nepal/articleshow/77968487.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Mock-tests sought for online exams||AURANGABAD: While Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), following the directives from the state government, has declared to conduct the final year exams in the online mode, the stakeholders have sought mock-test and release of question-banks for the benefit of students. Bamu senate member Govind Kale on Sunday said the student community at large has several doubts about the new pattern of the examination during the current pandemic. “Before making students appear for actual examinations, mock-tests are a must to give them a feel of the whole new scheme of things. Also, a question-bank of around 200 questionnaire must be released officially to give students the idea about nature of the examination,” he said. The examinations, which are scheduled to take place from October 1 to October 15 , can be taken from mobile phones or computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mock-tests-sought-for-online-exams/articleshow/77965921.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Meerut||10-ft-long python dies after being rescued||Bijnor: A 10-foot-long python that had swallowed a deer died soon after it was rescued from a field and released near the banks of the Ganga in Amroha district. A probe has been ordered into the matter.The python was first spotted in a sugarcane field near Malipura village, under Adampur police station, by a girl who had gone to collect fodder. She raised an alarm and villagers rushed to the spot. Initially, they suspected the python had swallowed a child. Rumours spread in the area like wildfire. The field was cordoned off.Soon, a forest department team accompanied by police reached the spot and rescued python from the field. The snake was released 3km away near the banks of the Ganga. But the python died soon after. It spewed out the deer carcass before dying. Subhash Chaudhary, a ranger of Hasanpur, said the forest team is probing what caused the python's death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/10-ft-long-python-dies-after-being-rescued/articleshow/77965915.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 7, 2020||Meerut||Govt to buy paddy residue for cow shelters, to also use sky & ground intel to curb stubble burning||Bijnor: Riding high on a good monsoon and abundant workforce, farmers in Uttar Pradesh are expected to deliver a record-high yield of kharif crops, especially rice which has an impressive 6.50lakh hectare sown area this season. Countrywide, the rice acreage has jumped a record 32%. While rice farmers are a happy lot thinking about the upcoming wintry produce, what authorities in UP are concerned about is the leftover. According to a joint industry-government report last year, rice farmers in UP, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan produce about 48 million tons of straw, of which about 39 million tons is burnt.And it leaves the Delhi-NCR region gasping for breath. Days during the winter are hazy and lungs filled with toxic black fumes. The Air Quality Index (AQI) hovers between “very poor” to “severe” for over two months with just a handful of clear and sunny days.But, if authorities in western UP are to be believed, they are “serious” to root out stubble burning this time. With nearly 2 months left for rice harvesting, several district administrations have launched awareness campaigns.Joint director of agriculture department, JP Chaudhary, said, “A watchful eye will be kept on paddy fields through satellite surveillance beginning next month. And if any field is found to be on fire, FIR will be filed immediately apart from slapping of hefty fine. A flying squad has also been constituted to take prompt action against the law flouting farmers.”“Paddy crops in western UP are harvested between October and November. We have sounded alert and asked the staff to keep a close watch on fields. We have also decided to send the stubble to cow shelters so that it can be used as fodder.”On this, chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Chaudhary told TOI, “The government has told us to purchase paddy residue from farmers so that it can be used as fodder in government-run cow shelters. According to the order issued by the government, the residue is to be purchased from village heads under the village development fund. It is aimed at curbing pollution.” Reacting to the development, national president of Azad Kisan Union-- a farmers’ outfit-- Rajendra Singh, said, “It is a very good initiative which will help the farmers and reduce pollution also." While another senior official in the agriculture department said that they will take the help of informers in every village, who will be paid for reporting the stubble burning. “There will be an informer in the sky too, in the form of satellites. Using photos sent by the satellite we will track the erring farmers,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-to-buy-paddy-residue-for-cow-shelters-to-also-use-sky-ground-intel-to-curb-stubble-burning/articleshow/77965930.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Autos, taxis hope to revive biz as Metro set to resume||Kochi: As Kochi Metro resumes operations on Monday, the autorickshaw drivers and online taxi operators are hopeful that it will open up a path for them to come back to business. The outbreak of the pandemic and the resultant lockdown have rendered many of them jobless. Even unlock procedures initiated by the government did not help public transport service providers win back commuters. Rajiv Chandran, an autorickshaw driver from the city’s suburb said, “when people abandoned public transport services, our business was hit. Very few people are willing to travel by bus or autorickshaws. So I opened a grocery store in my village. If Kochi Metro could bring back commuters, then we might also get passengers. I can leave the shop with my family and come back to the city to drive autorickshaw.” Rasheed Ali from Idukki used to operate cab services under online platforms. But as people stayed away from travelling he was forced to go back to Idukki and try other businesses. He says he has debts to clear. “The hope is if passengers take Metro, they will use cabs, taxis and autorickshaws,” he says. D Dhanuraj, chairperson of the city based thinktank, Centre for Public Policy Research, hints at the need to improve public transport facilities. “Issues of traffic snarls and parking woes can be addressed by improving public transport facilities,” he said. On several occasions police have also pointed out that haphazard parking led to traffic blocks in city. However, as fear lingers on the possibility of the increase in Covid-19 cases after Onam celebrations, the people are cautious about being in public spaces and using public transport systems. “Social distancing is the norm. Not all will be willing to travel by bus, trains and taxi cars,” said Rajalakshmi J, a retired professor. “It is about staying safe. I used to depend on online taxi services. Even if it requires me to drive through the heavy traffic, I do not want to take the risk of getting infected by depending on a cab or autorickshaw,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/autos-taxis-hope-to-revive-biz-as-metro-set-to-resume/articleshow/77967915.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai posts highest 7-day surge, still number 2 among districts||MUMBAI: The city logged its strongest ever seven-day surge in Covid-19 incidence in the week that ended on Sunday with 11,045 cases, a high not seen even when Mumbai hit its purported peak in May. The city is currently the second worst-affected district in the country after Pune, though in active cases, it's in the fourth position after Pune, Bengaluru urban and Thane. Mumbai, as on Sunday, had a caseload of 1,55,622 while Pune district stood at 1,99,303. Mumbai for the longest time was the district with the most Covid cases in India till Pune dislodged it for the top spot on August 16. Among districts, Bengaluru urban is a close third with 1,47,581 cumulative and 39,725 active cases, much ahead of Mumbai's 23,939. The southern city has seen its cases jump from 55,544 in July 31 to 1,29,125 on August 31. Times ViewThe sudden surge since mid-August is a telling sign of the pitfalls the city needs to avoid as it unlocks in various spheres. As a densely crowded centre, it can’t overemphasise the significance of social distancing and use of masks in everyday life. Strict measures are necessary to ensure that the gains made in the last few months are not reversed.In all, four districts from Maharashtra, including Nashik, are among the 10 most affected. Bengaluru urban, Chennai, East Godavari, Kurnool and Anantpur from Andhra and Kolkata occupy remaining spots. Data revealed that the last time Mumbai added cases in such large volume was between May 18-24 when 10,392 cases were recorded. Mumbai's civic chief IS Chahal said the surge was directly caused by the increase in testing and the situation cannot be compared to May when far fewer tests were being done. "The strategy of MCGM to substantially ramp up the tests from an average of 7,619 every day in the month of August to 10,000-14,000 tests in September has resulted in increase of average number of positive cases from 1,000-1,300 to 1,700-2,000. The idea is to effectively use the number of vacant Covid beds available and accelerate arrest of the spread of virus," he told TOI. Experts feel lack of adherence to social distancing during the Ganpati festival had a role to play in the surge. Bhopal-based global health researcher Dr Anant Bhan said the disregard for caution was likely to manifest itself across India. "With the process of unlock now moving towards almost totality, there are a lot of people venturing out for activities they might have missed out on during the lockdown -- family outings, participating in community/religious events, etc. But unfortunately, this is not being done while paying attention to public health measures required," he said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state's technical committee, said the onus was on people to keep cases under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-posts-highest-7-day-surge-still-number-2-among-districts/articleshow/77968894.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 7, 2020||Thane||Mumbai posts highest 7-day surge, still number 2 among districts||MUMBAI: The city logged its strongest ever seven-day surge in Covid-19 incidence in the week that ended on Sunday with 11,045 cases, a high not seen even when Mumbai hit its purported peak in May. The city is currently the second worst-affected district in the country after Pune, though in active cases, it's in the fourth position after Pune, Bengaluru urban and Thane. Mumbai, as on Sunday, had a caseload of 1,55,622 while Pune district stood at 1,99,303. Mumbai for the longest time was the district with the most Covid cases in India till Pune dislodged it for the top spot on August 16. Among districts, Bengaluru urban is a close third with 1,47,581 cumulative and 39,725 active cases, much ahead of Mumbai's 23,939. The southern city has seen its cases jump from 55,544 in July 31 to 1,29,125 on August 31. Times ViewThe sudden surge since mid-August is a telling sign of the pitfalls the city needs to avoid as it unlocks in various spheres. As a densely crowded centre, it can’t overemphasise the significance of social distancing and use of masks in everyday life. Strict measures are necessary to ensure that the gains made in the last few months are not reversed.In all, four districts from Maharashtra, including Nashik, are among the 10 most affected. Bengaluru urban, Chennai, East Godavari, Kurnool and Anantpur from Andhra and Kolkata occupy remaining spots. Data revealed that the last time Mumbai added cases in such large volume was between May 18-24 when 10,392 cases were recorded. Mumbai's civic chief IS Chahal said the surge was directly caused by the increase in testing and the situation cannot be compared to May when far fewer tests were being done. "The strategy of MCGM to substantially ramp up the tests from an average of 7,619 every day in the month of August to 10,000-14,000 tests in September has resulted in increase of average number of positive cases from 1,000-1,300 to 1,700-2,000. The idea is to effectively use the number of vacant Covid beds available and accelerate arrest of the spread of virus," he told TOI. Experts feel lack of adherence to social distancing during the Ganpati festival had a role to play in the surge. Bhopal-based global health researcher Dr Anant Bhan said the disregard for caution was likely to manifest itself across India. "With the process of unlock now moving towards almost totality, there are a lot of people venturing out for activities they might have missed out on during the lockdown -- family outings, participating in community/religious events, etc. But unfortunately, this is not being done while paying attention to public health measures required," he said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state's technical committee, said the onus was on people to keep cases under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-posts-highest-7-day-surge-still-number-2-among-districts/articleshow/77968900.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 7, 2020||Meerut||Barber strangles wife to death over dowry||Muzaffarnagar: A 24-year-old beautician, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad, was allegedly strangled to death with a wire by her husband over dowry on Sunday. The deceased woman’s husband is a barber in Muzaffarnagar.The couple, originally working in Loni, was married around seven months ago. They had returned to the accused’s house in Muzaffarnagar during the nationwide lockdown. Sources said a dispute over money led to the incident.According to the source, one Zoya, a beautician in Loni, had married Sabir, resident of village Mansoorpur in Muzaffarnagar, around seven months ago. Sabir used to work at a salon in Loni but during the lockdown, Sabir returned to his native village with Zoya.The source said, “Zoya had saved Rs 4 lakh in her bank account and wanted to open her own beauty parlour while Sabir had been demanding money for several weeks. On Sunday morning, after a heated argument between them, Sabir allegedly strangled her to death.”After getting the information, a police team from Mansoorpur rushed to the spot and launched an investigation. They have sent the body for autopsy. Deceased’s family from Loni approached Mansoorpur police station and filed a complaint against Sabir. Based on the complaint, police registered a case against Sabir.Zoya’s father Muqeem Ahmed, “She was tortured for money even though I spent enough money on her wedding. Sabir killed my daughter.”The police launched an investigation after registering a case at Mansoorpur police station under various sections of the IPC, including 304B (dowry death)..Deputy superintendent of police Khatauli Ashish Pratap Singh, said, “The accused is being interrogated. Preliminary investigation revealed that the couple used to indulge in fights frequently. Probe is on in the matter and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/barber-strangles-wife-to-death-over-dowry/articleshow/77965951.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 7, 2020||Noida||10-year-old fires while playing, 4 kids injured||GREATER NOIDA: Four children received severe bullet injuries after a 10-year-old boy brought a revolver and opened fire on the wall while playing with nine other kids in Dankaur on Sunday. Police said the bullet broke after hitting the wall and its particles hit the children in the head, stomach and thighs. Deepu (13), his sister Angel (11) along with Aditi (14), her brother Ayush (11) are neighbours. Deepu’s father, Amit Kumar, is a sub-inspector in UP police while Aditi’s father, Ranvir Nagar, works in the district jail of Bulandshahr as a warder. Sources said 10 children were playing in the room when one of the kids, Rajkumar, brought a revolver from his house and started boasting about it. He held the revolver and pointed at the ceiling and accidentally fired, first at the ceiling and then the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/10-yr-old-fires-while-playing-4-kids-injured/articleshow/77967917.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||CP gives sr officers ‘60 min’ to find hosp bed for Covid +ve cops||Nagpur: “Within 60 minutes, I repeat within 60 minutes, over and out, carry on control,” said city police chief Amitesh Kumar’s wireless call to all police officers on Sunday. Kumar called each cop a ‘Covid warrior’, and made it mandatory for senior inspectors of police stations and zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) to arrange hospital beds for any cop with Covid-19 within an hour. The call came after Kumar was stunned to hear Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the police hospital, was having a difficult time arranging beds for four cops requiring hospitalization. Even during the review meeting, an exasperated Kumar thundered over the wireless, giving a deadline to Senior PIs and DCPs till 4pm to arrange beds. Kumar said he would himself take up the cause after 4pm and speak to the NMC chief for beds if the deadline is not met by the senior officers. He also assured monetary assistance, including advances, reimbursements and footing all medical bills, in the wireless call. As of now, 559 cops have tested positive, with another 258 members of their families. So far, nine city cops have died, another two in rural, and one from state intelligence department. “Please see, we are an important institution/organization in the city’ ,” Kumar said on the wireless. Kumar further said that constables are the main Covid warriors for whom a doctor (Dr Shinde) is hassled since last evening to arrange for four beds. He said it’s not known what senior officers like PIs and DCPs are doing when beds for ailing cops cannot be arranged. “Tell me, if something happens to them (ailing cops) then who would be responsible? Only they or their family members, or we? Or you think that we have moral responsibilities for that? Please introspect all of you and take this personally in future,” Kumar told his senior officials. Kumar also said hospitals in police plans should be preferred followed by government hospitals and later other private institutions for which he assured expenses would be borne by the department. Cops were elated by Kumar’s wireless instructions to senior inspectors and DCPs, making them responsible for arranging bed and also promising monetary assistance for affected cops. Several of them sent recording of his voice on the wireless viral across Maharashtra’s social media. “Many in the control room had tears in their eyes after the wireless call ended,” said a constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-gives-sr-officers-60-min-to-find-hosp-bed-for-covid-ve-cops/articleshow/77967922.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Landslide triggered by heavy rainfall blocks Nainital highway for over 4 hours||Nainital: Heavy rains followed by landslides in the Nainital district blocked the Haldwani-Nainital highway for over four hours leading to a long jam on one of the busiest roads in the Kumaon region. According to the district administration, the road was blocked following landslides at around 8 am. However, earth mover machines and workers were soon sent to clear the stretch. “The officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) and the local administration rushed to the spot and after clearing the debris, the road was opened for traffic,” said an official. Besides the Haldwani-Nainital highway, the Badrinath highway also got blocked on Sunday for over four hours. The tourists travelling to Badrinath were stranded on the road for several hours before the administration cleared the stretch for vehicular movements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-triggered-by-heavy-rainfall-blocks-nainital-highway-for-over-4-hours/articleshow/77965957.cms||Prashant Jha
September 7, 2020||Dehradun||Girl out for walk in Lalkuan ‘abducted’||Nainital: A 19-year-old girl was forcefully dragged away in a car in Lalkuan area on Saturday night. The incident took place when the girl was taking a stroll on the road barely a few meters from the police station. Initial investigation by police suggested that the girl and her abductor knew each other and were in a relationship. Speaking to TOI, Nainital’s senior superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Meena said, “We have traced the man, the girl, and the vehicle in which the girl was abducted. We have arrested the 25-year-old accused, identified as Sonu. The girl was rescued unharmed.” Meanwhile, as the news of the abduction spread, locals gathered near the police station and started protesting. While the protesters also tried to block the road, police had to use force and it was only after the efforts of the senior police officials that the crowd subsided. The SSP said that the police scanned the CCTV footage of the entire area and talked to the girl’s family as well as her sisters and friends after which the vehicle in which the abduction was carried out, was traced. “In cases like these, there are usually two angles of investigation. We are finding out if she was actually abducted and if she knew the abductors. We are pursuing the case from both angles,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/girl-out-for-walk-in-lalkuan-abducted/articleshow/77965942.cms||Prashant Jha
September 7, 2020||Kochi||‘Shipping ministry order may not impact Cochin Port’||Kochi: Cochin Port authorities has said that the recent order by the ministry of shipping directing all major ports to procure or charter only Made-in-India tugboats may not impact the port activity as they have own boats and hired ones as of now. All procurements being done by major ports would now need to be carried out as per the revised ‘Make in India’ order. “We are having two tugboats of our own and have hired another three for the purpose. As of now, there will not be any orders but this decision would be applicable even to the hired ones,” said Cochin Port officials. As of now, Cochin Port uses all of them, simultaneously too, on days of heavy traffic or during single-point mooring. “A tugboat is sometimes away for 5-6 hours and that’s why we need at least a handful, because we are a major port,” officials said. Union minister of state for shipping (I/C) Mansukh Mandaviya said the government is taking 360-degree actions to revive old shipyards and promote shipbuilding in India. “It is a step towards bolstering the revival of Indian shipbuilding and a big move towards ‘Aatma Nirbhar’ shipping sector. The government will try to create an ecosystem for shipbuilding, ship repair, ship recycling and flagging in India,” he said. Procurement/chartering of port crafts would need to be aligned with the revised Make in India Order to promote shipbuilding in India. It is proposed to set up a standing specification committee (SSC) under managing director, Indian Ports Association and comprising representatives from Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL), Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), Indian Register of Shipping (IRS) and Director General of Shipping. The SSC would shortlist around five variants/types of tugs and prepare an ‘Approved Standardized Tug Design and Specifications’ (ASTDS). This ASTDS would outline specifications, general arrangements, basic calculations, basic structural drawings, key system drawings and other construction standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shipping-ministry-order-may-not-impact-cochin-port/articleshow/77967927.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Contact tracing in B’luru picks up, 5 lakh on radar in 30 days||Bengaluru: Contact tracing, which had become a quagmire for the BBMP in its Covid-19 management strategy, is no more a challenge as the civic body has achieved a turnaround, identifying and quarantining more than five lakh people in the past 30 days. As on August 6, healthcare workers had identified 3,33,431 primary and secondary contacts. Of these 1,15,126 were in South zone, while 64,029 were in West. By September 5, BBMP had identified about 8,99,393 contacts. South zone had about 2,30,485 of them, West had 1,55,245 and East 1,36,178. A health official said, “There was a drop mid-way, but now contact tracing is being carried out aggressively in Bengaluru. Contacts are being put in home quarantine and are being monitored. Earlier, we were able to trace 3-4 contacts of a patient, but now with community testing and awareness being ramped up we are able to identify at least 15-20 contacts.” The increase in field staff, including Asha workers, and use of technology has helped identify contacts, the official added. Bengaluru has reported 1,05,692 positive cases till date, but has 39,725 active cases. The city has reported 2,163 deaths so far. Bengaluru has reported 28,853 positive cases in last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/contact-tracing-in-bluru-picks-up-5-lakh-on-radar-in-30-days/articleshow/77966144.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Local shops hopeful as Ajmer dargah opens today||AJMER: The dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty was sanitized on Sunday and sanitizer vending machines were installed at many places for the devotees who will throng the premises from Monday. To maintain social distancing, circles have been marked on the floor so that devotees can keep themselves away from each other. Officials also visited and inspected the arrangements made according to the Covid-19 guidelines. Shopkeepers in Dargah Bazaar, Nallah Bazaar, Naya Bazaar and Dhan Mandi are a happy lot as the dargah is opening from Monday because their business mostly depends on the devotees. There are about 67 eateries around the dargah that were closed from the last five months. “There are hundreds of labourers in these unorganised food shops and food is available from Rs 20 to 2,000 in the region,” said a Khadim. Devotees coming to dargah usually have their food in this area. The handicraft business in Ajmer too is expecting a boom with the opening of the dargah. Khadims have been asked by the district administration to help in maintain social distancing. However, offering of flowers and chaddars at present will remain prohibited and even tying of threads on Jannati Darwaza has been resrtricted. Ajmer’s economy is mostly dependent on religious tourism and in the last four months there were no tourists or devotees. “We were getting calls from devotees as they wanted to come and offer prayers and when they came to know that the dargah is opening they were happy,” said a khadim. The dargah committee staff will remain alert so that people entering the dargah maintain social distancing. “There will be thermal screening along with security measures on the gate,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/local-shops-hopeful-as-ajmer-dargah-opens-today/articleshow/77967925.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Surat||Charred remains of Thai woman found from her home in Surat||SURAT: The charred remains of a 27-year-old Thai national, who was employed in a massage parlour and spa in the city, was found from her rented accommodation in Magdalla area early on Sunday morning. Police have registered a case of accidental death and started investigation. Wanida Bousorn’s remains were found on the first floor of her residence in Magdalla on a mattress on the floor, which too had turned into ashes. Interestingly, a wooden bed nearby with mattress, pillow, bedsheet and clothes did not catch fire. Bousorn, a married woman with a son, is from MA T Mueang Bua, Kaset Wisai district in Roi ET province of Thailand. Her husband and son lives in Thailand. Cops have not found her passport, nor her Visa details and so couldn’t confirm since when she had been staying in the city or had arrived in the country. Cops sent the remains for forensic post mortem and are investigating into the case. The remains will most likely be handed over to her friends for last rights. The woman lived in the one room kitchen rented accommodation along with another woman from Thailand. Her room partner was in Bharuch for the last two days. Another friend, also from Thailand, informed the police that she had visited the woman in her room on Saturday and both had dinner together and then she left at around 10 pm. In the one storey house, employees of a food joint live on the ground floor. However, no one in the building came to know about the fire till Sunday morning at around 5 am. Locals who came to know about it alerted the house owner, Nagin Patel, who broke the lock on the door and also alerted the cops. Meanwhile, police are also exploring the probability of fire due to short circuit. “There were two extension cords connected with each other used for a table fan which was connected to a plug. The table fan too was damaged in the fire, that didn’t spread to the rest of the room,” said a police officer. “As there is no evidence of murder on the spot, we doubt it could have been due to short-circuit fire and and she couldn’t make attempts to save herself as she was under the influence of some intoxicating substance. However, it is also possible that she was first killed and then her body was burnt,” the officer added. There are no CCTV cameras in or around the house. Police are checking if anyone visited the house. Locals informed police that around three persons had come in an Innova car after 1.30 am. The woman was employed in multiple massage parlours and spa. “She was working in Kanishk Spa and recently joined Bliss Spa in Adajan. We have identified one Ankur Shah who was in regular touch with her,” said police, adding that they will soon question Shah, a resident of Buhari in Surat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/charred-remains-of-thai-woman-found-from-her-home/articleshow/77966056.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||HC okays dept proceedings against cop cleared by court||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the authorities to conclude the departmental proceedings against a police official suspended 16 years ago on corruption charges within three months. Though the official was acquitted by a criminal court, the high court observed that the decree of proof between the criminal case and departmental proceedings is different.Petitioner R Suresh Kumar, a sub-inspector of police in the prohibition and enforcement wing in Trichy, was placed under suspension in 2004 as a criminal case was registered against him by DVAC officials under Prevention of Corruption Act. After nearly 13 years, in 2017, he was acquitted by the trial court. Subsequently, he submitted a representation in 2018 seeking reinstatement. However, the authorities decided to initiate disciplinary proceedings against him on charges identical to the ones framed in the criminal case and issued a charge memo in 2019. The petitioner challenged this and moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to revoke his suspension order too.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that the petitioner’s counsel relied on the Police Standing Order (PSO) 67 which says that if an employee is acquitted by a criminal court, the department ordinarily should not go for disciplinary proceedings for the same charges and should reinstate the employee. However, the judge observed that the word ‘ordinarily’ in the PSO means that it is not necessary that in every case the department shall accept the criminal court’s verdict and drop disciplinary proceedings.The department may succeed in some cases by proving the guilt against the erring official by conducting a full-fledged inquiry. Holding that the suspension order and charge memo cannot be interfered with at this juncture, the judge said that the authorities can proceed with the disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner by awarding reasonable opportunity to him and complete the exercise within three months. However, if the proceedings are not completed within this time, he shall not be kept under suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-okays-dept-proceedings-against-cop-cleared-by-court/articleshow/77967951.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Projects like airport devpt must not be privatized: CM||Kochi: Emphasising on the importance of public-private participation (PPP) model in airport infrastructure development, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said big projects like building and maintaining airports can be effectively carried out under the aegis of the state government and the success of Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) proved it. He was addressing the 26th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Cial shareholders which was held through online platform on Saturday. The AGM endorsed the proposal of board of directors to award 27% dividend to the shareholders for FY 2019-20. “It is a misapprehension that complex projects like development of airport infrastructures have to be fully entrusted with the private sector. Infrastructure development projects are implemented by acquiring the land and support of the common men. They ought not to be privatized. Cial model is inclusive and it addresses the issues of the people too,” said Vijayan, who is also the chairman of Cial. Vijayan added that when the present board of directors took charge in 2016, there were 7,000 people working at the airport premises and the number has grown to 12,000 in March 2020. Cial has invested around Rs 2,000 crore in the capacity-enhancement projects of the airport and is still not collecting user development fee from the passenger, Vijayan said. Cial, which has an investor base of 19,000 shareholders from 30 countries, has been giving dividend from FY 2003-04 and with this year, the total dividend payout has touched 282%. Thomas Isaac, V S Sunil Kumar, who are ministers as well as the directors of Cial, other directors M A Yusuf Ali, N V George, E M Babu, K Roy Paul, A K Ramani, Cial managing director V J Kurian and company secretary Saji K George participated in the AGM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/projects-like-airport-devpt-must-not-be-privatized-cm/articleshow/77967952.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to issue notices to PGs, hostels from today on property tax dues||Ludhiana: In order to recover the pending dues of property tax from paying guests, hostels and migrant quarters at 7.5% rate of annual rent, the MC officials will start an exercise to issuing the notices to these establishments from Monday onwards. The aim is to dispatch notices to 40,000 such establishments, which are in MC records. Through this notice the officials will inform the owners of these establishments that they will have to pay property tax at the new rate. Along with property tax, the employees who will go for distribution of notices will also check the water supply and sewerage connections of these establishments. Since the number of notices is more, the employees sat in the offices even during the weekend and prepare the notices. In the first lot 1,000 notices will be distributed and later on more notices will be ready. The officials claimed that they had limited manpower, so work will take place regularly. Through these notices they will just issue the instructions to the owners that rate of interest on property tax payment has increased, so pay their tax accordingly. Some of the owners of these establishments did not clear their tax after 2013-14, so such units will also remain on the radar. The superintendent of MC, Vivek Verma, said, “We will serve the notices clockwise and every superintendent will look after its block. The employees are preparing the notices and these will be served from Monday onwards.” He said they would also check whether owners of these establishments got the water supply and sewerage connections legally or illegally. He claimed that if they found connections were illegal, they would recover the charges of regularisation of water supply and sewerage connections as well and where connections fall under billing section they would have to clear those dues as well. However, owners of migrant quarters, PGs or hostels are of the opinion that due to lockdown their units are vacant or half occupied, so it would be unjustified to impose this rate at the moment. Ram Kumar, owner of labour quarters near Dholewal, said, “During lockdown the labourers went back to their native places. Some have come back while some still are waiting for the situation to come under control. Most of the quarters are lying vacant. It would not be possible for people like me to pay tax for an entire year when they did not receive rent accordingly.” Meanwhile, Congress councillor Gurpreet Gogi, who is chairman of PSIEC and runs a hostel in Ghumar Mandi, said, “Since March, the hostel is vacant because the students returned to their homes due to lockdown in March and after that colleges are still shut, so nobody came back.” Regarding payment of tax as per new notification, he said whatever will happen with other people will happen with him and if tax will be demanded as per the new notification, he will pay it accordingly. The local bodies department has notified that from this financial year people will pay their annual property tax at the rate of 7.5% of the annual rental income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-issue-notices-to-pgs-hostels-from-today-on-property-tax-dues/articleshow/77967014.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||Three-term UP ex-MLA Nirvendra Mishra ‘beaten to death’ over land dispute||BAREILLY: Three-term former Uttar Pradesh MLA Nirvendra Mishra, 73, was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men following a dispute over a piece of land in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday. His son Sanjeev accused the local police of being hand in glove with a local journalist and some goons who were trying to illegally occupy their “ancestral land”. He claimed that he and his father were attacked and beaten with lathis in the presence of local police on Sunday. “My father died on the spot,” he said. Dismissing Sanjeev’s allegations, Kheri SSP Satyendar Kumar said the ex-MLA “accidentally fell on the ground during a heated argument with the other party to the case”. Mishra, who was twice an Independent MLA (1989, 1991) and once won on a SP ticket (1993), was taken to hospital where he was declared “brought dead”. Notably, the land dispute between the two parties was going on for a while and the matter is already in court. Mishra and his son were earlier charged under sections 107/116 of CrPC (disruption of peace) in the same case. The incident took a political colour with former CM Akhilesh Yadav, tweeting, “Under BJP's rule, the public is not just tense about law and order, but scared too.” While the UP Congress tweeted, “Another Brahmin killed. The jungle raj in UP is getting frightening.” By Sunday evening, circle officer Kuldeep Kukreti, who was allegedly present on the spot, was transferred to Lucknow. The MLA’s family had initially refused to hand over his body for autopsy, demanding separate FIRs against circle officer Kukreti and one Radheshyam Gupta, the prime accused. Later in the evening, an FIR was registered against the primeaccused Gupta under the charges of murder and rioting. Sanjeev, the MLA’s son, told TOI, “A case is pending over our ancestral land in court. On Sunday, our rivals came along with a group of 50-60 people and started ploughing the land. When we stopped them, they started thrashing me and when my father tried to intervene, they also thrashed him. He died on the spot. Police were present on the spot all this while. We took him to a hospital in Palia with the support of locals. Two accused were later caught by the villagers but circle officer Kuldeep Kukreti arrived in the village with a police force. They thrashed my wife and my elderly mother and rescued both the accused.” Lucknow range IG Laxmi Singh also arrived in Kheri and met the MLA’s family members along with the local SSP and DM. She said, “Radheshyam Gupta was trying to take custody of the land when the former MLA and his aides staged a protest. The ex-MLA fell down on ground during a heated argument and got injured and died later. Autopsy will confirm the reason of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-term-up-ex-mla-beaten-to-death-over-land-dispute/articleshow/77965219.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 7, 2020||Jodhpur||ASI first cop to die of Covid in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS in Jodhpur since August 29, died on Sunday. He was cremated at his native town Gotan in Nagaur. He is survived by wife and two sons. This is the first death of any policeman from Covid-19 in Jodhpur. The district reported two deaths on Sunday. DCP (East) Dharmendra Singh said ASI Mool Singh (54) was posted at Karwad police station in Jodhpur. “He had suddenly fallen sick on August 25 and had informed the police station seeking medical leave. He had undergone a test for coronavirus and tested positive in the report released on August 27,” said Singh. He was put under home quarantine but was admitted to AIIMS on August 29 after his condition worsened. He died on Sunday morning after nine 9 days of treatment at AIIMS. Though the district administration has stopped sharing toll count, sources said it has mounted to 202 with addition of Sunday’s figures. According to the last detail of tolls shared by the administration on August 30, Jodhpur had recorded 153 deaths, but stopped sharing the information of deaths owing to misreporting. Interestingly, while only 20 deaths had been reported in Jodhpur during the entire lockdown period, 182 persons have succumbed since first unlock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/asi-first-cop-to-die-of-covid-in-jodhpur/articleshow/77967934.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||20 Punjab cops have died of Covid, 3,803 infected so far||CHANDIGARH: Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in Punjab, 3,803 state police personnel at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic have tested positive while 20 officials, including an ACP and a DSP, have died of it. Of the total infected, 2,186 (57%) have recovered, while 1,597 personnel, including 38 gazetted officers and 21 SHOs, are undergoing treatment. Also, 32 family members of police personnel have contracted the virus while another 50 personnel, who were close contacts of positive cases, are in self-quarantine. More than 20 officials who have recovered from the disease have donated blood plasma and more than 100 others have offered to do so for the benefit of society. As a welfare measure, all Covid-infected personnel are being provided health kits recommended by doctors, which include a digital thermometer, pulse oximeter, sanitisers, medicines and vitamins among others. Kits worth Rs 1,700 are being provided free of cost to each infected official. To motivate police forces at the forefront, top officials are contacting Covid-infected cops undergoing treatment in various hospitals or in home quarantine. All ADGP and IGP rank officers made calls as part of the mass contact programme, in line with recent efforts undertaken personally by chief minister Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta, so as to keep the infected personnel in high spirits and motivated. Senior officers involved in the exercise enquired about the health and well-being of personnel and also assured them of every possible support. Police officials undergoing treatment expressed satisfaction over the efforts and support given by the government and police department from time to time. DGP Gupta described every staffer of Punjab Police as his personal responsibility. “This contact programme will continue in future also, till every Covid-infected cop in the state is nursed back to health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-punjab-police-personnel-died-of-covid-3803-infected-so-far/articleshow/77967942.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||New initiatives to save trees on Achalpur road, near Bapu Kuti||Nagpur: Chorus is growing against large-scale tree felling for proposed road widening between Amravati and Achalpur and road near Bapu Kuti on Wardha-Sevagram road. People and students have come forward with various ways to protest damage to the environment. While school students took to streets on Teacher’s Day and gave lessons to people on saving environment by protecting last remaining over 130 trees on Bapu Kuti road, like-minded people joined hands by constituting Tree Conservation Action Committee against public works department (PWD), which plans to fell over 3,100 trees on Amravati-Achalpur road. Coordinator Ghanshyam Dhole, a lawyer by profession, said, “The committee met on Sunday and decided to create a mass public movement against the PWD move. Many from Amravati and Achalpur have joined the action group voluntarily and include retired forest officials, engineers, educationists, businessmen and traders, and lawyers among others. As a first step we sent a representation to district collector urging him to save these trees,” he said. “Our motive is to stop felling of over 3,000 trees which are home to many birds. Five years ago, PWD felled more than 1,000 trees to widen Amravati-Badnera road. The user agency had promised to plant five trees for every tree felled but the compensatory plantation is nowhere seen,” said Sanjay Jagtap, a retired divisional forest officer (DFO). According to professor Subhash Dhote, the PWD also did not plant trees in lieu of thousands of trees that were felled on Amravati-Morshi-Warud-Pandhurna road last year. “Same will be repeated on Amravati-Achalpur road,” he said. “Among the other action plan includes creating awareness among public. The committee will also intervene in the legal case filed on an application filed by honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court,” said Meenakshi Malode, another lawyer. “The existing road should be cleared of encroachments and only overlaying should be done. When the road widening will not get permission beyond Paratwada due to vast forest stretches of Melghat, why trees are being felled?” said Abdul Bashir Sheikh. Meanwhile, campaign against tree felling on Wardha-Sevagram road gained momentum when over 75 students from 10 schools and organizations came together to celebrate Tree(chers) Day on Saturday to send a message on saving huge trees which will be felled for road widening. A day before, six generations of Mahatma Gandhi had appealed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to stop tree felling near Bapu Kuti. The Tree(chers) Day event was organized by Wardha Vriksh Bachao Samiti. Children played the role of teachers and each one explained to visitors why we need to save trees. The lessons spanned across different subjects and covered pertinent topics such as ‘Chipko Andolan’. The children-teachers highlighted impact of tree loss on local environment, global warming, dwindling forest cover in Maharashtra, explained amount of oxygen produced by a tree and its economic value etc. The event also saw children creating wonderful art, stories, poems, songs, testimony of trees and posters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-initiatives-to-save-trees-on-achalpur-road-near-bapu-kuti/articleshow/77967963.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 7, 2020||Madurai||94% of accidents in Madurai city last yr due to speeding||Madurai: Speeding was the reason behind 94% of accidents that took place in the city in 2019, in which 16 people lost their lives, according to the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) recently. 193 people died in road accidents in 2019.The data also reveals that most of the accidents took place on state highways. Of 866 accidents, 553 took place on state highways, 264 took place on corporation roads and 49 on national highways. Of the deaths, 132 deaths were in accidents on state highway roads, 54 on corporation roads and 7 on national highways. Traffic officials say that most of the busy roads in the city are owned by state highways. Only a few national highways like Kochi-Madurai-Dhanushkodi and Madurai-Tenkasi roads pass through the city.Most of the accidents took place between 12am and 9pm, with 158 accidents between 6pm and 9pm. The data also points out that most of the accidents took place in thick residential areas, in which 43 people lost lives, which is followed 41 deaths near schools/institutions, 33 nea religious places and 19 near recreational places.DCP K Sugumaran told TOI that the number of accidents in the city is actually coming down. “From 217 deaths in 2018, it has come down to 193 in 2019. The number of road accidents and deaths have come down drastically this year so far, compared to previous years,” he said.“Most of the accidents involved bikers and pedestrians. Many of them can be prevented if people are a bit more cautious on roads. Sensitisation is being created to prevent accidents,” he added.“Various efforts are being taken to bring down accidents. Road safety measures are being taken on regular basis. In order to improve safety on busy roads, the road owners concerned are constantly pursued to erect centre medians. Manning of traffic police is ensured wherever possible,” he said.Traffic signals have also been updated for seamless functioning apart from public address system at most of the signals. CCTV cameras are also helping in identifying traffic violators and detect accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/94-of-accidents-in-madurai-city-last-yr-due-to-speeding/articleshow/77967969.cms||V Devanathan
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||5-phase protest: From leaving whatsapp groups to hunger strike on Gandhi Jayanti||Jaipur: Jaipur: The All Rajasthan State Government Employees Federation on Sunday decided to hold a statewide protest in five phases against the government’s decision to deduct salaries of the employees. Beginning on September 7, the five-phase protest will continue till the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, which is on October 2.Taking a dig at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, state general secretary of the federation Tej Singh Rathore said, “Chief Minister of a state is considered to be supporter of democracy. But the undemocratic decision taken by him (Ashok Gehlot) is a matter of regret.”It was decided that on September 7, a memorandum will be submitted to the Chief Secretary on behalf of the federation requesting to withdraw the decision. On September 9, statewide protest will be held in the villages, tehsils, sub-divisions, districts by burning the pay cut order. A campaign on Twitter against the government’s order will be run on September 14 and 15. On Sept 21-22, the employees will leave all the departmental WhatsApp groups for two days. They will neither take orders, nor give any information to higher officials (non-cooperation with the government). On Gandhi Jayanti (October 2), a day-long hunger strike will be observed in front of Mahatma Gandhi statue at the tehsil, district and state levels. These decisions were taken during the meeting of the state executive body of the federation (Rajasthan Karmachari Sayunkt Mahasangh) and the district branches. Around 55 employees’ unions participated in the meeting on Sunday. “Also, at the time of preparing the bills, if they need our assistance, we will not cooperate. Due to the recovery being made under the fifth schedule of the finance department, about Rs 5,000 to 7,000 per month is being recovered from the salary of more than 2 lakh state employees.,” said Rathore.The cabinet had decided to deduct two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day’s salary of other employees from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund. BoxJaipur: Protest scheduleSept 7: Memorandum will be submitted to Chief Secretary Sept 9: Protest in the whole state (in the villages, tehsils, sub-divisions, districts) by burning the orders related to pay cut.Sept 14-15: Campaign on Twitter against the government’s order.Sept 21-22: The employees will leave all the departmental WhatsApp groups for two days. They will neither take orders, nor give any information to higher officials (non-cooperation with the government). Oct 2: On Gandhi Jayanti, a day-long hunger strike will be observed in front of Mahatma Gandhi statue at the tehsil, district and state levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-phase-protest-from-leaving-whatsapp-groups-to-hunger-strike-on-gandhi-jayanti/articleshow/77967961.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||No headway in project to install micro-chips in cattle||Ludhiana: The project to install micro-chips in cattle at dairy units seems to be a far distant dream as officials are showing no inclination of taking up the project again. The members of the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) had kept the proposal pending over financial reasons and it was supposed to be taken up later, but still there had been no headway in this project.  It was conceived to keep a check on dairy owners from leaving their cattle abandoned, which gave rise to the problem of stray cattle. In a way it was an attempt to start registration of cattle at dairy units and it was supposed to start from Tajpur road dairy complex. It was in September last year that it was proposed to install 20,000 micro-chips in the cattle at dairy units, along with the registration process. The proposal was kept in front of F&CC members in November 2019, but the members rejected the same. The officials claimed that cost of one micro-chip was a minimum Rs 250 and in dairy units farmers had many cattle, so they were not ready to bear the cost and the civic body was not in a condition to pay for the micro-chips. For these reasons only it could not be taken up again. The senior veterinary officer, Dr YP Singh, said the F&CC members had objected to the bearing of the cost of the micro-chip that was supposed to be inserted in the cattle. He said neither dairy owners, nor the MC is willing to take the financial load and so it would not be possible to take up the project again. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar, who had taken up the project, claimed that this was supposed to be approved by the civic body but it was rejected on certain grounds. He said he would take up the project again with mayor Balkar Sandhu because the problem of stray cattle is becoming a serious threat to the public. He said in his constituency too people were facing the serious problem of stray cattle. Requesting anonymity, one of the dairy owners from Tajpur road said they could not bear the expenses of micro-chips and if the civic body wants to install these then they should bear the cost. He claimed that already there were several other issues for them to tackle and this would be an additional burden on them. However, the number of stray cattle was rising in the city gradually in the absence of their lifting from city roads. As of now the lifting of cattle has stopped as there is no place in cow sheds to keep more stray cattle. The cattle shed in Burj Pawat near Machhiwara is also ready but the civic officials are yet to start the lifting process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-headway-in-project-to-install-micro-chips-in-cattle/articleshow/77967024.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||Transfer case: HC ticks off Tangedco for relying on poor legal advice||Madurai: Observing that filing appeals without obtaining proper legal advice would result in huge loss to state exchequer, Madras high court directed Tangedco authorities to immediately permit a petitioner to rejoin service and disburse his back wages for two years.The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by S Velmurugan for alleged disobedience of the order passed by a single judge of the court in 2019. The petitioner was working as executive engineer at Karur when he was transferred and posted in Nilgiris district in 2018. He challenged the transfer order which a single judge set aside citing violation of statutes and allowed him to work at Karur itself. It was also directed to regularise his non-employment period as duty period. An appeal preferred by Tangedco was dismissed by a division bench on August 24 this year.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that the petitioner has not been permitted to rejoin in the place from where he was transferred for more than two years. Since the non-employment period for the past two years is now to be treated as duty period, the petitioner would be entitled to the full salary of nearly Rs 15lakh without extracting any work from him.The judge observed that though the right of appeal is always available to the parties, of late, most of the orders passed by the court are being appealed against. In a number of similar circumstances, the officials / authorities / employer without taking proper legal advice, take the matters by way of appeal to the higher forum due to which a huge amount of the government exchequer is being wasted.The judge observed that usually transfer orders would not be interfered with, except in cases where they are in violation of jurisdiction or statutes. When transfer orders are interfered with by the court, it should be complied with as in this case the transfer order was in violation of the statute. The loss could have been avoided had Tangedco obtained legal advice from the counsel before taking up the matter on appeal, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/transfer-case-hc-ticks-off-tangedco-for-relying-on-poor-legal-advice/articleshow/77967960.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 7, 2020||Madurai||Court summons SH official for pathetic condition of road||Madurai: Observing that the state highways authorities had shown lack of sensitivity towards the bad condition of the road between Sathankulam and Tiruchendur, Madras high court directed the Tuticorin district divisional engineer of the state highways department to appear before it through video conferencing.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by A Allwin Asir Jebaraj, a resident of Semmarikulam village who sought to relay the road stretch between Sathankulam and Tiruchendur. He said RTI information showed that the stretch is to be converted to national highway due to which no maintenance works were being carried out. The stretch is full of potholes that it resembles a place on the moon or Mars.The additional government pleader submitted that a tender was quoted recently to relay the road. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam made it clear that the concerned authorities will be liable for criminal prosecution if any accident takes place and causes grievous injuries or death till the effective and proper repairing or relaying work is carried out.The judges suo motu impleaded the principal secretary of the highways and minor ports department as respondent while directing the divisional engineer to file a counter affidavit with documents and photographs, and adjourned the case to September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-summons-sh-official-for-pathetic-condition-of-road/articleshow/77967965.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Record 25 deaths in Haryana, 2,277 new patients detected||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 daily toll touched a new high in Haryana on Sunday as 25 succumbed to the coronavirus, even as 2,277 new patients took the state’s case count to 76,549 patients. Total death figure in the state stands at 806 now. The spike has also resulted into an increased positivity rate of 5.94%, and recovery rate falling to 78.45%. On the same day, 1,471 patients were discharged taking the overall count of recovered persons to 60,051. Now, there are 15,692 active cases in the state. These include 255 critical patients on oxygen support or ventilators. Gurugram reported 306 new patients which took the district’s total to 13,335 and active patients to a high of 1,685. Faridabad reported 276 patients, and two deaths. With this, Faridabad’s total is at 13,898 cases with 178 deaths and active cases at 1,126. Karnal recorded its highest ever count of 246 new patients and two deaths. Kurukshetra too reported its record high of 230 patients and three deaths. Ambala reported 190 patients and two deaths, followed by 176 patients and two deaths in Panipat. Panchkula detected 137 patients and four deaths, followed by 120 patients and one death in Hisar district. Rohtak reported 91 patients and two deaths, followed by 76 in Sonipat, 71 patients and one death in Bhiwani, and 70 patients and one death in Yamunanagar district. Mahindergarh reported 65 new patients, followed by 48 new patients and one death in Fatehabad. Jhajjar reported 46 new patients, followed by 44 patients and one death in Sirsa district. Kaithal reported 31 new patients and two deaths, followed by 22 patients in Nuh, 15 in Palwal, 14 patients and one death in Rewari, and four patients in the Charkhi Dadri district. Meanwhile, the testing rate in the stature reached 51,069 tests per million per day, as total 12,94,598 persons have been examined so far. In addition, 1,02,351 had completed quarantine till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-25-deaths-in-haryana-2277-new-patients-detected/articleshow/77967968.cms||Manvir Saini
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC ambulance driver beaten up by Covid victim’s kin||Nagpur: Mahendra Bhoyar, 22, working with NMC’s Lakadganj zone, was dragged down from a moving ambulance and thrashed by the kin of a Covid-19 victim at Gangabai Ghat on Saturday. Kotwali police have registered offences against two persons. It’s learnt the relatives of the Covid victim had first demanded to see the face of the body, though there is a huge risk and so it is not allowed, when the NMC team was waiting for their turn for cremating the body. Sources said NMC employees, in their PPE kits, had tried to cooperate with the relatives by showing the face of the deceased man but many of the relatives kept on going near the body. Despite repeated requests to refrain from such behavior, the relatives kept on insisting they wanted to see the body and tried to touch it. Bhoyar had initially requested one of the relatives to stay away from the body as he was also trying to hold it. Seeing the situation turning ugly, Bhoyar was trying to take the vehicle ahead with the body in it when the relatives dragged him down from the moving ambulance. Bhoyar was nearly crushed under the wheels after falling. He was dragged up by the relatives, who started raining blows on him. Bhoyar said the relatives of the male Covid victim targeted him for trying to stop them from touching the body wrapped in protective covers. The relatives were also unhappy with the private hospital’s treatment and high expenses, and also abused Bhoyar before attacking him. “I have myself lost two family members in Covid and could not see their faces. I had extended all possible help and cooperation to the kin of the Covid victim, as the pain of losing one in the pandemic is not unknown to me,” he said. “It has become an everyday routine for us to hear abuses and be targeted by families of Covid victims,” lamented Bhoyar. The cops were alerted by the senior official accompanying Bhoyar in the ambulance, following which a FIR was lodged against two unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-ambulance-driver-beaten-up-by-covid-victims-kin/articleshow/77967964.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||No. of fatalities in state hits 1,862||Chandigarh: Showing no signs of slowing down, Punjab registered 1,946 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 54 deaths on Sunday. For the first time, nine of the state’s total 22 districts recorded new cases in three figures. The state’s tally rose to 63,473 cases and the death toll increased to 1,862. The state’s health department checked 25,154 samples on Sunday and the positivity rate was recorded at 7.73%. Among new deaths, 13 were from Ludhiana, eight from Patiala, six from Kapurthala, five from Amritsar, three each from Bathinda, Faridkot, Jalandhar and Moga, two each from Pathankot, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur, and one each from Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and Barnala. When this report was filed, 71 patients were stated to be critical and on ventilator support. Also, 571 were on oxygen support.Among the new cases, the highest number, 261, has been reported in Jalandhar. It is followed by Pathankot, which added 205 cases. Also, 186 people tested positive in Gurdaspur, 168 in Bathinda, 154 in Mohali, 150 in Patiala, 135 in Hoshiarpur, 133 in Amritsar, and 135 in Hoshiarpur. Test reports of 88 people came positive in Faridkot, 72 in Kapurthala, 40 each in Muktsar and Sangrur, 28 in Mansa, 26 in Moga, 21 in Ferozepur, 19 in Nawanshahr, 17 in Tarn Taran, 15 in Fazilka, 10 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, and seven in Ropar. A total of 1,606 people were discharged after recovering from the virus, taking the tally for patients discharged to 45,455. Of them, 241 were discharged in Mohali, 232 in Ludhiana, 207 in Amritsar, 153 in Gurdaspur, 124 in Amritsar, 100 in Bathinda, 82 in Kapurthala, 77 in Hoshiarpur, 60 in Pathankot, 64 in Faridkot, 48 in Ropar, 40 in Sangrur, 32 each in Tarn Taran and Muktsar, 28 in Nawanshahr, 24 in Mansa, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 in Ferozepur and 10 in Barnala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-of-fatalities-in-state-hits-1862/articleshow/77967954.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kochi||Companies at Infopark flaunt pandemic resilience thanks to focus on digitization||Kochi: The disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic may have led to thousands of IT employees working remotely from their homes but as a sector the impact had been minimal and Infopark Kochi has shown considerable resilience. There have been exits, but these were by companies with small footprint. Others like Fedserve, that handles back-end operations of the bank and Mitsogo Inc, that provides business mobility and digital workspace solutions have used the opportunity to quietly expand acquiring additional space. “During March-April, I was actually scared. Only 5% to 10% employees were coming to the park and small players were facing a lot of issues ranging from cash flow, work orders getting cancelled or contracts being renegotiated,” said Sasi P M, CEO, IT Parks Kerala. The scenario was serious and they expected companies would reduce their space in parks or surrender them. “But none of these happened. In Kochi hardly four to five companies with 10-15 seats exited,” he said. IT Parks had also taken proactive steps and announced sops like three-months’ rent waiver which helped to cushion the impact. Interestingly, both Infopark Kochi and flagship Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram had been receiving inquiries for built-up space. “On August 27, I had requests from two parties who wanted 15,000sqft immediately,” he said. “I had one-to-one discussions with around 25 tech CEOs in June and July and none of them said they were facing any serious issues. Of course, there are things like contract renegotiations but they are not overtly worried. And at least four of them said their businesses have improved by 10% to 15%,” he said. IT companies are the least affected lot among various sectors and the main reason behind this could be the increased focus on digitization. “The thinking process is that dependence on human beings has to be reduced in the backdrop of pandemic and everyone is trying to improve their digital infrastructure,” he said. IT companies barring a few in domains like tourism, transportation, airlines and oil & gas have not been impacted. Infopark Kochi had been registering a decent growth in the past three years adding 189 companies and more than 18,000 employees. The park with 28 lakh sqft of IT built-up space today employs around 47,000 techies in 427 companies. Five new buildings were added during the period but future infra expansion plans have been put on hold because of uncertainties surrounding the pandemic. “The expiry of sunset clause for companies operating out of Special Economic Zones had been a dampener but the status is still an attractive proposition,” Sasi said. Units in SEZs were given a phased tax-holiday for a period of 15 years but the scheme ended on March 31, 2020. Infopark Kochi also attracted companies like Byjus’ which set up their back office in 2019 and Inspired, a global games technology company which set up a centre of excellence. “They started with around 30 people but now has more than 120 employees,” said Arun Rajeevan, business development manager, Infoparks in Kochi, Koratty and Cherthala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/companies-at-infopark-flaunt-pandemic-resilience-thanks-to-focus-on-digitization/articleshow/77967974.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||78-yr-old patient dies in home quarantine||Jaisalmer: A 78-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 2 and was placed under home quarantine, died on Saturday night. The family members alleged that the death was due to sheer negligence on part of the health department as no doctor visited the elderly. The death has once again flagged the carelessness of the health department as it comes close on the heels of another death of an elderly person at a Covid care centre a few days ago.The deceased, Govind Lal Bhutada, a former sarpanch, tested positive along with this his wife, son and two daughters on September 2. On Saturday, his second son and daughter-in-law tested positive. All his family members were in home quarantine.According to his family members, no doctor came to check on him for the last three days. So far, eight deaths have been recorded in the district, even as corona cases are continuously rising.According to a family member, he woke up in the morning and again went to sleep. He probably had a heart attack. He was a heart patient and recently returned from Ahmedabad after treatment. But the health department failed to follow the guidelines for elderly people who tested positive for corona, he added. CMHO Dr B K Barupal said Bhutada was asked to be taken to a Covid centre, but the family members emphasized on home quarantine. As far as giving medicines is concerned, asymptomatic patients are not given any medicine, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/78-yr-old-patient-dies-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/77967967.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Faridabad||Record 25 deaths in Haryana, 2,277 new patients detected||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 daily toll touched a new high in Haryana on Sunday as 25 succumbed to the coronavirus, even as 2,277 new patients took the state’s case count to 76,549 patients. Total death figure in the state stands at 806 now. The spike has also resulted into an increased positivity rate of 5.94%, and recovery rate falling to 78.45%. On the same day, 1,471 patients were discharged taking the overall count of recovered persons to 60,051. Now, there are 15,692 active cases in the state. These include 255 critical patients on oxygen support or ventilators. Gurugram reported 306 new patients which took the district’s total to 13,335 and active patients to a high of 1,685. Faridabad reported 276 patients, and two deaths. With this, Faridabad’s total is at 13,898 cases with 178 deaths and active cases at 1,126. Karnal recorded its highest ever count of 246 new patients and two deaths. Kurukshetra too reported its record high of 230 patients and three deaths. Ambala reported 190 patients and two deaths, followed by 176 patients and two deaths in Panipat. Panchkula detected 137 patients and four deaths, followed by 120 patients and one death in Hisar district. Rohtak reported 91 patients and two deaths, followed by 76 in Sonipat, 71 patients and one death in Bhiwani, and 70 patients and one death in Yamunanagar district. Mahindergarh reported 65 new patients, followed by 48 new patients and one death in Fatehabad. Jhajjar reported 46 new patients, followed by 44 patients and one death in Sirsa district. Kaithal reported 31 new patients and two deaths, followed by 22 patients in Nuh, 15 in Palwal, 14 patients and one death in Rewari, and four patients in the Charkhi Dadri district. Meanwhile, the testing rate in the stature reached 51,069 tests per million per day, as total 12,94,598 persons have been examined so far. In addition, 1,02,351 had completed quarantine till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/record-25-deaths-in-haryana-2277-new-patients-detected/articleshow/77976029.cms||Manvir Saini
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||This year’s Kentucky Derby winner is ‘co-owned’ by Mumbai bloodstock agent||MUMBAI: When three-year-old colt Authentic beat the hot favourite Tiz The Law to win the Kentucky Derby, the big daddy of American thoroughbred racing, on Saturday, Pedder Road resident Gaurav Rampal was over the moon. The 41-year-old bloodstock agent had become the first Indian co-owner of a Kentucky Derby winner. Trained by Bob Baffert and ridden by John Velazquez, Authentic was third in demand in a 15-horse field, the smallest since 1998. “Due to travel restrictions I couldn’t travel to the US, but I enjoyed every moment of Authentic’s upset win here in Mumbai,” Rampal told TOI. Rampal, however, was not the only owner of Authentic who was celebrating. There were 4,200 of them! ‘Owning a champion horse means more than the money’The 4,200 ‘micro-owners’ of Authentic were watching him win from their homes. For the first time in its 146- year history, the stands at Churchill Downs were empty thanks to Covid-19. “There is a California-based company called MyRace-Horse which promotes microownerships. They had a 12.5% share in Authentic and they were selling 12,500 shares at $206 apiece. I was aware of the colt’s pedigree apart from the fact that he had won four of his five previous starts. So, I decided to invest and bought a share on June 29,” said Rampal, who is one of the leading bloodstock agents in India. Apart from MyRacehorse founder Michael Behrens, B Wayne Hughes holds a majority share in Authentic. So how much will each micro-owner get from Authentic’s victory? It’s not easy to figure it out. The total purse is $3 million, of which the winner lands $1.86 million. The jockey and trainer each get 10% of the purse while other expenses, such as barn rental fees and veterinary bills, may be paid from the winnings. MyRace-Horse will get 12.5% of what’s left, and that money will go to the micro-owners, based on how many shares they own. “That may be a small amount but that’s immaterial. When you are one of the owners of the Kentucky Derby winner, it means a lot to me,” said Rampal. The picking of a winner of this prestigious race will certainly enhance his professional image as a bloodstock agent. Rampal was also instrumental in buying the 2014 Indian Derby winner Alaindair for his owners and last year’s Pune Derby and Indian 2000 Guineas winner Trouvaille. But being a micro-owner does not mean you will not get anything in return. Successful stallions are deployed as studs with breeding fees of around $200,000 per mare. “But that depends how the stallion’s career shapes up,” said Rampal. “Hardly 5% of stallions succeed in attracting big money,” he added. Despite being in Mumbai, Rampal enjoyed the privilege of being an owner every day. “MyRaceHorse kept supplying us all the details about Authentic’s daily progress online,” he said. Incidentally, Rampal says he might initiate the concept of micro-ownership in India. “It’s the future of horse racing. But the biggest challenge remains convincing the racing mandarins in our country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/this-years-kentucky-derby-winner-is-co-owned-by-mumbai-bloodstock-agent/articleshow/77968893.cms||Shailendra Awasthi
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, Amaria’s stray leopard attacks woman at home||Pilibhit: A stray leopard living amid the cane and paddy fields of Pilibhit's Amaria tehsil for the past one year, attacked a 60-year-old woman in her house at Tumaria village early Sunday morning. This the first time that the big cat attacked a human. This is also the first time that the big cat was spotted in this part of this agricultural belt, indicating that it is changing its territory, said foresters. The victim, Gurmeet Kaur, was busy with household chores when she was attacked. She sustained a claw injury on her head. She was shifted to the community health centre and is stated to be stable. Forest officials rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Kaur said the leopard jumped over a 6-foot-high boundary wall to barge into the house. Foresters said it may have come to kill a pet dog or cattle but came face to face with Kaur and attacked her. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, of forest and wildlife division, said this was also the first occasion when the leopard's movement was reported at Tumaria village. Till now, it was spotted in and around Surajpur, Bishanpur, Gajraula, Rasoola, Jagat and Katmati villages. A man-leopard confrontation was averted in that area at the nick of time by forest department officials some time ago. The department had placed four cages with live baits about a fortnight ago at three of these villages to trap the big cat but have failed to capture it. Tumaria attack indicates that it has moved into fresh territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-amarias-stray-leopard-attacks-woman-at-home/articleshow/77965240.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||806 new Covid cases, 13 deaths in south TN, 717 +ve in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts of the state reported 806 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 95,772, which include 7,626 active cases. The region also recorded 13 deaths pushing the total number to 1,675. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 717 fresh cases taking the tally to 36,130, which include 5,444 active cases. The region also recorded seven deaths taking the toll to 595. Tirunelveli district reported the highest number daily cases on Sunday in the south with 132 new cases, which took the district tally to 10,315. Two deaths were also reported in the district taking the total deaths in Tirunelveli to 187. Three other districts including Madurai saw more than 100 new cases. Madurai reported 111, Dindigul 118 and Kanyakumari 116. All other districts in the region saw less than 100 new cases. Theni reported 84, Virudhunagar-67, Tenkasi-53, Tuticorin-50, Ramanathapuram-42 and Sivaganga-33. There were no imported cases in any of the districts. In Dindigul, four people died of the disease, taking its total to 139. Kanyakumari, Madurai and Tirunelveli reported two deaths each. Tenkasi, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram reported one death each. Thanjavur reported 150 cases taking the district tally to 7,450. Tiruvarur recorded 123 fresh positive cases, and one death. Trichy and Pudukottai recorded 111 and 100 fresh positive cases, while two people of died of Covid-19 related issues in Pudukottai. Nagapattinam reported 136 positive cases on Sunday. Clearing back logs was the reason for the spike in the district, health officials said. The district also reported two deaths. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Karur (43), Ariyalur (37) and Perambalur (17). Ariyalur also reported one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/806-new-covid-cases-13-deaths-in-south-tn-717-ve-in-central-dists/articleshow/77967979.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Jn to function again, more takers for non-AC coaches||Madurai: Madurai railway junction is gearing up to start functioning again after the Covid-19 lockdown. Trains like the Vaigai Express originating from the city, have been cleaned and spruced up for their first journey after several months on Sunday. There was a lukewarm response for the bookings from Madurai to the other destinations on the first day. There was ample availability for the AC coaches of these trains till Sunday evening as per the Indian Railways website. There was more patronage for the non-AC second class coaches for the first day travel. J Sriram, a frequent traveller to Chennai from Madurai, who preferred the flights till the lockdown period, said that he has decided to resume his travel in non-AC coaches of the trains for the next few months as a precaution. “With the hiked fuel prices, using our own transport regularly is not feasible in the current situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the Vaigai Express was thoroughly cleaned by the railway employees in the Madurai yard on Sunday. All passengers coming for rail travel would be screened for the body temperature using thermal scanners and masks would be made mandatory. Sanitizing and hand washing facilities will also be available for them in the junction premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-jn-to-function-again-more-takers-for-non-ac-coaches/articleshow/77967975.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: All religious places reopen today with restrictions||JAIPUR: As all the religious places, including those in urban areas and the bigger ones, reopen on Monday, devotees won’t be allowed to bring flowers, fruits and sweets (for offering and distribution of prasad), other stuff (required for worshipping) to these places and also ring the bells. Moreover, no religious processions will be allowed. Also, for violation of Covid norms and the guidelines issued by the state’s home department, the religious places could be closed down by the district collector. On top of that, religious places will not be opened in containment zones and the areas under curfew. According to the guidelines issued by the home department, before opening the bigger religious places, the district collector, district superintendent of police (SP) and chief medical and health officer (CMHO) must conduct an inspection to ensure Covid safety norms are followed and precautionary measures are taken by their management. "Social distancing should be maintained by the devotees; the priest and the devotees must wear face masks or cover their faces. Those without masks will not be allowed to enter the religious places. Thermal screening of devotees must be done and arrangement should be made for hand washing and sanitizers. Steel railings, doors and floors must be sanitized on a regular basis," it stated. "Offering and distribution of prasad (fruits and sweets) and sprinkling of holy water will not be allowed. Religious places must not be allowed to get crowded. Devotees should be encouraged to watch aarti online. For this, public awareness should be created through publicity," it added. People should be encouraged to offer prayers and namaz staying at home in view of the Covid crisis. "The advisory committee (for opening the religious places) formed by the collector must conduct a review of the arrangements periodically." However, most of the religious places in Jaipur city are not ready to reopen from September 7, the date fixed by the state government to allow these places to be unlocked. Temples, churches and mosques are finding it difficult to abide by the safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-religious-places-reopen-today-with-restrictions/articleshow/77967976.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP’s concurrent RT-PCR, rapid antigen tests a waste of resources||Bengaluru: In fresh protocol last week, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said RT-PCR tests must be conducted on patients with comorbidities, people living in containment zones, healthcare and frontline workers and asymptomatic direct contacts of confirmed cases, who test negative on rapid antigen tests (RAT). But a reality check at BBMP’s primary health centres revealed both RAT and RT-PCR tests are simultaneously being conducted on even healthy individuals in blatant disregard of the ICMR advisory. Dr BK Vijendra, chief health officer, told TOI, “The logic behind conducting both tests is to prevent the spread of the virus. As RAT accuracy is still a matter of question, we have asked staff to conduct both tests. In some cases we have found that those negative with RAT were positive in RT-PCR tests. We have requested people to stay in isolation till the RT-PCR results are out.” However, the BBMP appears to be wasting precious RT-PCR resources. Besides, the check revealed separate IDs were generated for the same individual twice – one for each test. It is not clear how this is distorting Karnataka’s Covid-19 data, which is already riddled with several problems. It may be recalled that Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer (testing) on the state’s task force, had earlier told TOI: “RAT weeds out 50% of suspects. It tremendously reduces the load on RT-PCR. Though sensitivity of RAT is 50-60 %, its specificity in case of a positive patient is 100%. RAT ensures some cases are segregated only for RT-PCR. It helps prevent spread of the virus while enabling early diagnosis.” The BBMP’s approach to the two tests appears to be confounding. Another health official said that they recently conducted RT-PCR tests on about 400 garment workers and the results came three days later. “Eighty-six of the workers were positive and it was a Herculean task for us to trace them as they had provided their workplace address,” an official said. “Had we conducted RAT also on them, we could have been able to prevent the spread. We eventually found them.” As on Friday, Bengaluru had conducted 9,78,563 tests of which 1,41,664 had returned positive. The positivity rate is about 14.5%, much higher than the state’s average of 11.9%. In past 10 days alone, Bengaluru has conducted about 2.8 lakh tests. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said, “RT-PCR tests must be done only after they get the results of RAT which can be obtained in a few minutes. Also, these kinds of tests must be done as per ICMR protocol, but not to everyone. We will spread awareness among officials about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmps-concurrent-rt-pcr-rapid-antigen-tests-a-waste-of-resources/articleshow/77966208.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Politicians, MC officials at loggerheads over CLU notices to shopkeepers||Ludhiana: The politicians and officials have come at loggerheads with each other over the issuance of change of land use (CLU)notices to the defaulters. Not only opposition leaders, but also the ruling party leaders are objecting to this drive. Whereas the officials of building branch are citing recovery of pending dues from defaulters as the reason for the drive, the leaders claimed that instead of creating problems for the shopkeepers in old areas, first the officials should check under-construction buildings. The officials of building branch are serving the notices to owners of commercial establishments and are asking them to bring their records if they had received CLU certificate from the civic body. As of now maximum number of CLU notices are served in zone D areas. In zone D alone 530 notices have been served notices but the problem started when officials started serving the notices in zone A, especially in core area. As of now around 200 notices have been served in old parts of the city while in zone C too 125 notices have been served till date. However, in zone B the process is yet to take off. The officials claimed that they have to recover the pending dues from defaulters and in case leaders have issues, then they should not ask for recovery from them. In core area for which there is an uproar, very nominal charges of CLU have been implemented while in rest parts of the city charges are more. The municipal town planner, SS Bindra, said, “Our aim is not to harass anybody, rather it is being done for the benefit of these people as they can regularise their illegal commercial buildings.” He said documents of old structures were being demanded because record of these so old buildings was not with the civic body and if they will bring record then the civic body officials could update their record as well. Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra, who is a Congress councillor from ward number 56, said, “In old areas like Chaura Bazaar, Daal Bazaar or adjoining markets some of the shops are more than 100 years old, so it is not possible for owners to produce the building plans or change of land use certificate because then these things were not in existence. Moreover, in times of coronavirus while we are asking people not to come to the MC offices, these officials are calling them to the zonal offices for showing the documents.” He said he had raised this matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu as well and he had assured to get it resolved. The senior deputy mayor said there were so many commercial buildings in other parts of the city for which the officials had served the challans as well but till date no action was taken against them, so first the building branch should pay attention towards them. Even the BJP leadership has raised the objections over CLU notices. The leader of BJP councillors in MC house, Sunita Rani, said at this time of financial crisis such notices should have been avoided. She said people were already troubled due to poor financial condition and in case they would be told to pay CLU charges then how they would be able to run their households. She said they would stage a protest in case notices were not rolled back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/politicians-mc-officials-at-loggerheads-over-clu-notices-to-shopkeepers/articleshow/77967027.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Jodhpur women distribute free masks risking their own health||JODHPUR: The sight of some women in pink mingling with mason workers at different ‘majdoor mandis’ of the city every Sunday morning is a subject of curiosity for passers-by. In times of pandemic, when social distancing is a must, the sight was quite bizarre. But the reason was magnanimous. With two square meals a priority for these workers, especially women, the precaution for keeping corona infection at bay was of least concern and these women in pink were there with them to make sure that they wear a mask atleast, if not social distancing. Some of these women, underprivileged themselves and associated with a city-based trust working for women, observed that when everybody was cautious about precautions against coronavirus, these women and men, with finding work to make the ends meet a priority, stood negligently risking their lives. Deliberations followed these observations and two women, Madhu and Rita, came up with the idea of making masks and distributing those for free. “The thought was that it would be a double whammy for them if they fell sick. They would lose on both, their health and earning, and that too in such a difficult time,” said Rita. Madhu added that they set themselves a target of making 5,000 masks and distribute them to these workers in pink uniform of the trust, a symbol of empowerment for them. They would make masks on week days and reach the pre-determined site on Sunday morning at 7 am to distribute the masks to these workers,” said trustee Virendra Singh, adding that mask distribution was followed by awareness dissemination among the largely ignorant workers. Over 2,000 masks were distributed to the mason workers at Jhalamand, Banar and Bhatia Circle ‘majdoor mandis’ of the city by these women in pink this Sunday. Workers apart, these women have also distributed free masks to policemen. Managing trustee Govind Singh said over a dozen women from the sewing centre of the trust were left jobless due to the lockdown. “With due regard to their noble gesture, we not only provided them with quality raw materials, but also paid them to support them financially”, Singh said. The women completed the target of 5,000 masks distribution this Sunday and have now been looking forward to monetise their work seeking bulk orders from the market to get through this difficult time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/women-distribute-free-masks-risking-their-own-health/articleshow/77967970.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Nagpur||68-yr-old gets latest made-in-India heart valve implant||Nagpur: A very sophisticated yet short duration heart valve implant procedure was successfully done at the Viveka Hospital in Nagpur recently. A 68-year-old patient from Akola was confirmed to have a condition known as aortic stenosis. A newly-launched Hydra valve was implanted in him. Its makers as well as the hospital claimed it’s the first time this valve has been used in Central India. The Hydra valve is made and marketed in India by Sahajanand Medical Technology Private Ltd. (SMT). This Indian product is cheaper and medically suitable for patients in the country. Dr Prashant Jagtap, a senior consultant and head of the Interventional Cardiology Department at Viveka Hospital, said, “Aortic stenosis is a critical heart condition in which one of the main valves of the heart that helps maintain the unidirectional flow of the blood to the body becomes stiff and is unable to function in full capacity. If left untreated, this condition can result in heart failure, stroke and probable death.” “General practice is to use imported implant devices for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) surgeries. But, we decided to use Hydra, which is one of the latest implant made and marketed in India,” he said. Until a few years ago, there were only two companies globally who were manufacturing TAVR implants. However, with a significant percentage of heart patients in India estimated to need an aortic valve implant, Indian medical device companies are on forefront of such cutting-edge and outcome-based medical device manufacturing. “Hydra is one of the latest implant approved by DCGI, regulatory body in India. It is CE approved for use in Europe. Hydra comes with the complete clinical benefits of an internationally produced implant along with the cost advantage to the Indian population,” said a senior official from SMT Ltd. “In India, most of the medical expenses are paid out of pocket by the family. Critical conditions like these come suddenly and usually leave the family in an emotional and financial stress. With the use of technologies like Hydra Valve System, some part of the anxiety can be taken off as these new generation implants allow the family to take care of the ailment while keeping the quality aspect intact,” said Dr Jagtap. The procedure was planned and done by Dr Prashant Jagtap, Dr KG Jayprasanna, senior cardiac surgeon along with the entire ‘Heart Team’ of the hospital. Why Hydra implant special - First Hydra valve implant in Central India - It’s a world class implant made in India - Being made-in-India, local patients get cost advantage - Imported valve costs Rs25 lakh, made-in-India about 50% less - Companies like Meril and SMT have acquired international designs and started producing in India - More demand of these valves will further reduce their costs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/68-yr-old-gets-latest-made-in-india-heart-valve-implant/articleshow/77967978.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal records 397 positive cases||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported one Covid-19 death from Una district and a record 397 new cases of the virus on Sunday, while 197 patients recovered. This is the highest number of new cases reported in the state in a day. The number of positive cases so far is 7,415, of which 2,176 are active, 5,138 have recovered, 53 have died and 46 have migrated out of the state. In all, 2,28,691 persons had been tested so far. Of them, 2,20,203 persons had tested negative and results of 1,073 samples were awaited. New positive cases include 31 from Bilaspur district, 52 from Chamba, 20 from Hamirpur, 60 from Kangra, 68 from Kullu, 40 from Mandi, 31 from Shimla, 22 from Sirmaur, 57 from Solan, and 16 from Una. Patients who have recovered include 14 each from from Bilaspur and Kangra, nine each from Chamba and Kullu, 19 from Hamirpur, 15 from Shimla, 48 from Sirmaur, 58 from Solan, and 11 from Una. Bilaspur has so far reported 412 cases, of which 147 are active. Sirmaur has reported 1,046 cases, of which 333 are active and three have died. Solan has got 1,696 cases, of which 408 cases are active and 14 have died. In Una, of the total 597 cases, 216 are active and five have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-records-397-positive-cases/articleshow/77967971.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Docs appeal people to report health complication without delay||Kota: Increasing number of Covid deaths among the middle-aged in the last 10-15 days has prompted health experts to advise people to report even the mildest uneasiness and health complications to a doctor rather than commencing home treatment allowing infection to spread.The fresh change among Covid patients denotes spontaneous blood clotting and ‘happy hypoxia’ the possible reason behind instant deaths. “The immune mechanism of the body incited by the viral infection which creates trouble and may lead to instant death of a Covid patient,” Dr Manoj Saluja, MD (medicine) and convener of death audit committee at New Medical College Hospital (NMCH) said. “The immune mechanism of the body creates a prothrombotic tendency of the blood to coagulate of its own and these clots are formed in the different organs including lungs, liver, kidney, brain and even in the heart itself and that may lead to sudden death,” he said. “We call it thromboembolic phenomena which means spontaneous clotting of blood and this kind of embolic event occurring in the heart, lungs, kidney and brain could be the cause of sudden death in Covid patient giving minimum time to intervene,” Dr Saluja said.Ignorance of symptoms, wrong treatment and not getting tested for Covid are also likely to cause sudden death, he said, adding because youngsters having chest infection with good pulmonary reserve are likely to get affected at a later stage. The arrival of the patients at hospitals with very low level of oxygen is also dangerous, Dr. Pawan Bhardwaj, a senior physician at Bundi government hospital, said. A 54-year-old man of Bundi city, who died hours after reaching hospital four days ago and was tested Corona positive after death, had 66% level of oxygen. He appealed to people with slightest health complications to report to hospital at earliest for checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-appeal-people-to-report-health-complication-without-delay/articleshow/77967983.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||Discussions still on in MSU over exams||Madurai: Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) registrar Dr S Santhosh Baboo on Sunday said that plans for conducting the final semester exams for UG and PG are yet to be finalised. After the state government announced that all final semester exams could be held after September 15 following precautions, the university, in a statement, had said that the exams were being planned to be held from September 21 according to UGC guidelines. “Considering the pandemic situation and with Covid-19 cases still on the rise, the plans to conduct the exams have not been finalised. Discussions are still on and a statement will be issued soon in this regard,” said Dr Santhosh Baboo. The final semester exams for all MSU and affiliated college students had been planned by the university with provisions for both offline and online exams to accommodate all students suitably. Offline exams were planned to be held in two sessions a day at the respective examination centres allotted to students. On the other hand, for those who may be stranded away from their exam centres, the university had said that students, if they inform in advance, would be able to take it as an online exam or get allotted at their nearest exam centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/discussions-still-on-in-msu-over-exams/articleshow/77967984.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Meet via gay dating app proves fatal||NEW DELHI: Sunny Dayal (25) was all excited to finally meet the 20-year-old youth he had been chatting with on a gay dating app. However, their plan of a romantic rendezvous in jungles of Aali Vihar in southeast Delhi turned out to be a deathtrap. Dayal was robbed and murdered by the youth and his associate and his body dumped in the jungles. Police, however, managed to track down the killers using technical surveillance. They have been identified as Sumit Dabba (20) and Kartik (24), DCP (southeast) RP Meena said. They have criminal antecedents and used to target people after contacting them through dating apps. Dayal worked for an automobile company and used an app named Glued to meet people online. Last week, he came in touch with Dabba and they hit it off instantly. After a few days of flirtatious conversations, they decided to meet up and get to know each other. The murder was discovered on the evening of September 5. The body had several stab injuries. A team led by inspector Aishvir Singh was formed to crack the case. The cops found that Dayal’s mobile was missing and had been switched off. The last location of the phone was found around Gautampuri area near Badarpur. The cops further found that the deceased was in touch with a number ending with 8774, which was registered in the name of Pankaj, a resident of Gautampuri. However, it was found that a man named Arjun from the area was the actual user of the number. The cops scanned the WhatsApp DP of the number 8774 to arrive at this conclusion. However, Arjun told the cops during questioning that his mobile was being used by Dabba through Saturday evening. Dabba was detained and cross-examined during which he gave conflicting statements. He eventually broke down and confessed to the murder and revealed that he had given his friend Arjun’s number to Dayal as he knew that Arjun’s number was registered in somebody else’s name. After fixing a date with Dayal, Dabba took him for a bike ride in the jungles and stopped at an isolated location where his friend Kartik was already present. When Dayal resisted their robbery bid, they stabbed him with a knife and fled. The cops later arrested Kartik and recovered Dayal’s mobile stolen by them. The scooter used in crime was also seized. Kartik is involved in four cases of assault, attempted murder and other offences. Watch Delhi: 25-yr-old murdered after using fake gay dating app proves fatal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/meet-via-dating-app-proves-fatal/articleshow/77967985.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid camaraderie: Police admn takes upon itself to take care of its cops||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police administration is leaving no stone unturned to take care of their cops during the pandemic. This includes not only the cops who are currently fighting the pandemic, but also those who have recently defeated the virus. A separate team of Ludhiana police is looking after the post recovery care of these cops. From providing 24x7 doctor consultation, to getting daily health updates, allowing a few hours of duty without a pay cut, is included in the post recovery care of cops. The TOI talked to a few cops who have recently been discharged from the hospital after defeating coronavirus. Inspector Surinder Kumar, SHO at police station Dugri, said, “I had dengue too, so my condition was really bad. Even after recovery from Covid I was feeling low and tired all the time. The senior officials have given exemption from work for a few hours, according to the comfort level of my body.” Head constable Satish Kumar, deputed at the CP office, said, “I tested positive on August 9. Till August 15, I remained in home isolation but then my health deteriorated. I was admitted at the in DMC hospital from August 16 till August 21. Again I remained in isolation from August 21 to August 28. I am fine now. The CP has asked me to take rest till Sunday due to my weakness.” “With my whole heart I want to thank the department for being so concerned and caring. A special Covid team calls me daily to know my health update and also to check if I need anything. ADCP Rupinder Sra also calls every other day to know the update. I used to get at least four calls in a day from different teams who keep taking updates. Now, I am waiting to join my duty.” Sub-inspector Yogeshwar Sharma, who was addition in-charge of corona branch was affected by the virus on August 10 and remained hospitalised till August 20. “I had a fever for 22 long days even after getting discharged from the hospital. Post recovery also, my oxygen level was low. Then I was told to do breathing exercises, which helped in improving my health. Also, I want to share one incident. Every day we are asked to send our health updates to senior officials. My oxygen level was low and my heartbeat was fast. As soon as I shared the report on the Whatsapp group, within the next few seconds I received a call from the senior official and was made to talk to a doctor to improve my condition. Police department is taking really good care of us,” the SI added. SI Ajit Singh, of police station PAU who was admitted in hospital from August 3 to August 25 has also remained on ventilator. At present, he is in home care and is facing breathing problems and weakness. He said, “Though I have been discharged from the hospital, I am still at home. I have weakness and at times have respiratory problem. So, I am still a part of the group which attends webinars with doctors. Even now, I have talked to the doctors through webinars, who gave me tips for the same.” Rupinder Kaur Sra, additional deputy commissioner of police, special branch, and also a nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “Usually asymptomatic patients remain in isolation for 17 days and can join duty after that. Those who are symptomatic or have health issues even after recovery, we remain available to them. Covid care kits are given to cops to keep a check on their daily health updates. Besides, to deal with post recovery problems like weakness or breathing problem, we organise webinar sessions for thems.” “Besides, even after returning to duty, the cops are asked to work for a few hours and without a pay cut. They are marked as on duty even when they are isolated. Further, doctors are asked to give them post recovery tips and tell them about exercises too. Our team keeps calling the cops to know about their health and provide aid when needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-camaraderie-police-admn-takes-upon-itself-to-take-care-of-its-cops/articleshow/77967036.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 7, 2020||Kochi||IT firms thrive in north & south spokes of Infopark||Kochi: It took an indigenous video conferencing solution developed by Techgentsia, a non-descript IT company that won the Rs.1 crore innovation prize and boosted ‘atmanirbhar’ aspirations of crores of Indians, to bring a decade-old IT infrastructure in Cherthala, developed as the southern spoke of Infopark in Kochi, into national limelight. Smaller companies like Joy Sebastian’s Techgentsia Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, which took on the might of global tech majors through sheer grit, are thriving in Koratty and Cherthala but are not getting attention because very few people tend to look beyond metro cities. In 2015, US secretary of commerce, Penny Pritzker while speaking at the opening ceremony of Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) conference picked the name of Abin Jose Tom, founder and CEO of Webandcrafts, to highlight how Internet helped the growth of rural entrepreneurs. His company, launched in 2012, a day after Abin finished his college, now has 700 clients globally. Abin started the company with 200sqft space and college mates as colleagues at Infopark in Koratty. But today, Webandcrafts occupies 12,000sqft of built-up space. “When we started off, we were the smallest company. Now we have employed 165 people and have an immediate requirement of 60 more. This means that being in a place like Koratty is not a limitation,” says Abin. Webandcrafts clients have now grown to nearly 700 and they are sought after for premium web solutions by even Fortune 500 companies. Arun Rajeevan, business development manager, Infopark, says Koratty and Cherthala has several advantages like lower cost of operation. “Recently, a hospital from Apollo group came up close to the park. There is also a convention centre near Angamaly. Now you have a Gift (Global Industrial Finance and Trade) city coming up at Aluva. These are all proving advantageous for Koratty,” said Arun. There was a proposal to make Koratty Infopark part of industrial clusters in Kochi-Coimbatore industrial corridor. Koratty Infopark, spread out in 30 acres, currently has 42 companies and a total of 3,80,000sqft of built-up space. The park in Cherthala has a village-like ambience and is spread out in 66 acres. It has a total built-up space of 2,40,000sqft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/it-firms-thrive-in-north-south-spokes-of-infopark/articleshow/77967989.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 7, 2020||Jaipur||Recurrence of cytokine storm in Covid patients is new challenge for Jaipur hospital doctors||JAIPUR: Recurrence of cytokine storm, which leads to multiorgan failure in some cases, among few Covid-19 patients is making their recovery even more difficult. The SMS hospital’s doctor, who lost a long-fought battle against Covid on Saturday, had recurrence of cytokine storm multiple times due to which his condition deteriorated continuously and eventually he died due to multiorgan failure. The higher the number of cytokine storm episodes, the higher will be the damage to lungs causing lung fibrosis, which most of the time is irreversible. The doctor is not the only one who reported recurrence of cytokine storm, but there are a lot of patients admitted to different hospitals undergoing treatment for quite long time due to the same ailment. A doctor of a private hospital, who had performed more than 700 kidney transplants, had died a couple of months earlier due to recurrence of cytokine storm multiple times, doctors said. Cytokine storm happens in the patient’s body, when the concentration of highly proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) increase significantly. Cytokines, under normal conditions, are extremely essential for maintaining a healthy immune system by the body as they are small, secreted proteins released by the cells. But, in Covid patients, the overproduction of highly proinflammatory cytokines damages cardiovascular functions causing failure of multiple organs. However, doctors are surpised to see increasing number of patients, who are suffering from recurrence of cytokine storm. “We have seen cases of recurrence of cytokine storm multiple times in some patients including doctors who are affected by the Covid virus, which is refractory to treatments and makes the situation worse by causing continuous damage to lungs leading to early lung fibrosis and irreversible damage,” said Dr KK Sharma, senior consultant and head (pulmonary medicine) of a private hospital treating Covid patients. Dr Sharma said this phenomenon of cytokine storm is likely seen more commonly in patients having exposure to high viral load like in doctors. “Extreme production of proinflammatory cytokines leads to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) aggravation and widespread tissue damage resulting in multi-organ failure and death,” he said. Treatment of Covid patients with recurrence of cytokine storm is a challenging task. “Treatment is difficult of such patients as they continuously need modification in treatment after each episode of cytokine storm. We use medicines to settle cytokine storm but after some time, it recurs. So we need modification in medicines till the patient recovers,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director, critical care and inchrage of Covid care of a private hospital. Patients with reoccurance of cytokine storm have to remain admitted to hsopital’s intensive care unit for a longer duration in comparion to other patients. “We have patients who remain admitted for more than 28 days with recurrence of cytokine storm,” said Dr Jain. In Covid induced cytokine storm, the doctors are using steroids, IL-6 antagonist (Tocilzumab), IL1 antagonist, JAK inhibitors, Cytosorb and Oxiris filter through CRRT. What are cytokines: Cytokines, under normal conditions, are extremely essential for maintaining a healthy immune system. They are small, secreted proteins released by the cells. Cytokine storm:In Covid patients, extreme production of proinflammatory cytokines damages tissues of organs and leads to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multi-organ failure and death. Doctors link mortality of Covid patients to Covid induced cytokine storm. Recurrence of cytokine storm:It is a challenge for doctors treating Covid patients. Once the patient’s cytokine storm is settled with a medicine, it recurs forcing the doctor to modify treatment. Each recurrence further damages his lungs causing fibrosis thus miniming chances of recovery every time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recurrence-of-cytokine-storm-in-covid-patients-is-new-challenge-for-doctors/articleshow/77967981.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Extend liquor vend opening hours, demand contractors||Ludhiana: Resentment among liquor contractors and vend owners against the closing timing of 6.30pm is high after no action has been taken on their demand of extending the time of operation of vends. Recently, liquor traders had met deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, and submitted a memorandum to the state government via him demanding that they be allowed to open their vends post 6.30pm as they were facing huge losses since their major sales take place only in the late evening hours. According to businessmen, they are now going to demand refund of their licence fee from the excise department as the hefty fee paid by them was in accordance with closing time of 11pm, but now they were getting five hours less to operate their business. Speaking on the issue, liquor trader Shallu Garg of Singla Group said, “As the authorities have not extended the operating hours of liquor vends, we are now going to meet the senior officials of the excise department and demand refund of fee paid by us as per our contracts, which had the condition that operating hours of vends will be till 11pm. We understand that right now the situation is not such that we can operate till 11pm, but we should at least be allowed to operate till 8.30 or 9pm as how can you expect the customers to come to our vends for buying liquor when they will get free from their work at 6.30pm. Besides, by the time they reach vends they would these closed as the deadline for us too is 6.30pm. So, in the current circumstances there is no scope of doing any business until the closure timing for vends is increased and public is also allowed to make purchases from vends during this extended time.” According to another liquor trader Parminder Sharma of Chadha group, “Liquor traders are suffering massive losses due to the 6.30pm deadline as in routine 80% of the customers turn up at vends after 7.30or 8pm and moreover with the timing of closure of shops, offices at 6.30pm the people working there can not make purchases from us while on their way to their homes because vends also shut down at 6.30pm. Our biggest customers are factory workers who too are unable to buy liquor these days because there is no restriction on operation of factories and their shifts usually get over at 7pm or even later and therefore they too cannot make purchase from vends. All liquor traders are at receiving end and the quantum of losses being suffered by us is so huge that it is becoming impossible for us to absorb such losses. Therefore, we request the excise department to refund our licence fee by adjusting it according to the 6.30pm closing time or extend the opening hours.” Meanwhile, city’s booze lovers too want the working hours of the vends extended or home delivery started. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity a resident of BRS Nagar said, “The government should allow home delivery of liquor as we are facing problems in buying liquor since almost everyone, whether he in a job or in business he will get free at 6.3pm and by then all vends shut down. Moreover, there is lockdown on Saturday and Sunday and we cannot go out to fetch liquor from vends. So, it is better to allow home delivery or extend the working hours of the vends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/extend-liquor-vend-opening-hours-demand-contractors/articleshow/77967031.cms||Mohit Behl
September 7, 2020||Bareilly||83-year-old retired teacher shoots self||Pilibhit: An 83-year-old teacher identified as Govind Swaroop Shukla of Khakra locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station who had retired from a private intermediate college in Pilibhit city, shot himself using his double barrel gun on Sunday morning over unknown reasons. The police have sent the body for autopsy. According to the superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav, family members could not provide any reason behind the incident. However, Shukla’s wife had died a long time back and he was disturbed with his loneliness and prolonged diabetes. This could be a probable reason behind him taking the drastic step. However, the forensic team of the police department has collected all crucial evidence and the fingerprints from the spot to include them in any investigation, if needed in the matter. The rest of the facts regarding the incident would be made clear by the autopsy report of which the department would take full cognizance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/83-year-old-retired-teacher-shoots-self/articleshow/77965265.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Madurai||30-yr-old man held on theft charge in Madurai||Madurai: The Samayanallur police on Sunday arrested a 30-year-old man from Andarkottaram in Madurai district in connection with a few thefts that took place in the recent months. An air gun and a starting pistol were seized from him. The accused was identified as A Benjamin who was involved in a few thefts including one which took place in a resort near Samayanallur a few months ago. He had stolen 30 sovereigns of gold jewels belonging to a Chennai-based man, which was kept in a room in the resort. According to the Samayanallur deputy superintendent of police, Anand Arockiaraj, Benjamin is not a habitual thief. 47 sovereigns of gold jewels were recovered from him.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/30-yr-old-man-held-on-theft-charge-in-madurai/articleshow/77967982.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Conditions set for temple visits||SHIMLA: Entry to big temples and religious places opening in Himachal Pradesh from September 10 would be allowed with some restrictions only. According to the guidelines issued by the state government's language, art and culture department, it has been made clear that persons above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years will not be allowed to queue up or enter the complex. It has also been made clear that devotees will not be allowed to stand for more than a minute before the deities and entry into the sanctum sanctorum will remain strictly prohibited. According to the guidelines, no puja rituals involving the any kind of physical contact by the devotees will be performed by priests or other persons. Large gatherings, havans (offering prayers to God in front of fire), singing of devotional songs, functions like marriages or mundan(tonsuring ceremony) and overnight stay at religious places are also prohibited. It has also been suggested that if feasible, religious places must install CCTVs to monitor daily visitors and temple bells should be either removed or covered with cloth to prevent touching by devotees. Another condition is that an isolation room should be set up near the place of worship for isolating symptomatic persons. After isolating such persons, medical authorities will be contacted for sampling and further isolation at appropriate facility. Besides, frequently touched surfaces would be sanitised frequently with sodium hypochlorite solution and the administration will have to maintain adequate stock of three-ply masks. If possible, hand washing facilities should be provided at main locations, complete with touch-free soap dispensers to avoid physical contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/restrictions-in-place-for-entry-to-himachal-temples-opening-from-sept-10/articleshow/77967980.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Severed hand found in bucket on roadside||RANCHI: Panic gripped the locals in Tetartoli area under Bariatu police station limits on Sunday afternoon when a severed arm was found dumped in a plastic bucket in the bushes near a private hospital. Police later found that it belonged to a 22-year-old cancer patient who underwent an amputation at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on August 20. Sadar DSP Prabhat Ranjan Barwar said, “As per our findings and after consultations with Rims doctors, we have ruled out foul play and I would request the people not to panic. Our teams are in touch with the patient’s kin and an inquiry is on to ascertain the reasons behind dumping the severed hand by the roadside.” Sources said as soon as a local spotted the severed arm, she alerted the cops, following which a team from Bariatu police station arrived at the spot. The arm was later removed by a team of surgeons from Rims and handed over to the patient’s kin. Dr Rohit Jha, who heads the Rims oncology department, said, “A 22-year-old resident of Hahod village under Rajrappa police station in Ramgarh district had undergone surgery at our department and his hand was amputated on August 20 as it had become cancerous. After a successful surgery, the arm was handed over to the patient’s kin for a few pathological tests.” The patient is now stable and has been discharged. Hospital sources said as the patient’s family members wanted to get the test results as early as possible, they had taken the severed arm to a private lab in Karamtoli area. Even though they have got the reports, the patient is yet to visit the hospital with the report. On how a severed hand submitted for testing at a private lab ended up on the roadside, a senior Bariatu police station official said, “There seems to be negligence on part of the testing laboratory or on the part of those involved in the segregation of bio-medical waste. We are trying to ascertain how it appeared on the roadside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/severed-hand-found-in-bucket-on-roadside/articleshow/77966341.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to settle NTPC plant compensation claims soon||RAMGARH: The Ramgarh district administration asked families displaced by the proposed NTPC-JBVNL thermal power plant to submit their pending claims of compensation. The move comes after the affected families launched an agitation under the banner of Visthapit Prabhavit Sangharsh Morcha (VPSM) last month. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said, “The administration is ready to settle all pending cases of compensation. We have asked for details of the lands that have been acquired.” Singh, however, said that the district land records suggest that there are no pending cases. “If there is any claim on part of the locals, they have been asked to provide documents for the same so that they are compensated as per provisions,” Singh said. VPSM president Aditya Narayan Prasad said, “We have handed over our charter of demands to the district administration and on a peaceful dharna, but were lathicharged .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-to-settle-ntpc-plant-compensation-claims-soon/articleshow/77966405.cms||N K Agarwal
September 7, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Automobile sector on road to revival||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: Despite the industries and their allied sectors across the country reeling under economic constraints because of the Covid pandemic, the automobile sector is showing signs of revival in Jharkhand with the rise in car sales since June. Before the pandemic, it was one of worst hit sectors and economic experts had said it marked the entry of recession in the country. The rise in car sales is driven by the ongoing ban on railways and inter-state public transport in the state. The rising number of Covid-19 cases has also come as a silver lining for the automobile sector as people wanted to avoid public transport and commercial taxis. Currently, small cars, sedans and sport utility vehicles are being sold in handsome numbers across the showrooms in most Jharkhand cities. Premsons Motors in Ranchi said it is selling 30 new cars every day. “Since the unlock phase began on June 1, our sales have increased. Between June and August, the sales have gone up by 50% in comparison with the same period last year,” Punit Poddar, the owner of Premsons Motors, said. Those who cannot afford hefty EMIs for a new car currently are also making a beeline at the True Value shops. As per estimates, as many as 20 used cars are being sold in Ranchi daily. Jamshedpur, which is the auto manufacturing hub of Jharkhand, is also posting a steady increase in sales figures. “The jump in demand is unexpectedly high for two reasons. Firstly, those who couldn’t buy the car due to the market shutdown during the lockdown period are now ready for booking and secondly a huge section of the people wants to possess a personal car to avoid rentals during the Covid period for safety reasons,” said Pranab Chakraborty, sales manager at Nexa Motor World in Adityapur. Chakraborty said his showroom sold 70 cars between July and August alone. An official at the car loan department of HDFC Bank said over 500 cars, cutting across all segments, have been sold in July and close to 400 cars, were sold in August, in the Steel City. “Contrary to our expectations that the slowdown in sales since the early days of the unlock would continue for the next few months, the bookings made a turnaround in July,” said Shailesh Tiwary, an HDFC Bank official. Mohammad Ismail, proprietor of KGN Motors in Sakchi which sells used cars, said queries for the bookings have started coming in since the past few days. “There was no business between April and June but since July, people are making enquiries and we have also sold a few cars. We are hoping that the market improves in the festive season,” he added. In Bokaro too, automobile sales are quickly regaining lost ground. Gopal Lodha, owner of Hindustan Auto Agency, said, “After the unlock phase began in June, I am selling 150 cars every month. The demand is on the rise again. We expect the business to its peak during Diwali and Dhanteras during November.” While hatchbacks and sedans are on high demand, but high-end cars, which cost Rs 30 lakh and above, are still struggling to find customers, the sellers added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/automobile-sector-on-road-to-revival/articleshow/77977576.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 in Jharkhand: Ensure strict norms are followed, says central team||SINDRI: After inspecting all the Covid-19 hospitals and Covid care centres in Dhanbad district, the central team has advised the district administration to ensure social distancing and wearing of masks in public places to stop community spread of coronavirus. Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh informed that the team visited the designated Covid-19 hospital — BCCL Central Hospital — besides going to Covid care centres — PMCH, Railway hospital and Railway training institute in Bhuli and Nirsa polytechnic — to assess the ground realities and facilities available there and talked to the patients admitted there. “The team members were by and large satisfied with the treatment being given to the patients and the facilities available. However, they observed that the people were not maintaining social distancing and were not wearing masks in public places which is a matter of grave concern,” Singh said. He added that the district administration is contemplating stricter measures to make people comply with the safety protocols. “We have decided to serve notices to all the shopkeepers in commercial complexes and in haat-bazaars to strictly follow the guidelines on social distancing and wear masks, failing which we will have no option but to close their shops and lodge cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act against the shopkeepers,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ensure-strict-norms-are-followed-central-team/articleshow/77966787.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi zoo to offer virtual tour from October to shore up revenue||RANCHI: Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, the zoo in the state capital, is gearing up to offer a virtual tour of its premises and animal enclosures for visitors amid the Covid-19 pandemic from October. The 256-acre park, which is home to 78 species of animals, birds and reptiles, draws hundreds of visitors from Ranchi and various parts of Jharkhand every day. However, since the nationwide lockdown was clamped on March 23, the park’s gate has remained shut for visitors. With no definite word on when the state government will throw its gates open for public again amid rising cases of Covid 19, the decision to provide virtual tours of its premises will help the park management draw eyeballs virtually and also generate revenue. “We are developing a dedicated website for the park which will be ready in a month. Around 156 CCTV cameras are being set up across the park at a cost of Rs 2 crore. The installation of the CCTV network will be ready within a fortnight. Once both the features are set up, we will begin the virtual tour from October,” D Venkateshwarlu, the park’s director, told TOI. The new website will also facilitate online ticketing once the park is reopened for visitors. “In an effort to introduce contactless entry into the park premises, we are also installing radio-frequency identification enabled gates where a visitor can enter by verifying his QR code which will be generated at the time of online booking,” Venkateshwarlu added. Virtual tours are a common feature among premier zoos of the world. Amid the lockdown, Bihar’s Patna zoo also launched the same facility in April. CCTV cameras will also help study animal behaviours and check on their health periodically. In 2018, the park’s elephant — Samrat — had killed his mahout in a fit of rage. Later, doctors found out that he was suffering from herpes. “If animals are monitored constantly and their behaviuors are studied, such mishaps can be averted in the future,” another zoo official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-zoo-to-offer-virtual-tour-from-oct-to-shore-up-revenue/articleshow/77966872.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Poacher caught in PTR trap camera arrested||DALTONGANJ: Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) officials and police arrested a poacher along with a loaded gun from his home on Saturday and sent him to jail on Sunday after he was spotted on one of the camera traps of the reserve. PTR (north division) deputy director Kumar Ashish said the poacher has been identified as Vijay Singh, a resident of Rabda Tola Jhareewa village. A muzzle-loaded gun was also seized from Singh’s possession during a raid with Satbarwa police station personnel, Kumar said. Officials said they have been tracking Singh after he was photographed with his gun at PTR’s Betla range. “He confessed that he ventured into the PTR to poach a wild boar or deer,” Ashish said. Singh, who was sent to judicial custody in Latehar, said 10 more men people are also sneaking into the PTR to poach animals. “Security measures inside the reserve have been beefed up,” Ashish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/poacher-caught-in-ptr-trap-camera-arrested/articleshow/77966844.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Missing Hazaribag girl found hanging, boyfriend held||HAZARIBAG: A 19-year-old girl, who went missing after she stepped outside her home in Romi village under Pelawal police station limits on the morning of September 2, was found hanging in a room of a Daltonganj house on Saturday. The teenager, a student of K B Women’s College, had told her family that she was going to college to submit her project. Three days later, the girl’s family learnt from police that she is dead.  “The girl’s brother Junaid Khan had lodged an FIR with Sadar police station on September 3 that his sister has gone missing. On Saturday, we received information from Daltonganj police that the girl was found hanging in a room of a house. Khan went to Daltonganj to bring back the girl’s corpse, where he filed another FIR,” Ganesh Prasad Singh, the officer in-charge of Sadar police station said. In his FIRs, Khan mentioned a 21-year-old man as his sister’s kidnapper. The accused, when arrested, revealed that the duo eloped to get married as they belonged to separate communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/missing-hbag-girl-found-hanging-boyfriend-held/articleshow/77966423.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Automobile sector on road to revival||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: Despite the industries and their allied sectors across the country reeling under economic constraints because of the Covid pandemic, the automobile sector is showing signs of revival in Jharkhand with the rise in car sales since June. Before the pandemic, it was one of worst hit sectors and economic experts had said it marked the entry of recession in the country. The rise in car sales is driven by the ongoing ban on railways and inter-state public transport in the state. The rising number of Covid-19 cases has also come as a silver lining for the automobile sector as people wanted to avoid public transport and commercial taxis. Currently, small cars, sedans and sport utility vehicles are being sold in handsome numbers across the showrooms in most Jharkhand cities. Premsons Motors in Ranchi said it is selling 30 new cars every day. “Since the unlock phase began on June 1, our sales have increased. Between June and August, the sales have gone up by 50% in comparison with the same period last year,” Punit Poddar, the owner of Premsons Motors, said. Those who cannot afford hefty EMIs for a new car currently are also making a beeline at the True Value shops. As per estimates, as many as 20 used cars are being sold in Ranchi daily. Jamshedpur, which is the auto manufacturing hub of Jharkhand, is also posting a steady increase in sales figures. “The jump in demand is unexpectedly high for two reasons. Firstly, those who couldn’t buy the car due to the market shutdown during the lockdown period are now ready for booking and secondly a huge section of the people wants to possess a personal car to avoid rentals during the Covid period for safety reasons,” said Pranab Chakraborty, sales manager at Nexa Motor World in Adityapur. Chakraborty said his showroom sold 70 cars between July and August alone. An official at the car loan department of HDFC Bank said over 500 cars, cutting across all segments, have been sold in July and close to 400 cars, were sold in August, in the Steel City. “Contrary to our expectations that the slowdown in sales since the early days of the unlock would continue for the next few months, the bookings made a turnaround in July,” said Shailesh Tiwary, an HDFC Bank official. Mohammad Ismail, proprietor of KGN Motors in Sakchi which sells used cars, said queries for the bookings have started coming in since the past few days. “There was no business between April and June but since July, people are making enquiries and we have also sold a few cars. We are hoping that the market improves in the festive season,” he added. In Bokaro too, automobile sales are quickly regaining lost ground. Gopal Lodha, owner of Hindustan Auto Agency, said, “After the unlock phase began in June, I am selling 150 cars every month. The demand is on the rise again. We expect the business to its peak during Diwali and Dhanteras during November.” While hatchbacks and sedans are on high demand, but high-end cars, which cost Rs 30 lakh and above, are still struggling to find customers, the sellers added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/automobile-sector-on-road-to-revival/articleshow/77966775.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Only 37% turnout at NDA exam, students rue transport problems||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded a mere 37% turnout at in the National Defence Academy (NDA) examination which was conducted on Sunday. Even though the district administration had made elaborate arrangements by deploying magistrates at all 47 centres across the city to maintain social distancing norms and other Covid norms, only 7,817 out of the total 20,638 registered candidates appeared for the national-level competitive examination for various commissioned positions in the defence force. Ranchi ADM (law & order) Akhilesh Kumar Sinha said, “We had deployed 47 assistant coordination officers along with an equal number of supervisors at each test centre. Besides, each centre had a magistrate and two assistant magistrates.” He added, “We had even deployed police officials at every centre here to facilitate the safe entry and exit of the candidates.” Most candidates said had to go through immense difficulty to reach their respective centres since the transport options were limited. Chitanjeet Mahato said he hired a taxi to get to Ranchi from his hometown in Purulia (in West Bengal). “I know a few others who were supposed to appear for the exam in Ranchi but they didn’t have enough resources to travel to and from Ranchi in a private vehicle,” Mahato said. Rishu Raj said he travelled around 150 kilometres on a bike, along with his father, from Dhanbad to appear for the exam. “We could not afford a taxi, so my father decided to bring me here on his bike. There are many who could have appeared from Dhanbad and other neighbouring districts if the public transport was available,” Raj said. Ramgarh resident Akash Singh, who appeared for the examination at DAV Bariatu, said, “Many of my friends couldn’t sit for the test as they were apprehensive of being infected. I didn’t want to miss my opportunity as there is an age bar for competitive exams.” On being asked about the implementation of safety norms at the examination centres, Akash said, “At first, I was scared thinking that the precautions at the centre will not be up to the mark, but all my worries soon went away as everything was conducted as per the safety protocols.” Meanwhile, the JEE examination ended on Sunday and it recorded a turnout of 77% at the two centres in Tatisilwai and in Tupudana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/only-37-turnout-at-nda-exam-students-rue-transport-problems/articleshow/77966360.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 7, 2020||Goa||Patrolling to be intensified in Shiroda||Ponda: Following incidents of thefts in the market area, the police staff from the Shiroda outpost has been instructed to intensify patrolling during the night. A source at the Ponda police station said that during the night intervening Saturday and Sunday, unidentified thieves entered into some shops in the Shiroda market by removing the roof tiles and decamped with petty cash that was left behind. A shop owner said the miscreants did not take away any goods but only drank some soft drinks. No complaint has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patrolling-to-be-intensified-in-shiroda/articleshow/77967049.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||9 months later, Galgibaga bridge rails corroding||Poinguinim: Barely nine months after commissioning the Manohar Parrikar 7.74km bypass road from Char Rasta to Mashem, the metal rails of the footpath attached to the main bridge in Galgibaga, Canacona has started corroding. “The bridge was inaugurated in November last year, and if the coat of paint gets washed off in the first monsoon, how can it survive the balmy, salt-laden breeze from the Arabian Sea blowing from the Galgibaga beach?” Eugene Fernandes, who lives in the vicinity of the bridge, said. Milagres Dias, a villager who uses the footpath daily, said that the corroded railings need immediate attention. PWD’s assistant engineer Subhash Pagi, who is in-charge of NH 66, told TOI that he has noticed the corrosion on the metal rails alongside the footpath and has directed the contractor to attend to it. Pagi also said that after any new project is commissioned, it is the duty of the contractor to look into the wear and tear for the first four years. It may be recalled that the work on the Manohar Parrikar bypass road commenced in December 2015 and was completed in November 2019 at an estimated cost of Rs297 crore. The project included a four-lane bypass road from Char Rasta to Mashem, which has three bridges at Talpona (450m), Galgibaga (500m) and Mashem (130m).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/9-months-later-galgibaga-bridge-rails-corroding/articleshow/77967056.cms||Albert Fernandes
September 7, 2020||Goa||Coral reef recovering from bleaching shock||Panaji: Goa’s patchy coral reef around the Grande Island, off Mormugao, is showing signs of recovery, as the effects of the long-drawn mass bleaching from 2014 to 2017 – the third such known coral bleaching event worldwide - is slowly wearing off. The marine biodiversity complex around the islands with 28 corals, 100-odd exotic fish species and more than a dozen seaweed and sea slugs with other marine biota offers tourists and visitors thrills, a little away from some of the state’s famed beaches. The corals witnessed 50% bleaching near the island during the event predicted by US-based national oceanic and atmospheric administration (NOAA), of which the ground reality observations were done by national institute of oceanography (CSIR-NIO), Goa. After just three years, the corals are recovering gradually all over the world. “The coral patches are recovering at Grande Island too. But the percentage of recovery depends on local stressors, especially pollution,” Baban Ingole, chief scientist (retired), biological (CSIR-NIO) said. The rejuvenation during the last couple of years has not been subjected to a thorough study. “During the last six months the rejuvenation will be better due to slow down in all activities and a dedicated team of experts need to carry out a biodiversity assessment on the recovery process and overall biodiversity,” Ingole said. A first-of-its-kind study along the eastern Arabian Sea by NIO PhD scholar Afreen Hussain had assessed massive bleaching at 50% near the island during 2014-17. The bleaching was at a much milder level of 6% before the event in 2014 and 8% in 2017, after the event. “Bleaching severity was highest in Porites corals and the least in Foliose Turbinaria mesenterina,” Hussain stated in her recently published study. Ingole who is a co-author of the research paper and a member of the Goa state wildlife advisory board had raised the issue during a recent meeting. “Goa is lucky to have a coral patch very close to the coast and should utilise this natural asset judiciously by protecting and preserving it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coral-reef-recovering-from-bleaching-shock/articleshow/77967062.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 7, 2020||Goa||17-Nida-Vaccinated dogs in Tiswadi given collars for identification||Vaccinated dogs in Tiswadi given collars for identification 300 words plus pic Panaji: If you happen to spot a stray dog with a peculiar logo with a neon green border, be rest assured that the four-legged fur buddy poses no rabies-related threat. Mission Rabies teams in Tiswadi have been fitting as many dogs as possible with reflective collars after vaccinating the stray dogs in the taluka. The unique collar will therefore help people tell the vaccinated dogs apart from the non-vaccinated ones. “The collars are a government of Goa requirement and although some dogs still have to be caught in nets the skilled animal handlers are able to calm the dogs prior to release and fit the collars,” the team said. The collar is securely fitted on adult dogs by the Mission Rabies volunteers after the vaccination is carried out. The team also achieved good coverage across Tiswadi during July despite the additional work load of rabies response and rescues due to the other teams being out of action. The state went in to another three-day lockdown from July 17 to 19 wherein a strict night curfew was implemented from 8 pm to 6 am. While the three working days were lost, the teams in Bardez and Ponda taluka had to undergo 14 days’ quarantine as a precautionary measure after the owners of both the restaurants supplying food for the teams were diagnosed with Covid-19. However, despite the difficulties, the teams still managed to vaccinate over 6,000 dogs in July. Last month, the teams responded to two positive rabies cases and again, both of them were close to the Goa-Maharashtra border. One case was found in Alorna, Pernem and the other was in Salem, Bicholim. An emergency ring vaccination was conducted in both areas to ensure that the virus is contained. The organization’s July report revealed that the volunteer teams across the state responded to a total of 51 sick and injured animals last month, 19 of which were taken in and treated by Mission Rabies’ sister charity WVS Hicks and 17 dogs were released following treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/17-nida-vaccinated-dogs-in-tiswadi-given-collars-for-identification/articleshow/77967071.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt seeks to unlock benefits for janata, slash test and mask prices||MUMBAI: Prices of Covid-19 tests, N95 masks and sanitisers are likely to see a significant dip in the coming weeks. Anticipating an increase in demand for preventive gear and tests as more sectors return to normalcy, the state has formed two committees to revisit the prices of these items crucial to tackling the novel coronavirus. It is learnt that an RT-PCR test, which today costs Rs 1,900-2,500 depending on the point of collection, could drop to Rs 1,200-Rs 1,500. The cost of N95 masks, sold for Rs 150-300, may dip under Rs 50. Times ViewThere is no denying that life has to move on, with adequate safeguards. Physical distancing, masking, handwashing and sanitising is integral to Covid-appropriate behaviour. It’s imperative that the state facilitates the wide availability and affordability of the relevant items, more so because demand seems to be outstripping supply. Quality is crucial and the government must build checks to ensure the products are effective.A similar correction is expected in the cost of sanitisers, which was capped at Rs 100 per 200ml bottle till July 7, that is, before the item was removed from price protection under the Essential Commodities Act, the law that let the government cap its price. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state had asked the Centre to once again include masks and sanitisers in the list of essential items so that their rates can be regulated. Alternatively, the state may invoke the Epidemic Act to cap the prices. "We have talked to manufacturers to understand their input costs so we can decide a price by taking fair profits into account," Tope said. The state committees that have been formed will be empowered to inspect books of accounts to determine their actual costs in case manufactures do not cooperate. "Even as we unlock more sectors, masks and sanitisers will be required in daily use by people and so we want to make sure good quality masks and sanitisers are made available at reasonable rates," Tope said. The state studied pre-Covid tenders to learn that companies were willing to sell N95 masks for Rs 18. Tope said a good quality mask should not cost more than Rs 40 and 1,000ml of sanitiser should not cost more than Rs 70. A state official said an excess of supply had brought down prices but there was scope for more reduction. Tope said RT-PCR kits used to cost Rs 1,200-2,000 but were now at Rs 4,00 and the benefit would be passed on. The Indian Council of Medical Research said two weeks ago that the combined cost of RT-PCR kit, viral transport medium and RNA extraction kit had dipped to Rs 300. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association, said PPE kits, too, should be capped. "Hospitals cannot charge over Rs 600 for PPE kits in ward and Rs 1,200 for ICUs. In that case, the selling price, too, should be capped," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-seeks-to-unlock-benefits-for-janata-slash-test-and-mask-prices/articleshow/77968905.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 Covid-19 cases for 12th day in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: There seems to be no respite from Covid-19 for Andhra Pradesh as the state reported more than 10,000 new cases for the 12th day in a row on Sunday. The Covid-19 tally of the state stood at 4,98,125 with 10,794 fresh cases. The toll rose to 4,417 as 70 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the disease on Sunday. As many as 11,915 patients were declared cured on Sunday, outnumbering the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. There are currently 99,689 active cases in the state with the 3,94,019 cumulative recoveries and 4,417 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 79%, exceeding the national average recovery rate of 77%. Bihar achieved an 88% recovery rate, the highest among all union territories and states. The state tested 72,573 Covid-19 samples, the highest single-day test total, on Sunday to detect the 10,794 fresh cases. The state so far conducted 41.07 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 12%. The mortality rate of the state stood at 0.89% as of Sunday, the lowest among the states which recorded at least two lakh Covid-19 cases. Nellore recorded 1,299 new cases on Sunday, followed by East Godavari 1,244, West Godavari 1,101, and Prakasam 1,042. Among the 70 deceased patients, nine are from Chittoor, eight each from Anantapur, Guntur and Prakasam, seven from Kadapa, five each from East Godavari, ,Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, four each from Krishna, Kurnool and Nellore, two from Srikakulam, and one from Vizianagaram. Guntur became the seventh district to cross the 40,000 case mark, while Krishna district has the lowest caseload of 18,482 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-reports-10k-covid-19-cases-for-12th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77969873.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Vaccinated stray dogs get unique identifying collars||Panaji: If you happen to spot a stray dog with a peculiar logo with a neon green border, be rest assured that the four-legged fur buddy poses no rabies-related threat. Mission Rabies teams in Tiswadi have been fitting as many dogs as possible with reflective collars after vaccinating the strays in the taluka. The unique collar will therefore help people tell the vaccinated dogs apart from the non-vaccinated ones. “The collars are a government of Goa requirement, and although some dogs still have to be caught in nets, the skilled animal handlers are able to calm the dogs prior to release and fit the collars,” the team said. The collar is securely fitted on adult dogs by the Mission Rabies volunteers after the vaccination is carried out. The team also achieved good coverage across Tiswadi during July despite the additional workload of rabies response and rescues due to the other teams being out of action. The state went in to another three-day lockdown from July 17 to 19 wherein a strict night curfew was implemented from 8pm to 6am. While the three working days were lost, the teams in Bardez and Ponda taluka had to undergo 14 days’ quarantine as a precautionary measure after the owners of both the restaurants supplying food for the teams were diagnosed with Covid-19. However, despite the difficulties, the teams still managed to vaccinate over 6,000 dogs in July. Last month, the teams responded to two positive rabies cases, and again, both of them were close to the Goa-Maharashtra border. One case was found in Alorna, Pernem and the other was in Salem, Bicholim. An emergency ring vaccination was conducted in both areas to ensure that the virus is contained. The organisation’s July report revealed that the volunteer teams across the state responded to a total of 51 sick and injured animals last month, 19 of which were taken in and treated by Mission Rabies’ sister charity WVS Hicks, while 17 dogs were released following treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vaccinated-stray-dogs-get-unique-identifying-collars/articleshow/77967127.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 Covid-19 cases for 12th day in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: There seems to be no respite from Covid-19 for Andhra Pradesh as the state reported more than 10,000 new cases for the 12th day in a row on Sunday. The Covid-19 tally of the state stood at 4,98,125 with 10,794 fresh cases. The toll rose to 4,417 as 70 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the disease on Sunday. As many as 11,915 patients were declared cured on Sunday, outnumbering the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. There are currently 99,689 active cases in the state with the 3,94,019 cumulative recoveries and 4,417 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 79%, exceeding the national average recovery rate of 77%. Bihar achieved an 88% recovery rate, the highest among all union territories and states. The state tested 72,573 Covid-19 samples, the highest single-day test total, on Sunday to detect the 10,794 fresh cases. The state so far conducted 41.07 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 12%. The mortality rate of the state stood at 0.89% as of Sunday, the lowest among the states which recorded at least two lakh Covid-19 cases. Nellore recorded 1,299 new cases on Sunday, followed by East Godavari 1,244, West Godavari 1,101, and Prakasam 1,042. Among the 70 deceased patients, nine are from Chittoor, eight each from Anantapur, Guntur and Prakasam, seven from Kadapa, five each from East Godavari, ,Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, four each from Krishna, Kurnool and Nellore, two from Srikakulam, and one from Vizianagaram. Guntur became the seventh district to cross the 40,000 case mark, while Krishna district has the lowest caseload of 18,482 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-10k-covid-19-cases-for-12th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77966224.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 Covid-19 cases for 12th day in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: There seems to be no respite from Covid-19 for Andhra Pradesh as the state reported more than 10,000 new cases for the 12th day in a row on Sunday. The Covid-19 tally of the state stood at 4,98,125 with 10,794 fresh cases. The toll rose to 4,417 as 70 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the disease on Sunday. As many as 11,915 patients were declared cured on Sunday, outnumbering the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. There are currently 99,689 active cases in the state with the 3,94,019 cumulative recoveries and 4,417 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 79%, exceeding the national average recovery rate of 77%. Bihar achieved an 88% recovery rate, the highest among all union territories and states. The state tested 72,573 Covid-19 samples, the highest single-day test total, on Sunday to detect the 10,794 fresh cases. The state so far conducted 41.07 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 12%. The mortality rate of the state stood at 0.89% as of Sunday, the lowest among the states which recorded at least two lakh Covid-19 cases. Nellore recorded 1,299 new cases on Sunday, followed by East Godavari 1,244, West Godavari 1,101, and Prakasam 1,042. Among the 70 deceased patients, nine are from Chittoor, eight each from Anantapur, Guntur and Prakasam, seven from Kadapa, five each from East Godavari, ,Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, four each from Krishna, Kurnool and Nellore, two from Srikakulam, and one from Vizianagaram. Guntur became the seventh district to cross the 40,000 case mark, while Krishna district has the lowest caseload of 18,482 infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-reports-10k-covid-19-cases-for-12th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77969872.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Special trains via Visakhapatnam, bookings start on September 10||VISAKHAPATNAM: Special trains via Visakhapatnam towards Korba, Guwahati, Bengaluru, Howrah and Tiruchchirappalli will start operating from next week, the railways announced on Sunday. Bookings for these trains will begin on September 10. Tickets will be available on booking counters as well as the IRCTC website. Only confirmed ticket holders will be allowed to board. According to an official release, the Visakhapatnam-Kobra-Visakhapatnam train will start on September 12 at 08:05pm from Visakhapatnam and reach Kobra at 04:10pm on September 13. The Tiruchchirappalli-Howrah-Tiruchchirappalli bi-weekly special train will start from Tiruchchirappalli at 04:20pm every Tuesday and Friday from September 15 and reach its destination at 04:10pm every Thursday and Saturday. The Guwahati-Bangalore-Guwahati train will start from Guwahati at 06:20am every Sunday, Monday and Tuesday from September 13 and from Bangalore Cantonment at 11:40pm every Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/special-trains-via-vizag-bookings-start-on-sept-10/articleshow/77966344.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt to go ahead with DBT for farmers despite oppn criticism||Vijayawada: Despite criticism from opposition parties, the state government has decided to go ahead with Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of Dr YSRC free power scheme to farmers. Energy minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy directed the officials to prepare an action plan by involving farmers to roll out the scheme. The scheme will be launched in Srikakulam district on a pilot basis. The state government is planning to roll out the scheme across the state from April 1, 2021. As part of the scheme electric meters will be installed to all agriculture connections and the money will be transferred to bank accounts of the farmers based on their consumption. Unlike in present system, the farmers had to pay the bill for the power they consumed on agriculture and later the government will reimburse the same. The state government argued that the new reform that is going to be implemented will empower the farmers to question power utilities to supply qualitative power to agriculture. Srinivas Reddy said in a statement on Sunday that the DBT will improve productivity, enhance rural productivity and improve living standards of farmers. Reddy said that the reforms in power sector were initiated by the Union government and the state government has taken all measures to safeguard the interests of farmers. He said the farmers need not pay anything from their pockets as the state government will deposit the entire amount into their accounts. As the farmers are now paying the bills, it will certainly enhance accountability and responsibility among power utilities to supply quality power to the farmers, he said. The energy minister directed the officials to formulate an action plan to clarify the doubts and create awareness among the farmers and explain the benefits of DBT of free power scheme. He said that it was necessary to install meters so that the farmers would know how much being spent on free power. This would also prevent power utilities from transferring their losses to farmers’ subsidy account and ensure transparency with regard to power purchases, wastage and supply losses. Reddy said that the state government will not impose any restrictions on number of agriculture connections. He assured to regularise all unauthorised connections and to include them in the DBT scheme. He also said that the benefit will also be extended to tenant farmers by opening separate bank accounts and the bankers will be given instructions not to adjust the amount for any other dues. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said that the government would form committees at village, mandal and district level for effective implementation of free power scheme and the farmers can call to toll free number 1912 to redress their issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-go-ahead-with-dbt-for-farmers-despite-oppn-criticism/articleshow/77966358.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Notices served to 30 illegal stone quarries in Kondapalli forest area||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to control illegal mining activity across Kondapalli reserve forest area, the state mining department has issued notices to 30 stone quarries to stop illegal mining within 15 days. Illegal mining activity had become rampant at Kondapalli reserve forest area over the last two years. Illegal blastings and excavation of gravel and stones increased in the absence of proper monitoring from mining authorities. Around 65 stone crushers were operating in Kondapalli area causing air pollution. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz had directed the mining authorities to take stringent action against the illegal miners. M Subramanyam, deputy director, mining department, on Saturday gave notices to 30 stone quarries which are continuing operations ignoring the guidelines. The mining department officials said that they have identified illegal mining areas in reserve forest areas in the district as per the report given by the three-men committee. All illegal mines in reserve forest areas will be soon denotified and cancelled, said the mining department authorities. “We have primarily identified discrepancies in mining at Kondapalli region. The district collector directed us to cancel all mining licences in reserve forest. We have given show case notices for now and licences will be cancelled in the next 15 days,” said the mining department authorities. The mining department had already focused on illegal sand reaches, gravel mines in the district and focused on issuing notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/notices-served-to-30-illegal-stone-quarries-in-kondapalli-forest-area/articleshow/77966391.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||R&B div starts repairs of Chanumolu flyover||Vijayawada: The roads and buildings department of the Krishna district administration started has road repair works at Chanumolu Venkata Rao flyover. The flyover was in bad shape over the last three months. The road had suffered damage due to the incessant rains. TOI in its columns had highlighted the hardships residents of the area were facing due to the poor condition of the road. Following that, endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas and district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz inspected the damaged roads and directed officials to initiate repair work. The road repair will cost around Rs 15 lakh. R&B divisional engineer Radha Krishna, who is monitoring the repair work, said that the work will be completed within seven days. Locals welcomed the initiation of works. “We are happy that officials have finally started repair works on the flyover. They should also repair the potholes on the inner ring road,” said a resident of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rb-div-starts-repairs-of-chanumolu-flyover/articleshow/77966402.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||After long wait, recoveries outnumber new cases||Panaji: Goa’s Covid death count rose to 236 on Sunday as six men and one woman succumbed to the virus over the past 24 hours. The state’s tally of active cases dropped to 4,754 as recoveries for the day exceeded new cases detected. As many as 558 patients were declared cured while 374 new infections were reported, the decline in daily count reported for the first time in the last 12 days. All seven deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Of these, two men –a 60-year-old and a 65-year-old from Bicholim - died within 24 hours of admissions, stated data released by GMC. Other mortalities were that of a 42-year-old man from New Vaddem, Vasco, a 70-year-old man from Panaji, a 75-year-old man from Porvorim, a 55-year-old woman from Sancoale and a 67-year-old from Shiroda-Ponda. The deceased had more than one co-morbid condition and in case of three deaths, the cause of death has been given as bilateral pneumonia. Health minister Vishwajit Rane as well senior doctors have been saying that in most fatalities, patients were admitted late and after they had developed bilateral pneumonia. Hence, they have appealed to people to seek immediate help if Covid-19symptoms develop. The ESI-Covid hospital Margao which also treats severe Covid patients, on Sunday had 20 patients under treatment in intensive care unit (ICU). A senior GMC doctor said mortalities seen post Ganesh Chaturthi mostly involve patients over 60 years of age. In North Goa, centres seeing exponential rise in cases are Mapusa, Panaji and Porvorim. In South, after Margao it is Ponda that has the highest infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-long-wait-recoveries-outnumber-new-cases/articleshow/77967353.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Realtor, four others arrested in land grab case||VISAKHAPATNAM: PM Palem police arrested five persons, including a realtor, on Sunday for alleged involvement in a land grabbing case. According to the police, the land parcel near Madhurawada worth over Rs 10 crore has been restored to its rightful owner. Those arrested have been identified as: realtor Jami Satya Ravi Kishore, the managing partner of Vaishnavi Associates, Pilla Ramu, Pothina Yallayamma, Potnuru Narasayamma and Yeddipilli Paddikonda. ACP (north) R Ravi Sankar Reddy said that a Datti Laxmanarao from Vizianagaram and two others had purchased two land bits, one 1,146 square yards and another 125.86 square yards covered in survey number 249/10, Durganagara, Madhurawada by way of registered sale deeds. Later, a compound wall was constructed. The accused allegedly forged a document and executed a deed of partition into five unequal shares to an extent of 2,323 square yards and got it registered at the Dwarkanagar sub-registrar office. Police said that the accused trespassed on the property, damaged part of the compound wall and constructed a thatched shed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/land-grab-case-realtor-four-others-arrested/articleshow/77966420.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Officials check on fuel outlets||Visakhapatnam: Vigilance wing of police, civil supplies and legal metrology randomly checked on petrol pumps in Vizag on Sunday following allegations that some petrol pumps were using micro-electronic chips to cheat customers by providing less fuel. Petrol stations were raided in Marikavalasa and other areas of the city. Speaking to TOI, vigilance DSP Annepu Narasimha Murty said, “We will carry out raids over the next six days. We did not find any alterations or fraud in the raids conducted on Sunday. This was a random check of fuel outlets.” The raids were carried out after a national-level fuel pilfering racket was unearthed in Telangana recently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/officials-check-on-fuel-outlets/articleshow/77966425.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Almost all Covid deceased over past 2 days had diabetes, hypertension||Panaji: Statistics released by the government on the cause of deaths over the past two days have revealed that almost all the deceased had diabetes, more than half had hypertension and 40% had both diabetes and hypertension. Two young patients aged 35 and 38, who died, also had diabetes. Dean Goa Medical College (GMC) Dr S Bandekar recently said that the majority of the patients who succumbed to Covid had comorbidities, including hypertension and diabetes. He said that the comorbidities are also being taken care of along with Covid. “Many times we have to stop a diabetic’s tablets in the hospital and start them on insulin instead. But the patient feels that we are not giving them the tablets. If he was taking four tablets we sometimes have to alter the number,” Bandekar had said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane and Bandekar explained that because of this patients feel that their comorbidities aren’t being taken care of. Clinical head of Manipal Hospitals Dr Shekhar Salkar said those with uncontrolled comorbidities should be extra careful. “If they develop fever they need to be admitted and be under observation.” Stating that the younger family members must be cautious not to transmit Covid to them, he said, “The young people are bringing the infection home. Those with comorbidities must not go out if not required,” he added. The ICMR has stated that people with hypertension, diabetes or heart diseases are at no greater risk of getting the infection than anyone else, but that some may develop more severe symptoms and complications. “The majority (80%) of people diagnosed with Covid-19 will have mild symptoms of a respiratory infection (fever, sore throat, cough) and make full recovery,” it stated. ICMR has advised people with diabetes to follow their diet and exercise routine as far as possible, take their medications regularly, and test their sugar levels frequently. “When diabetic patients become sick they may require frequent monitoring of blood glucose and adjustment of drugs, including insulin, small frequent meals and adequate fluids,” it stated. The ICMR has also advised that those with diabetes, hypertension and heart disease take all their medications regularly even if they are mildly symptomatic. “Don’t stop any medication unless advised by your doctor. Continue with your blood pressure, diabetes and heart disease medications in case you are unable to visit your doctor. Medications to control cholesterol (statins) should be continued,” ICMR stated in tips for this set of patients. It has also stated that it is important to control one’s risk factor levels by avoiding smoking and alcohol and having BP and blood sugar levels under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/almost-all-covid-deceased-over-past-2-days-had-diabetes-hypertension/articleshow/77967359.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Gas cylinders to fish tanks: AP liquor smugglers innovate||VIJAYAWADA: Liquor smugglers have continued to find new and innovative ways to move non-duty paid liquor into Andhra Pradesh. From ambulances, milk vans, gas cylinders, fish tanks, water tanks to vegetable crates, these smugglers have left no stone unturned to moving in liquor into the state. Recently, 9,096 liquor bottles from Telangana were seized at Amaravati in Guntur. The liquor was being moved concealed in a water tanker. Police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) intercepted the tanker on the basis of prior information and made the seizure. This was the biggest single raid so far where liquor worth Rs 21.45 lakh was seized. Cops arrested six people. The problem of liquor smuggling is particularly acute in districts that share borders with other states. Out of the 13 districts in the state, 11 share borders. AP has shared borders with Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha. Despite increased surveillance on part of SEB, liquor smuggling cases have continued to rise. Taking note of the increase in liquor smuggling cases, the state government recently revised liquor prices as the huge price gap with liquor from other states was seen to be the cause of the rise in smuggling. However, former excise minister KS Jawahar Reddy said that price revision will not help reduce the problem as the prices remain 50% higher even after revision. Another problem that has come to light is the continued existence of belt shops, even as the state government claims that it has removed 43,000 illegal liquor outlets in the state. The YSRC government had announced a policy decision to implement a complete liquor ban in a phased manner and taken several steps towards the purpose including bringing all liquor outlets under government control run by Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation (APBCL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gas-cylinders-to-fish-tanks-liquor-smugglers-innovate/articleshow/77966435.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 7, 2020||Goa||‘Opening schools must be priority’||Panaji: Plunging into the debate on reopening educational institutions amidst the pandemic, director of Goa Institute of Management (GIM), Professor Ajit Parulekar, said that across the world schools have been one of the earliest institutions to open up post lockdown. During the current post lockdown period in Goa, student learning must be made the highest priority. “Children of school going age and college going children are the least vulnerable group to harm from Covid (either of severe Covid infection or symptoms or death due to Covid). Understanding the above as well as prioritising learning and overall development of the future generation is important over things like entertainment and hospitality,” said Parulekar, even as the state government has opened up the tourism sector first in Goa. He said he is surprised that teachers are against reopening of schools and against students returning to schools. “I understand that there is a lot of political pressure on the government to open up industry, protect people’s livelihoods while trying to carefully balance health and well-being concerns. However, as there is no citizens’ pressure to restart schools and colleges, it stays as it is,” said Parulekar. He said that there are many other sectors where the workers are at much higher risk of infection than teachers. “Construction workers are on sites, delivery boys are on the streets, vendors, poders, government and industry staff are all working.” “Undoubtedly we must take all necessary precautions to ensure teacher safety when they travel to and attend school, just like we have to do for every member of society, but, student learning must get the highest priority it deserves,” Parulekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opening-schools-must-be-priority/articleshow/77967413.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||NATA to be held again on September 12||PANAJI: The National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) for admission to first year BArch degree programme will be held again on September 12. Students, who could not answer the test successfully last month due to connectivity issues, will be able to take the test on this day. This year, in view of the pandemic, NATA was conducted as a comprehensive online aptitude test for both components, Part-A and Part-B. Candidates were provided the option of appearing for NATA 2020 either from their residence as Home Based Test Candidate (HBT) or from the test centre as Centre Based Test candidate (CBT). The HBT mode was introduced by the council for the first time as an online proctored examination using Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. In Goa, there were two test centres for the first test held on August 29. The Council on receipt of representations about poor connectivity, network and power issues faced by HBT as well as CBT candidates has decided to allow retest for the genuine cases (without any fees) as a one time measure. In Goa, 12 students have been given the chance to answer again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nata-to-be-held-again-on-september-12/articleshow/77967384.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Encroachments on open land catch GIDC unawares||Panaji: A routine exercise to survey open spaces in industrial estates and develop them into industrial plots revealed a surprise when Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) and industry representatives found that some of the open spaces have been encroached upon. GIDC has now issued show cause notices to the encroachers and asked them to demolish or rectify the faults. While promising action against the encroachers, GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto also said that the industrial body also plans to bring in a policy which will offer existing entrepreneurs the adjacent industrial plots at a 50% higher rate. The encroachments came to light after GIDC announced that open spaces would be developed into industrial plots. Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) and Verna Industries Association members decided to survey the open spaces at Verna before the land could be demarcated for plots. “GIDC made the plan for plots, which they sent me before the board meeting. I saw that one the plots they have made already has a structure. At the board meeting, when all the plots were discussed, I told them that there is a structure in one of the plots,” GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said. According to GIDC documents, Adage Automation Pvt Ltd has encroached into two open plots at Verna, a 1,911 sqm plot and a 1,970 sqm plot. The company has built a shed in one open space and used the other land for parking. Aside from this, in the Honda industrial estate, units were dumping debris and waste in open spaces. “Notices have been issued to the units,” Neto said. “If there is any illegality, they will have to rectify it.” Neto also said that at the next board meeting, a policy decision would be taken to offer existing entrepreneurs a chance to lease adjacent vacant plots by paying a slight premium. “There is a policy decision that we are trying to take that if there is a common boundary, they can pay 50% extra over the advertised cost and take the plot. This way GIDC will earn revenue,” Neto said. However, industry representatives have called for strict action to be taken against irregularities in order to send a stern message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/encroachments-on-open-land-catch-gidc-unawares/articleshow/77967433.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Candolim PHC appoints eight medical officers||Saligao: The Candolim primary health centre (PHC) has given independent charge to eight medical officers to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases in eight villages under its jurisdiction. Candolim PHC’s health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth told TOI that the villages of Pilerne, Nerul, Candolim, Calangute, Saligao, Reis Magos, Sangolda and Guirim will have a medical officer each. The duties of the medical officers will include identifying high risk contacts for swab testing, and to decide who has to be tested and when. The health officers will also be responsible for arranging vehicles to get patients for the test and accordingly moving them to Covid care centres thereafter. Nazareth further said that this is a “collaborative effort wherein a nodal officer, who is in charge under integrated diseases and surveillance programme, monitors the health officers in these villages”. The PHC has also appointed a counsellor for patients who test positive to advise them on the dos and don’ts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-phc-appoints-eight-medical-officers/articleshow/77967456.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||State looks to help with parenting during pandemic||Panaji: In a bid to ensure that the Covid pandemic does not leave parents bereft of support, the state government intends to roll-out a project to send audio-messages to parents. The women and child development (WCD) department is set to ink an MoU with Pune-based Centre for Learning Resources (CLR) which will assist anganwadi workers and parents through the Sajag programme. The aim of Sagaj is to provide parents and other caregivers with resources, emotional support and guidance on how to engage students and children during the pandemic. “We have created a series of short audio tutorials for empowering the parents,” a CLR official said. The state government and CLR have agreed to jointly implement Sajag, a project that has already been rolled out in Chhattisgarh and Bihar through the Integrated Child Development Services system. Nearly 25,000 families stand to benefit, said an official. While CLR will depute a few staff to develop the messages and guide anganwadi workers, the WCD department’s staff will meet parents and send the messages. “We have already signed one MoU with CLR and one more is being signed on Wednesday,” WCD director Deepali Naik said. With anganwadis, concerns have been raised about the health and safety of the young children who were enrolled in anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-looks-to-help-with-parenting-during-pandemic/articleshow/77967469.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||NSA misused as a punitive tool: Legal experts||The Allahabad high court, while ordering the release of Dr Kafeel Khan, who spent seven months in jail after he was slapped with the National Security Act (NSA) by the Uttar Pradesh police, had said his detention under the Act was “unsustainable in the eyes of the law”. The high court had also indicted authorities for slapping NSA on Khan “on a whim”. But Khan, charged under NSA for a speech against the CAA and the NRC outside Aligarh Muslim University last December, isn’t alone. The Act has been used across the country to book people for various ‘offences’ that are considered a threat to peace — from dumping the carcass of cow progeny in a field to criticising the ‘lackadaisical’ approach of authorities in dealing with the Covid threat at airports to organising a Muharram procession. As some of them were later found to be not guilty while many continue to languish in jails, a large section of the legal fraternity has condemned the “indiscriminate use” of the Act, saying it has been misused over the years and states should refrain from invoking it unless it has reasonable material to justify its use. NSA slapped on 142 this year in UP, 76 in cow slaughter cases Legal experts say statutes like the NSA, with its preventive detention power, often become a tool that authorities resort to, not for prevention of any crime but as a method to punish. At least 142 people have been slapped with the NSA in Uttar Pradesh since January 1 this year. The NSA has been invoked against 76 in cow slaughter cases, nine others in cases of crime against girl children, 37 against those accused in heinous crimes and 20 others in miscellaneous cases. Khan’s case is the first this year where a court has intervened. Sample this. UP police slapped the NSA against Peace Party president and former MLA Mohammed Ayub, who was arrested on July 31 for releasing an advertisement in Urdu dailies raising questions on the Constitution. Ayub was arrested from Gorakhpur after a case was registered against him for writing a piece to stoke communal passion in Lucknow. While Lucknow police claimed that Ayub had written an objectionable piece on July 30 which could have led to communal tension ahead of festivals, Ayub’s counsel IB Singh said there was no basis for the state to charge Ayub under the Act as he talked about integration of religions and spreading amity in those advertisements. Mohammed Noor, a gram pradhan, was booked under the NSA after he was found to be dumping the carcass of bovine progeny in an open field in UP’s Jaunpur district. Police said that the recovery led to communal tension in the area and Mohammed was arrested and the NSA was invoked later. In Ahmedabad, police booked an NRI, Abhimanyu Acharya, under the NSA on March 21 for allegedly “spreading lies about the lackadaisical approach” of city airport management in dealing with the Covid-19 threat. Acharya, who reached Ahmedabad from Canada via Abu Dhabi, had said that he was not made to go through even a thermal temperature scan at the airport and was only made to fill a self-declaration form. Police claimed in the FIR that he had disrespected the country by spreading lies about it. At least six people, all habitual offenders, were booked under the NSA in Odisha this year for heinous offences, including murder and dacoity. All of them are in jail. The NSA was slapped against them to prevent their immediate release to “maintain peace”. In Madhya Pradesh, a former BJP corporator and five others were held under the NSA on September 1 for allegedly organising a procession in Indore’s Khajrana area on Muharram. The corporator was arrested for violating the collector’s orders against taking out a Tazia procession. Khajrana police station in charge Dinesh Verma said Patel, who had quit BJP in February over the CAA, was trying to incite others against the police. He was sent to jail. MP police recommended the NSA on 478 people till July in the state. In Tamil Nadu, folk singer Kovan was arrested in 2015 and activist Thiru Murugan Gandhi in 2018 under the NSA. While Kovan had prepared a song criticising former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Gandhi held protests against the government. They were later released. (With inputs from Indore, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar and Chennai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nsa-misused-as-a-punitive-tool-legal-experts/articleshow/77968942.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||At 66%, Andhra’s literacy rate worst, Delhi’s 2nd best at 89%||Which state has a higher literacy rate – Andhra Pradesh or Bihar, Telangana or Assam, Karnataka or Uttarakhand? If you picked the southern state each time, you were completely wrong and by a considerable margin. The reality is that Andhra Pradesh’s rate of 66.4% is the worst among all states in India and significantly lower than Bihar’s 70.9%. Similarly, Telangana’s 72.8% is well below the national average of 77.7% while Assam is well above it at 85.9% and Karnataka’s 77.2% pales in comparison to Uttarakhand’s 87.6%, which is bettered only by Kerala and Delhi among the major states and UTs. Read AlsoLiteracy rate for Muslims worse than SC/STsThe report shows that among the various social groups, the literacy rate for those aged 7 yrs or more was the highest for “others”, which is non-SC/ST/OBC population groups, at 91% for men and 81% for women. This proportion declines to 84% for OBC men and 69% for OBC women. For SCs, the ratio wasData from a report on education released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) reveals these counter-intuitive truths and shows that, at least when it comes to literacy, notions of “developed states” can be misleading. Gap between male & female literacy smallest in KeralaThe data is for 2017-18 and is for all aged 7 or more. Not all preconceptions are wrong though. Kerala remains by some distance, the best among the major states with a literacy rate of 96.2%. More impressively, the gap between male and female literacy is the smallest in Kerala at just 2.2 percentage points. To put that in context, the gap at the all-India level is 14.4 percentage points with male literacy at 84.7% and female literacy at 70.3%. Typically, states with relatively low literacy rates also tend to have the highest gender skews, but that is not always true. Andhra Pradesh, for instance, has a gap between male and female literacy rates of only 13.9 percentage points, while Rajasthan (23.2), Bihar (19.2) and UP (18.4) have pronounced gaps despite having better overall literacy rates. The gap between urban and rural literacy rates is of the same order of magnitude as that between males and females. Once again, Kerala has the lowest gap of 1.9 percentage points. At the other end of the spectrum on this count are Telangana, where urban literacy is 23.4 percentage points higher than rural literacy, and Andhra Pradesh, where the difference is 19.2 percentage points. The combined effect of the gender and urban-rural skews means that the difference between urban male literacy and rural female literacy is an alarming 27.2 percentage points at the national level. In individual states, it can be much worse. In Rajasthan, for example, it is 38.5 percentage points (9.1% versus 52.6%) and in Telangana, 38 percentage points (91.7% versus 53.7%). Male urban literacy is under 90% in only four major states and below 85% in none of them. In contrast, rural female literacy is above 80% only in Kerala and below 70% in 13 of the 22 major states. In four of these, it is below 60%. Watch At 66%, Andhra’s literacy rate worst, Delhi’s 2nd best at 89%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-66-andhras-literacy-rate-worst-delhis-2nd-best-at-89/articleshow/77968957.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Fragrance makers’ body releases list of safe ingredients||Kolkata: The Fragrances and Flavours Association of India (Fafai) has come up with an initiative by unveiling a reference list of more than 9,000 ingredients used and generally considered safe that are used in making a wide range of fragrance and flavour based products in the country. This is the first edition of Indian Fragrances and Flavours Reference List of Ingredients which will become a standard document and reference book for the industry to follow and use. Fafai has pointed out that as people across the world are becoming more conscious about the products they consume in the wake of the pandemic Covid-19, Fafai has taken up this step to ensure they only use ingredients that are considered safe in their products for domestic consumption as well as for exports. Rishabh C Kothari, president, Fafai, said, “The interests of consumers as well as the need for transparency and clarity has motivated us to present this first edition of reference list, a first-of-its-kind compilation in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fragrance-makers-body-releases-list-of-safe-ingredients/articleshow/77968411.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||HC to hear BPCL-union case on Sept 8||Kolkata: Following an appeal by Petroleum Workers Union against the Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) management, the Calcutta high court division bench on Sunday has fixed the date of next hearing on September 8. Earlier, on the same day, the bench had upheld the single bench order that had declared that two-day strike call at BPCL was not permitted. The BPCL unions had moved an appeal against the order of Justice Subrata Talukdar before the division bench of Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. “We record the submission made by the learned counsel for the appellant that the other petroleum companies, particularly IOCL, ONGC and GAIL have arrived at certain settlements which could be made at par with BPCL, provided BPCL also accepts the same norms,” the division bench observed while fixed the next hearing. Incidentally, three other high courts — Bombay, Madras and Kerela — have also issued orders staying the notices of strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-to-hear-bpcl-union-case-on-sept-8/articleshow/77968443.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Delhi||3,256 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, highest in 73 days||Delhi recorded 3,256 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which is not only the highest single-day spike in 73 days but also the first time during this period that the figure crossed the 3,000 mark. Daily cases have risen on every single day of the past week. In another pointer to the rising infections in the capital, the number of containment zones crossed the 1,000 mark on Sunday for the first time to 1,076, reports Sidhartha Roy. With fresh cases exceeding the number of patients recovering, active cases crossed the 20,000 figure after a long time. Active cases past 20,000 mark; over 1,000 sealed zones nowThe total tally in the city mounted to over 1.91 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 4,567 with 29 deaths reported on Sunday. The rate at which new cases are being reported, Delhi is likely to cross the figure of 2 lakh total cases this week. The number of patients who have recovered stand at more than 1.65 lakh and the recovery rate, which was till very recently hovering around 90%, dipped to 86.6% on Sunday. While the number of new cases breached the 3,000 mark on Sunday, 2,000 new cases have been reported in a day for the past five days this month. The last time the city reported more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases was on June 26, when the figure was 3,460, the highest single-day spike before September 6. However, the positivity rate back then was 16.3% and the number of active cases was 27,657. Also, the recovery rate on June 26 was as low as 60.9% and the number of deaths reported was 63. The number of active cases in Delhi is steadily rising and the city might need more ICU beds, according to doctors, if the numbers keep increasing. The figure on Saturday was 19,870 and 18,842 on Friday. One of the main reasons for the number of new cases being reported going up is the focus on scaling up tests by the government. While Delhi was carrying out around 20,000 tests a day till less than a fortnight ago, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on August 26 that the tests would be doubled to 40,000 a day. Delhi on Saturday reported a record 38,895 tests – 9,562 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 29,333 rapid antigen. On Sunday, the figure dipped slightly to 36,046 tests, which were carried out in the last 24 hours and included 9,217 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 26,829 rapid antigen tests. In June, when daily cases of Covid-19 in Delhi had touched 3,000, people had to struggle to get Covid beds. Due to this, the government mandated private hospitals — both small and big — to reserve at least 20% of their capacity for Covid-19 patients in addition to increasing the capacity of its own hospitals. Watch Covid-19: Delhi records 3,256 new cases, highest in 73 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3256-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-highest-in-73-days/articleshow/77968969.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 7, 2020||Business||Riding on non-Basmati rice, sugar, agri exports jump 23% in Q1 despite lockdown||NEW DELHI: Despite Covid-19 and the lockdown, India saw a 23% increase in export of farm produce from April to June compared to the corresponding period last year, with rice and sugar dominating the charts. Though Basmati rice tops the list of exported farm items in terms of value (Rs 8,591 crore) — accounting for a third of India’s agri export in the first quarter of 2020-21, it’s an export of non-Basmati rice that contributed the highest rise of Rs 2,392 crore. Overall, India recorded an increase of Rs 4,818 crore of agri export compared to 2019 Q1. Rice, sugar contributed over 95% to agri export increaseExport of refined sugar contributed an increase of Rs 1,719 crore and export of raw sugar Rs 448 crore during the period — this means non-basmati rice and sugar (refined and raw) together contributed Rs 4,559 crore (over 95%) in total increase of agri commodities export. Though pigeon pea (tur), Bengal gram and raw groundnut oil figure at the top in percentage term increase, their contribution in value terms in total export is low compared to rice, sugar and onion during the pandemic-hit period. In fact, export of Basmati rice recorded minor decline while other key commodities in India’s agri export basket such as tea and soya meal reported decline of 27% and 14%, respectively, during the first quarter of current financial year compared to the corresponding period in 2019. India’s contribution to sustaining the global food supply chain through increased export amid Covid-19 situation was noted last week during the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) 35th regional conference for Asia and the Pacific, organised by Bhutan on a virtual platform. The country’s representatives, including Union minister of state for agriculture Parshottam Rupala, spoke how the prompt measures during the lockdown period mitigated the impact of the pandemic at a time which coincided first with the peak harvest season and subsequently with fast-paced summer sowing operations during the monsoon. Analysis of the agri export figures of April-June period shows that pigeon pea recorded highest increase of 440% (from Rs 15 crore last year to Rs 81 crore this year) while Bengal Gram recorded an increase of 407%, groundnut oil 243% increase and wheat 148% rise. Incidentally, rice (both Basmati and non-Basmati) and sugar (refined and raw), which together account for nearly 78% of total agri export during April-June, are the two biggest water-guzzling farm commodities — a point which experts on sustainable agriculture invariably raise while pitching for micro irrigation and diversification towards less water-consuming nutri-cereals such as millets. Watch Despite lockdown, Q1 agri exports jump 23%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rice-sugar-push-up-q1-farm-exports-by-23/articleshow/77968974.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 7, 2020||Goa||GIDC gets more time onMP coal block formalities||PANAJI: In yet another reprieve for the state, the Centre has given Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) additional time to pay the performance security and appoint a transaction advisor for the Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli, Madhya Pradesh. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, GIDC had written to the Union ministry of coal seeking more time to complete the formalities. This is the third extension given to Goa, the first being the 100-day grace period granted to the state government in February. “The Central government has given us 45 days more, if one removes the weekends. The extension is from September 1,” said a GIDC official. GIDC has been unable to appoint a transaction advisor and obtain the funds, equivalent to a year’s royalty, required to formally develop the coal block. The industries department had constituted a monitoring committee headed by industries minister Vishwajit Rane and a selection committee under-secretary, industries Nila Mohanan. While the nine-member monitoring committee has to monitor the development of the coal block, the five-member selection committee has to appoint a transaction advisor based on their technical qualification and financial offers for the coal block. “GIDC should have executed the coal mine development and production agreement and paid the Rs 190 crore by October 30 but the state delayed,” said a government official. Goa’s finance department officials had informed GIDC that they could not allocate Rs 190 crore from the government’s treasury to pay the performance guarantee for the coal block and had asked GIDC explore other avenues. The Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh has been allocated to Goa as part of the fifth tranche of allotment by the coal ministry. The coal block had been earlier allotted to Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation (MPSMC) but was taken back after MPSMC failed to exploit the mine in due time. Coal mines have been allotted to state governments for sale of coal under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-gets-more-time-onmp-coal-block-formalities/articleshow/77966946.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paanwala signs ‘receipt’, loses Gujarat’s Motown land||AHMEDABAD: A 70-year-old paan shop owner was tricked with a masala-laced money story: a fraudster said he was a courier man bearing a compensation cheque from the railways for the shop owner’s six-acre land. The land of the septuagenarian, Ali Momin, in Gujarat’s Motown of Sanand was worth crores. Momin has alleged that the courier handed an envelope ostensibly containing the cheque to him saying the railways was paying for acquiring the land. Momin was made to give his thumb impressions on some papers. This happened in 2018. Momin says he came to know later that the cheque receipts were actually documents of sale deed agreements. Momin, a resident of Gibpura village in Sanand, had several tracts of land in the state’s booming Motown. His five acres of land was acquired by the railways in 2017 and he was left with 6 acres. The remainder of Momin’s holdings were lost on August 30, 2018, by the alleged pressing of his thumb. An FIR was filed by Momin at the Sanand police station on Friday. Inspector H B Gohil of Sanand police said that when Momin opened the envelope he found a few papers with ABCD alphabets and random 1-10 numbers with images on it. His suspicion aroused, Momin issued a notice in newspapers stating that someone had taken his thumb impressions with mala fide intentions. On the other hand, the accused in the case, Pradyumnasinh Jhala of Limbdi town of Surendranagar, began acquiring the land. When Momin objected, Jhala filed a civil suit in a court to get the land registered in his name. During the prosecution of the case, a discrepancy was found in signatures. On Momin’s pleas, a court ordered an inquiry and forensic experts were called in. An analysis by the experts confirmed that something was dodgy. Later, a police team of Sanand determined that Jhala and a notary from Ahmedabad identified as N K Sisodia had allegedly hatched a conspiracy to acquire the land by defrauding Momin, says PI Gohil. The investigation also revealed that Jhala had allegedly posed as the courier. Sanand police have registered a case of cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paanwala-signs-receipt-loses-gujarats-motown-land/articleshow/77968973.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 7, 2020||India||‘I didn’t travel to Delhi for the case, didn’t meet my lawyer’||Republishing a piece from May 26, 2018, based on an interview of Kesavananda Bharati by TOI’s K P SaikiranHis name will resound in posterity but he seems oblivious to it. Which perhaps befits his quest, which is basically spiritual. Kesavananda Bharati, now well into his 70s, resides in the remote northern Kerala hamlet of Edneer in Kasaragod, almost in the middle of nowhere. As head of Edneer Mutt, which follows the teachings of Adi Shankaracharya, he leads a largely anonymous life. After his usual morning pooja that begins at 5am, followed by a late breakfast, he spared some time to talk about his memories of the case still considered the greatest constitutional case in this country, one that settled a core dispute between Parliament and Supreme Court. When the Kerala Land Reforms Act was enacted, Kesavananda Bharati challenged it on the grounds that it was against the Indian constitution. He explains the logic behind approaching the court against the law: “I approached the court not because I lost my property, but due to the feeling that what the government did was not right. One has the right to earn. Whatever he earns may be in the form of cash, kind or property. When the government decided that properties beyond a limit will be taken away, we decided to approach the highest court”, he says. From the very beginning, the case had serious political implications. That became clear when parliament’s amendment of fundamental rights affected the propertied class, mainly zamindars, sugar mill and coal mine owners in addition to former princes who were still wielding considerable political clout. There were several petitioners, but Kesavananda Bharati’s petition was listed at the top, as it challenged the Kerala Land Reforms Act. The task of taking his petition to the highest court was undertaken by a prominent lawyer from his home district of Kasaragod, M K Nambiar, father of present attorney general K K Venugopal. “It was M K Nambiar who did all the formalities and engaged a team of lawyers in New Delhi. I never travelled for the purpose,” Bharati says. Kesavananda Bharati’s lawyer was none other than the legendary Nani A Palkhivala. “I have never met him. I heard that some major corporate firms joined the case. I did not pay any fee to Palkhivala as I could not afford it. I heard that the companies who joined the case bore the expenses,” he reveals. Bharati says that the case followed him wherever he went, as people appreciated its cause. “In my travels across the country, people who had read about the case would ask if I was the same Kesavananda Bharati who initiated the case? They would praise me, though I was only an instrument in the delivery of such a historic verdict,” he recalls. Some people felt it was contradictory that a man of his stature, who has supposedly given up all kinds of worldly belongings and material pleasures, should engage in a legal battle for property. “Once some law students asked me this question. But to such questions, I can give only one answer: We are only trying to help the needy fight for their fundamental right to own property. You can check our bank account and find it out for yourselves. When the government deprived us of our legal right to own properties, it was my duty to question it in spite of the fact that it is not my personal loss,” he explains. The case was decided by the biggest ever bench of the Supreme Court with 13 members including the then chief justice S M Sikri who was about to retire at that time. The government did not follow the precedence of announcing the new chief justice, which apparently was to wait to know the outcome of the case. The court finally ruled that though Parliament has the power to amend the constitution, it cannot use that power to alter or destroy its basic structure. Kesavananda Bharati could not regain his lost land, but he says he does not have any regrets. “We lost the land. But when I learnt what the outcome of the case was, how it contributed to democracy, it gave me utmost satisfaction,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-didnt-travel-to-delhi-for-the-case-didnt-meet-my-lawyer/articleshow/77968986.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Goa likely to get respite from heat for next 2 days||PANAJI: After a few days of sunny weather, light to moderate rainfall, accompanied by thunder and lightning, is likely across various parts of the state during the next two days. India Meteorological Department (IMD), Panaji, has issued a swell surge warning for Goa based on cautionary advice by the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) of sea surges in low lying areas of Mormugao, Panaji and Vasco on Monday and Tuesday . A low-pressure area persisting over the Arabian sea is likely to yield heavy rainfall from Wednesday and trigger rough sea conditions. The effect of cooling in the eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean later this month, creating up the La Nina phenomenon, is expected to make this month wetter than usual. IMD has advised fishermen and water sports operators to refrain from any activities during the next two days as boats may be damaged during the sea surge. While barely any rainfall was recorded during the last 24 hours at all 13 centres in the state, this year’s surplus rainfall stands at 27%. The seasonal total rainfall has so far touched 3,487.9mm (137.3 inches), as compared to a normal of 2,755mm (108.4 inches) at this stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-likely-to-get-respite-from-heat-for-next-2-days/articleshow/77966961.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops detain businessman in Sandalwood drug case||BENGALURU: City Crime Branch police on Sunday detained businessman Prashanth Ranka, an alleged drug supplier to celebrities and high-profile parties here, and are interrogating him in the peddling case involving Sandalwood actors. Officials continued interrogating actor Ragini Dwivedi and other accused and picked up a few more suspects for questioning. Police sources said they are questioning Ranka about his alleged participation in mega parties, his role in procurement and supply of drugs to actors and celebrities. “Yes, he’s an accused in the case. We may arrest him any time now,” a senior police officer said. CCB police have arrested four of 12 suspects in the case: Ragini, event managers Veeren Khanna and Rahul Tonse, and African Loom Pepper. “We have picked up a few suspects relating to drug peddling by actors and celebrities. We’re questioning them to find their network,” a police officer said. Ragini didn’t reply to most queries: OfficerAccording to police sources, Ragini was tightlipped on Sunday and did not reply to most queries of a police inspector. “She kept saying she had already given a statement about what she knew and she has nothing more to say,” a police officer said. He, however, asserted that CCB has evidence against Ragini. Police will produce Ragini before court on Monday when her three-day police custody ends. Cops will seek custody extension, citing her non-cooperation. Her bail petition will come up for hearing before the NDPS special court on Monday. I am accused no.13!On Sunday, a man trooped into the CCB office in Chamarajpet, declared he is accused No. 13 in the case and he was with Ragini at many parties. He identified himself as Aravind, a friend of Shankar. “He came to the office on a scooter with a tea flask. Later, he claimed he was a drug consumer,” a police officer said. Cops took him into custody and let him go after collecting personal details, including address. “He looks like he is mentally disturbed,” a police officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-cops-detain-businessman-in-sandalwood-drug-case/articleshow/77968991.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||‘Goa must be more sustainable while constructing’||Panaji: The pandemic has brought with it an enhanced awareness about the need to shift to more sustainable lifestyles and professionals like architects and engineers in Goa must opt for traditional and locally available material for construction, architect and environmentalist Tallulah D’Silva said. She said that Goa already has material like laterite morum available, which can be used in construction. In India, lateritic clays containing very high proportion of iron are known as morum. “We can use the laterite morum, it has the right amount of clay and right amount of sand. You don’t need to get them from outside the state,” said D’Silva. She said that such structures last longer and future families can live in buildings that practice resource conservation. D’Silva was speaking as part of a social media initiative by reQUEST Media, where professionals, thinkers, business leaders and intellectuals express their solutions that can help improve life in Goa post pandemic. The videos of are released regularly on the social media platform reACTION123. D’Silva said that elsewhere in the world and in India professionals have already long been experimenting with traditional construction materials. “Looking at the way a lot of animals build in nature, the ideas have been practised by professionals, whether it is bio-mimicry or replicating whatever is there in nature,” said D’Silva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-must-be-more-sustainable-while-constructing/articleshow/77967018.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Citizens infuse new life in Guirim coconut trees||PANAJI: A call for about 15 volunteers to help revive the coconut trees along the Guirim road stretch received an overwhelming response as over 45 people turned up on Sunday morning. Shortage of gardening tools compelled the volunteers to return next week to complete the ‘new rooting’ technology on the trees. Sangolda resident Milagres Fernandes read about the initiative on social media and promptly turned up to help. “My goal was to dig around five trees so that the manure could be laid in. It was tough because the tree trunks were choked with concrete and stones left behind due to the construction,” she said. “The trees lay buried up to six metres from the ground level due to the height of the road. As a result, they are not able to get the required nutrition from their roots thus leading to the yellowing of the palm leaves. However, by adding the manure on the trunks, we can induce the growth of new roots and rejuvenate the trees,” said Priyanka Parab, an agriculture science lecturer. She further said that the technique of ‘new rooting’ will have to be repeated once every year to ensure that the trees continue to thrive. TOI had reported on September 13 that citizens were gathering at the Guirim stretch on Sunday to use organic manure which has a consortium of 16 bacteria among other agents to give a new lease of life to the coconut trees. Avertino Miranda who undertook the initiative under Goa Green Brigade said that the 40 trees were treated. “This was possible due to a community effort where everyone is collectively working for the initiative. Next Sunday, we will prepare a mud circle around the trees to ensure that the manure we’ve placed doesn’t get washed away. Debris in the surroundings will also be picked up,” he said. “The local MLA, sarpanch, forest and environment minister and forest department officials did not show up despite repeated messages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-infuse-new-life-in-guirim-coconut-trees/articleshow/78095985.cms||Nida Sayed
September 7, 2020||Goa||Dy CM urges people to grow own veggies||Margao: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar has urged people to spare time to cultivate vegetables at least for one’s household consumption. “If everybody does this, we will not have to depend on our neighbouring states for vegetable supply. And if it results in surplus production, it will turn out to be a revolutionary trend for the state,” Kavalekar said. He made these comments during his recent visit to the farm owned by Quepem municipal council’s chairperson Dayesh Naik who has recently forayed into vegetable cultivation. The agriculture minister pointed out that it was evident that the younger generation was steadily turning to agriculture going by the increase in the quantum of sale of vegetable seedlings by the agriculture department this year. He said that the sales figures were five times higher than those of last year. Vice chairperson of QMC Chetan Haldankar and Fatorpa zilla panchayat member Khushali Velip were among those present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-cm-urges-people-to-grow-own-veggies/articleshow/77967035.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Tiger attack kills 1 in Sunderbans||Kolkata: A fisherman, a resident of Satjelia, was killed by a tiger inside the Sunderbans when he, along with two others, had gone out on a fishing trip on Sunday morning. This is the third such case in the last four days and the 18th so far this year. The deceased has been identified as Gopal Baidya (57). The incident took place in the forest of Jhila 6. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tiger-attack-kills-1-in-sunderbans/articleshow/77968515.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||13-yr-old gangraped, killed in MP||Barrackpore/Kolkata: Two youths were killed and another person was severely injured in an explosion inside a house at Galighat, Kamarhati, in the Kamarhati Municipality limits on Sunday evening. The injured has been admitted to hospital. Locals heard a loud explosion and rushed out of their homes to find the youths lying in a pool of blood inside the house near Prabartak Jute Mill, police said. They were rushed to hospital but Md Sajid (28) and Md Raja (29) succumbed to their injuries. Md Hanif was admitted to Sagar Dutta Hospital in a serious condition. Barrackpore Commissionerate DCP (zone II) Ananda Roy said: “Two persons died in a blast. We are yet to ascertain the exact cause of explosion.” A large police contingent has reached the spot. According to residents, Sajid and Raja had been seen before in the locality but nobody knew much about them. Sajid is a resident of Telenipara, Bhadreswar and Raja of Bhatpara. In another development, a 32-year-old BJP leader was shot at by bike-borne goons at Ichapore in the Barrackpore industrial belt late on Saturday. Asutosh Singh, struck by a bullet on the left side of his chest, is in critical condition.in Barrackpore subdivisional hospital. Two persons were arrested for the assassination attempt. BJP alleged that Trinamool Congess leaders had hired miscreants to shoot Singh dead. Trinamool’s district observer and assembly chief whip Nirmal Ghosh, however, said: “No Trinamool supporter was involved. BJP leaders engineered the shooting, in which their activist fell prey.” Barrackpore-Bhatpara-Jagaddal and Noapara areas in North 24 Parganas have witnessed incessant politic-al violence since the last parliamentary election amid a BJP-Trinamool turf war. According to local sources, Saturday’s incident took place around 11.45pm when Singh, a resident of Ichapore’s Arabinda Pally and BJP Noapara booth committee member, was taking a walk after dinner at Golmath, a local playground. “Six armed men came on two motorbikes. They first hit him on the head with an iron rod. When Singh tried to resist, one of the goons fired at him,” said Shyamapr-asad Singh, the victim’s uncle and BJP booth committee president. “TMC leaders engaged supari killer to wipe him out as he is a well-known BJP leader in Ichapore-Noapara area,” he alleged. A Noapara police team arrested sharpshooter Vicky Ram and Prakash Banshphore from Ichapore’s Eastland complex. “We suspect a rivalry over a monetary dispute could have led to the attack,” said Barrackpore Commissionerate DCP Ajay Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/13-yr-old-gangraped-killed-in-mp/articleshow/77968473.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||After WFH, Kolkatans keep WF(R)esorts trending||KOLKATA: Stuck at home for months while juggling office and household responsibilities because of the pandemic, a section of Kolkatans is now moving out of home — with families and laptops — for short stays at resorts in the city and the outskirts, contributing to the growing trend of “work from resort” or “workstaycation”. Making this possible are boutique hotels and resorts, which are welcoming patrons with “Covid-19 packages” that include flexible rates, office spaces inside rooms, complimentary tea/coffee multiple times a day and a steady Wi-fi conne-ction to ensure office work is never hampered. Since Unlock 1.0 allowed hospitality services to reopen, a number of Kolkatans have been relocating for a few days to resorts, mostly within driving distance from the city. “It was frustrating sitting back home all the time while continuing to slog for hours on the laptop and in conference calls,” said Jatin Agarwal, a senior marketing executive of an MNC, who spent three nights at a resort near Diamond Harbour last week. “Even the kids were getting jittery with the prolonged stay at home without a vacation. But we couldn’t take a chance of heading out for a faraway vacation in this pandemic. And, with the economy bouncing back, I couldn’t skip work. Hence, the ‘workstaycation’ model was the best suited for us, where we could all freshen up without hampering work.” Hoteliers worried about the lull in the tourism industry said the concept of workstaycation developed with very little effort from their side. “We offer packages, where we set up workstations at any place within the property. Patrons can work while our staff can even take care of children and their activities,” said Nitin Kohli, director, Ambuja Neotia Hospitality, who manages multiple resorts in the city and the fringes, offering work-from-resort options. At Ibiza, The Fern Resort and Spa, a special work-’n’-stay package has been made where guests can stay for five days while paying for only three, with outdoor work stations anywhere within the property and all-inclusive facilities like meals, spa treatments, car sanitization and a host of activities like boating, basketball, badminton, table-tennis, carom, chess, outdoor and indoor games for kids. “This is one of the biggest holiday trends currently,” said Subhadip Basu, the general manager of the resort in Amtala, on Diamond Harbour Road. “Seventy percent of our tourists booked in the last three weeks are workstaycationers. We are quite hopeful that this trend will prevail in September,” he added. Uninterrupted Wi-Fi being the backbone of a workstaycation, many smaller resorts and vacation homes are upgrading their internet connectivity. “Guests now need steady internet connection for office work as well as online classes for children. Keeping that in mind, we have upgraded our internet connectivity and have even kept routers and dongles ready for backup support. With the pool shut, we have started complimentary cycling and boating activities for our guests with set day, three-day and seven-day all-inclusive packages,” said Susaurav Nag, property manager of Breathing Earth resort at Usthi, South 24 Parganas. According to resort owners, they are charging approximately Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per day for workstaycation options, depending on rooms and length of stay. Some of those still hesitant to go for longer journeys and remote stays are even checking in at resorts closer home. “Pre-pandemic, my husband and I used to go for a small vacation at least once every two months. But for the last five and half months, we have been stuck at home. We didn’t want to risk our lives amidst the virus outbreak. So, we booked our stay at a resort in the city earlier this month, where we could enjoy a leisurely stay as well as complete our office work,” said Anusrea Paul Mukherjee, an e-learning trainer who stayed at Raj Kutir, Swabhumi, with her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-wfh-kolkatans-keep-wfresorts-trending/articleshow/77968660.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro cops to help bring Covid patients to hospitals||BOKARO: Police will now escort ambulances in which district health workers ferry Covid-19 patients after several instances of infected persons resisting efforts to take them to designated hospitals and Covid care centres surfaced. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh issued an order in this regard on Sunday. He said, “SP Chandan Kumar Jha has been asked to provide 1/4th of the district police force to go along with the health workers in the vehicles to the homes of the infected people and bring them to hospitals.” A list of infected people has been sent to all circle officers so that they can be traced and brought to the hospital, Singh added. District health department officials said such instances of resistance by the infected persons are a cause of concern amid the surge in Covid cases in Bokaro. They said while asymptomatic patients are admitted in the 100-bed Covid care centre of the health department, symptomatic and critical patients are treated at Bokaro General Hospital. Only the DC is empowered to assign police along with ambulances according to protocols, the department approached him, the officials added. As of Sunday morning, Bokaro district has 800 active cases of a total caseload of 2,059. Of the total, 1,243 have recovered and discharged while 16 people have died of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-to-aid-health-workers-to-bring-covid-patients-to-hosps-in-bokaro/articleshow/77966781.cms||Divy Khare
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 7 Covid deaths; 1,246 new cases takes tally past 50,000||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported seven Covid-19 deaths and 1,246 new infections after which the state’s caseload has crossed the 50,000-mark. The death toll has also reached 469. Among the seven casualties reported on Sunday, East Singhbum continued to register the highest number of deaths at four. Ranchi reported two fresh casualties and Sahebganj reported one. Apart from the rising number of Covid-19 deaths, the state health department has one more reason to worry as the positivity rate saw a spike of more than 3% on Sunday and stood at 9.54% as 1,246 out of total 13057 samples tested positive for the virus. “In reality, the number of positive cases is not much of problem to worry but an increase of 3% in the positivity rate on a single day means that we are far from reaching the peak of infection in the state,” a senior health department official said. Ranchi continues to dominate the numbers on positive cases with a total of 349 new infections on Sunday followed by West Singhbhum (110) and East Singhbhum (102). Bokaro and Saraikela reported 97 and 94 cases each while Ramgarh reported 88 and Hazraibag detected 71 new cases. With 1,246 fresh infections and 1,854 recoveries on Sunday, the cumulative caseload crossed the 50,000-mark and stood at 51,063. Of the total, 14,410 are active and 36,184 have recovered. Amid these grim figures, the health department heaved a sigh of relief as the recovery rate improved and stands at 70.86%. The seven days growth rate continues to increase in state and stood at 4.13% which is 2% more than the national average of 2.1%. The seven days doubling rate of Jharkhand too reduced to around 17 days which is 50% less than that of the national average of around 33 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reports-7-covid-deaths-1246-new-cases-takes-tally-past-50k/articleshow/77966687.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||TMC’s calling attention motion in Parl on GST||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress has submitted a calling attention motion in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the GST issue and started floor coordination with opposition parties to get Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to respond to it in Parliament. TMC has reached out to 10 regional parties, including Congress, for a joint strategy. Congress has indicated it will submit a similar motion in RS on Monday. Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien and Lok Sabha chief whip Kalyan Banerjee submitted the motions on Saturday evening. TMC sources said with Question Hour no longer there during Parliament’s 18-day monsoon session starting September 14, Zero Hour mentions and short duration discussions will not be binding on the Union finance minister to respond to. “Of all the parliamentary tactics available to us in the opposition, the calling attention motion is a device to ensure that the minister concerned has to answer the hard questions in Parliament,” O’Brien said. Preliminary discussions have already taken place with DMK, NCP, SP, BSP and AAP. “They were keen to join ranks,” a source said. The stand of Left parties — who are also vocal on this issue — is still not clear. “There has been past precedence of issue-based coordination with parties,” a leader said. The TMC motion says that state governments have played the primary role in shouldering the urgency arising out of Covid-19. However, the Centre “has consistently faltered” in giving timely GST payments to states. It also iterates chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to PM Narendra Modi in which she mentioned how states have given up 70% of their taxation powers on the condition of full compensation of shortfall in GST collection for 5 years. By denying states their fair share of GST compensation, the Centre “is failing to keep its key obligation under the GST regime, as well as the Constitution, as it is striking a fatal blow to the principle of fiscal federalism”, the motion adds. “The Centre has offered two options to states, both of which involve borrowing lakhs and crores of rupees to make up for the GST gap, one which the Centre has itself estimated to be about Rs 3 lakh crores this year. Many states have issued statements categorically rejecting the options. I urge you to take up this issue and request the minister to make a statement in House,” it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmcs-calling-attention-motion-in-parl-on-gst/articleshow/77968481.cms||Saibal Sen
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool advises MPs above 65 to skip monsoon session||Kolkata: Based on the Centre’s advisory, several senior Trinamool MPs who are over 65 have been advised not to attend Parliament’s 18-day monsoon session, beginning September 14. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, the party’s leader in Lok Sabha, senior MPs Sisir Adhikari and C M Jatua have been advised not to attend the session. Veteran parliamentarian Saugata Roy, however, is likely to be present. Senior RS MPs Subrata Bakshi and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, the party’s chief whip, too are unlikely to attend the session. “The MHA advisory has been conveyed to parliamentarians. Even in March, when Parliament was open, the party had advised its MPs to ensure Covid protocols,” a senior Trinamool leader said. “Clause 7 of the MHA advisory asks parliamentarians who are above 65 years not to attend Parliament.” According to sources, Sukhendu Ray has already informed the Rajya Sabha chairperson about not attending Parliament. Former minister Dinesh Trivedi will attend only his swearing-in. Trinamool affairs in the Upper House will be conducted by its Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien. In Lok Sabha, lawyer Kalyan Banerjee, Trinamool’s chief whip, will manage party affairs. Roy has informed the party he was willing to attend the session. According to sources, Trinamool’s younger MPs have been advised to attend the monsoon session while following Covid protocols. Parliament will remain open on all 18 days, with Rajya Sabha working from 9am-1pm and Lok Sabha from 3pm-7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-advises-mps-above-65-to-skip-monsoon-session/articleshow/77968483.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 47-year-old, rescuing woman in car, injured after driver dashes her||KOLKATA: A 47-year-old Kolkatan was seriously injured after she rushed to the rescue of another woman, whom she heard screaming for help from a car, in a deserted street off the EM Bypass near the Ruby crossing a little before midnight between Saturday and Sunday. Amitabha Bose — who was at the wheel of the car, from which a 31-year-old bank employee was eventually rescued — reversed his sedan and ran into braveheart Nilanjana Chatterjee, splitting her shin bone, before speeding off. The police, who are yet to catch him, have charged him with attempt to commit culpable homicide (Section 308 IPC). The incident occurred in Anandapur, barely 300 metres from the Bypass. Chatterjee, her husband Deep Satpati and their daughter were leaving her mother’s residence at a housing complex after celebrating her birthday, when they heard a woman’s cry for help from a sedan travelling down the road. “We were exiting the complex. I was at the wheel of our hatchback. Suddenly, my wife asked me to stop. It was she who heard a woman cry for help. We realised it was coming from the car behind us. So, I steered our car at an angle and stopped in the middle of the road, blocking the sedan’s path. As soon as I braked, Nilanjana leapt out and ran towards the other car to check on the woman inside,” Satpati told TOI. On seeing her approach, Bose, at the wheel of the sedan, opened the passenger door, pushed the woman out and tried to turn and flee. Seeing the woman get injured, Chatterjee chased the vehicle. Spotting her in pursuit, Bose stopped the car, reversed and dashed into her. “I saw the car first strike her and then run over her right leg, leaving her writhing in pain on the road,” said Satpati. Acting on the rescued woman’s complaint, the police have registered a case against Bose, accusing him under relevant sections. Chatterjee’s family has also lodged a complaint, including that of attempt to murder. The cops are studying CCTV footage from the entire area. The car was found to have reverse and hit Chatterjee around 11.50pm. Cops are also questioning the woman and looking into messages she exchanged with Bose. There is one action of Bose, though, that has left the cops puzzled. A few hours after the incident, Bose drove down to the flat of the woman and handed over her mobile phone, which she had left in his car, to the security guard. He then fled from the spot. The woman later told the cops that he had deleted several important phone numbers from the contact list, along with a few other documents. Chatterjee has been admitted to a private hospital, where she will undergo surgery on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/47-yr-old-rescuing-woman-in-car-injured-after-driver-dashes-her/articleshow/77968655.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bangladeshi smuggler shot dead by BSF in Malda||Kolkata/Malda: A 25-year-old Bangladeshi youth was killed after attacking Border Security Force (BSF) personnel while smuggling Phensedyl bottles from India on Saturday. The incident occurred at Gopalnagar in the Gulabganj police station area in Malda around 10 pm on Saturday. The youth has been identified as Badsha Sk of Sahabajpur in Chapainawabganj district in Bangladesh. The BSF maintained that only a single shot was fired from a non-lethal weapon in self-defence. “There was an attempt on the life of a jawan of the 24Bn BSF posted at the Gopalnagar BOP. The attack took place after a group of criminals were challenged on the Indian side by our personnel. We had received information of an attempt to smuggle Phensedyl across the border and the post commander alerted his troops accordingly. Around 9.50 pm, 10-12 people approached the border fence from the Indian side, bearing head loads. A similar number of people approached the fence from the Bangladesh side,” a senior BSF official said. On being challenged, the Indian smugglers fled, throwing their head loads across the fence. Some of the packages got stuck in the barbed wire. The Bangladeshi criminals refused to back off though and attacked the BSF personnel. One of them slashed a trooper with a ‘daah’ near his ear. The trooper fired his pump action gun (PAG) in self-defence. While his attacker slumped to the ground, the other smugglers fled the spot. “Later, when the area was searched, the body, along with a ‘daah’ and three head loads were recovered on Indian territory. There were nearly 75 bottles of Phensedyl in the head loads,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangladeshi-smuggler-shot-dead-by-bsf-in-malda/articleshow/77968502.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad hosp shut for 17 yrs piques interests of investors||SINDRI: The 250-bed Sindri Fertilizer Factory (SFF) hospital, which is lying defunct for 17 years, has recently piqued curiosity of investors in the healthcare sector. The SFF hospital, the foundations of which were laid in 1953 by the then Union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, closed in 2003. Equipped with separate wards for male and female, surgery, medicine, gynecology and an airconditioned pediatrics ward, the hospital also had two operation theaters for minor and major surgeries, a state-of-the-art blood bank, pathology and physiotherapy facilities. With its closure in 2003, Sindri’s 40,000-odd population became completely dependent on the healthcare infrastructure in Dhanbad. However, the pandemic has come as a silver lining for the defunct hospital. Since the pandemic broke out in March, several companies have expressed their interest to take over the facility and make it operational. Now Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd (HURL), a company that has been set up at the premises of the closed Sindri fertilizer factory, is reportedly interested in running the hospital with the help of Durgapur Mission Hospital. A Dhanbad-based industrialist and JMM functionary has also approached chief minister Heman Soren for running the hospital on a private-public partnership mode. Earlier, a Buddhist trust and a trust running a super-specialty hospital in Dhanbad had also approached the factory management for allotting the hospital to them. When asked, the unit in-charge of Sindri fertilizer factory, Ravi Kant Prasad, said that he has no powers to transfer the factory property to any organization without the approval of the competent authorities of FCI corporate office. “This is nothing but privatizing the hospital through the backdoors,” Ashok Prasad, the general secretary of the local unit of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, said, adding that they would allow handing it over to a private firm only if free medical facility is provided to the residents of the town. Echoing similar sentiments, Sewa Singh, the president of the All India FCI VSS Employees Association, said that the HURL management had assured free medical assistance to the former employees and their family members and it should honour its promises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/closed-hospital-catches-eye-of-investors-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/77966772.cms||Anil Ashutosh
September 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ex-cricketers collect Rs 1,800 to clear Dhoni’s dues, state board likely to turn down payment||JAMSHEDPUR: The Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) is believed to have not accepted the Rs 1,800 cheque, money for which was collected by former cricketers of the Steel City to clear the dues of former captain of the Indian cricket team M S Dhoni. In 2019, Dhoni became a life member of the state cricket board and had paid the membership fee of Rs 10,000 but the 18% GST was due. JSCA also reportedly did not asked for the 18% GST from Dhoni when they collected the membership fee from him. On August 30 when the virtual annual general meeting was held, it was found Dhoni owed Rs 1,800 to JSCA. Convenor of Purv Cricketers Sangh (PCS) Sheshnath Pathak said, “When we learnt about the due, we decided to voluntarily contribute the amount and deposit it with JSCA as a mark of respect to Dhoni.” On Saturday, Pathak deposited a bank draft of Rs 1,800 to the officials of JSCA at Keenan Stadium. “Many of Dhoni’s young fans have also contributed from their pocket money,” he said. However, JSCA did not give a receipt for the demand draft, Pathak said. JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay said, “It is true that Dhoni owed Rs 1,800, but it is a matter between the association and the cricketer.” Sahay hinted that JSCA is unlikely to accept the draft cheque deposited by the former cricketer’s group. However, sources said the draft was not accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-cricketers-collect-rs-1800-to-clear-dhonis-dues-state-board-likely-to-turn-down-payment/articleshow/77966751.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 40 days after launch, controversial BIEC Covid centre to shut||BENGALURU: Just 40 days after the controversy-ridden 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre at BIEC in Bengaluru opened, the BBMP on Sunday decided to shut it down owing to revised asymptomatic patient care protocol and lack of patients wanting to get admitted to care centres outside city limits. BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said, “There was a sudden drop in the demand for BIEC (Bangalore International Exhibition Centre, on Tumakuru Road) care centre as norms were changed for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases. More people are opting for home quarantine. Running the care centre is too expensive and a waste of public money.” In the next one week, BIEC and three other care centres (including a 600-bed one at Gandhi Krishi Vikas Kendra) will be shuttered, besides the three shut last week, a senior bureaucrat said, calling them white elephants. After next week, only six care centres, including a 200-bed one to be established, will function. The BBMP has given the BIEC care centre time till September 15 to wind down its operations and transfer patients to other CCCs in the city. ‘Agri, horticulture varsities to pick up 2k bed sets’The BIEC care centre had run into controversy after the state decided to procure all material required for the entire setup on rent by spending Rs 800 a day for bed sets. After CM Yediyurappa stepped in, the government decided to, instead, purchase the same. Now, with the centre shutting down permanently, the procurement costs may be considered a loss to the state exchequer. The state had spent about Rs 8 crore for purchase of material. To salvage the situation, the government has accelerated its plans to hand over the bed sets to government institutions, primarily hostels run by the state government. “We had purchased seven items for the BIEC, including beds, cots, table fan, plastic chairs and a side table. These will now be reallocated to government hostels. The other 21 items rented out will be returned,” said Prasad, BBMP commissioner. IAS officer Rajendra Kumar Kataria, in charge of CCCs, said orders have been issued to agriculture and horticulture universities to pick up 2,000 bed sets on Monday. Some of them have not been unwrapped as patients at that centre were few. “There is no loss since we are giving these cots and bed sets to government hostels, including agriculture, horticulture and SC/ST community hostels. For, most institutions are autonomous without much government aid and have to generate internal revenue for buying the same products,” said Kataria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-40-days-after-launch-controversial-biec-covid-centre-to-shut/articleshow/77969001.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka sees 9,319 new Covid-19 cases, tally set to cross 4-lakh mark||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday reported 9,319 fresh Covid-19 infections and is set to cross the 4-lakh mark in total number of cases in the next 24 hours. According to the health department, 9,575 people were discharged, while 95 persons died due to virus taking the toll to 6,393. Bengaluru reported 2,824 and 38 deaths followed by Mysuru 686 and five deaths and Belagavi 427 and eight deaths. Sixteen districts have now more than 100 Covid deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sees-9319-new-covid-19-cases-tally-set-to-cross-4-lakh-mark/articleshow/77969061.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||Former Lt Col, a doctor, stabs to death hubby, an ex-Captain||HYDERABAD: Police arrested a retired lieutenant colonel, also a doctor, on Sunday for allegedly stabbing her husband, a retired Army captain, to death. Cyberabad police said the victim, Vishal Dewan, 43, worked as a senior security manager with Johnson & Johnson after retiring from the Army, while the accused, Sabina Roshan, 50, is a doctor, who also retired from the Army as a lieutenant colonel. At 10.45pm on Saturday, local police received a call from Sabina Roshan’s 23-year-old daughter informing them about the stabbing incident at their house. Police took Sabina into custody. “Sabina confessed to the crime. On Saturday night, the couple had an argument. Sabina was in an inebriated condition. When Vishal went to the children’s room, Sabina came with a kitchen knife from behind and stabbed him,” the inspector said. “She claimed her husband tortured her physically and emotionally,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-lt-col-a-doctor-stabs-to-death-hubby-an-ex-captain/articleshow/77968993.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 7, 2020||India||MPs over 65 can skip monsoon session, TMC tells members||KOLKATA: Acting on the Centre’s advisory, Trinamool Congress has asked its MPs who are above the age of 65 not to attend the Parliament’s monsoon session, beginning September 14. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, the party’s leader in Lok Sabha, and senior MPs Sisir Adhikari and C M Jatua, have been advised not to attend the session. Veteran parliamentarian Saugata Roy, however, is likely to be present. Rajya Sabha MPs Subrata Bakshi and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, the party’s chief whip, too are likely to skip the session. “Even in March, when Parliament was open, the party had advised its MPs to ensure Covid protocols,” a TMC veteran said. As per sources, Sukhendu Ray has informed the RS chairperson about not attending Parliament. Former minister Dinesh Trivedi will attend only his swearing-in. TMC affairs in the Upper House will be conducted by Derek O’Brien.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-over-65-can-skip-monsoon-session-tmc-tells-members/articleshow/77969083.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||Central teams sent to help Punjab & Chandigarh||NEW DELHI: The health ministry has sent central teams to Punjab and Chandigarh in view of increasing cases of coronavirus and deaths in these two places. The teams will be stationed in the state and the UT for 10 days to assist them review public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid-19. The teams include a community medicine expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh, and an epidemiologist from the National Centre for Disease Control. Punjab has a case fatality ratio of 2.9% whereas the national average is much lower. Its Covid-19 tally is 61,527 and it had 15,870 active cases as on Sunday. The state has registered 1,808 deaths. Chandigarh has 2,140 active cases and its total cases stand at 5,502. Testing per million and cumulative positivity rate stand at 38,054 and 11.99% respectively. “The teams will guide the state and the UT in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-teams-sent-to-help-punjab-chandigarh/articleshow/77969089.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Namma Metro resumes services after five months||BENGALURU: Namma Metro trains resumed operations on Purple Line (Byappanahalli to Nayandahalli) on Monday with social distancing and mandatory wearing of masks.  Services will resume on Green Line (Nagasandra to Yelachenahalli) on Wednesday. Till September 10, the trains will operate between 8am and 11am; and 4.30pm and 7.30pm. From September 11, they will run from 7am to 9pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/five-months-on-namma-metro-resumes-on-monday/articleshow/77969087.cms||---
September 7, 2020||India||83% of road fatalities due to speeding, rash driving: NCRB||NEW DELHI: Over 80% of fatalities in road accidents in India happened due to speeding and dangerous or careless driving, a comparative analysis of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data since 2014 shows. While this corroborates the popular perception of how people drive on the road in a country where getting a driving licence is often said to be too easy, experts said most of the fatal accidents are recorded by police under speeding and dangerous driving categories in the FIR as there are no other provisions in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for such offences. According to the latest NCRB report on accidental deaths, 83.2% of road fatalities were on account of these two types of violations and the rest 16.8% of fatalities were due to reasons including drunk driving, bad weather conditions and mechanical defect. In 2014, when such causes of fatal crashes were first compiled, 89.4% of the deaths were due to speeding and dangerous or careless driving as per the police records and this was the highest ever. “We face a host of challenges ranging from poor system of issuing driving licences to almost zero scientific investigation of fatal crashes, which are provided in the law. Most of our national highways and state highways, which pass through villages, have no pedestrian crossings. On the top of this, in all fatal cases, police automatically registers them under section 279 (negligent driving) and 304A (negligent driving resulting death) of the IPC,” said road safety expert Rohit Baluja, who has been a regular guest faculty at Indian Police Academy, Hyderabad. Confirming this, traffic adviser in Punjab government, Navdeep Asija said in case of all fatal accidents, the provisions of IPC are slapped. “In IPC, any crime or offence has to be lodged against a human being and hence there cannot be any charge against a road, vehicle or any other object. That’s why police data may not indicate the exact reason of crashes. But it is also a fact that violation of traffic rules is rampant on roads and only electronic surveillance can put a check on them,” he added. Baluja said there is a need to define what is dangerous driving and the norms for fixing speed limits. “In Delhi, the speed limit is same across major roads, residential areas and markets during day time and at night as well. No authorities are held responsible for deficiencies on their part,” he pointed out. Though the amended Motor Vehicle Act has included a provision to hold road owning agencies, contractors and consultants in case of fatal accidents due to faulty road construction or design, the government is yet to notify the process for this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/83-of-road-fatalities-due-to-speeding-rash-driving-ncrb/articleshow/77969093.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 7, 2020||India||Online forum to answer queries on LGBTQI finds instant connect||NEW DELHI: Two years after Section 377 was decriminalised, the LGBTQ+ rights movement finds itself still craving for spaces and platforms where it can share the community’s experiences of coming to terms with identity, social response to the same and associated concerns like violence and discrimination. Now two queer women and a trans masculine person, all in their twenties, have launched an online forum called, ‘The Second Puberty’, which allows users to submit questions anonymously and find “connection, validation and advice”. Since its launch in July, 50 odd queries have been received. A 19-year-old struggling to understand both her gender and ‘attraction’ wonders if she is asexual or aromantic. Similarly, “Odd_dorkly” is gender fluid and struggling to make friends as an adult. “Confused soul” is a man nearing 30, but in his 20s he has had both men and women as sexual partners. He is currently in love with a woman and has not had sex with a man for over six months. He says “How do I know I won’t go back that route 20 years later in my life-?”Venika Menon, the forum founder, pointed that by bringing “taboo” topics to the forefront, the forum wants to give space for people to grapple with their values and internal contradictions. Development researcher Menon says the name ‘The Second Puberty’ comes from the theory of queer-temporality which states that queer people (especially trans people) often experience a second puberty when they “come out” and find self-acceptance. "Many queer folk do not follow the "straight" (expected) timeline of childhood, adolescence, adulthood, marriage, childbirth, and depending on when we come out in life and our circumstances, we perform those timeline expectations in a whole new order,” Menon explained. In this journey, Menon, who identifies as a queer woman, is joined by Dale O’Connell, a trans-masculine person who is pursuing an education that explores the intersection between computer science and visual arts and Shivangi Agrawal, a disabled and queer activist who works as an accessibility consultant and graffiti artist. “The two common threads that tie our experiences together are the lack of spaces where we could explore complicated questions of identity, appearance, social performance, etc and how overtime we somehow became the go-to person for awkward conversations and advice for our peers, friends, and sometimes even the real adults in our lives,” Agarwal shared. She strongly feels this concept of “coming out” is overhyped as for many people there is never a coming out and the challenges of the community are often lost in the hype. Dale O' Connell emphasised that "The journey and timeline to your wants and goals are something very personal to you, and it is perfectly okay for there to be hiccups, a difference from your peer's plans, or even just a complete change or direction."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/online-forum-to-answer-queries-on-lgbtqi-finds-instant-connect/articleshow/77969110.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 7, 2020||World||Covid-19 origins off-limits as China’s Wuhan touts recovery||WUHAN: The Huanan seafood market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, believed by many to be the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, is sealed behind a blue perimeter fence. A large team of security staff chases away anyone who lingers. “We are just doing our job,” said a guard in black who ordered a Reuters reporter to delete footage recorded near the market’s main gates. He identified himself as a worker from the city government’s epidemic prevention and control team. Foreign journalists were invited on an official tour to report on Wuhan's efforts to rebuild its economy after the months-long trauma of Covid-19. The official message: the “heroic city” is back to normal and back in business, its schools and tourist sites reopened and its enterprises running at full capacity. “No other place is as safe as this,” said Lin Songtian, president of the Chinese People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, a state-backed group that helped organise the tour. The location of more than 80% of the country’s Covid-19 deaths, the central Chinese city on the banks of the Yangtze river has reported no cases of local transmission since May, and most of the stringent controls imposed during a two-month lockdown have been relaxed. But Wuhan was accused of acting too slowly in the early stages of the outbreak amid fears of disrupting the economy or displeasing China’s leadership in Beijing. Critics say media censorship and the silencing of whistleblowers gave the virus more time to spread undetected. Wuhan remains reluctant to allow light to be shed on the origins of a pathogen that has killed nearly 900,000 people worldwide. The city still restricts access to locations like the Huanan market, which was linked to the first identified cluster of infections in December. At another wholesale market in the far north of city, which is open to the public, Reuters was tailed by security staff and deterred from speaking to stallholders and traders. “If you don’t allow people to visit these places, you give people the impression you have something to hide,” said Yanzhong Huang, senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington who studies the politics behind China’s health issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/covid-19-origins-off-limits-as-chinas-wuhan-touts-recovery/articleshow/77969124.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Entrance test row: NLSIU VC divested of consortium post||BENGALURU: The governing body of the Consortium of National Law Universities has decided to divest Sudhir Krishnaswamy, vice-chancellor of National Law School of India University (NLSIU), of his functions as the secretarytreasurer of the consortium with immediate effect in the light of the clear conflict of interest between the functions of the Consortium and the decision to hold independent entrance test for NLSIU. “He is advised not to discharge these functions and not speak for the Consortium in any manner or represent the Consortium in any proceeding till further decision in this matter is taken by the governing body,” a press release said on Sunday. The Consortium has said that except NLSIU, no other law varsity is going to hold its test independently. CLAT will be held on September 28. Sudhir’s statement that other universities feel the same as NLSIU about the delay in CLAT was “purely his personal opinion”, the release said. The secretariat of the Consortium has been shifted from NLSIU to the NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. Prof Faizan Mustafa will discharge secretarial functions and Prof KD Rao, last year’s CLAT convener, will take care of the functions of the treasurer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/entrance-test-row-nlsiu-vc-divested-of-consortium-post/articleshow/77969121.cms||---
September 7, 2020||World||Hong Kong police arrest 289 at protests over poll delay||HONG KONG: About 290 people were arrested on Sunday at protests against the government’s decision to postpone elections for Hong Kong’s legislature, police said. The elections were to have taken place on Sunday but chief executive Carrie Lam on July 31 postponed them for one year. Lam blamed an upsurge in coronavirus cases, but critics said her government worried the opposition would gain seats if voting went ahead on schedule. Police said 289 people had been arrested, mostly for unlawful assembly. Thousands of police were stationed around the Kowloon peninsula as hundreds of marchers waved placards and chanted anti-government slogans such as “liberate Hong Kong”. Police said such slogans are illegal under a newly enacted national security law. Cops fired pepper balls at protesters in Kowloon, South China Morning Post reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/hong-kong-police-arrest-289-at-protests-over-poll-delay/articleshow/77969143.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Chennai||Fresh Tamil vs Hindi war fires up Twitter||Just months ahead of the assembly poll in TN, a political storm over language started brewing on the internet as "Hindi Theriyadhu Poda" (I don't know Hindi, go) became the top trending hashtag on Twitter on Sunday. Several people latched onto "I am a Tamil speaking Indian", a dialogue penned by director K Balachander for his Kamal-starrer 'Varumayin Niram Sivappu' in 1980, to join the Tamil Vs Hindi war on social media. "I am an Indian. I don't speak Hindi," said another tweet. Tamil Nadu 's response to Hindi imposition 'I am a Tamil Speaking Indian' Well said!#Pluralism… https://t.co/M0pn4aWf7Z— Jothimani (@jothims) 1599371145000Soon celebrities and politicians were tweeting photographs of them wearing t-shirts with these lines embossed on them. From actor Shanthanu to music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja, from DMK MP Kanimozhi to the party's youth wing president Udhayanidhi Stalin, all were seen wearing their Tamil pride on their sleeves. "I am saying it respectfully," Udhayanidhi said in a short video, while voicing just the "poda" part of the slogan 'Hindi theriyadhu poda' on his t-shirt. Tiruppur garment manufacturers, trying to cash in on the trend, soon started posting their contact numbers to seek orders for t-shirts with Tamil slogans. Just a t-shirt from Tamil Nadu printed #HindiTheriyathuPoda (Don't know Hindi, get lost!) sparks Twitter trending.… https://t.co/pFLuZMVhxr— Kiruba Munusamy (@kirubamunusamy) 1599399779000Hashtag against DMK starts trending soon afterWhile the New Education Policy and Kanimozhi’s allegation about being questioned at the Chennai airport by a CISF personnel about not knowing Hindi brought back focus on alleged Hindi imposition back to the centrestage in TN, the fresh campaign on Sunday seems to have taken it to another level. #HindiTheriyathuPodaI am indian, I don't speak Hindi! https://t.co/7tqS5AtfpA— Dr. J. Jenix Rino (TNPYC) (@JenixRino) 1599450885000National award-winning director Vetrimaran recalling two days back his own similar ‘airport experience’ over Hindi from 2011, when he was detained by an official for 45 minutes, seems to have added fuel to the fire. My language is the Blood of my Soul, Beat of my Heart...#StopHindiImposition#HindiTheriyathuPoda #TamilSpeakingIndian— Sumathi Padmanabhan (@SumiSuja) 1599373669000As the trend gathered traction, it seemed to have caused sufficient discomfiture to the alliance partners in the DMK’s opposition camp the BJP and the AIADMK. Though the AIADMK seems to be a reluctant ally of the saffron party, its supporters gleefully joined the war and soon started trending the “#DMK Venaam Poda” hashtag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-tamil-vs-hindi-war-fires-up-twitter/articleshow/77969148.cms||D Govardan
September 7, 2020||Bengaluru||30,000 kids in Karnataka madrassas may get modern education||BENGALURU: Twelve years after the central government launched a scheme to modernise teaching in madrassas across the country, Karnataka is on the verge of making it a reality. Madrassas may well agree to incorporate modern education to their students. With around 30,000 children of various age groups studying in 900 madrassas, the compromise which ulemas of the community and the government has arrived at suggests these students will get certification from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) for completing class 10 or class 12 courses. The scheme, being spearheaded by the ministry of minority welfare with the Karnataka minority welfare department being the nodal agency, has provisions for financial assistance to madrassas for hiring subject teachers. Honorarium may range from Rs 6k-14kMinority department secretary AB Ibrahim told TOI the honorarium for subject teachers will be based on the teacher’s qualification and number of students taught. This may range between Rs 6,000 and Rs 14,000 per month. “While this is just the beginning, we’re confident of convincing them to open the doors for modern education based on NIOS curriculum. There will be another meeting with community leaders and ulemas to take it further,” said Ibrahim. Meanwhile, the ulemas at the discussion on Saturday evening said the scheme is a welcome change for the community to secure meaningful employment. “Though our madrassa students have the qualifications, especially in recent times when some of us have introduced computers, mathematics, science, etc in our teaching, they did not have the opportunity to go out into the world for further studies or employment simply because of lack of certification. With NIOS certification, this may help the community grow stronger,” said Moulana Maqsood Imran. Meanwhile, the government and madrassas agreed that introduction of modern education will be completely voluntary and there’ll be no government interference in religious and spiritual teachings. According to department sources, the state government is targeting the major madrassas which have 100 or more students to ensure wider reach of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/30000-kids-in-karnataka-madrassas-may-get-modern-education/articleshow/77969150.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 7, 2020||World||1 killed, 7 hurt in late-night stabbings in Birmingham||LONDON: British police were hunting a male suspect on Sunday after one man was killed and seven people injured in late-night stabbings in a busy nightlife district in the city of Birmingham. Police said the victims seemed to have been chosen at random in attacks that took place over a two-hour period. Chief superintendent Steve Graham of West Midlands police said detectives were still investigating the motive but “there is absolutely no suggestion at all that this is terror-related”. Police said officers were called to reports of a stabbing just after midnight on Sunday. That was soon followed by reports of other stabbings across the city. Police said they believed the stabbings were linked and have launched a murder investigation. Graham said two of the seven injured people were critical. One of the stabbing sites is Birmingham’s Gay Village, but Graham said there was no suggestion the crime was “motivated by hate”. He said it didn’t appear to be gang-related. PM Boris Johnson tweeted to say that it was a “terrible incident”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/1-killed-7-hurt-in-late-night-stabbings-in-birmingham/articleshow/77969157.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Hubballi||Some temples in north Karnataka give marijuana as prasada||BELAGAVI: As police crack down in many parts of the state arresting drug-peddlers and destroying marijuana cultivation in the wake of the Sandalwood drug racket, many are not aware marijuana is sacred in some temples of North Karnataka. Among Sharana, Aruda, Shaptha and Avadhuta traditions, devotees prefer to consume marijuana or ganja in various forms, believing it is a means to achieve enlightenment. In Mouneshwara temple at Tinthini, Yadgir district, a large number of devotees gather during the annual fair in January. Devotees who come here receive a small packet of ganja as prasada which they smoke after praying to Mouneshwara or Manappa. Gangadhar Nayak, a member of the temple committee, said ganja is widely used here. ‘Ganja an agent that assists meditation’The usage is traditional as Mouneshwara introduced it (marijuana) to people. The devotees and saints believe this sacred grass shows the path to enhancing knowledge of spirituality,” he said. Nayak denied the temple sells ganja to outsiders for recreational purposes. “During the fair, anybody can come here and smoke. While some eat ganja after boiling it, others consume it like tobacco powder,” he said. Elsewhere, Mahantesh K, who is into the Sharana tradition and visits various temples and mutts in Raichur and Yadgir, said that in the Ambha Mutt at Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district, this tradition can be seen. “I believe ganja helps achieve a kind of infinite happiness. It’s not addictive. Many smoke once a week or day and meditate,” said Mahantesh, adding most users are healthy considering it has medicinal values. Siddarameshwara Shivayogi, a seer from Siddavata Dama Shivayogi Ashram in Shorapur taluk in Yadgir district who consumes ganja once a day, said marijuana is considered sacred. “We take ganja to mute the surroundings during meditation. It’s an agent that assists meditation,” he said. Meenakshi Bale, a professor researching Sharana community, believes people who smoke at these temples are not addicts. Respecting traditions, police appear to keep their distance from such temples and turn a blind eye unless a complaint is filed. “We’re now starting to crack down wherever it is available. I’m not aware of temples or mutts particularly, but if we receive information we will raid them,” said Raichur SP Prakash Nityam. Watch North Karnataka temples give marijuana as prasada amidst police crackdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/some-temples-in-north-karnataka-give-marijuana-as-prasada/articleshow/77969163.cms||Shreyas HS
September 7, 2020||World||President Trump disparaged Mandela, other black leaders: Former lawyer||WASHINGTON: Michael Cohen, US President Trump’s former personal lawyer, is alleging in a new book that Trump made disparaging remarks about black world leaders including former South African President Nelson Mandela, as well as about US minorities, Washington Post reported on Saturday. In a book due to be published next week, Cohen writes that following Mandela’s death, Trump said: “Mandela f***ed the whole country up. Now it’s a s*****le. He was no leader.” He alleged that Trump said: “Tell me one country run by a black person that isn’t a s*****le.” White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany attacked Cohen’s credibility. “He’s a felon and disbarred lawyer. It’s unsurprising to see his latest attempt to profit off of lies.” Cohen also alleged that Trump was dismissive of minorities. During 2016 campaign, he said that he would not win the Hispanic vote. Trump said: “Like the blacks, they’re too stupid to vote for Trump.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/president-trump-disparaged-mandela-other-black-leaders-former-lawyer/articleshow/77969170.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Kolkata||September’s 1st total lockdown in West Bengal on Monday||KOLKATA: Kolkata and the rest of the state will observe a complete lockdown on Monday. All shops and establishments will be shut and no public transport will be available during the day. This is the first of three lockdowns that have been announced by the state in September, the other two on the 11th and the 12th (Friday and Saturday, respectively).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/septembers-1st-total-lockdown-in-west-bengal-on-monday/articleshow/77969181.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Business||‘Small positive growth in FY21 can’t be ruled out’||NEW DELHI: A small positive growth may not be ruled out for the Indian economy in 2020-21, although several international institutions and economists have forecast severe contraction due to the impact of the strict lockdown, former RBI governor C Rangarajan has said. “Although many national and international agencies have projected a sharp contraction in 2020-21, ranging from -3.2% (World Bank) to -6.8% (SBI), there are reasons to believe that the outcome may be better than these strong contractionary prospects,” Rangarajan and D K Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said in a paper published in the first edition of the Indian Public Policy Review. Latest data showed that economy posted its biggest contraction on record, declining 23.9% in the April-June quarter, prompting some economists to forecast a deeper contraction for the full year. The authors said some key sectors like agriculture and related segments, public administration, defence and other services may perform normally or better than normal, given the demand for health services. Further, goods and services categorised as essential goods and services in other sectors, technically called ‘permitted goods and services’ together with agriculture and public administration, defence and other services, may have a weight in the range of 40-45% of total output. “These were fully operational even in the first quarter of 2020-21. Thus, nearly half of the economy may perform normally or better than normally over the full year 2020-21,” the paper said. It also said that already some green shoots have become visible. GST revenues were around Rs 90,917 crore in June 2020, which is very close to the benchmark of Rs 1 lakh crore. PMI manufacturing in June 2020 was 47.2, again close to the benchmark of 50. Third, given the current geo-political situation, the government at the central and state levels have become very active in attracting investment from abroad. The major reforms in the corporate tax rates in 2019-20 will also facilitate relocation of various production platforms to India, the paper said. The finance ministry’s department of economic affairs in its August report attributed the contraction in the June quarter to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-positive-growth-in-fy21-cant-be-ruled-out/articleshow/77969225.cms||---
September 7, 2020||Business||‘Centre, states must lower car ownership cost’||A former civil servant, R C Bhargava is the chairman of the country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki and unarguably the most-experienced top-ranked automobile professional in India. Involved with Maruti right from the time Japan’s Suzuki entered India in the 1980s, Bhargava feels the government needs to handhold the industry by driving in affordability. Covid, he says, will help boost risk management systems…How far have you achieved normalcy in business? What are the specific challenges?During the past three months, production has risen steadily but is well behind 2018-19 levels. Sales has increased monthly, but lags 2018-19. We expect steady progress as we go ahead. It’s a challenge to predict the situation after a few months. The concern is, like in 2019-20, about demand till such time as the economic growth rate and GDP go beyond the levels of 2018-19, or the customer cost of acquisition of cars falls. How much cost increase are you grappling with?Compliance with all the safety protocols relating to the pandemic naturally resulted in some extra costs. Expenditures were also incurred in treating employees, paying salaries when there was no work, etc. However, there were also cost savings from new working procedures and overall there was no significant impact on the company’s finances, other than that resulting from loss of production and sales. How are you dealing with your employees?The company has refrained from any situational reactions for remuneration. Last month, bonus for the previous financial year was paid to all employees. A salary increase for unionised associates has been announced. All jobs offered during campus recruitment have been honoured and employees on-boarded. How can the government help?Given the importance of this industry, central and state governments should consider measures to increase demand by lowering the acquisition cost of cars by consumers. Learnings from working during the pandemic?Use of technology and digital systems has grown rapidly and will stay as they lead to greater efficiency and save cost besides increasing convenience. A great deal of commuting time in travelling and attending meetings can be saved. There have been good learnings in the area of safety and hygiene, which should be of benefit at homes also in the future. Risk management systems will become more robust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-states-must-lower-car-ownership-cost/articleshow/77969228.cms||Pankaj Doval
