September 8, 2020||Gurgaon||For safety of Rafale jets, solid waste management plant to be started on priority in Ambala: Anil Vij||AMBALA: After the Indian Air Force (IAF) highlighted the concerns about safety of Rafale aircraft at the Ambala airbase with Haryana chief secretary, the state home minister Anil Vij on Monday said that the solid waste management plant will be started on priority basis in the district. Vij called a meeting at his residence of the concerned officials of Ambala Sadar Municipal Council (MC), Ambala City Municipal Corporation, Cantonment Board, IAF and others. While addressing the officials, Vij said, “It is a matter of pride for us that Rafale aircraft squadron has been established at Ambala IAF station. IAF’s air marshal expressed the possibility of the Rafale’s safety being endangered due to garbage and birds. We need to pay attention towards this serious and important issue. All the people of government, non-government and social organisations have to work together to keep the environment safe for the fighter jets in Ambala.” Vij told, “In the meeting with the officials of all the concerned bodies, some important decisions have been taken. Firstly, the solid waste management plant will be started at the priority basis in Ambala as until it is not established, the garbage will continue to be dumped unprocessed. Secondly, the Gwal Mandis (dairies) around Ambala Cantt and city will be shifted out. ” Vij said a committee has been formed for this entire work and ULBD chief engineer Bhaskar Gupta will be its chairman, while the Ambala Sadar MC executive officer (EO) Virender Nehra and Virender Saharan of Ambala City MC will be its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/for-safety-of-rafale-jets-solid-waste-management-plant-to-be-started-on-priority-in-ambala-anil-vij/articleshow/77985822.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 8, 2020||Allahabad||Virus widens its net in Prayagraj, more healthcare professionals fall prey||PRAYAGRAJ: As five more doctors tested Covid-19 positive in Prayagraj on Monday, the spread of the infection has put a question mark on how safe the city’s corona warriors are. The five medical professionals worked at Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) Hospital. Since the disease’s outbreak in March, 102 healthcare workers have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the city. These healthcare workers included doctors, nurses and paramedics. According to health department’s statistics, 170 healthcare workers have been been diagnosed with novel coronavirus in Prayagraj range. The four districts comprising Prayagraj range are Prayagraj, Pratapgrah, Kaushambi and Fatehpur. Among the four districts in Prayagraj range, Prayagraj recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive healthcare workers. After Prayagraj, the highest number of healthcare staff to be infected were in Fatehpur (35), followed by Pratapgarh (28), Kaushambi (five). The number of containment zones in Prayagraj district has also crossed the 2600-mark — the highest among the four districts in the range. The number of containment zones in Prayagraj is more than twice the combined count of Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur. Additional director (health) Dr Sudhakar Pandey said, “Over 100 healthcare professionals have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in Prayagraj. Till Sunday, Prayagraj recorded 11,716 Covid-19 patients, while Pratapgarh and Kaushambi had 2,301 and 1,087 patients respectively.” Around 1.30 lakh people have been tested in Prayagraj district so far, while the corresponding figure for Pratapgarh and Kaushambi is 30,000and 50,000 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/virus-widens-its-net-in-city-more-healthcare-professionals-fall-prey/articleshow/77985583.cms||Kapil Dixit
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: AMC issues show-cause notice to construction company; slaps Rs 1 crore fine||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has issued a show-cause notice to a PSP company after the AMC authorities found that 277 workers of the company had tested positive. The AMC also realized that despite having more than 30 staffers, the company had failed to appoint a Covid coordinator. The AMC in the show-cause notice has asked the PSP company as to why a fine of Rs one crore should not be imposed on the company for not appointing a Covid coordinator and if he was appointed as to why the decision was not conveyed to the respective officials of the AMC. The AMC notice stated that the company had also violated all the guidelines that were issued by the AMC and the state government. Bhavin Solanki, the medical health officer, in a statement said that the AMC has made it mandatory to have a coordinator if the company had more than 30 staffers. In case of the PSP company, the company had its labour colony at GMDC ground, Palladium Mall site and also bear Zydus Hospital. The health teams of Bodakdev and Thaltej visited these sites and checked the labourers in the colony and found 277 workers positive for Covid-19 and all these 277 labourers were provided treatment at Covid care centre and even at the hospitals. The AMC health teams found that even social distancing and hygienic were also not provided to the labourers in the colony. The officials said that in all 1,050 tests were conducted at these two sites. The AMC in the notice said that the hefty fine was imposed as the AMC had to make arrangements for medical paramedical staff for both the sites and had to make logistics, transportation and other arrangements as a result the AMC had to incur huge expenditure. The AMC has directed the PSP company authorities to reply to the show-cause within three days as to why the company should not be fined for Rs one crore. The official said that based on the explanation the fine amount will be decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-amc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-construction-company-slaps-rs-1-crore-fine/articleshow/77986113.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: It’s BJP versus Shiv Sena in polls for state council deputy chairperson||MUMBAI: The opposition BJP decided to field a candidate against the state government’s nominee in the polls for the post of deputy chairperson of the upper house of the state legislature, slated on Tuesday. The BJP’s Bhai Girkar is set to contest against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) Neelam Gorhe from the Shiv Sena, who was the incumbent. However, the numbers clearly favour the MVA.  The BJP has 22 members in the upper house and one MLC from its ally, the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha. The MVA has 31 members and two MLCs from its allies. There are several Independents in the house too.  When the state council convened on Monday, chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar declared the poll would be held on Tuesday. However, leader of opposition in the state council, Pravin Darekar, objected, saying many MLCs would be unable to exercise their vote owing to Covid. “If elections to cooperatives and local bodies have been postponed, then why are these elections being conducted?” asked Darekar. Bhai Girkar also raised objections. “Since it is my prerogative to call for the election, I am declaring it tomorrow,” said Nimbalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-bjp-versus-sena-in-polls-for-state-council-deputy-chairperson/articleshow/77986222.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police’s mind control room helps Covid+ve cops vent out||MUMBAI: In times of crisis, a bit of catharsis works magic. Sussing out the need to give a vent to police personnel battling Covid, the department has set up a team of ‘listeners’ for that human connect with its Covid-positive personnel. Over the past three months, six policewomen at the police headquarters in Kalina have been calling up Covid-positive personnel for a casual chat to know how they are faring. The phone chats offer a glimpse into what’s playing on the minds of those serving on the frontline. There’s guilt, apprehension and an array of sentiments. Like constable Ravindra Gije* blames himself for the death of his 80-year-old mother. He is convinced he “gave her the infection”. Assistant sub-inspector Hanumant Gaikwad* wonders aloud if he will die in hospital, and will never see his children again. With lockdown enforcement stretching workload, missing out on family time and fear of being carriers of infection at home is weighing down several Mumbai police personnel. Already working under severe stress in pre-Covid times, the pandemic has only exacerbated it. But not all Covid-positive personnel are willing to speak or even take calls, says Gauri Sonawane who is one of the six policewomen offering support to patients. “We have to be persistent,” she says. The team of listeners was cherry-picked for their ability to listen and empathise. They have been trained on questions to ask and how to allay fears. “An elderly constable admitted to Seven Hills Hospital wouldn’t take calls for two days, says Sonawane. “Finally, when he did, his responses were to the point,” she recalls. But daily calls made him open up. “He said he was worried about who would look after his family’s needs in his absence. When I assured him that the police department would, he perked up. After he recovered and went home, he sent me a ‘thank you’ note,” Sonawane said. The police department has identified 67 personnel in need of continuous intervention and has tied up with a non-profit, MPower, for professional sessions. “On a case-by-case basis, our psychologists are working with the police on building self-esteem, perfecting communication among relationships and cognisant parenting,” said Dr Ambrish Dharmadhikari, psychiatrist and head of MPower Foundation. During past mental health sessions, cops expressed how “excessive” workload fatigued them, political pressure and no support of seniors left them helpless and they sometimes vented out their anger at home, regretting it later. Psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty says piecemeal stress management techniques won’t work and core policies must change. “To expect cops to police the community in all aspects of life is unreal,” he said. “Reforms like fixed 8-hour work shifts and zero political interference are needed.” (*Names of cops changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/polices-mind-control-room-helps-covidve-cops-vent-out/articleshow/77986550.cms||Nitasha Natu
September 8, 2020||India||India-China standoff: Firing takes place on LAC in Eastern Ladakh||LADAKH: An incident of firing took place on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh sector where troops of India and China have been engaged in a stand-off for over three months, sources said on Tuesday. India recently outflanked China by taking control of strategic height near Pangong lake's southern bank. It thwarted an attempt by the Chinese army to transgress into Indian areas near the southern bank of Pangong Tso near Chushul in Ladakh. India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese Army in multiple areas including Finger area, Galwan valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala. The situation worsened after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan valley in June. The talks between the two sides have been going on for the last three months including five Lieutenant general-level talks but have failed to yield any results, so far. (ANI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-standoff-firing-takes-place-on-lac-in-eastern-ladakh/articleshow/77987596.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||After security boost, Kangana claims her Mumbai office under attack||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena-controlled municipal corporation carried out an inspection of Kangana Ranaut’s office on Pali Hill on Monday for alleged civic violations. The action followed on a day when the actor received Y-plus grade security cover from the Centre following a spat involving her and ruling parties in Maharashtra. Immediately after BMC officers arrived at her office, Kangana tweeted: They have forcefully taken over my office measuring everything, also harassing my neighbors…” She said BMC warned her neighbours that they would have to bear the consequences of her actions. “I am informed tomorrow they are demolishing my property,” she said. She also posted a video of the team inspecting her office and an earlier video of the place. The office was a rowhouse which has been converted into a commercial establishment. They have forcefully taken over my office measuring everything, also harassing my neighbors when they retorted… https://t.co/eIVCSWA6LK— Kangana Ranaut (@KanganaTeam) 1599470941000In a second tweet, she said: “I have all the papers, BMC permissions, nothing has been done illegal...BMC should send a structure plan to show the illegal construction with a notice, today they raided my place and without any notice tomorrow they demolishing (sic) entire structure.” A neighbour said eight BMC staffers inspected the rowhouses. “One of them had only women, who did not allow them in. We have not been issued any notice. They inspected and left,” said a neighbour. Another neighbour said he allowed the BMC staff in as he thought they had come to inspect the leakage in his house. “They were polite and were here for only 10 minutes,” he said. A third neighbour said the fifth rowhouse is owned by Ranaut while the sixth comprises three shops on the ground floor and an office on the first floor. “These rowhouses have been around 45-50 years. Kangana had repaired her rowhouse around a couple of years ago as have the others,” he said. BMC refused to comment. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal and H-West ward officer Vinayak Vispute did not respond to queries. Meanwhile, residents of DeBreeze on 16th Road, Khar are a worried lot. Kangana is a resident of the building and in January this year, BMC had filed a complaint against Kangana and other residents at the Dindoshi sessions court for illegal extensions. Sources said on Monday, civic officials asked the session court for an urgent hearing. “BMC has been told that the matter will be heard by the regular judge on September 9,” said sources. Kangana has already declared she will be coming to Mumbai on that day and has dared anyone to stop her. Kangana’s outburst against Mumbai Police saying she feared the force and describing the city to be as dangerous as “PoK (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir)” had led to sharp criticism from Sena, Congress and NCP. Even the state BJP has said they do not support her statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-security-boost-kangana-claims-her-office-under-attack/articleshow/77987658.cms||Clara Lewis
September 8, 2020||India||Indian troops crossed LAC on Monday, fired shots, alleges PLA||NEW DELHI: Amid heightened tensions at the border in eastern Ladakh, and days ahead of a meeting between the foreign ministers in Moscow, the PLA accused Indian troops late on Monday night of crossing the LAC and firing shots to deter Chinese patrol guards in the Pangong area. The PLA Western Theater Command spokesperson said Indian troops had provoked China again by illegally crossing the LAC at the "shore of the Shenpao Mountain area". Read AlsoIndia-China face-off: Situation in Ladakh ‘very serious’, says JaishankarForeign minister S. Jaishankar will stop over in Tehran on Tuesday en route to Moscow to attend the SCO foreign ministers' meeting. Calling the stop a "technical halt", officials said Jaishankar will meet his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif. On Monday, Jaishankar described the LAC situation as "veryLAC row: Complete coverage"During the operation, the Indian army blatantly fired shots at the patrol personnel of the Chinese border guards who had made representations, and the Chinese border guards were forced to take countermeasures to stabilize the situation on the ground," he said. The allegations are significant as no shot has been fired at LAC for several decades, not even in the June 15 Galwan clash that left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on LAC face offRead AlsoArmy asks for infantry combat vehicles with night visionNEW DELHI: Amid the ongoing military confrontation with China, which is into its fifth month now, the Army is now seeking to upgrade its ageing BMP-2/2K infantry combat vehicles with better fire power as well as night-fighting capabilities. The ageing Russian-origin BMP vehicles, which haveHe went on to add that India’s actions "seriously violated" the relevant agreements between China and India, raised regional tensions and would cause misunderstanding. The PLA claimed these were serious military provocations and were of "very bad nature". There was no response from the Indian side to the statement released close to midnight (IST). "We request the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous actions, immediately withdraw cross-line personnel, strictly restrain front-line troops, and strictly investigate and punish personnel who fired shots to ensure that similar incidents do not occur again. Our troops will resolutely perform their duties and missions and resolutely defend national territorial sovereignty," he said. Watch LAC standoff: Indian troops thwart PLA, fire warning shots||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-troops-crossed-lac-on-monday-fired-shots-alleges-pla/articleshow/77987714.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 8, 2020||Business||Chanda Kochhar’s husband arrested in money laundering case||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a major development which is seen as a prelude to possible drastic action also against the once-celebrated boss of ICICI Bank and Venugopal Dhoot, chairman of Videocon group. The ED’s action against the Kochhars comes ahead of the filing of a chargesheet in the case, with sources in the anti-money laundering agency claiming that they decided to take Deepak Kochhar, a businessman whose company received funds from Dhoot in lieu of ICICI Bank sanctioning loans to Videocon group, into custody because of his refusal to cooperate. Sources said the Kochhars and Dhoot have been dodging specific questions about the “quid pro quo” established by the money trail. “We’ve traced all the bribe money paid to the Kochhars by Dhoot through banking transactions in companies and trusts owned and controlled by them,” said a senior official in volved with the probe. The source said during their questioning, Chanda Kochhar and Dhoot were doggedly evasive despite being confronted with transaction details mapping out the alleged quid pro quo. In January, the ED had attached assets of the Kochhars worth Rs 78 crore as “proceeds of crime”. In its provisional attachment order, the ED accused the banker and her husband of receiving Rs 64 crore from Videocon in NuPower Renewables Ltd, owned by Deepak Kochhar. The amount was transferred into the account of NuPower Renewables in September 2009, just a day after Chanda Kochhar-led ICICI Bank sanctioned a loan of Rs 300 crore to Videocon International Electronics Limited. Chanda Kochhar is accused of “illegal sanctioning loans” worth Rs 1,875 crore to Videocon group of companies. It was the CBI which filed an FIR against the former ICICI Bank CEO and her husband on January 22, 2019. Based on CBI’s FIR, the ED initiated an investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act trailing Rs 325 crore Deepak Kochhar allegedly received in his Nupower Renewables from two Mauritius-based entities. Chanda Kochhar was instrumental in ICICI Bank refinancing huge loans to the Videocon group which later turned into non-performing assets for the bank. In turn, Kochhar and her family allegedly received an apartment in Mumbai, worth Rs 75 crore, owned by a Videocon group company. This was done by way of acquiring the company through Chanda Kochhar’s family trust at a nominal price by creating book entries, according to the ED in its provisional attachment order. A book entry refers to phony transactions which are not backed up by actual exchange of money. Watch ICICI-Videocon case: Chanda Kochhar's husband arrested by ED over money laundering allegations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chanda-kochhars-husband-arrested-in-laundering-case/articleshow/77987993.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: India’s weekend tally higher than US and Brazil put together||NEW DELHI: As Covid-19 infections surged to an unprecedented high in India over the weekend, the country moved to the centre stage of the global pandemic, accounting for over 40% of all cases recorded worldwide on Sunday. Cases in India on both Saturday and Sunday were higher than those recorded in the US and Brazil, the other two worst-hit countries, put together. Meanwhile, fresh infections in India dipped to 74,960 on Monday following a sharp fall in testing, but deaths soared to 1,125, the highest ever for a single day so far, taking the total toll to 72,725, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. Daily cases in India had crossed 94,000 on Sunday and were close to 90,000 on the previous day. Put together, India recorded nearly 1,84,000 fresh infections over the weekend. By contrast, the US reported 73,202 infections over the week and Brazil 45,805, according to data from worldometers.info. Together the two countries accounted to less than 1.2 lakh cases. On Monday, deaths from the virus in the country crossed 1,100 for the first time, with Maharashtra recording as many as 423 fatalities, the highest in a single day in the state. The previous highest in Maharashtra was 422 deaths on August 18. On the same, India had recorded 1,099 deaths, the highest before Monday’s count. With a massive surge in infections, Maharashtra’s share in national cases topped 20% last week (August 31-September 6) for the first time in several weeks. The state’s share rose to 21.7%. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 16,429 new cases, down from Sunday’s high of over 23,000. Meanwhile, the total caseload in Andhra Pradesh crossed 5 lakh on Monday while the count in Karnataka went past 4 lakh. Andhra Pradesh has the second highest case count in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka is at the fourth spot below Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-indias-weekend-tally-higher-than-us-and-brazil-put-together/articleshow/77988014.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
September 8, 2020||India||China claims Arunachal, says it didn’t ‘abduct own citizens’||GUWAHATI/NEW DELHI: China on Monday denied having any knowledge on the five missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh who were allegedly abducted by the People’s Liberation Army. “China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Xizang), is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’. I’m not aware of the situation you mentioned,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. In reiterating China’s official position, the spokesperson was suggesting that it could not “abduct” its own citizens. China’s reiteration of its position on Arunachal, in the middle of the military standoff in eastern Ladakh, was in response to a question in the daily briefing on a tweet by junior youth affairs and sports minister Kiren Rijiju in which he had said that the Indian Army had sent a “hotline message” to PLA about the missing individuals and a response was awaited. The Indian Army has already sent hotline message to the counterpart PLA establishment at the border point in Arunac… https://t.co/lzdmN3nX4Z— Kiren Rijiju (@KirenRijiju) 1599395132000While there was no response from Indian authorities, official sources in New Delhi said that India’s position has always been that Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalien able part of India. The youthswere engaged by the Army as porters. Two of their friends who managed to return home told villagers that the five had been abducted from Sera-7 area — an Army patrolling area located on the border about 12 km further north of Nacho in the youths’ home district of Upper Subansiri. The family members of those missing have claimed they were abducted by the PLA from near the border in Upper Subansiri district. The Arunachal Pradesh government has launched a probe in Nacho to verify messages on social media by family members of the youths about their abduction. Watch 5 boys of Arunachal abducted by Chinese Army, claims Congress’s Ninong Ering||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-claims-arunachal-says-it-didnt-abduct-own-citizens/articleshow/77988033.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Pilibhit to tap cow dung for creating jobs for rural youth||PILIBHIT: In a bid to engage unemployed youth in rural areas, district administration has proposed a plan to utilize cow dung and urine available at cow shelter homes for manufacturing a wide range of products varying from mosquito repellents to bio-fertilizers and artefacts. Speaking with TOI, district magistrate, Pulkit Khare said, "Officials of the development department have been directed to identify unemployed rural youth with a creative vision and constitute their self-help groups (SHG). They will be given training on related manufacturing techniques for the purpose. The administration will coordinate with certain institutions having expertise in the sphere concerned." Financial assistance will be provided to the SHGs under various government schemes in the form of soft loans and grants-in-aid. With a network of marketing support, these youths will be able to attain self-reliance, DM Khare said. “We intend to make Pilibhit a model destination of cow dung-based bio-products and research as the application of cow dung micro-organism for management of environmental pollutants has immense scope," he added. “We will focus on manufacturing bio-fuel, bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides, vermicompost for the agricultural sector and flower pots, oil lamps and various handcrafted artefacts for the urban market, Khare added. Products like incense sticks, mosquito repellent and cow urine-based medicines will be launched under the project, he added. Akhilesh Kumar Garg, chief veterinary officer, said the district has 30 cow shelter homes with 2,000 cows. “They produce around 350 to 400 quintals of dung and 15,000 litres of urine a day,” Garg added. The DM also ordered officials of the agriculture department to ensure cultivation of perennial grass like napier on the lands owned by cow shelters for supply of green fodder for cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-to-tap-cow-dung-for-creating-jobs-for-rural-youth/articleshow/77982696.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: DYFI wants special teams to check fleecing of patients at private hospitals||MANGALURU: Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) has raised concern over increasing instances of private hospitals fleecing patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and other diseases. It has commenced series of protests urging the government to set up teams to check overpricing in private hospitals. DYFI state president Muneer Katipalla said they have been receiving dozens of complaints everyday from people about private hospitals charging lakhs of rupees for treatment of Covid-19 and other diseases. He alleged that private hospitals were administering Remdesivir injection even to patients with mild symptoms of Covid-19 just to escalate bill amount. “Though generic brands of Remdesivir injections are available for Rs 2,200 per vial, hospitals charge more than Rs 5,000 for each dose. A course of six injections cost the patients more than Rs 30,000. Meanwhile, even cases with mild symptoms are treated for more than 10 days and bills to the tune of Rs 3-10 lakh are issued, pushing people towards financial distress. Private hospitals ignore the government guidelines related to pricing of treatment. We have also received complaints that private hospitals show no interest in admitting patients below poverty line, who have Ayushman Bharat health insurance cards,” Muneer said. “The government has announced free treatment for the poor for Covid-19 but there is no mechanism to address the woes of the poor, who are made to search for ICU beds and ventilators,” he said, demanding a fool-proof grievance redressal mechanism and special teams to conduct inspections in private hospitals. DYFI Dakshina Kannada district secretary Santhosh Bajal said, the forum has already held protests at many places in the district demanding a government medical college in Mangaluru and control over private hospitals and medical colleges that fleece poor patients. “We will continue our protests till the government improves facilities in government hospitals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dyfi-wants-special-teams-to-check-fleecing-of-patients-at-private-hospitals/articleshow/77987524.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death in Bhuj village||RAJKOT: A man was stabbed to death by three assailants in Kukama village of Bhuj taluka in Kutch district on Monday afternoon. Police said the accused, Umar Bafan, Shaukat Ali Pathan and Akbar Miyatra, stabbed Azad Kakkal (25). Kakkal’s younger brother Rajab (18) who tried to intervene in order to save Kakkal was injured in the attack. “The accused waylaid the Kakkal brothers while they were going on their bike. All the accused are bootleggers and they suspected Azad of giving a tip-off about them to the police,” said an official from Paddhar police station. “Rajab has alleged that the accused had given threat calls to Kakkal on Sunday night,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-in-bhuj-village/articleshow/77985359.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Many ditch cigs, vow to lead healthier life amid Covid-19||PATNA: With several studies proving that smoking is associated with a high risk of Covid-19 contraction, many Patnaites have decided to ditch cigarettes and lead a healthier life. Tricenarian Ravi Singh (name changed), who had been trying to quit smoking for the last five years, finally did it when his father was rushed to a hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 recently. He told this newspaper, “When I saw him gasping for breath, I was scared to death. That was when I vowed to quit smoking.” Rajbansi Nagar resident Nishesh Kumar, on the other hand, has opted for temporary abstinence from smoking. “To me smoking is a stop-and-start affair, but now that I know it is associated with a high risk of Covid contraction, I have decided not to touch cigarettes till a vaccine comes out,” he said. Boring Road resident Harsh Kumar, who picked up smoking when he was a teen, has begun chewing nicotine gums after his neighbour’s death due to corona. He said, “Although I did not know him personally, my heart goes out to his family. He was quite young.” Even doctors and health experts have cautioned people against the use of cigarettes because coronavirus capitalizes on the scarred lungs of smokers. According to the president of Indian Academy of Paediatrics-Bihar, Dr Arun Shah, tobacco smokers may be more vulnerable to Covid-19 because their fingers often come in contact with the lips, increasing the possibility of transmission of viruses from hand to mouth. Nodal officer for Covid-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, pointed out, “Smoking reduces lung capacity and increases the risk of many respiratory infections. Covid patients, who smoke, take longer to recover and are more likely to develop post-corona health complications.” The World Health Organisation has also recommended people to quit smoking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-ditch-cigs-vow-to-lead-healthier-life-amid-covid-19/articleshow/77984825.cms||Arunima Lal
September 8, 2020||Patna||BJP starts toning up 35 election-related panels||PATNA: The central BJP leaders, saddled with overseeing the state unit’s poll preparedness from Monday, started toning up the 35 poll-related committees formed last week. BJP’s national general secretary (organization) B L Santhosh and general secretary incharge of state affairs Bhupender Yadav interacted informally with the heads of various committees. However, the exercise would be completed by Wednesday, as PM Narendra Modi is scheduled to announce new projects or inaugurate the completed ones on Thursday, party sources said. Further, the party’s election incharge and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis would also interact with the steering committee heads on Friday, besides inaugurating the new media office at a premier hotel near the R-Block crossings, setting the stage for the likely visit of party president J P Nadda on September 12. On Monday, the party’s state headquarters bustled with ticket seekers and lobbyists, as well as other workers. Steering committee convener and Union minister Nityanand Rai took queries from them to answer, while election management committee convener and health minister Mangal Pandey, manifesto committee head and agriculture minister Prem Kumar and convener of the publicity and propaganda wing and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also interacted with them separately. The 70-member steering committee of the state BJP would have the onerous task of gearing up the party’s organizational machinery and workforce on priority basis in the assembly constituencies it would be contesting, as it is expected to be the most keenly fought elections seen in the recent years in the state, party sources said. “They would concentrate on the seats BJP will contest, but they may also decide to do the same on demand in the constituencies in which the other NDA partners will contest against the grand alliance,” a party source said. “The BJP Union ministers, senior ministers in the state government, MPs and MLCs in the steering committee will be free to visit constituencies other than those allotted to them for concentration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-starts-toning-up-35-election-related-panels/articleshow/77985788.cms||Abhay Singh
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gir Somnath farmers protest laying of 27-km BG line||Rajkot: Farmers from Gir Somnath district protested the laying of broad gauge railway lines between Kodinar and Somnath on Monday. Registering their angst, leaders alleged that the railway board is only doing it to benefit four companies that want to transport their material using railways.The farmer leaders voiced their dissent in the meeting with deputy collector of Gir Somnath district to start the process of land acquisition. Farmers have been protesting the acquisition for more than a year now and also submitted various memorandums to the district collector but to no avail.According to farmers, railways wants to acquire nearly 1,200 bigha farm land in 20 villages which is currently being used to cultivate crops by more than 550 farmers in Kodinar, Veraval and Sutrapada talukas. According to leaders, of the 550 farmers, 300 will lose their entire land leading to unemployment. The acquisition process was put on halt two times including during last parliamentary election but gets restarted again. Farmer leader, Ramesh Barad said, “The land that is proposed to be acquired is fertile and we are able to cultivate three crops a year. Also, there are mango and coconut orchards on that land. These farms are already suffering from flooding due to heavy rains. After the railway line will block the natural way of rainwater merging in sea, it will result in flood-like situation everywhere.”Villagers also said that the region is also home to 44 lions and 118 leopards which will be exposed to dangers from the expansion of railway track. Gir Somnath district collector Ajay Prakash could not be contacted despite several attempts. Railways had proposed the 27-km Kodinar-Somnath BG line in September 2015 to come up at a cost of Rs 394 crore in 206 hectare land of 20 villages. “As the Chhara port is coming up near Kodinar, this BG line will be a very important to connect the port with rest of India. This will boost economic activity in the region,” said division railway manager of Bhavnagar Prateek Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gir-somnath-farmers-protest-laying-of-27-km-bg-line/articleshow/77985209.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Show-cause notices served on teachers for ‘fake’ attendance||BHAGALPUR: The education department has issued show-cause notices to several government schoolteachers in Sabour block for allegedly marking false attendance with the connivance of their colleagues and non-teaching staff. Bhagalpur district education officer (DEO) Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper on Monday that the names and details of the teachers had been sought. “Teachers of the primary schools at Mukeri Tola, Santnagar, Maheshpur and the middle school at Masarhu would mark themselves present with the help of their photographs on an e-attendance mobile app,” the DEO said. He added, “We are waiting for a reply of the show-cause notices, after which strict action will be taken against the schoolteachers and the employees involved in the fraudulent act.” According to sources, the matter dates back to July 2019, but was kept a secret despite coming to the school’s knowledge long ago. After the attendance fraud surfaced recently, the block education extension officer of Sabour issued show-cause notices to the headmasters of the schools concerned. The multi-utility mobile app, designed for teachers to register their attendance through a selfie, was introduced in the schools of Sabour and Goradih blocks on an experimental basis in 2019. Their time of arrival and departure is registered on the app as soon as they reach and leave the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/show-cause-notices-served-on-teachers-for-fake-attendance/articleshow/77984961.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mysuru||‘Let a pourakarmika open Dasara’||Mysuru: Members of Akhila Karnataka Arunthathiyar Mahasabha on Monday staged a protest in front of MCC building, demanding that the government get the Dasara celebrations inaugurated by a pourakarmika. They said PM Narendra Modi and religious leaders have, time and again, respected the community members. The community members, by engaging in scavenging, UGD work, manhole cleaning and other swachata works, have contributed to to get MCC the Cleanest City tag and Swacch Bharath awards. They also urged the chief minister to take a decision in this regard at the empowered-committee meeting scheduled for Tuesday at Bengaluru. The government must also provide insurance cover for pourakarmikas as most of them are working on contract basis, they said. Meanwhile, the district committee members of Karnataka Dalit Sangarsha Samiti staged a protest, urging the government to pass a bill on the implementation of the recommendations of Justice Sadashiva Commission to grant internal reservation to various sects of scheduled castes in the upcoming legislature session. MCC wants Rs 25 cr spl grants for Nada Habba Mayor Tasneem on Monday said that the city civic body will request the state government to release Rs 25 crore as Dasara special funds. After conducting the Dasara special advisery committee meeting attended by corporators, the mayor told TOI that she will put forth the demand before chief minister B S Yediyurappa at the Dasara high-power committee meeting scheduled for Tuesday. “Corporators had asked me to place the demand before the CM as such funds will help take up ward-wise development works in the run-up to the festival,” she said, adding the government has not yet released Dasara special grants that it had announced last year. “In spite of this, MCC will demand grants,” she said. As the state government will not allow holding exhibition and other events during this year, the mayor said she will request the CM to provide financial help for ‘Mysuru Habba’, the 10-day celebrations planned by the district administration in March next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/let-a-pourakarmika-open-dasara/articleshow/77986766.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Cong protests lack of ICU beds, ventilators for Covid patients||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee held a protest in front of Wenlock District Hospital on Monday demanding the government to provide facilities for patients infected with coronavirus. DCC president K Harish Kumar said poor patients were deprived of treatment in Wenlock Hospital due to lack of oxygen beds and ventilators. He demanded the resignation of health minister B Sriramulu for failing to manage Covid-19 situation effectively in the state. Former MLA J R Lobo said, “The state and central governments have failed to manage the Covid-19 situation. People are forced to run between hospitals in the city to get treatment. Meanwhile, private hospitals are charging exorbitantly for the treatment. The BJP government is directly responsible for the sufferings of people.” Former MLC Ivan D’Souza said that the state government has been neglecting the health of people. “Wenlock Hospital has been declared as a designated Covid Hospital, but the government has failed to provide necessary facilities like ventilators, ICU beds and oxygen beds. This has led to the death of many Covid-19 infected persons. We can see a board announcing the non-availability of ventilators and beds in front of Wenlock Hospital. However, the government is engaged in bed purchase scam,” Ivan said adding that the health department has considered Covid-19 a business. Majority of the Covid-19 victims in Dakshina Kannada district have died due to lack of ventilators and ICU beds, he alleged. “Health minister and the district in-charge ministers of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi should own up the responsibility and resign immediately. Similarly, the government should take control the private hospitals and medical colleges and provide free treatment to all Covid-19 patients,” Ivan said and warned a state-wide protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-protests-lack-of-icu-beds-ventilators-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77987510.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Congress launches campaign from Bihar's Champaran, attacks CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Congress on Monday launched its Bihar election campaign with a virtual rally titled ‘Bihar Kranti Mahasabha’ training its guns at chief minister Nitish Kumar. The Grand Old Party plans to hold a 100 rallies across districts, culminating in a state-level rally to be addressed by Rahul Gandhi. The first series of virtual rallies, which the Congress state unit claimed connected over 10 lakh people on social media, began from the historical Champaran region, which is associated with Mahatma Gandhi’s Independence movement. Wooing Champaran voters, the party’s Rajya Sabha MP and state campaign committee chairman, Akhilesh Singh, slammed both the state and central governments for the plight of sugar mills. “PM Narendra Modi had promised that sugar mills will be revived. But while before 2014, this region provided 24% sugar for the country’s consumption, it has now reduced to less than 2%,” said Singh. State president Madan Mohan Jha too targeted CM Nitish in his speech for changing sides and joining hands with the NDA and went on to raise the issues of crime and the plight of sugarcane farmers of Champaran region. Addressing the party workers, senior party leader Avinash Pandey, who has recently been appointed the president of the screening committee for polls, said the state was ready for a change and people will take revenge for being humiliated throughout. “It is only ‘jumla’ which has been showered on people and there has been no development. Be it a farmer, student or labourers, all are in trouble. Crime is at its peak and women are not safe, still, the government is least concerned over these issues,” Pandey said. Former parliamentarian Tariq Anwar hit out at CM Nitish Kumar over the issues of education, health and development and said this will be Nitish’s last contest and people will never let him come back. Addressing the meeting from Delhi, the party’s national spokesperson Acharya Pramod Krishnan, targeted the PM and Bihar CM both. “This NDA government is surviving on lies and no one can speak more lies than PM Modi and CM Nitish,” he said. While senior party leader and former Uttar Pradesh president Raj Babbar and party’s AICC (women wing) president Sushmita Dev addressed this rally from Delhi, state-level leaders addressed it from Patna. AICC secretary in-charge of Bihar, Ajay Kapoor said altogether hundred such rallies will be held across the state and after a state-level rally will be addressed by former president Rahul Gandhi. Party’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore, who was coordinating this rally, claimed at least 10 lakh people connected with the rally through various social media. “Nitish Kumar’s rally was a flop and the number of people who connected from one assembly constituency was more than the people who listened to Nitish Ji today,” Rathore said. On Tuesday, a virtual rally will be organised for Sitamarhi and Sheohar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-launches-campaign-from-champaran-attacks-nitish/articleshow/77985831.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 8, 2020||Business||Slammed for VRS, SBI says will hire 14,000||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) has said that it plans to recruit 14,000 this year to man its expanding operations. The bank added that the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) announced earlier was not a cost-cutting measure but means of giving employees more choice. The bank’s statement came close on the heels for former FM P Chidambaram criticising the on-tap VRS scheme as “cruel”. The country’s largest bank has a workforce of around 2.5 lakh. The bank said that the scheme was “to provide a congenial solution to employees who expressed desire for making strategic shift in their vocations, either due to professional growth limitations, mobility issues, physical health conditions or family situations”. Read AlsoSBI's VRS scheme cruel as economy has collapsed: P ChidambaramCongress leader P Chidambaram on Monday slammed the reported State Bank of India (SBI) plan to implement a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) at a time when the economy has collapsed and called it cruel.“While our commitment towards our valued employees remains unshakeable, we are deeply desirous of skilling the unemployed youth of the country, as is evidenced by the fact that we are the only bank in the country which has onboarded apprentices under the National Apprenticeship Scheme of the government,” the spokesperson said. “News reports say that SBI plans to implement a VRS scheme as an ‘economy measure’. In normal times, the plan would be debatable. In these abnormal times, when the economy has collapsed and jobs are scarce, it is cruel,” Chidambaram had tweeted on Monday. “If India’s biggest lender has to shed jobs, imagine what other big employers and MSMEs are doing. The plan is ostensibly voluntary, but we know that subtle pressure will be brought on the employees that the bank wants to get rid of. If the current rules provide for genuine voluntary retirement, why announce a new plan and give out an exact number like 30,190?” he added. Read AlsoSBI moots VRS, about 30,000 eligibleIn a bid to optimise costs, SBI has planned a voluntary retirement scheme under which over 30,000 employees are eligible. The total employee strength of country’s largest lender stood at about 2.49 lakh at the end of March 2020 as compared to 2.57 lakh a year ago.An SBI spokesperson said, “There have been media reports about the ‘on-tap VRS’ scheme proposed to be introduced by SBI. The reports have been interpreted as a cost-cutting measure and bank’s intent to reduce workforce. The bank has been employee-friendly and is expanding its operations and requires people, which is evidenced by the fact that it has plans of recruiting more than 14,000 employees this year.” Bankers say that older employees, particularly those with family members, are under pressure from families who are concerned about their attending office in the midst of a pandemic. Older employees are part of a defined benefit pension scheme, which entitles them to receive pension that rises with inflation after retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/slammed-for-vrs-sbi-says-will-hire-14k/articleshow/77985890.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 60-year-old found dead after row with son||KOLKATA: A 31-year-old man allegedly assaulted his father, leading to the latter’s death in Tangra on Monday. The deceased’s wife submitted a complaint without accusing anyone. The man was detained for questioning, but was allowed to attend his father’s last rites. Babu Das, 60, and his son, Raja, used to have frequent quarrels over Raja’s alcohol abuse. “On Sunday night, Raja came home drunk and got into an argument with Das. Troubled by the row, Raja’s mother Sova, 52, went to a neighbour’s place for the night. On Monday, she found Das on the floor near the door with bruises on his body and blood around his nose,” said an officer. “The probe is on, but the post-mortem report is still inconclusive,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/60-yr-old-found-dead-after-row-with-son/articleshow/77985774.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Stagnation grips real estate sector in Patna||PATNA: With the Covid-19 pandemic taking a huge toll on the real estate sector in the state capital, homebuyers are a disappointed lot. As construction activities have come to a grinding halt and several households are facing severe financial crunch, the demand for commercial and residential properties has also taken a dip. Kankarbagh resident, Apurva Shreya, who had almost finalized a 2-BHK flat near Gola Road in February, has decided to postpone the purchase. “Many people have been laid off at my workplace and my job is also at stake. Hence, buying a flat is not my priority right now,” she told this newspaper. Others like Hemant Kumar have cancelled their purchase agreement even after making the down payment. The Rajendra Nagar resident took the step after suffering huge losses in his garment business. He said, “I have not earned a penny during the last five months because my shop was shut during the lockdown. Since I was not in a position to pay back the loan, I decided to cancel the agreement.” Meanwhile, builders, real estate agents and construction companies are facing the dual challenge of dipping demand and rising costs. Former all-India president of the Builders’ Association of India, Sachin Chandra, claimed that the average annual growth of the real estate sector in Bihar, which was around 9% last year, was likely to dip by the end of 2020. He also said property prices would shoot up in the coming months. “Because of a fall in demand, builders have halted several ongoing construction projects and deferred the launch of new ones. This is likely to create a supply shortage in the future and push property prices up,” Sachin said. Real estate consultant, Ajay Kumar, pointed out that over 50 of his clients’ properties had been lying vacant since February. “The real estate sector was already performing poorly due to demonetization in 2016. After Covid-19, the rates of several plots have come down considerably,” he added. A builder from Kankarbagh, Ran Kaushal Singh, complained about the increasing number of unsold residential units due to stagnancy in the market. He said, “At present, four of my residential units on Gola Road and 16 in Kankarbagh are lying vacant. Although they were constructed in January, I have not been able to find a single buyer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stagnation-grips-real-estate-sector/articleshow/77984877.cms||Arunima Lal
September 8, 2020||Patna||How lockdown ‘burdened’ state’s weaker, marginalised sections||PATNA: While the lockdown affected almost every section of society, economically weaker and communities marginalised due to caste, tribes, religious minorities and those dependent on informal and daily-wage livelihood were the worst sufferers, according to a survey conducted across 11 states, including Bihar. Data collected by civil society organisations for the survey reveals that a majority of the respondents were saddled with debts during the lockdown due to lack of earnings and many of them were not able to get the benefits provided by government’s schemes. Children’s education was also severely affected. The survey showed that Bihar was among three states with a very low success rate in the distribution of old age, widow and disability pensions along with Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The data gathered under COLLECT (Community-Led Local Entitlements & Claims Tracker) in association with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals collected information from people across 476 villages/urban locations in 11 states. This study included 69 villages in 44 blocks across 15 districts of Bihar. The team focussed on problems being faced by Dalits, denotified and nomadic Tribes, tribal communities, minority communities, women and children in availing entitlements given by the government such as various pensions and free ration, their indebtedness situation and social status from April to June. Altogether 98,000 households across the country were covered focussing on such vulnerable communities. The finding showed the lockdown had badly affected children’s education with 66% of the households saying their children were not able to access online education. Only 30% said some children were able to access online education, while only in 1% of the locations surveyed had all children receiving online education. Debt and loan burdens increased in all communities studied across the 11 states with 73% saying their loan burden had increased. In Bihar, 69 locations surveyed had respondents saying their debts increased during the lockdown period. Several of them were also deprived of government schemes. Respondents from 42 of 69 areas in Bihar said they were more indebted now. In terms of entitlements and schemes for June, respondents in 11 Bihar villages said they did not receive the Rs 2,000 under Kisan Samman Yojana, while in seven they said they received all and in 25 areas, they received some part of the entitlements. In case of the Rs 500 in Jan Dhan account, respondents from 32 villages said they received it, in 31 villages some received it and in six villages no one received this benefit. The worst response was in old-age, disability and widow pensions category. Of the 69 villages in Bihar, respondents from 25 said they did not receive old age and widow pension and those from 27 places claimed they did not receive the disability pension. In the category of social issues, respondents from 23 of 69 locations said all children had dropped out of school. Domestic violence had further increased in 25 of the areas surveyed. Savita Ali, a member of Dalit Women Fight, said many of these people were not even aware of how to avail the schemes. “For instance, a large number of migrants returned, but many of them do not have the job card, which helps in getting employment under MGNREGA. Similarly, women are not aware of the benefits which they can avail and hardly any government official is concerned about getting their forms filled.” She further said the loss of jobs has led to more domestic violence, and it was also mentally impacting children. “Please check in the poor Dalit households how many kids have books to study or access to online classes,” added Savita. Former dean, faculty of social sciences, Nawal Kishore Choudhary, said many people lost jobs and in turn, were not able to fulfil their family’s needs. He pointed out local-level corruption in MGNREGA as a big hindrance in availing jobs. Regarding online studies, especially of children associated with government schools, he said the teachers had not been trained in this regard and the internet connection was also not available to all. Even if available, it was very poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-lockdown-burdened-states-weaker-marginalised-sections/articleshow/77984799.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||‘146 infected died in 6 days, Covid killed only 11’||Rajkot: In the first six days of September, 146 Covid-19 infected persons have died, but data provided by the Death Audit Committee (DAC) of Rajkot district show that only 11 have died due to the deadly virus. The remaining deaths of Covid-19 infected patients have been categorised as ‘non-covid’ deaths. The Rajkot administration has been facing criticism from the citizens and well as opposition over the data of people dying due to coronavirus in the district. The opposition Congress has even accused the administration of muddling with figures to show lower number of deaths. The issue came to light when administration reported around 75 Covid deaths during August, whereas the people cremated or buried under Covid-19 protocol during the same month was reportedly above 300 from different crematoriums and burial grounds in the district. The DAC comprises of experts of the Rajkot civil hospital. According to DAC head Dr Umed Patel, the committee only considers those deaths as caused by the virus where the patient is not suffering from any comorbid conditions like diabetes or hypertension. The Gujarat government in April had formed DACs in each district to ‘standardise’ the figures of Covid-19 deaths. “We consider the Covid-19 death only in cases where the primary reason is coronavirus. Our job is to find the cause of death, that means where the process of death started in the body. The patients with comorbidity like diabetes, hypertension, TB, HIV, asthma are already vulnerable. If they did not have any of these diseases, they could not have died because of coronavirus. So, the death of this kind of patients are considered non-covid deaths.” However, Patel who is also an associate professor of the department of community medicine at PDU Medical College attached to Rajkot civil hospital, admitted “The coronavirus aggravates other diseases and it spreads fast in the body. It also affects those organs first which are already damaged.” The difference in death figures has triggered dissatisfaction among the citizens. This had prompted the Rajkot collector office to change the practice of disseminating information on Covid-19 by Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) for the city and district health officer for the rural part. The collector office took total control of disseminating information and are releasing consolidated data for the entire district. It’s is also learnt that district officials have asked the trustees of crematoriums not share figures of cremations under Covid-19 protocol claiming it to be ‘sensitive information’. Deputy leader of opposition in RMC Mansukh Kalariya said, “We have been saying this since the beginning that the government is trying to hide the actual number of deaths and number of positive cases. We had submitted a memorandum three times demanding transparency but this government is hiding its failure behind the false figures at the cost of public health.” District collector Remya Mohan could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/146-infected-died-in-6-days-covid-killed-only-11/articleshow/77984552.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 8, 2020||Patna||Nitish covers all fronts as he blows bugle for assembly polls||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday set the JD(U) agenda for the coming assembly election at his mega virtual rally. In a three-hour speech, he laid out his government’s achievements since 2005 and asked his party workers and leaders to make the Generation Z aware of the crimes and corruption, unemployment and lack of development during the 15 years’ rule of RJD under Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Nitish not only countered Chirag Paswan-led LJP, and opposition’s charges on several issues such as employment, handling of coronavirus pandemic and floods, he also attacked his main rival Lalu and RJD on a comparative chart of development and law and order situation during the “pati-patni” rule and the NDA regime under his leadership. He enumerated his works and schemes for the poor, farmers, women, students, SC/ST, EBC, minority community and migrant workers. “Some people only talk. They did nothing. But we believe in work. What had they done for the Bhagalpur riot victims is known to all. We gave a pension to the riot-hit families and ensured justice to the victims. They ask what we have done in 15 years. Compare the jobs given and money spent on infrastructure and power sector during our regime and your rule when people feared to go out after sunset. Now, we are moving towards solar energy. ‘Lalten aur dhibri ki jarurat nahin hain ab (people no more need lantern and kerosene lamp),” Nitish said while referring to RJD’s election symbol lantern. Nitish did not miss out on giving some credit to the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for the fast-paced development in Bihar. Referring to Lalu’s Facebook post on Sunday that said “Yeh jo Bihar pe bhar hai, Nitishe Kumar hai (He who is a burden on Bihar is Nitish Kumar)”, Nitish hit out at the RJD chief saying people of Bihar were relieved by his (Lalu) being in jail. “Aap andar hain to logo ko mukti mili hui hai,” he said. Well aware that the first-time voters who had not seen the RJD rule might get trapped by the ‘Young leadership, new Bihar’ slogan of RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Nitish read out the work done by his government for education, health, infrastructure and rural development. Since Tejashwi will be the opposition face against Nitish in the assembly election due in October-November, the JD(U) chief harped on his party’s principles of “development with justice and zero-tolerance to crime, corruption and communalism with focus on social harmony”. Exposing the weak link in the RJD first family, Nitish referred to the marital dispute of Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav with the granddaughter of former CM late Daroga Prasad Rai and asked the RJD chief what kind of treatment he meted out to his “educated” daughter-in-law which forced her father Chandrika Rai to quit RJD and join JD(U). As there is a common perception that Yadavs and Muslims may back Tejashwi, Nitish mentioned the 5 RJD MLCs and 7 MLAs — some from Yadav and Muslim communities — joining JD(U) to drive home his point that no one has respect in RJD. Even Paliganj MLA Jaivardhan Yadav, the grandson of ‘Sher-e-Bihar’ late Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, had to leave Lalu’s party. “Parivar-wad chala rahe hain. Jinhone (Rai and Yadav) aapki itni madad ki, unke saath aapne kya kiya. Hum sabki ijjat karte hain aur karenge,” Nitish said while trying to give a message that Lalu and his family believe in self-promotion only. Referring to Tejashwi’s allegations of corruption, the CM invoked Mahatma Gandhi to corner the young Lalu’s scion. “Acquiring money without doing anything and doing business sans morality,” is among the 7 vices Bapu had mentioned, he said, adding, “I had asked him (Tejashwi) to come clean on the assets acquired in his name, but he did not. Then I had to part ways.” Tejashwi was his deputy in the Mahagathbandhan government with RJD and Congress from 2015 to July 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-covers-all-fronts-as-he-blows-bugle-for-assembly-polls/articleshow/77985547.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 8, 2020||Surat||Expert agencies to probe Thai woman’s death||Surat: The city police have decided to involve multiple agencies for the investigation into the death of the 27-year-old Thai woman. Mystery shrouds the death of Wanida Bousorn as it not clear whether it was a murder, a suicide or an accident.The police got the spot examined by senior officials of forensic science laboratory (FSL) and a team of forensic science department doctors on Monday. The police will also involve Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (DGVCL) in the investigation. So far, the police have not got any clue in the death of Bousorn, whose burnt body was found from a rented accommodation in Magdalla on Sunday. Police suspect it to have been an accident as the presence of no other person has been established till now. The police also doubt that the woman might have been rendered unconscious in her sleep due to the poisonous smoke. “Due to a short circuit in extension cords, the bed sheet or mattress could have caught the fire and before the woman could react she must have gone unconscious due to the smoke. If she could not react to the fire because of the consumption of some intoxicating substance it can be known only after the report of viscera is provided by the FSL,” said a police officer. Two extension cords were used to supply electricity to a table fan. The deceased also used to plug her mobile charger in the extension cord. Bousorn’s friends noticed a scar on the left side of her neck a few days ago and when questioned by them she replied that she had suffered an injury due to a short circuit in the charging cord. Later, she purchased a new charger, sources in the police informed. She used to talk over the phone while it was connected to the charger in a sleeping position holding the phone between her shoulder and the head. The police came to know that she was alive when the fire occurred in the room since she had inhaled smoke and carbon particles were found in trachea during the preliminary post mortem examination. A team of FSL including D B Patel, deputy director, visited the spot on Monday. The police are supposed to get the electricity meter examined by the DGVCL. Electrical department will examine internal wiring. “Based on the reports of different department experts, the police will reach any conclusion,” said a police officer. The police were informed by a roommate of the deceased, also a Thai woman, that they used both doors to go out and sometimes they applied a lock on the front door and entered the house from the back door. Since the front door was locked from outside at the time of the fire, the police suspect that the deceased might have applied it on the front door and entered the house from the backside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/expert-agencies-to-probe-thai-womans-death/articleshow/77985192.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Surat||NHRC approached in 7 migrant workers’ death in Chhattisgarh accident||Surat: demanding legal actions in the deaths of seven migrant workers who were killed in a bus accident on Saturday near Raipur of Chhattisgarh, a Mumbai High Court lawyer on Monday approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to take action against road transport department officials of Surat and Bhanjanagar in Odisha.Demanding action also against the district authorities in Ganjam district in Odisha, the lawyer alleged that the bus did not have a fitness certificate and other mandatory papers. He also demanded Rs 20 lakh compensation to the kin of each deceased and Rs 5 lakh to injured. Srikant Padhi, a lawyer and president of Rashtriya Oriya Yuvak Pratishthan, filed an online application and his application has been admitted. Padhi has raised various issues concerning Odia migrant workers in the past as well. “The bus was sent by employers of the migrant workers from Surat to bring the labourers back from Ganjam district. The bus crashed in some other vehicle near Raipur and seven persons got killed,” Padhi told TOI. “It was found during investigation by local authorities in Chhattisgarh that the bus did not have a fitness certificate. It expired on May 7, 2019, its insurance had expired on September 25, 2019 and road tax was paid up to September 30, 2018,” said Padhi. Padhi has alleged that the bus was carrying more than 70 passengers which is above its permissible limits. “I have demanded legal actions against all the authorities concerned in Surat, Bhanjanagar and also Ganjam district,” Padhi added. More than 4 lakh Odiya migrants are employed in the city, majority of them working in textile weaving units. “Only 1.5 lakh workers are present in the city which is why nearly 5 lakh power loom machines are lying idle. In absence of trains, workers are risking lives by travelling in buses,” said Ashok Jirawala, president of Federation of Gujarat Weavers Welfare Association (FOGWA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nhrc-approached-in-7-migrant-workers-death-in-chhattisgarh-accident/articleshow/77985295.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||10 pistols, seven cartridges seized from Lalpur village in one week, 4 arrested||Rajkot: Navagam village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district has become a hub of illegal firearms with police seizing 10 country made pistols and seven cartridges in the past six days. So far, the police have arrested four persons for the crime. Viram Modhvadia (25), who was arrested on September 2 with one country-made pistol and two cartridges, informed the police about the spots where he had hidden the firearms during his custodial interrogations. “On Monday morning, we searched his farm and found four country made pistols hidden beneath the heap of fertilizer,” said D S Vadher, sub-inspector with Meghpar police station. On Sunday, on the basis of Modhvadia’s questioning, the police arrested Suresh Gorania (26) and seized three country-made pistols and two cartridges from him. Earlier on Friday, on the basis of Modhvadia’s statement, the police arrested Nilesh Modhvadia (27) and seized one pistol and one cartridge from him. Just a day before, the police had arrested Raju Modhvadia and had seized one pistol and two cartridges from his possession. During his interrogation, Viram Modhvadia told the police that initially he had bought the firearm from an arms dealer from Madhya Pradesh. As the word of having firearms got spread in his village, other villagers started asking firearms from him. “Considering the high demand, he toyed with an idea of venturing into the arms business and started getting supply of the firearms,” said Vadher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-pistols-seven-cartridges-seized-from-lalpur-village-in-one-week-4-arrested/articleshow/77985481.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Woman, two children killed in wall collapse||Palanpur: A woman and her two kids were killed, while five others were injured, when a wall collapsed in Sejelpura village near Palanpur town of Banaskantha on Monday morning. The incident took place around 11.30 am during digging of foundation of a house belonging to Shirish Patel of the village. A wall of an old house, adjacent to the site, collapsed and fell upon six labourers and their two children. While three persons died on the spot after they got buried under the rubble, five others were rushed to civil hospital in Palanpur for treatment. According to police sub inspector BR Patel the deceased were identified as Geeta Vasaiya (30), her son Rahul Vasaiya (5) and three-year-old daughter Naina Vasiya. Patel said they have have registered a case as accidental death and begun probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-two-children-killed-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/77985368.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Husband held for woman’s murder||Kolkata: A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly murdering his wife over an illicit affair and her refusal to hand over her gold ornaments to sponsor the relationship. Md Salim, a resident of Tiljala Lane, was nabbed from Narkeldanga and his wife’s cellphone was found on him. The couple’s 15-year-old son is the main witness in the case. “The woman’s neck, along with other parts of the body, have deep cuts,” said an officer. “On Sunday, around 10.15pm, Nazni Begum, 37, was found lying in a pool of blood in her room. A few gold ornaments and cash belonging to the deceased was also missing. A case of murder and dacoity was lodged on the basis of the statement of her son against Md Salim. During investigation, the weapon was seized from the spot,” said DC (SED) Debasmita Das. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/husband-held-for-womans-murder/articleshow/77985820.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||New south Goa district hospital to be state’s 3rd Covid facility: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Giving in to opposition demands, health minister Vishwajit Rane said late on Monday evening that the South Goa district hospital would be converted into a dedicated Covid hospital, with 400-500 beds. Rane made the announcement in a social media post after consulting with chief minister Pramod Sawant. He said that Dr Sunanda Amonkar, an associate professor of medicine at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Dr Rajesh Patil of GMC’s surgery department will manage it, along with medical superintendent Dr Deepa Correia. However, is it not clear yet whether the government has deferred the proposal to set up a private medical college in the district hospital building. “Our main priority is to treat Covid patients, and we are doing whatever is possible to achieve that,” Rane said. He said the district hospital can be attached to a medical college so that there are more medical seats for Goan students. “We’ll run the hospital as a tertiary hospital for South Goa, so they don’t have to come to GMC, but right now, the priority is Covid management.” Recently, Rane had defended the proposal to set up a private medical college on PPP mode in the new district hospital premises, saying that it is as per the policy of Niti Aayog. “This provision was not there earlier, (but) it is now allowed under PM Narendra Modi’s policy,” he said. Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP) had threatened to agitate if the government went ahead with the proposal of the PPP project. GFP chief Vijai Sardesai said on Monday that if the two floors of the hospital were not given for treatment of Covid patients, his party would consider approaching the judiciary. However, after Rane’s announcement, the South Goa district hospital will be the third dedicated Covid hospital of the State, the other two being the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, and the sub-district hospital, Ponda. The health minister also said GMC would continue to manage critical Covid patients. Last month, three wards were set up in the tertiary hospital as Goa saw its mortality rate rising. Last week, Rane said that Goa would continue to see a spike in cases till the end of the month. On Monday, Goa’s total case load increased to 21,173. Except for the last two days — Sunday and Monday — the state’s daily average of new infections has been 631. There has been a corresponding rise in Covid deaths, and in the past seven days, 52 people have died of Covid, taking the toll close to the 250-mark. Rane also admitted that every day, Covid facilities — both in dedicated hospitals and in GMC wards — get filled to capacity, but that they’re still managing. Patients with mild symptoms are transferred to the sub-district hospital in Ponda, which was earlier reserved for neonatal and post-natal Covid patients, while critical patients are treated at GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-s-goa-dist-hosp-to-be-states-3rd-covid-facility-rane/articleshow/77987633.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar reviews Covid situation in Bihar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday instructed the officials concerned to increase the alertness regarding Covid-19 in the light of upcoming assembly elections and festive season as 1,369 fresh cases were registered in the past 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally to 1.49 lakh. With six more deaths, the Covid toll reached 761. However, 1,32,145 people have recovered from the infection so far and there were 16,119 active cases in the state. Chairing a videoconference to review the Covid situation in state, Nitish asked the officials to ensure distribution of four masks and one soap to every family in every village in the state. He also asked the officials to gather data of people who died due to other diseases along with Covid infection. “The downward trend in Covid infection rate does not mean that the pandemic is over. People should always remain alert ... Movement of people will increase due to upcoming election and festive season. Thus proper alertness should be maintained,” he said. While making a presentation, principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said 73% of the deceased were above 50 years of age and most of them were men. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar told reporters that over 1.50 lakh samples were being tested daily while the recovery rate was 11% more than the national average. Patna reported 241 fresh cases, taking the district tally to 22,774. However, with 20406 recoveries and 177 deaths, active cases stood at 2191. Bhagalpur (97), Saran (72), Aurangabad (63) and Araria (55) were the other districts with substantial number of new cases. State health department reported two deaths each from Madhubani and Banka. Aurangabad, Gaya and Khagaria reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said ten people were discharged, including BJP MLC Aditya Narayan Pandey. Eight new Covid patients were admitted as a junior doctor of AIIMS-Patna also tested positive. NMCH reported one death on Monday. He was from Karpi Bazaar in Arwal. NMCH nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said five patients were admitted and five were discharged on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-reviews-covid-situation-in-state/articleshow/77984761.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 8, 2020||Allahabad||House constructed by Atiq on nazul land razed||Prayagraj: Continuing the crackdown against the jailed don’s unauthorised properties, Praygaraj district administration and police on Monday got a house belonging to former MP Atiq Ahmed demolished on Nawab Yusuf Road in Civil Lines. The house was constructed on nazool land. A joint team of police, officials from Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) and, other administrative officials supervised the demolition. SSP (Prayagraj) Abhishek Dixit said, “The district administration and police took cognizance that Ahmed and his accomplices had illegally grabbed the property in Civil Lines and constructed a structure on the nazool land. The district magistrate instructed ADM ( nazool), PDA and PMC to take action accordingly.” “After receiving a letter from ADM (nazool) seeking adequate police force to take the required action, a police team including SP (city), Deputy SP (Civil Lines) and Inspector (Civil Lines) was deployed on Monday to assist the administration in demolishing the house.” Dixit said that the illegal structure was located at 5B, Civil Station on Nawab Yusuf Road in Civil Lines. It sprawled across 418.215 square metre and was valued at several crores of rupees. The SSP said that the administration had rejected an application filed by Ahmed a couple of years back, when he sought to convert the nazool property into a freehold land. By razing the structure, the district administration has have taken the land into its possession. On September 5, a property owned by one of Ahmed’s family members near Panki Ki Tanki was demolished. The property was also built on nazool land and spread over 165 square metre. In August, police and the district administration attached seven properties worth Rs 60 crore owned by the former MP under the provisions of Gangster Act. Watch UP: House constructed by former MP Atiq Ahmed on nazul land razed in Prayagraj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/house-constructed-by-atiq-on-nazul-land-razed/articleshow/77985569.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Business||NBFCs to FM: Ease loan rejig eligibility rules for small cos||MUMBAI: Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have petitioned the finance minister to relax norms and allow restructuring for all standard loan accounts and not just those which are without any overdue for more than 30 days. According to the lenders, micro and small enterprises have uneven cashflows and were facing challenges even before the Covid-19 pandemic. On September 3, representatives of the NBFC sector met with the finance minister to discuss the one-time restructuring of debt and progress in disbursing loans under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) and partial credit guarantee scheme. In the meeting, it was decided that all lenders will have a board-approved restructuring policy for their stressed customers by September 10. Following this, they will commence the process of restructuring loans of eligible customers by September 15. The government conceded to the NBFC request to extend the ECLGS to individuals carrying on any business activity. The finance ministry pointed out that the current performance of NBFCs in terms of sanction and disbursement of ECLGS loans is slow and they must accelerate disbursals and target to achieve maximum coverage by the end of September. The scheme is set to end on October 31, or until the disbursement of Rs 3 lakh crore. According to Finance Industry Development Council director general Mahesh Thakkar, NBFCs face a number of challenges in extending loans under the government scheme. He said that although restructuring of loans has been allowed, NBFCs are required to follow the Indian Accounting Standard (or IND-AS) while making provisions. Under these norms, they have to make provisions even on restructured accounts. “We, therefore, suggest that the additional provisioning requirement may be dropped for restructured accounts for NBFCs,” he said. He also pointed out that loans for tractors and private vehicles are excluded from the government guarantee scheme and should be included within the scheme. Another issue facing the NBFCs is that they sell to banks the loans they have extended to small borrowers. Once these loans are sold to banks, it is up to the banks to provide the additional funding under the guarantee scheme. But banks do not have the wherewithal to reach these borrowers. For these borrowers to get additional loans under the scheme, NBFCs would need to be allowed to extend this top-up loan although the earlier loan is no longer in the books of the finance company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-to-fm-ease-loan-rejig-eligibility-rules-for-small-cos/articleshow/77985966.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: PM Narendra Modi to unveil Rs 294 crore worth of projects on September 10||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi is all set to inaugurate completed projects and also lay the foundation of new projects worth Rs 294 crore on Thursday, ahead of the assembly elections whose schedule the Election Commission (EC) may announce soon. In this regard, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on Monday that the projects worth Rs 294 crore are related to fisheries, animal husbandry and agriculture departments aimed at underpinning their scientific farming. While the PM is scheduled to announce proposed projects in five phases till September 25, he would inaugurate completed projects related to the fishery resources worth Rs 107 crore on Thursday. Besides projects related to animal husbandry valued at Rs 94.5 crore and also Rs 74 crore worth of projects related to the campus of Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University will also be launched, SuMo said. The Bakhri fish seed farm near Dumra in Sitamarhi district worth Rs 5 crore, fish rearing college at Kishanganj for disease eradication and quality testing and aqua referral laboratory on the campus of Bihar Animal Science University worth Rs 10 crore, fish feed mill at Madhepura worth Rs 1 crore, fish on wheels project at Masurahi (Patna) worth Rs 2.8 crore, and the integrated fish production technology centre on the campus of Rajendra Central Agriculture University at Pusa worth Rs 2.87 crore. The projects related to animal husbandry department, whose start the PM would announce, are semen station at Purnia (Rs 84.3 crore), embryo transfer technology and IVF laboratory at Bihar Animal Science University (Rs 8.06 crore), and sex-sorted semen project prepared at centres located at Begusarai, Khagaria, Samastipur and Nalanda (Rs 2.13 crore), SuMo said. Similarly, the PM would also inaugurate School of Agri-Business and Rural Management Bhavan (Rs 11 crore) about the Rajendra Central Agriculture University, besides laying the foundation stones for the construction of Boys’ Hostel (Rs 27 crore), stadium (Rs 25 crore) and International Guest House (Rs 11 crore) for the same campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-to-unveil-rs-294-crore-worth-of-projects-on-september-10/articleshow/77985733.cms||Abhay Singh
September 8, 2020||Patna||Unlock 4.0: Patna zoo, parks to open from Wednesday||PATNA: The state home department on Monday issued an order for the implementation of all guidelines envisaged by Union home ministry under Unlock 4.0 on August 29. Total lockdown will remain enforced in the containment zones in Bihar till September 30. As per the fresh orders on Monday, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular class activity till September 30. However, Patna zoo and parks managed by the forests department across the state will open from Wednesday, principal secretary (forests) Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Monday. He said an order in this regard will be issued on Tuesday. “We will have restriction on timings of parks initially,” he said. The Patna district administration has allowed all shops to open without any curbs on timing as enforced during the lockdown. Besides, 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff will be permitted in schools at a time for online teaching and telecounselling in areas outside the containment zones from September 21. Also, students of Class 9 to 12 would be permitted to visit their schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from the teachers in areas outside the containment zones. This will be subjected to written consent of the parents and with effect from September 21. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said Gandhi Maidan will open for visitors from Wednesday. The state government will also allow social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations from September 21 with not more than 100 people. Wearing of face marks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and handwash or sanitiser will be mandatory in such gatherings. Marriage-related gatherings will not exceed 50 people. Maximum 20 people will be allowed to attend funerals till September 20. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres will, however, remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/unlock-4-0-zoo-parks-to-open-from-tomorrow/articleshow/77984745.cms||Arunima Lal
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||NGT tells West Bengal to comply with noise norms||KOLKATA: The National Green Tribunal has asked the state to comply with the statutory rules and regulations in connection with noise pollution after holding the chief secretary, director general of police and West Bengal Pollution Control Board responsible for the compliance. The bench of Justice S P Wangdi (judicial member) and Dr Nagin Nanda (expert member) asked the DGP to nominate an officer of the rank of SP and deputy commissioners (in case of police commissionerates) to deal with the issues. These nodal officers must meet at regular intervals to review the issues. The order came after green crusader Subhas Datta filed a petition on rampant violation of noise norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-tells-state-to-comply-with-noise-norms/articleshow/77985737.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Scattered rainfall likely at few places for 4 days, says weatherman||PATNA: After Patna and several other parts of the state received heavy showers on Monday, experts have predicted rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning at few places over the next four days. Their intensity is, however, likely to reduce from Wednesday. The showers have been attributed to the combined effect of a monsoon trough line passing through Gaya and a cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining Uttar Pradesh (UP). Bihar has received 18% surplus rain in the monsoon season so far. “Monsoon rainfall activity surged after two to three days in Bihar on Monday and was normal. Light to moderate showers were witnessed at a few places,” an official at the Patna Meteorological Centre told this newspaper. According to the daily weather bulletin issued by the Met on Monday evening, heavy rainfall occurred at Rosera in Samastipur district. While Patna recorded a rainfall of over 0.6mm, Bhagalpur registered over 5.3mm of rain. The weather bulletin also stated that the monsoon trough line was passing through Anupgarh in Rajasthan, Bhiwani in Haryana, Mainpuri and Fursatganj in UP, Gaya in south Bihar, Malda in West Bengal and eastwards to Nagaland across Assam. Furthermore, a cyclonic circulation was witnessed over northwest UP and neighbourhood. “The two weather systems have resulted in moisture incursion in the region, which in turn is likely to lead to moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning at isolated places in the state over the next four days,” the Met official said. The weather bulletin pointed out that the maximum temperature in Patna was four notches above the normal in the last 24 hours and the minimum temperature was around two notches above the normal. It stated that Patna was likely to witness generally cloudy sky with possibility of light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scattered-rainfall-likely-at-few-places-for-4-days-weatherman/articleshow/77984939.cms||Arunima Lal
September 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Villagers stage dharna against girl’s kidnapping||PATNA: The residents of Dighra village put up road blockades on NH-28 and staged dharna on Monday against the police failure to recover the 17-year-old girl, who had been kidnapped from her residence under Sadar police station in Muzaffarpur on the night intervening September 3 and 4. The girl had passed ISc examination with first division from a Muzaffarpur college this year. Her father Ashutosh Pandey (45), a petty businessman, said, “The criminals had also decamped with cash and gold jewellery. We have not slept ever since the incident happened.” Pandey, a disabled person, runs a grocery shop at Dighra. The girl is the second among three children of Pandey. Senior BJP leader and former MLC Mahachandra Prasad Singh and a party district functionary Ravindra Prasad Singh met the victim’s family on Sunday. “I talked to the additional chief secretary (home) and the DGP about the shocking incident,” Mahachandra said. “I have never come across such an incident in which dacoits kidnapped any girl after collecting cash and valuables,” he told this newspaper over the phone. The BJP leader said he also wrote a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday about the incident. “I am in regular touch with Muzaffarpur SSP and other senior police officers. Justice will be done to the family,” he said, adding that resentment prevailed among local people against the police for its failure to crack the case. IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar said a special investigation team had been set up to crack the case at the earliest. “Raids were on to recover the girl safely. We are moving cautiously as human life is involved in the incident,” he said, adding that the police investigation was proceeding in the right direction. Authoritative sources said a police team has been dispatched outside the state on the basis of tower location of the mobile phone used by a youth, who was in touch with the girl before the incident. The youth belonging to a backward community is stated to be a native of Muzaffarpur district. He is also missing from his house. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-stage-dharna-against-girls-kidnapping/articleshow/77984949.cms||Ramashankar
September 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar raises ‘justice for Sushant’ cry in poll rally||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar raised the issue of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in his virtual poll rally on Monday. “I have full faith that the CBI investigation would ensure justice for his family and the people of Bihar,” he said. “There will be a sense of contentment in people after they get justice in the SSR death case,” he added, in his speech officially launching his party’s poll campaign. Earlier, while referring to the transfer of Patna Police’s FIR to the CBI, Nitish said the death of the actor not only affected his family, the people of Bihar, but also crores of people across the country. “Kewal Bihar nahi, poora desh prabhavit tha (iss) Sushant case se,” the JD(U) president said. “People in large numbers showed their love for the actor but we saw what was going on in his death case,” the Bihar CM said referring to the investigation by Mumbai Police without taking any names. “The way it should have been investigated was not done. That is why when we got an opportunity; we launched an investigation immediately. Later, the case was recommended to the CBI for further investigation with the consent of Sushant’s father on August 4. The CBI took up the investigation on August 5,” Nitish said. The JD(U) chief further said the Supreme Court also vetted the CBI probe. “I have complete faith that the CBI investigation will ensure justice in the case,” he said. The assembly polls in Bihar are due in October-November. The SSR death case has now turned into an emotive issue ahead of the election in Bihar. All major political parties appear to be keen to gain political mileage from the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/have-full-faith-in-cbi-probe-nitish/articleshow/77985710.cms||Madan Kumar
September 8, 2020||Business||Jobless youth eye direct selling business||CHENNAI: Mumbai resident Avankita Naik, among the several youngsters that have lost jobs amid the pandemic, earned Rs 6,000 within two weeks of entering the direct selling business. Many unemployed people under the age of 35 are opening up to newer roles like direct selling, which till now was popular with senior citizens and homemakers. Naik said it was a good opportunity for her after losing her job at a pharmaceutical company. “I got enrolled as a member in Tupperware India in August 2020. With the lockdown in place, social media marketing and video-calling platforms have helped to meet and make new customers,” she said. FMCG direct selling brand Amway India, which has over 5.5 lakh direct sellers, has witnessed a surge in people exploring its business opportunity in the second quarter alone, of which 64% of the new registrations are under 35 years. Its CEO Anshu Budhraja said, “Historically, direct selling has played a crucial role in fuelling economic growth and offers an alternative to traditional employment for those wanting a flexible opportunity to supplement household income. Currently, while the traditional employment landscape is witnessing disruption, the gig economy is observing a contrasting trend.” The company has about 53% of its customers under the 35-year-old category. Customised training modules are designed by the brands for direct sellers to adopt this way of engaging with the consumer. Tupperware India MD Deepak Chhabra said “In the absence of physical meetings, social media channels like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, video platforms are replacing traditional meet-and-greets by offering wider reach to engage with existing and potential customers irrespective of where direct sellers are physically stationed.” With over 70,000 women direct sellers across the country, the US-based Tupperware had witnessed a 47% rise in new registrations in July. “We do not charge for registration with an aim to enable self-motivated women to join the business free of cost,” Tupperware India MD Deepak Chhabra said. Global cosmetic brand Oriflame (India) too has witnessed an increase of around 30% in the under-35 age category between the January-March and April-June quarters. Frederic Widell, VP & head of South Asia & MD of India, Oriflame, said, “We have seen the largest share of increment in registration across younger people (below 35) from metro cities and across tier-2 and -3 cities.” Direct selling or social selling industry offers the opportunity to work from the safety and convenience of home — the entire business can be done online today with flexible hours. “These advantages are of course attractive to young people who currently may be struggling to find employment,” Widell said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jobless-youth-eye-direct-selling-biz/articleshow/77985824.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 8, 2020||Surat||700 families in Surat have three or more members Covid-19 positive||Surat: In Covid-19 case analysis, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has found that there were over 700 families wherein more than three members were infected with Covid-19 infections. On the basis of the trend, SMC has started the isolation of comorbid Covid-19 positive patients. They are being sent to Covid Care Centre of Community Isolation Centre. According to the SMC officials, the aged and comorbid members of Covid-19 infected family are being shifted to either hospital or Community Care Centre so that they get treatment if any complications arises. “There are around 700 such families in the city whose three or more members have been tested Covid-19 positive. In order to stop the spread of Covid-19 and provide necessary treatment to those who need, we are shifting those aged members of co-morbid patient to Covid Community Centres for better health facility,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. “Till now, we have shifted over 170 people from these families to Community Isolation Centres or hospitals in the city,” Pani added. According to sources, this trend is observed mainly in Rander, Athwa, Varachha and Katargam zones in the city. “Generally, Covid-19 infected patients with mild symptoms are advised home isolations but when most of the family members are infected with Covid-19, a patient above 50 years and a patient with comorbid condition is advised to go to Community Isolation Centre so that they can get emergency medical help,” said an SMC official. ‘There are 1,876 beds available in different Community Isolation Centres in the city and 224 beds are occupied. In Samras Covid Care Centre, 162 beds are occupied,” said an official. BOX: Nurse recovers with plasma therapy Surat: Niharikha Padhi, a nurse in a city-based private hospital, got discharged from the New Civil Hospital in the city. She was put on a ventilator for three days after her oxygen level dropped drastically but doctors applied convalescent plasma therapy besides other treatment. She was under depression after her father’s death and her health deteriorated. She was shifted to NCH where she was tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/700-families-in-surat-have-three-or-more-members-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77984581.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Surat||Nurse recovers with plasma therapy||Surat: Niharikha Padhi, a nurse in a city-based private hospital, got discharged from the New Civil Hospital in the city. She was put on a ventilator for three days after her oxygen level dropped drastically but doctors applied convalescent plasma therapy besides other treatment. She was under depression after her father’s death and her health deteriorated. She was shifted to NCH where she was tested positive for Covid-19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nurse-recovers-with-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77985156.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Opposition: Nitish’s speech lacks vision, road map for development||PATNA: The opposition said CM Nitish Kumar’s speech during the JD(U) virtual rally on Monday lacked vision and road map for development in the state and failed to address the issues of migration, unemployment, poverty, floods, coronavirus and law and order situation in Bihar. The RJD workers even took out a protest march on the Beer Chand Patel Marg during Nitish’s rally. Carrying placards and banners in their hands, the protesters raised antigovernment slogans and claimed that the people were in a mood to teach the present dispensation a lesson in the ensuing election scheduled to be held in October-November. Earlier in the morning, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav slammed Nitish for his failure to stop migration from the state by not generating employment for them leading to reverse migration of hundreds of workers, who had returned home after facing hardships amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Even after 15 years of NDA rule, migration is still a big problem,” he said. Tejashwi said around 52% of the state’s population is below the poverty line followed by 50% migration of workers. Similarly, there is 46% unemployment in the state. He also challenged Nitish for an open debate. He said CM’s rally had more ‘dislikes’ and called it a ‘super flop’ rally. “Even if all the accounts are integrated, not more than 15,000 people have listened to him. Data from Twitter shows that not more than 500 people had got connected with this rally. In fact, he got more dislikes than likes and this shows that the people of Bihar have rejected him. This situation is natural when a person avoids going out in the public. Nitish Ji’s facial expression was showing his frustration,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader said instead of talking on relevant issues, Nitish was talking about him, his father Lalu Prasad and their family. “I had asked him (Nitish) questions on ten important issues, but he was speaking about the past. I am half the age of his political career, still he is accusing me and not answering my queries. He talks of Jungle Raj, but now it has become ‘Rakshas Raj’,” he said. On being asked if LJP chief Chirag Paswan was getting in touch with RJD, Tejashwi said, “No discussion like this has been held.” However, he said Nitish should at least answer the queries of his alliance leaders. RLSP national secretary general Madhav Anand, on the other hand, said there was no vision or a road map of state’s development in the CM’s speech. “There was nothing new in his speech. He repeated the same things, which he had been telling people earlier. It was disappointing,” he told this newspaper over the phone. The RLSP leader said the problem of migration could not be addressed during the 15 years rule of Nitish. No industry was set up to generate employment for educated youths, who are the worst sufferers. Doctors, engineers and other professionals are bound to migrate from the state due to lack of employment in their home state, he lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-nitishs-speech-lacks-vision-road-map-for-development/articleshow/77985588.cms||Ramashankar
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Four arrested in 2019 firing case||Rajkot: Four persons were arrested in a one-and-a-half-year-old firing case on Monday in which they had fired one round from a country made revolver at Shautaj Yadav (43) at Sayla bypass of Surendranagar district on August 6, 2019. Police said the accused, Ranchhod Sambad, Ishwar Kalotara, Devo Khambhala and Dashrath Nangar had opened fire on the car of Yadav. The firing was the result of an old enmity between Sambad and Yadav. All the accused had arrived in their car and had waylaid the car of Yadav before opening fire to kill him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-arrested-in-2019-firing-case/articleshow/77985383.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Five including woman held for extortion, blackmailing||Rajkot: Five persons including a woman were arrested on Monday for allegedly extorting Rs 2.55 lakh from a youth in Babapur village of Amreli taluka after blackmailing him. Police said of the accused, Shabana (40) contacted Vijay Parmar (26) on WhatsApp, posing as Manisha Patel a few months ago. “After befriending with Parmar, Shabana called him to meet her and had intimate moments with him, the photographs and video of which were shot by one co-accused of this case,” said an official from Amreli special operation group. “Later on September 4, Shabana called Parmar between Babapur and Tarvada villages where the co-accused, Batuk Monpara (48), Jayesh Khawdu (23), Sajan Maliya (34) and Pradeep Parmar (32), were waiting for him,” the official said. The accused allegedly forced Parmar in their car and extorted Rs 1,05,000 from him. Later, they threatened to upload his obscene videos with Shabana on WhatsApp and social media, threatened to frame him in a false rape case and extorted more money, following which Parmar sent them Rs 1.50 lakh through angadia. “After Parmar lodged the complaint, we arrested the accused with Rs 1.65 lakh in cash, the car used in the crime and five cellphones,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-including-woman-held-for-extortion-blackmailing/articleshow/77985491.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Bhowanipore theft solved, help arrested||Kolkata: A domestic help has been arrested for theft committed at a Bhowanipore businessman’s house two months ago. Cops said she had stolen around Rs 8 lakh over a period and hid it behind a temple close to the CNCI Hospital in Park Cirus. Some of the stolen money has been recovered. “It was alleged that theft took place to the tune of Rs 7 lakh-8 lakh cash from an almirah in the complainant’s house on Nandan Road. The complainant suspected the household’s domestic help, Phulon Paswan, who left the job about two months ago. The businessman also mentioned that the theft took place gradually between November 2019 and July 2020. During the probe, information was collected about the movement and lifestyle of the accused, which indicated that she was preparing to open an eatery by investing a lot of money. The accused was intercepted near Hazra crossing and she confessed to the crime. Acting on her statement, a padlocked box concealed at the back of a temple and a pavement tea stall was seized and found to contain Rs 6.1 lakh in cash. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bhowanipore-theft-solved-help-arrested/articleshow/77985829.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Inter-district buses resume ops, but social distancing still a concern||Madurai/Trichy: After two months, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has resumed the inter-district bus services much to the relief of the public. Simultaneously, State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) resumed long-distance bus services connecting only Chennai with rest of the districts. While only 60% of the seating capacity was meant to be filled, complaints surfaced about social distancing violations in the state-run buses. TNSTC Madurai operated 105 buses to various districts on day one with decent patronage. SETC operated 30 buses to Chennai. An official from TNSTC Madurai said that the first bus service started at 4.30 am on Monday. Buses were operated in various routes such as Sivakasi, Aruppukkottai, Tenkasi, Rajapalayam, Cumbum, Theni, Periyakulam, Batlagundu, Palani, Dindigul, Oddanchatram, Salem, Coimbatore and Trichy. “There were decent crowds in all buses since it was Monday. All standard operating procedures including thermal scanning, hand sanitization and social distancing were followed in the buses,” he said. An official from SETC said, “We have operated 30 buses to Chennai till Monday evening and two more buses are to be operated. The first bus left Madurai at 7 am. We have not started operation on the Puducherry or Coimbatore-Madurai-Rameswaram route.” With around 930 buses in TNSTC Trichy region, TNSTC officials said that they are diverting the available buses to routes on demand. The absence of private fleets is likely to favour TNSTC to fill the seats at least during peak hours. “We have not fixed any cap in operating the fleets. Social distancing, facemask and sanitisation are being ensured in all our fleets,” a manager with TNSTC Trichy said. Buses bound to Thanjavur, Salem and Madurai from Trichy Central bus stand witnessed significant patronage. Though social distancing was ensured during the commencement of the journey, TNSTC crew was helpless in restricting the passengers from the intermediate stops. “Trichy-Perambalur mofussil bus halted at almost all the bus stops in between. Passengers were jam-packed and some didn’t wear facemasks,” R Kannan, a passenger from Srirangam, said. SETC Trichy operated 13 services to Chennai on Monday. Only ultra-deluxe and classic buses were operated. There was decent occupancy in Chennai and mofussil routes. Jamuna Rani, a passenger from Madurai, said, “I have been yearning for the bus service. It has been six months since I visited my parents in Chennai. Felt so happy when I hopped on a bus.” With mofussil buses came into operation, most of the shops in bus terminals were opened. Auto rickshaw drivers stationed at bus terminals made a decent number of trips after a long gap. Senthil Pandian, an auto rickshaw driver from Arapalayam in Madurai, said, “It has been months since we earned some money. Many, who have taken up some other businesses have returned to auto rickshaws today.” TNSTC Trichy: Total buses: 930 Operated: based on need Demanding routes: Thanjavur, Salem and Madurai SETC Trichy Total buses: 99 Operated: 13 Destination: Chennai Occupancy: 26 seats (60%) TNSTC Madurai Total buses: 1,200 (approx.) Operated: 105 Demanding routes: Sivakasi, Aruppukkottai, Tenkasi SETC Madurai Total buses: 93 Operated: 28 Destination: Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inter-district-buses-resume-ops-but-social-distancing-still-a-concern/articleshow/77986930.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 8, 2020||Hubballi||Intach Museum now a popular destination in Hubballi-Dharwad||Dharwad: The rich history of the district, coupled with its cultural heritage, is much celebrated among the people of Dharwad, most of whom are well acquainted with it. Until recently, here were few avenues for the uninitiated or outsiders to learn about Dharwad’s rich past, certainly that afforded a comprehensive picture of its history in a few snapshots. But this lack was remedied with an Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) Museum at the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) office building in Dharwad. The museum is open to visitors from 11am to 2pm on all weekdays, and boasts in its collection rare stamps, coins and original manuscripts. Given that Dharwad has for long been one of the literary capitals of the state, among the many prized possessions at the museum are original certificates and manuscripts of the works of eminent writers such as Raa Ha Deshpande, Da Ra Bendre, VK Gokak and SL Bhyrappa. Visitors will also find at the museum reprints of Raja Ravi Varma’s paintings, not to mention photographs and paintings depicting Dharwad’s antiquity. Inscriptions attesting to Dharwad’s tryst with the prehistoric period are likely to draw the eye of those looking to take a peek into the past. A bust of NP Bhat, retired commissioner of the income tax department who was instrumental in setting up the Intach Museum, donated by Lieutenant General SC Sardeshpande is a treasured possession housed in the museum. The museum’s popularity has been growing steadily over the years, the number of visitors increasing. The number of articles on display too has been rising, with artifacts being donated and collected with zest by the museum’s administrators, and it is now filled with vestiges of the past. Although Bhat’s unexpected death in December was an unexpected setback to the administration of the museum, his wife Prof Yashoda took over the reins and ensured that there was no roadblock. The managing committee of the museum was reconstituted with Brigadier SG Bhagawat named its convener. Rekha Katenahalli is the curator of the museum, while Geeta Dharwadkar is its assistant curator with Ningappa Sunkannavar taking care of the routine administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/intach-museum-now-a-popular-destination-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/77986808.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 8, 2020||Mysuru||Union forest min lauds Nagarahole foresters for nabbing poachers||Mysuru: Nagarahole Tiger Reserve (NTR) officials and staff, who had arrested five poachers on charges of hunting a tiger recently, were on Monday appreciated by Prakash Javadeker, minister for environment, forests and climate change. Expressing his appreciation with a thumbs-up gesture, Javadeker tweeted: “well done, forest staff and officers of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve for nabbing all the culprits responsible for poaching the tiger, in such a quick time (sic).” Even the authorities at National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) tweeted: “Kudos to the efforts and perseverance of forest staff and officers of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, culprits responsible for poaching the tiger, brought to book (sic).” NTR director D Mahesh Kumar told TOI that receiving appreciation from the top is indeed a morale-booster. “Besides motivating us, the gesture has prompted us to be more committed to duty and also work harder to protect wildlife. The appreciation from the higher-ups is for the entire forest department team which was involved in arresting the poachers,” he said, adding that the team members will be rewarded soon. On August 26, the carcass of a five-year-old tiger was found near Tattekere Haadi in Kallahalla range in NTR. During post-mortem, bullet wounds were found on the carcass, and this made the foresters understand that the big cat was shot by poachers. Treating the case seriously, the foresters summoned sniffer dog Rana (a German Shepherd) to trace the culprits, and the effort paid off with the latter tracking the houses of the culprits. Between August 26 and September 3, the foresters arrested M M Santhosh of Nittur village (Tattekere haadi), Khandera Shashi alias Shashikumar K S of Sulugodu village, K P Uttappa alias Khandera Sharanu of Sulugodu, Vattangada Ranju alias Biddhappa H B of Nittur and Kudhenakodi K S Raju alias Gopala of Nittur. From the accused, the foresters recovered 13 claws of tiger, two canines, 1.5kg meat, two two-wheelers, one double-barrel gun, some cartridges, a knife and other items used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/union-forest-min-lauds-nagarahole-foresters-for-nabbing-poachers/articleshow/77986926.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mangaluru||On path to recovery, Nalin limits updates to tweets||Mangaluru: BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel is working from home and Twitter is his new virtual office. Ever since he tested positive for coronavirus on August 30, which he confirmed in a tweet, Nalin due to health conditions has largely remained incommunicado with the rest of the world, but for his tweets. Even the news of his discharge post treatment from a private hospital here on Sunday was in the form of tweets. Barring a ‘tweet’ less day on September 4 from the time he went in for treatment, Nalin has been utilising the 280-character space that the micro blogging and social networking site offers to good use. Thanking Goddess Durga Parameshwari of Sri Kshetra Kateel, love and blessings of all his constituents, Nalin in separate tweets said he is now free from Covid-19. “Doctors have advised me to remain in quarantine for the next few days,” Nalin said. Noting that he has not seen God with his own eyes, Nalin said he saw the almighty in the doctors and nursing staff who put their lives on the line and worked round the clock in treating him. BJP Dakshina Kannada unit president Sudarshan Moodbidri told TOI that Nalin’s health had taken a turn for the worse after an arduous road trip to Kalyana Karnataka region, prior to him testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/on-path-to-recovery-nalin-limits-updates-to-tweets/articleshow/77987504.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 8, 2020||Trichy||14 teachers from Trichy get Dr Radhakrishnan award||Trichy: Fourteen teachers from Trichy district have been awarded the Dr Radhakrishnan award this year. The awards were handed over by tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and minister for backward class and minorities welfare S Valarmathi on Monday. One of the awardees, T S Usha from Savithri Vidyalaya Hindu girls higher secondary school, has been instrumental in shaping many chartered accountants and auditors in her career spanning more than 33 years. Elevated as the headmistress of the school recently, Usha fondly recalls her students who topped the board examination and owe their success to her. T Suganthi Daisy Rani, headmistress of TELC primary school, Ponmalaipatti, was recognised for her efforts to bring children from the narikurava tribal community to the mainstream. Starting four years back, she began with 26 children from the community and has now increased to 40 after managing to convince members of the community. While Suganthi has received several awards, she considers this award special as she received it for her contribution to the children from the narikurava family. She is the author of ‘Bommalattam matrum Amaithi Kalvi’ - a book on educating primary school children using puppets - has also trained teachers from over 20 states on it. Another winner of the award, A Mohamed Farook, headmaster of the government higher secondary school, Arasangudi, dedicated one hour every day for children to bring out their hidden skills and talents.  The only headmaster from the government school to get the award, he helped identify sportspersons among students and those with interest towards science and arts. Farook strongly believes that a child can succeed if he or she can realise their interest and talent and it need not be always in studies. K Venkatesh from Srirangam boys school, another awardee, termed the award as a recognition for his dedication and sincerity towards the welfare of his students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/14-teachers-from-trichy-get-dr-radhakrishnan-award/articleshow/77987634.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Tension grips Kalawad after scuffle over smoking cigarette||Rajkot: Tension gripped Kalawad town of Jamnagar district after two persons attacked a senior member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday night. The accused were detained early on Monday morning. Police said the accused, Asif Banawa (28) and Siraz Sandhi (30), pushed Bhanu Patel (70) on to the ground and hurled abuses at him and other members of organisation following heated argument over a petty issue. “Banawa and Sandhi were smoking cigarettes near a Hanuman temple where the RSS holds its daily sessions. When Patel asked the accused duo to go away, they allegedly entered into fisticuffs with him, pushing him on to the ground,” said K J Bhoy, inspector with Kalawad police station. “When others rushed to the spot, the accused allegedly abused them and threatened to kill them,” Bhoy added.The incident sparked off protest and members of RSS in large numbers rushed to the Kalawad police station. Both Banawa and Sandhi were arrested following complaint filed by one Tarun Chauhan. “We will be formally arresting the accused duo once their report of Covid-19 test comes in,” added Bhoy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tension-grips-kalawad-after-scuffle-over-smoking-cigarette/articleshow/77985339.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Teen kills friend after fight, caught||Kolkata: A 16-year-old boy was apprehended after he allegedly killed his friend after a fight over an obscene remark made by the victim against the accused. The incident was reported from a slum area close to Gariahat. The cops have identified the victim as Sonu Chakraborty, 16. The accused, is a higher secondary student at a government school nearby. “There was an argument followed by a fight. We do not think the death was intentional. However, a case has been registered and we are waiting for the postmortem report to ascertain the truth. There were reports that the argument was over a cellphone, but we have not found any such link so far,” said a senior investigating officer from Gariahat police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teen-kills-friend-after-fight-caught/articleshow/77985796.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna doctors make device to check virus spread in ICU||PATNA: A team of medical researchers from AIIMS-Patna has developed a new device to check the spread of the virus from ICU by an underwater sealing system. Soon after developing this device and its publication under the title ‘Exhaled gas decontamination device connecting a ventilator exhaust port with underwater seal system to prevent Covid-19 spread’ in the journal ‘Trends in anaesthesia and critical care’ in the USA last week, the team has started using it on experimental basis on ten ICU beds. AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh on Monday said this system was especially helpful for doctors, nursing and other paramedical staff and even patients admitted in the Covid wards and using ventilator support. The lead researcher, Dr Amarjeet kumar of department of trauma and emergency, said the team connected the ventilator’s exhaust port to 1% sodium hypochlorite solution using a suction tube. Thus, the exhaled air from ventilators became free from the viral load and had the least chance to infect the persons, including doctors and paramedics visiting the ICUs. Amarjeet said further research was in progress to make a comparative study on the viral load in a negative pressure ICU with that of other ICUs by using this ventilator with underwater seal system. He said, earlier studies established that the exhaled air with coronavirus became decontaminant in 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Another team member, Dr Neeraj Kumar, anaesthesiologist of the same department and clinical coordinator of the Covid ICU, said AIIMS-P has altogether 85 ICU beds with ventilators. These included eight negative air flow beds and 20 step-down high dependency beds. The step-down beds are used for patients shifted from ICU after signs of recovery but still needing regular monitoring. He said the new system of underwater seal would work only on the ICU beds equipped with Hamilton C3 ventilators. “At least 15 of our doctors and health workers became infected while attending to Covid-19 patients on ventilators and there were strong chances that the virus did spread with exhaled gas,” said Neeraj, adding that any hospital admitting Covid patients may use the new technique for ensuring safety of their doctors and staff. Others in the research team included Dr Ajeet Kumar, Dr Abhyuday Kumar and Dr Chandani Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-docs-make-device-to-check-virus-spread-in-icu/articleshow/77984776.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Surat||Four cops among 10 booked for quarry owner’s suicide||SURAT: Ten persons including four cops and a scribe were booked for abetting suicide of a 73-year-old quarry owner whose body was fished out from a water-filled quarry near Khanjroli village in limits of Mandvi police station on Monday. The deceased Durlabhbhai Patel was missing since the early hours on Monday. Body of the Rander resident was found in the evening from the quarry by a team of Surat city fire team. Police also recovered a suicide note from Patel’s office at the quarry. In the suicide note Patel claimed that he was taking the extreme step as he was upset due to dispute related to ownership of some property. Applications were filed by Patel and other individuals involved in the dispute with the police. However, Patel alleged that police did not take his point into consideration and favoured the other parties during investigation. Patel is survived by two sons who are in quarry business with him. While the deceased owns quarries at some other locations too, this quarry at Khanjroli was with him since 1983. The quarry is still in use and Patel was financially sound, police informed. Son of the deceased Dharmesh Patel lodged a complaint with the police accusing 10 persons including four cops from Rander police station of forcing his father to commit suicide. Based on Dharmesh’s complaint Mandvi police booked police inspector of Rander police station L P Bodana, constable Vijay Shinde, scribe Mukesh Kulkarni, two other junior cops and five private persons. They have been booked for abatement to suicide and criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-cops-among-10-booked-for-quarry-owners-suicide/articleshow/77985558.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Man dies as car falls into Kestopur canal||By: Mayukh Sengupta Kolkata: A man on his way home from work was killed in the early hours of Monday when the car he was travelling in crashed into a railing and fell into Kestopur canal off VIP Road after the driver possibly dozed off at the wheel. The driver managed to escape. Ratan Das, who drove a doctor’s car, was in the back seat and suffered severe head injuries. He was stuck inside as the car drowned. Cops on duty rushed to the spot and brought the car out of the water. Bleeding heavily, Das was taken to the nearest hospital a kilometre away where he was declared dead on arrival. “There are no track marks on the road and it looks like the driver had dozed off and rammed into the railing. The way the car fell into the ditch, it looks like it was moving at almost 100kmph. We will run all the necessary tests to find out the exact circumstances leading to the accident,” said an officer. Officers said that after the accident, someone got out of the submerged car and ran to alert some locals. Cops are now trying to trace this man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-dies-as-car-falls-into-kestopur-canal/articleshow/77985499.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot ‘stone killer’ stoned to death; 5 booked||RAJKOT: As quirk of fate would have it, an alleged stone killer was stoned to death in the industrial area of Mavadi Plot in Navarangpara locality of Rajkot. His decomposed body was found on Monday. Police said Mahesh Prajapati, alias Kalu and Haresh, was suspected to have been killed on Saturday. In 2009, Prajapati was arrested for allegedly having stoned to death three beggars. However, he was acquitted in the cases for want of concrete evidence. “After his body started decomposing and emanating stench, the labourers from nearby factories traced it to the terrace of a closed unit. Suspecting foul play, they informed us,” said K N Bhukan, inspector at Malaviyanagar police station. “We have rounded up five persons who are suspected of having consumed alcohol with Prajapati, who was a habitual drinker. It is suspected that his murder was the result of a drunken brawl,” said Bhukan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stone-killer-stoned-to-death-five-booked/articleshow/77985656.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Surat||Surat: Two daily wagers die of suffocation in manhole||SURAT: Two daily wagers died when they suffocated while cleaning the storm water manhole located at Hijdawad near Jinga circle in Nanpura on Monday afternoon. The incident occurred at about 1pm. Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department sources said the workers were hired by a private contractor. A few days ago, a portion of the road had caved in and the work for diverting the valve chamber was going on. The workers entered the manhole without any safety and suffocated. The incident came to light when people passing from the place spotted the two workers lying inside the manhole. The people present on the spot immediately contacted the fire and emergency department for the rescue of the workers. A team of fire fighters rushed to the spot and fished out the workers with the help of ropes. The victims were rushed to SMC’s SMIMER Hospital and the New Civil Hospital (NCH) respectively in 108 ambulance. Sources said the workers were declared dead on admission in the hospitals. The deceased have been identified as Jatin Jitendra Amliyar (25) and Moonsinh Ratna Amliyar (52). Both are residents of Nanpura. Last year in December, a similar incident had occurred when two daily wagers had died when they suffocated while cleaning a drainage line locate at Ved Gaam in Katargam. “The work contract for storm water line was given to a private contractor. An inquiry has been ordered to know the exact cause of their death. They were into the valve chamber when the incident occurred,” said, a senior officer of SMC’s central zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-daily-wagers-die-of-suffocation-in-manhole/articleshow/77985180.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Rs 38.5 crore sanctioned for Patna Smart City projects||PATNA: The state urban development and housing department on Monday approved several Patna Smart City projects, including construction of a cafeteria, happy street, foot overbridges, beautification of SK Memorial hall and infrastructure development at schools. The meeting of the board of governance of Patna Smart City Limited held on Monday also sanctioned Rs38.50 crore for completing these projects. UDHD secretary Anand Kishor instructed the officials concerned to get these projects completed on time. “Projects include both area-based as well as infrastructure development. The main purpose behind Patna Smart City is its economical development and use of technology to provide better life to the residents,” said Kishor. He said a cafeteria will come up besides the multilevel parking at the cost of Rs10 crore. Kishor said the stretch between Hotel Maurya and DM’s residence has been selected for the ‘happy street’ project and Rs7 crore will be spent on that. He further said police stations falling under the area-based development will be renovated with an estimated outlay of Rs2.50 crore. “Infrastructure of schools will be developed with Rs4.63 crore. The beautification of SK Memorial Hall will cost Rs4.97 crore. Four entrance gates of Gandhi Maidan will be constructed at the cost of Rs4.50 crore,” said Kishor. He further said several schemes have now been dropped from Patna Smart City Project, which include water supply project of Rs10.44 crore, recycled water supply project of Rs34 crore, rooftop farming project of Rs22.50 crore and e-rickshaw project worth Rs8 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-38-5-crore-sanctioned-for-patna-smart-city-projects/articleshow/77984922.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Shared future: 100 app cycles to hit New Town roads||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has procured 100 app-based bicycles and decided on September 18 to re-launch the public bicycle share scheme in the township. Officials said the website and its details were being developed and would be ready in a few days. The fare plan is likely to be Rs 5 for 30 minutes, Rs 10 for an hour and Rs 15 for 30 minutes thereafter. However, there are plans for an introductory offer of free riding for the first 30 minutes, Rs 5 for one hour and Rs 15 per 30 minutes thereafter for the first few weeks. The bicycles have three gear settings that vary with the resistance on the pedals according to the speed. The presence of gears will also help while riding up ramps, officials said. The lock will operate once the app is downloaded and the bicycles will be available after a rider registers on the app and links up with the digital wallet. Last week, NKDA had signed an agreement with a firm to operate the bicycle sharing system that includes 100 bicycles and 400 e-bicycles across 21 docking stations being set up in New Town. A group of citizens already goes on Sunday morning cycle trips in New Town. “We ride on Sunday mornings and are now planning to ride every evening from 7pm to practise on a 6km track from near Biswa Bangla Gate to the Technopolis box bridge. Besides, we are also planning to set up cycle clinics with experts,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of New Town Forum & News, a New Town-based social welfare organization. Both Hidco and NKDA have been working simultaneously to develop bicycle infrastructure across New Town. At present, the township has about 11km of grade-separated cycle tracks and NKDA is setting up 20km of dedicated tracks with adequate lighting and signs. Bicycle trips are periodically held and the authorities have started conducting a cycle training camp every Sunday at the New Town football ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shared-future-100-app-cycles-to-hit-new-town-roads/articleshow/77985498.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 8, 2020||Surat||Armed robbers fire three rounds injuring two in Bharuch||An earlier version of this story mentioned Kalyan Jewellers instead of Kalyani Jewellers based on the police FIR. The error is regretted. BHARUCH/SURAT: A broad daylight robbery in Bharuch district has sent shockwaves among the shopkeeper fraternity in the town. The robbers struck at Ambica jewellery shop at Bharuch on Monday afternoon, looted several gold chains from the jewellery shop, fired three rounds leaving two persons injured. According to police, four robbers had come on two motorbikes. Posing as customers, two of them went inside the jewellery shop and said that they wanted to purchase gold chains. “When an employee of the shop opened the cupboard, one of the duo, shot fire from a pistol and snatched several gold chains,” said district superintendent of police Rajendrasinh Chudasama, adding that the man Nikhil Soni received bullet injuries at the abdominal area due to the firing. Hearing the noise, Mahesh Soni, jeweller of the neighbouring shop – Kalyani Jewellers – rushed to the adjacent shop just when the two robbers were coming out of Ambica jewellery shop. “The two other robbers who were waiting outside shot fire at Mahesh Soni who received injuries on his right hand and fingers,” he said. While three of the four robbers succeeded in fleeing on their motorbikes, one of them could not board the bike and started running. The burglary amount is not clear. “We have however identified their faces based on advanced security CCTV surveillance and footage of the private CCTVs installed in the vicinity,” he said. The police officials said that they have initiated further investigation to nab all the four robbers. The cops have also found three cartridges from the spot. “In hurry, they have also left one Indian made pistol at the jewellery shop,” said Chudasama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/armed-robbers-fire-three-rounds-injuring-two-in-bharuch/articleshow/77985230.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||2,110 +ve, 61 die; toll rises to 1,923||Chandigarh: Punjab posted yet another single-day highest count of cases on Monday as 2,110 people tested positive for Covid-19, while 61 more people succumbed to the virus. For the second day in running, nine districts recorded new cases in three figures. The overall state tally was 65,583 cases and 1,923 deaths. With a total of 19,172 samples tested during the day, positivity rate rose to 11% from 7.73% recorded on Sunday. Among new deaths, 15 were from Mohali, 10 from Ludhiana, seven from Patiala, five from Moga, four from Hoshiarpur, three each from Nawanshahr, Ropar amd Jalandhar, two each from Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib, and one each from Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Muktsar and Tarn Taran. When this report was filed, 75 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support. Another 534 were on oxygen support. Of fresh cases, the highest number of 338 cases were reported in Ludhiana, followed by 210 in Jalandhar. In Mohali, 176 people were found positive, 157 in Amritsar, 137 in Patiala, 128 in Gurdaspur 126 in Muktsar, 115 in Ropar, 106 in Bathinda, 96 in Pathankot, 86 in Hoshiarpur, 74 in Kapurthala, 59 in Faridkot, 46 in Ferozepur, 45 in Sangrur, 31 in Mansa, 25 each in Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 23 in Nawanshahr, and 21 in Tarn Taran. A total of 1,565 people were discharged, taking the tally for recovered cases to 47,020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2110-ve-61-die-toll-rises-to-1923/articleshow/77986950.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Addicted children mum on source, it’s always ‘a friend’||Bengaluru: Where do children as young as 14 years access drugs? This is a question many parents and psychiatrists struggle to get an answer for. Hundreds of kids addicted to drugs and under rehabilitation have never revealed the source, experts say.Children in Bengaluru have access to not only cannabis but also cocaine, psychoactive drugs like MDMA (also known as ecstasy or molly) and some other club drugs. “My friend gives this to me.” This is the standard reply any child addicted to drugs gives to his parents’ and psychiatrists’ probing questions, and the friend’s identity remains shrouded in mystery, said Dr A Jagadish, psychiatrist, Abhaya Hospital.According to Dr Mahesh Gowda, psychiatrist and director, Spandana Healthcare, who runs a rehabilitation centre for those with substance abuse and drug addiction, children and adolescents are smart enough to ensure the source is not revealed. “They are scared. They only maintain that drugs are easily available through friends,” he said.“The law doesn’t require us to report every drug-addiction case to police,” Dr Jagadish pointed out. However, if a drug addict is also a peddler, it’s imperative on the part of doctors to inform police, Dr Mahesh said. “It’s the behavioural changes observed by parents and urine test results that help us understand the drug intake,” says Dr Jagadish. In most cases, a sudden drop in weight, hunger pangs, violent behaviour, declining academic performance, constant demand for money, weakness, hair loss and anger are suggestive of an adolescent’s usage of drugs. Small tea shops and neighbourhood kirana stores provide drugs to vulnerable youngsters, a mother said. She claimed peddlers catch innocent children from middle-class background early in life. Change of school and college multiple times is common among many addicted ones. Child Rights Trust has reached out to 14 schools on Bengaluru’s outskirts to create awareness on drug and substance abuse. “No child has revealed the source of drugs so far. They know when they open up, they may not get the drugs again. During lockdown, we got nearly eight parents complaining about their kids’ behavioural changes, but they didn’t mention the child is an addict,” said Nagasimha G Rao, director of the trust.“My son would get the drugs even during lockdown; we have hardly any control over his behaviour,” said the mother of a 19-year-old boy who is undergoing a de-addiction programme. She added telephone numbers of peddlers keep changing and they visit residential localities at a given time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/addicted-children-mum-on-source-its-always-a-friend/articleshow/77985854.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vegetable trading to begin at Jamalpur APMC with riders||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has finally given conditional permission to resume trading of vegetables at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Jamalpur. However, only a third of the 157 traders will be permitted to operate on any given day to maintain social distancing and other norms related to the pandemic. The traders will be split into three batches, two each of 53 and one batch of 51 traders, with the batches working on daily rotation, said Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS forest and environment and in-charge of Covid control in the city.Gupta said that conditional approval for resuming vegetable trading at Jamalpur was given by the civic body after written representation from the traders. The traders will be allowed in during two shifts — 1-5pm and 8pm-8am, Gupta said. They will not be allowed to trade during peak traffic hours — from 8am to 1pm and from 5pm to 8am, he added.The AMC has made it clear that the traders, labourers, purchasing vendors and everyone else at the APMC yard will have to follow all government rules and directives regarding Covid including wearing of masks, social distancing and use of sanitizers..Since April this year, the civic body had stopped trading at the Jamalpur APMC following the rise in Covid cases in Walled City and Jamalpur and nearby Behrampura area. The traders shifted to Jetalpur market, but from August 1, Jetalpur traders refused to give space to Jamalpur traders, who subsequently began trading on service roads. But in mid-August Jetalpur villagers forced Jamalpur traders to stop trading in Jetalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vegetable-trading-to-begin-at-jamalpur-apmc-with-riders/articleshow/77986971.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Two of Swapnil Walke’s assassins were in touch with Margao jewellers||MARGAO: Investigations in the Swapnil Walke murder case have thrown up various leads, none of which support any theory of robbery being a motive for the murder, sources closely associated with the probe told TOI. However, the stolen gold angle is the dominant lead that investigators are doggedly pursuing, even as they have kept other leads too open for investigation. Sources said that investigations have also revealed that Mustafa Shaikh and Evander Rodrigues, two of the three accused in the murder case, used to sell stolen gold items to jewellers, and thus were known to a few goldsmiths in Margao. Apart from their links to the Anjuna gold theft case as well as the Rs 17 lakh-worth gold block case reported by TOI on Sunday, police are also verifying Rodrigues’s sale deal pertaining to six gold bangles, and if that too, has any link to Walke’s murder. Nevertheless, revelations by a suspect to police during investigation, as well as a subsequent conversation, purportedly with some mediapersons — an audio clip of which has gone viral — has led police to investigate if it was a contract (supari) killing. Sources said investigations are on to determine the veracity of his disclosure, as there’s a possibility that he may have attempted to mislead his interrogators and divert the trail of the investigation. However, if his statements turn out to be true, sources said, the investigation could turn on its head. Meanwhile, investigators have almost concluded that Mustafa Shaikh was the only person who intruded into Walke’s shop, with Rodrigues providing the backup, waiting outside. Police are still tightlipped about the role each of the accused played in the murder. As reported by TOI earlier, investigators are primarily probing if a sale deal of gold gone awry led to the Walke’s murder. The investigation has revealed that Omkar Patil, the first person to be arrested in the case, alongwith Rodrigues, had been camping in Margao for the last 2-3 months before the murder. Police are also trying to ascertain if their prolonged stay in Margao could be on account of their attempt to strike some hard negotiations with the buyers, and the latter resorting to buying more time. It’s possible, sources said, that with their patience running thin — the economic slowdown had also affected their finances — they finally executed the heinous plot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-suspects-were-in-touch-with-margao-jewellers-to-sell-stolen-items/articleshow/77987679.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 8, 2020||Goa||Desperate to start, fish boat owners fly workers to Goa||PANAJI: Boat owners in Goa have taken matters into their own hands to start the delayed fishing season. Handicapped by the lack of migrant workers — who had returned to their villages due to the pandemic — fishing boat operators have managed to bring some of their workforce back — by air. “There is no public transport, nor do we have money to make necessary arrangements,” one of the workers, Miltal Sarkar, said. “We informed the boat owners that if they want us to come back, they will have to plan our return.” For him and his companions, travelling by air was like a dream come true, he said. “We are illiterate and some of us do not even speak Hindi,” said another skilled worker, Dhiraj Kumar Guru. “It’s very tough for us to go through all the documental procedure, and that is why we insisted that the boat owners do the necessary.” He has now resumed work at the Vasco jetty. Workers from Andhra Pradesh, Chennai and West Bengal are among those that have been flown in to Goa. Sebastian Cardozo, secretary of the All Goa Purse Seine Boat Owners Association, said that only those boat owners who can afford to bring their workers by flight are doing so. “There are workers that specialise in net-mending who must be on board while fishing,” he said. At the Cutbona jetty, only 25% of the boats have managed to start operations, even though it has been over a month since the season has commenced. “About 40% of the boats are operating at the Vasco jetty as the owners have managed to bring their workers from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, etc, by private buses and airlines,” said Jose Philip D’souza, president of the Goa fishing boat owner’s association. For the plane trip, some boat owners have paid around Rs 10,500 per head. While up to Rs 7,000 has been spent on the flight ticket, Rs 1,500 has been spent on taxi fare to get them from their respective homes to the airport, and Rs 2,000 for the Covid-19 test. Similarly, for bus transport, they have paid around Rs 8,000 per worker, of which Rs 5,000 was spent on the bus commute, Rs 1,000 for food, and Rs 2,000 for the Covid-19 test. TOI had reported on September 1 that purse seine boat owners had started to send buses from Goa to bring back migrant workers to be deployed on their fishing vessels. Harshad Dhond, president of the all Goa fishermen’s association, sent three buses to his workers’ native place, and is expecting to start operations after the 100-odd migrants arrive. “By mid-September, we can expect at least 50% of the workers to arrive at the Malim jetty. However, this is only with boat owners who can afford to pay for the commute of their workers. Over 40% of the boat owners operating from Malim may not be able to do so,” Dhond said. Despite these efforts, only 20% of the total fishing activity in the state has successfully started. Some boat owners are still struggling, and are hopeful that the government would come to their rescue. “We have been plagued with financial problems and there is no help from the fisheries department to assist us in bringing back our workers. Many boats are therefore anchored at the jetties. The Goa government must intervene by bearing at least half the cost of transport to bring them back,” said Francis D’souza, chairman of the Mandovi fishermen marketing cooperative society. Top officials from the fisheries department also said that the mechanised fishing sector is affected due to the lack of labour. “They have not informed the department about bringing any of their workers by flight. They have not sought any financial assistance for it either,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fishing-boat-owners-fly-workers-to-goa/articleshow/77987650.cms||Nida Sayed
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rain-hit Jaisalmer limps back to normal||Jaisalmer: The rain, which wreaked havoc in Jaisalmer for the past three to four days, has stopped and water started receding from various areas.Many roads have washed away and cracks have appeared in many houses. Several kuccha houses have also collapsed in villages. The rain has also damaged crops and the district administration has formed teams to assess the loss. They have been asked to submit their reports within three days.Heavy rains in Ramgarh and Sam areas have totally disrupted normal life. Road routes are lying closed in many areas as they have been swept away and damaged. At many places waterlogging is so much that vehicles are not able to cross the roads. Similarly roads of Ramgarh-Mohangarh, Ramgarh-Raimala, Raimala-Sadhna and many villages in Chandhan have swept away.District collector Ashish Modi said in many pockets, abnormal rain took place. There has been no information of any heavy damages. Crops have been damaged at many places and loss is being assessed and reports will come. Restoration work of electricity and roads has been continuing. Revenue officers & other teams are will submit report in 72 hours. After, survey, farmers will get compensation as per rules.Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad also visited the Sam area and took stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-hit-jaisalmer-limps-back-to-normal/articleshow/77980570.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Unable to follow online classes in English, 17-year-old girl hangs self||TRICHY: A 17-year-old girl from a private arts and science college took her life as she was unable to follow the online classes in English. The girl was studying English literature, on insistence by her parents, though she was not comfortable with the language. She was depressed over not being able to follow online classes and hanged herself when her parents were away on Sunday. R Lalitha from Sangilyandapuram, eldest among three siblings, was an average student. Doing her schooling entirely in Tamil medium state board school, she chose English literature despite opting science group in her higher secondary. Her parents running a grocery shop were at the shop when her younger sisters raised an alarm in the afternoon finding their sister hanging from the fan. Lalitha was rushed to the hospital by the neighbours, but she was declared brought dead. “Within a week of online classes starting, Lalitha told her parents that she is unable to cope with the classes taken in English. Her parents told her that she would pick up in a few weeks,” said Fort Range ACP Ravi Abi Raam. Although classes started on August 25, Lalitha attended online classes only for a week. September 2 was the last day when she attended the online classes, according to the college management. On that day, she had attended the first hour of Tamil class and skipped the afternoon class. She later citied illness when teachers asked reason for her absence. Ravi Abi Raam said that Lalitha had spoken to two of her friends a day before the incident and told them about facing issues in attending classes. “The girl was depressed over her classes which could have triggered her to take the extreme step, but we want to wait for the postmortem report before coming to any conclusion,” he said. A case has been booked under IPC section 174 in Palakkarai police station and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unable-to-follow-online-classes-in-english-17-yr-old-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/77987690.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||VMC warns not to violate home-based care guidelines||Vadodara: In the wake of deaths of Covid-19 patients at their residences, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has issued a circular asking doctors to strictly follow home isolation guidelines. The doctors have also been told that they would face action under the Epidemic Disease Act, if they did not follow the guidelines.Major confusion had prevailed after the death of an elderly man at his residence in the city on Saturday. With no one willing to handle the body, personnel had to be rushed from the SSG Hospital to sanitise and wrap the body and put it in the ambulance. What raised eyebrows was the fact that the man was old and was still at home. A man in Undera and another in Gotri also died during home isolation. VMC officials said that home isolation was advised only for patients who had no other condition that could lead to complications or were not over 50 years. This, too, only if the Covid-19 patient had only mild symptoms or was asymptomatic. The latest VMC circular on home isolation care states that a written undertaking should compulsorily be taken from the patient under home isolation. It adds that patients having other chronic ailment, incurable diseases or those who are immunocompromised should not be isolated at home. Similarly, those over 50 will also have to get hospitalised compulsorily. The doctors who advise home isolation will have to monitor the health of the patient closely. They will have to inform the local medical officer. The circular has warned the doctors that failing to comply with guidelines could lead to action against them under the Epidemic Disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-warns-not-to-violate-home-based-care-guidelines/articleshow/77984782.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||3 held for clandestinely burying farmer who was electrocuted||Thanjavur: Three farmers were arrested on Monday on charges of burying a farmer who was electrocuted, without informing the victim’s family and police. According to police, the deceased was identified as M Ganesan, 48, a farmer from Pillaiyar Koil Street in Olaippadi village in Thanjavur district. On September 5, when he was proceeding towards his agricultural land, he came in contact with an electric fence erected around a sugarcane field belonging to another farmer Thiyagarajan, 70, of the same village, and died instantly. Thiyagarajan, who was in his field at the time of the accident contacted his friends Ramachandran, 45, and Rajagopal, 66, and explained about the incident. Subsequently, the two rushed to the spot and hid the body inside the cane field and left. Then, the three again reached the field the same night and buried Ganesan’s body in a field owned by Amaldass, without his knowledge. Meanwhile, relatives of Ganesan lodged a man missing complaint with the Kabisthalam police. Police registered a case and commenced their investigation. During the process, police found that the three had committed the crime. It also came to light that the electric fence was erected by Thiyagarajan without getting any permission from the concerned department. Following that, a police team headed by Thiruvaiyaru deputy superintendent of police Ilango, Papanasam tahsildar Kannan rushed to the spot and exhumed the body. Forensic experts and government doctors performed postmortem on the spot as the body was decomposed, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-held-for-clandestinely-burying-farmer-who-was-electrocuted/articleshow/77987685.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Old Goa churches to reopen, but strictly for parishioners||PANAJI: Churches in the world heritage complex of Old Goa are set to open their doors this week to coincide with the feast of the Nativity of Mary on Tuesday. However, the churches will only be accessible to devotees and parishioners, and continue to remain out of bounds to tourists and the public. Se Cathedral, the mother church of the Archdiocese of Goa, will open on Tuesday after being closed for almost six months. It will thereafter continue to celebrate Mass with a pre-decided number of faithful everyday. Other historic churches in the area, including the Basilica of Bom Jesus and church of St Cajetan, will open on Sunday only to parishioners, and attendance will be strictly monitored. The churches have engaged 95 volunteers to ensure that people follow all SOPs durng the 12 masses that will be celebrated on Sunday in five churches. All of the attendees will be groups of small Christian communities (somudhai). Apart from Se Cathedral, Basilica and St Cajetan’s church, other churches which will reopen for the faithful are the Royal Chapel of St Anthony on Monte Santo, and the Cruz dos Milagres. “We are opening the Basilica on the request of Se Cathedral’s parish priest, Fr Alfred Vaz, to cater to all parishioners who want to attend Sunday Mass,” said rector Fr Patricio Fernandes. “The Basilica will not be open to other members of the public because it’s too risky.” “If we open the Basilica to the public, we won’t be able to control the crowds,” he said. “Strict checks are required, and the details of every visitor will have to be recorded. These SOPs need to be in place. Sanitation of this world heritage monument is also out of the question as it would destroy the woodwork.” The feast of the Nativity of Mary, which marks the birth of the mother of Jesus, is celebrated with much pomp every year, but will be a subdued affair this year, with two masses at Se Cathedral on Tuesday. Some Catholic communities celebrate the feast as Mothers’ Day.“The usual children’s choir at the mass, the procession of children with flowers, and the Mothers’ Day event will be missing,” said Vaz, the parish priest. The Se Cathedral, one of the largest Catholic churches in Asia, can accommodate 1,000 persons, but will permit only 50 attendees for each Mass. Those above 65 and below 10, and those with comorbidities, have been advised not to attend. “We are not forcing anyone to attend mass,” said Vaz. “The obligation to attend Sunday Mass continues to be suspended. It’s only an opportunity we are giving the faithful since many have been asking for churches to reopen.” The Old Goa churches may consider opening for the public later. “For the moment, Masses are strictly for our parishioners. In the long run, we may consider opening them up for others. We have to adjust to this new normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/old-goa-churches-to-reopen-but-strictly-for-parishioners/articleshow/77987691.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Five booked for providing fake visa to unemployed youth||PILIPHIT: The police on Monday afternoon booked five persons, including one from Mumbai, for allegedly duping a 27-year-old unemployed youth of Rs 1.5 lakh under the pretext of providing him a work placement in Dubai. According to the victim, the miscreants had provided him a fake visa and a fake flight ticket. Mohit Verma of Ajitpur village under Gajraula police station said that he came in contact with one Sunil Yadav, the managing director of Blue Stone Overseas at Pilibhit through one Ajudhya Prasad of Piparia Nabada village under the same police station in July 2019. As he wanted to seek work placement in Dubai, the two persons charged Rs 1.50 lakh from him and kept all his documents in their possession on July 17, 2019. After a few days, he was provided with a visa and a flight ticket. He came to know that the two documents were fraudulent only when he reached the New Delhi airport to take his flight. Following this, the accused along with their two colleagues, took him forcibly to Mumbai and kept him captive for 42 days there and for another 12 days in New Delhi. He somehow managed to escape and reached home. He added that he kept imploring the accused to refund his money but after making hollow assurances for a few months, they turned offensive. They hurled abuses at him and threatened to kill him. Station house officer (SHO) of Pilibhit Kotwali police station Shrikant Dwivedi said that the five persons – including Sunil Yadav, Ajudhya Prasad, Shani Singh Umesh Kumar, all residents of Pilibhit district and Muneer Khan of Mumbai – were booked under section 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forging a document) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the IPC. “Police have been interrogating Ajudhya Prasad after having taken him in custody,” Dwivedi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-booked-for-providing-fake-visa-to-unemployed-youth/articleshow/77982733.cms||---
September 8, 2020||India||‘Nitish Kumar will be NDA face, LJP free to go’||NEW DELHI: Even as Lok Janshakti Party refrained from carrying out its publicised threat of walking out of NDA to protest against Nitish Kumar's projection as the alliance's face in Bihar polls, JD(U) made it clear on Monday that it would brook no challenge to the Bihar CM and that Ram Vilas Paswan’s outfit was free to take whatever decision it wished to. “NDA will contest elections under Nitish Kumar. There should not be any confusion on that score. LJP is free to walk out if its wants to,” JD(U) secretary general K C Tyagi said in what marked an escalation of the intra-NDA tension ahead of the polls. A meeting of LJP’s “parliamentary board” saw many attendees expressing re sentment against Kumar’s leadership. However, in the statements issued afterwards, they refrained from making public their angst against the CM whom BJP has already projected as NDA's CM face in Bihar. LJP chief Chirag Paswan, instead, talked of the party's demand for a common minimum programme, claiming LJP had no grouse against “any individual”. The statement suggested mellowing of the earlier aggression, especially on behalf of Chirag whom political circles see as a CM aspirant, and underlined the influence of food and civil supplies minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is opposed to quitting NDA. The moderation, however, failed to move JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nitish-kumar-will-be-nda-face-ljp-free-to-go/articleshow/77988048.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 8, 2020||---||‘Nitish Kumar will be NDA face, LJP free to go’||NEW DELHI: Even as Lok Janshakti Party refrained from carrying out its publicised threat of walking out of NDA to protest against Nitish Kumar's projection as the alliance's face in Bihar polls, JD(U) made it clear on Monday that it would brook no challenge to the Bihar CM and that Ram Vilas Paswan’s outfit was free to take whatever decision it wished to. “NDA will contest elections under Nitish Kumar. There should not be any confusion on that score. LJP is free to walk out if its wants to,” JD(U) secretary general K C Tyagi said in what marked an escalation of the intra-NDA tension ahead of the polls. A meeting of LJP’s “parliamentary board” saw many attendees expressing re sentment against Kumar’s leadership. However, in the statements issued afterwards, they refrained from making public their angst against the CM whom BJP has already projected as NDA's CM face in Bihar. LJP chief Chirag Paswan, instead, talked of the party's demand for a common minimum programme, claiming LJP had no grouse against “any individual”. The statement suggested mellowing of the earlier aggression, especially on behalf of Chirag whom political circles see as a CM aspirant, and underlined the influence of food and civil supplies minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is opposed to quitting NDA. The moderation, however, failed to move JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nitish-kumar-will-be-nda-face-ljp-free-to-go/articleshow/78101540.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Day after ex-MLA died in brawl, 2 sent to jail, 3 cops suspended||BAREILLY: A day after three-time ex-MLA Nirvendra Mishra was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men over a land dispute in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, his autopsy report on Monday stated that he died of a "heart attack and there were no external injuries". Notably, Radheshyam Gupta and his son Anurag, who were said to be directly involved in the brawl, have been arrested and sent to jail. And three cops have been suspended. The MLA's family remained unconvinced with the autopsy report though and his son reiterated that his father was thrashed and kicked in front of several people, and he was attacked too. A three-member panel will now probe the role of Palia circle officer Kuldeep Kukreti who was transferred on Sunday. The family had refused to cremate the MLA's body and demanded Kukreti’s arrest, but they were later placated by Kheri’s DM Shailendra Singh that "appropriate action will be taken once the probe is complete". Kheri SSP Satyendra Kumar, who had earlier claimed that Mishra accidently fell on the ground, on Monday said, “The autopsy was conducted by a panel of three doctors. It confirms that the cause of death was cardiac arrest. A videography of the autopsy was also done." Kumar further said, "We are looking into the family's allegations and searching for three other suspects. The circle officer's role will be probed by a panel. It comprises Kheri ASP, Sidhauli's circle officer and an inspector of Sitapur crime branch.” The 73-year-old UP politician won twice as an Independent and once on a Samajwadi Party (SP) ticket. More than 2,000 villagers and politicians from all major parties were present at his funeral on Monday. BJP MLA Romi Sahni, SP MP Ravi Verma and senior Congress member Pramod Tiwari were all there. Forces from 10 police stations along with the Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel were deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/day-after-ex-mla-died-in-brawl-over-landdispute-2-sent-to-jail-3-cops-suspended/articleshow/77983693.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Unions, netas oppose eviction of squatters from land marked for Doon-Mussoorie ropeway||Mussoorie: Labour unions in the town on Monday organised a protest march to oppose eviction of illegal squatters from Chifankot area in Mussoorie, where the landing station of the Doon-Mussoorie ropeway is proposed, as well as flats on Tehri Bypass road from where unauthorised occupants were recently evicted. Several political leaders expressed their support for the protest. Shouting slogans against the Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) chairman, the local MLA and the state government, the protesters threatened that unless those affected are provided with alternate accommodation, they would not let the ropeway be built. “MMC has plenty of land available and should give a plot to the oustees to rebuild their homes. If the government can’t resettle oustees, we’ll oppose the ropeway,” declared union leader Devi Godiyal. Over 80 squatters have been asked to vacate the site at Chifankot where the landing zone of the ropeway is proposed. Last week, illegal occupants of flats built by the administration were also evicted. The Rs 300-crore Doon-Mussoorie ropeway will connect Purkul village in Dehradun with Gandhi Chowk in Mussoorie. “The eviction of residents at Chifonkot and Tehri Bypass is being done by the administration, whereas MMC is planning to allocate land for the administration to build houses and resettle oustees. The final decision will be taken at a board meeting on Wednesday,” said MMC chairman Anuj Gupta. Several other union leaders said they, too, would oppose the project. “The government evicting people without resettlement is injustice — especially while the pandemic is raging. We demand that oustees be rehabilitated,” said Satish Dhoundhiyal, ex-president of the local Congress unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unions-netas-oppose-eviction-of-squatters-from-land-marked-for-doon-mussoorie-ropeway/articleshow/77983707.cms||Anmol Jain
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to give 50,000 Covid care kits to patients||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced that the state government will provide 50,000 free of cost Covid-19 care kits to patients in hospitals as well as home isolation. Each kit, costing Rs 1,700, includes an oximeter, digital thermometer, face masks and necessary medication. The move is part of the wider state government endeavour to ensure all patients get complete medical care at their doorstep. A spokesperson said the specially-designed kits would also include a steamer and a hand sanitiser, besides 60 Giloy tablets, 30 Vitamin C tablets and four of Vitamin D3. The patients will be advised to intake eigh fresh tulsi leaves every morning if possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-give-50k-care-kits-to-patients/articleshow/77987018.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||New office-bearers take charge at GCCI||Ahmedabad: A day after the results of elections at Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) were announced, the new panel of office-bearers officially assumed charge on Monday. Natubhai Patel, managing director of Meghmani Organics, took charge as the president, replacing Durgesh Buch. Hemant Shah, chairman, Navin Group, took charge as the senior vice-president and K I Patel, founder of Aries Industries, as the vice-president. Other elected office-bearers include Hiten Vasant, group CEO, Vasant Transport Corporation; Paras Desai, executive director of Wagh Bakri Group; Pravin Kotak, CMD, Iscon Group; Shaishav Shah, MD, GSEC Limited; Anil Jain, CMD, Ascent Finchem Limited and Saurin Parikh, CMD, Pashupati Cotspin, among others. A ceremony with limited members was held at the GCCI office to hand over the charge to the new panel of office-bearers. Natubhai Patel, the new president, shared the ideas and vision for the year 2020-21. He emphasised on the use of technology for the benefit of trade and industry and said that GCCI will focus in this direction. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-office-bearers-take-charge-at-gcci/articleshow/77987019.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to give 50,000 Covid care kits to patients||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced that the state government will provide 50,000 free of cost Covid-19 care kits to patients in hospitals as well as home isolation. Each kit, costing Rs 1,700, includes an oximeter, digital thermometer, face masks and necessary medication. The move is part of the wider state government endeavour to ensure all patients get complete medical care at their doorstep. A spokesperson said the specially-designed kits would also include a steamer and a hand sanitiser, besides 60 Giloy tablets, 30 Vitamin C tablets and four of Vitamin D3. The patients will be advised to intake eigh fresh tulsi leaves every morning if possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-to-give-50k-care-kits-to-patients/articleshow/77992089.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers demand work from home as 500 test +ve after schools open||HYDERABAD: Ever since government teachers began reporting to the schools to oversee digital classes and to do door-to-door surveys, at least 500 of them are said to have got tested positive for Covid-19. According to the teachers, only in the Siddipet district, more than a hundred teachers have tested positive. Likewise, in Jagitial, about 90 teachers have tested positive in the past week or so. In the Hyderabad district, 30 teachers are said to have tested positive after August 27. “I have not stepped out of the house since March, until the government asked teachers to report to duties from August 27,” said a 52-year-old teacher, who tested positive. “So, I should have contracted the virus at the school.” She said the school she works for was being used as a Covid-19 centre and had medical waste lying around. Teachers questioned why the government did not make it mandatory for them to submit the Covid-19 negative report before joining duties. “When they got each and every MLA tested before the start of the assembly session and allowed only those who got negative into the house, why was the same procedure not followed for teachers? Why are they asking us to put our lives at risk,” questioned N Brahmachary, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation, Medchal-Malkajgiri district, which has seen at least 43 positive cases among teachers in the past one week. Teachers said that many of their colleagues became Covid-19 positive after they attended Haritha Haram programmes and books distribution. They said that after August 27, the situation has become much worse. They questioned why the government is not giving them work from home (WFH) option when they can do the same work — keeping track of students, preparing digital lessons — from anywhere. They said the government should at least arrange for those teachers, who are attending duties at schools, which were earlier used as testing centres, or who got in touch with teachers who tested positive, to get tested as their chances of contracting coronavirus are much higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-demand-work-from-home-as-500-test-ve-after-schools-open/articleshow/77987021.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Army’s futuristic e-wheels get shape on Hyderabad outskirts||HYDERABAD: To confuse and confound the enemy on the battlefield, the Ordnance Factory Medak (OFM) in Telangana is working on new generation technologies for its future infantry combat vehicles (FICVs). These vehicles being designed for the Army will run on electricity, making them more difficult to detect on the battlefield as the loud rumbling noise will be substantially reduced. They will also have more firepower. “This is going to be a game-changer,” OFM general manager Alok Prasad told TOI at the factory at Eddumailaram in Sangareddy district. According to Prasad, FICVs will be equipped with next generation missiles being developed by the DRDO. “FICVs will have a fire and forget missile,” he added. “Work began last year, and it will take 2-3 years more for fruition. The hybrid variety could be lapped up by others. We will develop it, demonstrate it and showcase it,” he said. The hybrid vehicle’s electric engine will have many advantages apart from less fuel consumption. “You can operate in a quieter way. Your identifiability in the field gets reduced. Because of the running of the traditional engine, you can be caught by laser or heat-checking missiles. But if you operate silently with electric motors and generators, your survivability increases,” Prasad explained. He added they are developing the technologies indigenously at the OFM so as to remain contemporary in the global scenario. R&D capability at OFM will make it possible, he said. “It will be a matter of pride that the FICVs will roll out from OFM. This is the only place in the country where infantry combat vehicles are produced. This will be the flagship,” he said. FICVs will have superior mobility, survivability and much better fire power. The infantry combat vehicle will also be equipped with a host of new generation technologies, electronics, electro-optics, fire control systems and missiles, which officials say they will keep under wraps for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/armys-futuristic-e-wheels-get-shape-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/77987994.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||778 cops in state had Covid-19 so far, 2 have died||DEHRADUN: Personnel of Uttarakhand police department, who are on the frontline in the fight against the novel coronavirus, are among the most affected by the outbreak of the disease in the Himalayan state as nearly 800 cops have so far tested Covid-19 positive. According to official data, as many as 778 police personnel in the state have tested positive for the virus while two members of the state police department have succumbed to it. The top brass of the police department believes that that nature of their field duty makes police personnel the most susceptible to infection. Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), says, “Police personnel have been serving on the frontline since the Covid-19 lockdown began in the state. The cops have been guarding containment zones, enforcing lockdown, besides handling thousands of migrants who were returning to their homes, making them the most vulnerable to infection. Besides, duty at the police stations also exposes them to the risk of getting infected.” Significantly, out of the total police personnel, who have tested Covid-19 positive, 411 have recovered and 246 have even resumed their duties. According to the police department, 3,808 cops had to be quarantined due to either getting infected or coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person. Among these, 3,155 personnel have joined back their duties. Haridwar district has been the most severely affected in this regard with 147 district police personnel having tested Covid-19 positive. Haridwar is closely followed by Udham Singh Nagar where 137 cops have tested positive for coronavirus and Nainital where 98 police personnel have been found infected. “Important gear like masks, gloves and hand sanitisers were given to the police personnel and guidelines were also issued that police personnel above 55-years of age and with underlying conditions should not be deployed on field duty,” said a senior cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/778-cops-in-ukhand-infected-with-covid-19-so-far-2-have-died/articleshow/77984790.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy PSK to hold grievance meet online||Trichy: The passport seva kendra (PSK) in Trichy will conduct video conferences from September 9 onwards to address grievances of applicants. Passport officer R Anand said that the passport seva kendra would resume its operations on September 9, after a long gap. The applicants may visit the kendra by strictly following Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOP). The online grievance redressal will be held on Skype and WhatsApp. The applicant should give a missed voice call on WhatsApp to 7598507203. The grievance officer will return the call, either by voice or video call as per the requirement of applicant. Calls can be made between 9.30am and 1pm. The applicant will then be asked to submit additional documents by the grievance officer either by email or post. Following this, the application will be further processed. The facility is available only for applicants, who had already applied for a passport. General inquiries can be made through telephone, email, or WhatsApp messages during office hours. For further queries, contact: 1800-258-1800, 0431-2707203 or 2707404 and WhatsApp 7598507203. For inquiries over mail, email torpo.trichy@mea.gov.in on working days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-psk-to-hold-grievance-meet-online/articleshow/77987693.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||MLAs allowed only after thermal check||Shimla: The monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly started on Monday amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. Legislators, officers and others were allowed entry inside the state assembly complex after thermal scanning only. Health department has deployed two teams for thermal scanning. Inside the assembly, where MLAs and ministers sit, partition of transparent polycarbonate sheet has been given between twin-sharing seats. A day before the start of session, samples of all security staff were taken for Covid testing. But same protocol has not been followed for MLAs . However, some MLAs got tested voluntarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mlas-allowed-only-after-thermal-check/articleshow/77987010.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad-Mahatma Mandir metro work from December||GANDHINAGAR: Work to connect Ahmedabad metro rail to Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar and Gift City will begin in December or early next year. The Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) is close to finalizing tender process for two phases — connecting Ahmedabad metro rail to Mahatma Mandir and Gift City. As part of package-1, GMRC is close to finalizing vendors for Rs 1,018 crore estimated work along three routes. The first is construction of 8.1km of elevated viaducts with eight stations at Koteshwar Road, Vishvakarma College, Tapovan Circle, Narmada Canal, Koba Circle, Juna Koba and Koba Gam. The second consists of 5.4km elevated viaducts with three stations at GNLU (interchange station), PDPU and Gift City. The third is a 0.8km elevated viaduct and additional platform at Koteshwar Road station for phase-II of the Ahmedabad metro rail project from Motera to Mahatma Mandir and GNLU to Gift City. Tenders for package-2 worth Rs 470 crore for construction of 6.4km elevated viaducts with five stations at Rayasan, Randesan, Dholakuva Circle, Infocity, Sector 1, and 0.6km elevated viaducts and ramp for depot entry are also close to completion. S S Rathore, managing director, GMRC, said, “Out of 40.03km planned metro rail network in Ahmedabad, 6km work is fully functional. 70% development work of 33.5km work is over and trains are expected to start serving on all the stretches in Ahmedabad by September 2021.” He added, “The work orders for the stretch between Motera to Mahatma Mandir are likely to be issued shortly. On site work will begin in December or by early 2021. According to the deadline given by the government of India, the entire work of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar metro will be over by early 2024.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-mahatma-mandir-metro-work-from-december/articleshow/77987003.cms||Kapil Dave
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab to give 50,000 Covid care kits to patients||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced that the state government will provide 50,000 free of cost Covid-19 care kits to patients in hospitals as well as home isolation. Each kit, costing Rs 1,700, includes an oximeter, digital thermometer, face masks and necessary medication. The move is part of the wider state government endeavour to ensure all patients get complete medical care at their doorstep. A spokesperson said the specially-designed kits would also include a steamer and a hand sanitiser, besides 60 Giloy tablets, 30 Vitamin C tablets and four of Vitamin D3. The patients will be advised to intake eigh fresh tulsi leaves every morning if possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-to-give-50k-care-kits-to-patients/articleshow/77992088.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC: Accepting apology is like compromising court’s dignity||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has refused to accept apology in a contempt of court case, in which a sitting judge was directly contacted on her mobile phone by the litigant, and it observed that accepting apology would be like compromising the dignity of the institution and interference with administration of justice.The HC has initiated contempt proceedings against two persons — Vijay Shah and Alpesh Patel from Petlad. Shah had allegedly hired Patel to call Justice Bela Trivedi, who was to hear Shah’s anticipatory bail application on June 22, and sent text message to the judge impersonating as a Congress party MLA from Petlad, Niranjan Patel. Furious judge ordered an inquiry and the police found out that it was a tactic to get anticipatory bail. Justice Trivedi initiated contempt of court proceedings against Shah and Patel allegedly for “polluting the stream of justice”. When a division bench took up the case and issued notice, both of the alleged contemner tendered unconditional apology. But the court felt that their apologies were not inspiring any confidence. The court noticed that Shah wanted to secure anticipatory bail by hook or crook and the means adopted “prima facie are such which would shake the edifice, if permitted to go scot-free”. The HC termed the case as extremely gross. It also said that this was a clear design to obtain order in favour of Shah by camouflage and all possible efforts. The court further said that if apology is termed as qualified and unconditional, “accepting the same would amount to compromising with the dignity of the institution”. Deciding to proceed further in this case, the HC said, “It is a serious case and, in a time, where many litigants harbour a notion to win over and manoeuvre anything and everything by adopting even extra-legal means and whose only goal is the end result which they desire, regardless of the means adopted, the court is of the opinion that acceptance of apology would vindicate such notion that one can get away with any outrageous conduct by merely tendering apology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-accepting-apology-is-like-compromising-courts-dignity/articleshow/77987026.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 8 lives, infects 214||Times News Network Ludhiana: Eight residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 on Monday, when 214 of the district and 33 outsiders tested positive. The day also saw six outsiders succumbing to the virus here.With this, the district toll tally has reached 507 and the case count is nearing the 12,000-mark. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 14 deaths reported on the day, eight were from Ludhiana, three from Moga, one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur and Amritsar. The Ludhiana casualties included a 60-year-old man of Jamalpur, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and heart disease; a 82-year- old woman of Haibowal Kalan with hypertension and diabetes; a 78-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan with diabetes and hypertension; a 72-year-old man of Model Town; a 40-year-old woman of Lopon village, Samrala; a 58-year-old man of Urban Indra Nagar with hypertension and diabetes; a 77-year-old man of Ludhiana; and a 51-year-old man of Mahavir Colony.The 214 positive cases of the district include 53 from flu corner, 74 from OPDs, 33 contacts of positive patients, eight health-care workers, one cop, two government employees, two pregnant women and 41 through tracing process. Bagga said Ludhiana’s case count was 11,998.So far, 9,754 people have recovered from Covid-19, which is 81.29%. On the day, 1,290 samples were collected for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-8-lives-infects-214/articleshow/77984783.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Two Haryana schools to reopen on trial||KARNAL: The Haryana government has started preparations to reopen schools. As a start, standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be formulated and students made aware of them. The education department has selected two schools — government senior secondary school, Nigdhu in Karnal district, and government high school, Bajidpur in Sonipat — as a majority of parents showed interest in opening schools. These schools will be reopened on trial and a video (demonstrating SOPs) of classes X to XII students and teachers will be shot in both schools. This video will be shown to students of other schools across through EDUSAT. According to the letter, the department sought suggestions from parents and students of government schools in the state, and the students of Nigdhu and Bajidpur schools and their parents showed maximum interest. So, these schools have been selected. “It is mandatory for all students to get written consent from their parents before coming to school, which will have to ensure the availability of masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners,” read the letter. Dharampal, principal of GSS, Nigdhu, said they got a letter from the directorate of school education for reopening the school and shooting the video. He said the schedule was not clear in the letter. A team of the department along with experts are expected to visit the schools this week to record the video. “There are around 100 students each in classes X and XII. We have made all arrangements and have intimated students too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-haryana-schools-to-reopen-on-trial/articleshow/77988775.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Pvt buses can operate by following norms, says minister||Trichy: Flagging off TNSTC buses from Karur district, state transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar said that buses are operated with adequate Covid-19 precautionary steps. While Karur has started operating 60% of its fleet, he said it will vary in other districts and adequate buses will be added based on the requirement. A total 263 TNSTC buses operated from five depots in Karur district out of which 163 buses were operated on Monday. On the precautionary steps, drivers and conductors have been given face masks and shields. While hand sanitiser has been kept in each of the buses, commuters can get face masks from the conductors by paying Rs 5 each. Buses have been instructed to operate with 50% occupancy to maintain social distancing, he said. Private buses have also been asked to operate services by following the norms laid down by the state government. Private omnibus associations have asked to allow 100% occupancy citing losses. They also demanded scraping of road tax for two quarters, and they have approached court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-buses-can-operate-by-following-norms-says-minister/articleshow/77987695.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Varanasi||IIT-BHU prof wins VG Patel Memorial Award||Varanasi: Pradeep Kumar Mishra, professor, department of chemical engineering and technology, IIT-BHU, has been conferred the VG Patel Memorial Award for ‘Entrepreneurship Trainer/ Educator/Mentor 2020’ by Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat at a virtual event organized by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), Ahmedabad. EDII lost its founder Padma Shri VG Patel in 2019. To commemorate Dr Patel’s great work, the institute has started an annual lecture and award series. Delivering the lecture, Devvrat said: “Today, people are aware about the implications of chemical based farming, on soil, water, environment and health, and are looking for options that do not threaten any of these aspects.” Giving example of his 200 acre farm in Kurukshetra, he highlighted how he has been generating results, using natural farming. EDI director Sunil Shukla stressed on the importance of bringing in entrepreneurship as a catalyst to spurring agriculture in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-prof-wins-vg-patel-memorial-award/articleshow/77985655.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Two Haryana schools to reopen on trial||KARNAL: The Haryana government has started preparations to reopen schools. As a start, standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be formulated and students made aware of them. The education department has selected two schools — government senior secondary school, Nigdhu in Karnal district, and government high school, Bajidpur in Sonipat — as a majority of parents showed interest in opening schools. These schools will be reopened on trial and a video (demonstrating SOPs) of classes X to XII students and teachers will be shot in both schools. This video will be shown to students of other schools across through EDUSAT. According to the letter, the department sought suggestions from parents and students of government schools in the state, and the students of Nigdhu and Bajidpur schools and their parents showed maximum interest. So, these schools have been selected. “It is mandatory for all students to get written consent from their parents before coming to school, which will have to ensure the availability of masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners,” read the letter. Dharampal, principal of GSS, Nigdhu, said they got a letter from the directorate of school education for reopening the school and shooting the video. He said the schedule was not clear in the letter. A team of the department along with experts are expected to visit the schools this week to record the video. “There are around 100 students each in classes X and XII. We have made all arrangements and have intimated students too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-haryana-schools-to-reopen-on-trial/articleshow/77987024.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||5 of family injured in LPG cylinder blast||Ludhiana: Five members of a family, including a couple and their three kids, were injured in an LPG cylinder blast late Monday evening in Basti Jodhewal here. The injured have been rushed to hospital and their condition is stated to be stable.According to information, the family was running a dhaba from their home and a small cylinder was being used by them to cook the food. The blast led to fire in the room, but luckily for the family, on hearing the blast, workers from a nearby factory rushed to their rescue and fire extinguishers from the factory were used to douse the fire.In the meantime, the fire brigade personnel were also informed and a fire tender from Sundar Nagar fire station doused the fire.Sub-fire officer Aatish Rai, "Fire incident occurred around 8pm. Our team reached the spot and fire was controlled within half an hour."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-of-family-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast/articleshow/77984789.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Good response to special trains from Madurai, Trichy||Trichy: Train services resumed in Trichy and Madurai railway divisions on Monday with moderate patronage after being closed for more than five months due to Covid-19 outbreak. Only a meager number of passengers opted to travel on the special express trains operated from Trichy and via Trichy. Meanwhile, there was good response to the special train from Madurai junction. The first special train from Madurai junction chugged on at 7 am carrying around 520 passengers, according to officials. Around 120 passengers boarded the Trichy-Nagercoil intercity express. Two special trains from Madurai, one from Tuticorin and one from Karaikudi all connecting Chennai have been proposed. According to the railway board, operation of Trichy-Nagercoil intercity, Karaikudi-Chennai Pallavan, Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi and Madurai-Chennai Vaigai express trains were operated on the first day. Trichy-Nagercoil intercity express departed from Trichy at 6 am with 182 passengers, while the Karaikudi-Chennai express left Trichy at 6.40am with 202 passengers from Trichy junction. A total of 244 passengers boarded Madurai-Chennai Vaigai express at Trichy at 9.15 am. The Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi express arrived at Trichy at 11 am. A total of 254 passengers alighted from the train, while 36 people boarded the train, railway officials said. Earlier, railway employees performed puja in front of the loco engine of Trichy-Nagercoil intercity express. Passengers were allowed inside the station only after screening. Passengers were made to maintain social distancing while they were arriving at the station. Though four trains were operated from and via Trichy, the entire station sported a deserted look. Several people did not take up train travel on the first day citing lake of bus connectivity. However, railway officials expressed hope that the situation would turn favourable in the coming days. Suspension of current ticket booking was also one of the reasons for less patronage, rail users said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/good-response-to-special-trains-from-madurai-trichy/articleshow/77987697.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||T reports 1,800 new cases and nine deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Monday recorded 1802 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths as the total caseload in the state stood at 1,42,771. While the death toll climbed to 895, so far 1,10,241 patients have recovered from the virus. The case fatality rate is continuing a downward spiral for the last month now and is currently at 0.62 percent, significantly lower than the national average of 1.70 percent. A lower-case fatality rate means a lower number of Covid-19 patients dying. The recovery rate, meanwhile, touched the national average of 77 percent on Monday, moving slightly up over the last couple of weeks. However, it is still behind the recovery rate of many states. The recovery rate represents the percentage of patients affected by the virus, having recovered from it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-1800-new-cases-and-nine-deaths/articleshow/77987030.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Ramanan’s Radha returns to sing lullaby in Tamil for intersex baby||Thrissur: Playback singer Karimbuzha Radha who gave voice to eight songs in the famous Malayalam film 'Ramanan' has returned after over 50 years to compose the music and sing the Tamil version of a lullaby for intersex baby authored by transgender poet Vijayaraja Mallika. "Writer and social worker Padmakumar Parameswaran who hails from Padmanabhapuram in Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu has translated my Malayalam poem into Tamil," said Mallika. "It took no time for the gifted singer Karimbuzha Radha to tune and lend her voice to the beautiful verses." The original Malayalam song and its Mohiniyattam version were released recently. Radha, who stayed away from the films after Ramanan is attempting to "reknit the broken connect with music". "Those songs in Ramanan were recorded in 1957 or so when I was 14 or 16, but the film could be released only in 1967," reminisced Radha. "Legendary musician Raghavan Master, who gave music to those songs, was my music teacher. I couldn’t sing for other films during those ten years and then I got married and dedicated my time to family,’’ said Radha, who is the daughter of a noted litterateur, the late Karimbuzha Ramakrishnan. Those she gave music and voice to a few light-songs later, she never made efforts to pursue a career in films. “The form and content of this lullaby impressed me a lot. The song eloquently expresses the boldness of a mother to accept an intersex baby as a gift of God, dismissing all sarcasm and criticisms she had to face from the society,” Radha said. Mallika, meanwhile, is glad that the release of the Tamil version coincides with the second anniversary of the Supreme Court verdict abrogating Section 377 of the IPC. Mallika also said that the release of the Tamil version has another significance as “Tamil Nadu is the only state that has banned early surgeries for intersex children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramanans-radha-returns-to-sing-lullaby-in-tamil-for-intersex-baby/articleshow/77982828.cms||T Ramavarman
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Unable to find work due to lockdown, two youths carjacked Delhi taxi driver in July, arrested||Meerut: Two youths — Omendra Singh and Man Singh — allegedly involved in a carjacking in July were arrested, along with their aide Laik, following a brief encounter with Bulandshahr police on Monday. According to the accused, all residents of Shahjahanpur district, they had gone to Mukundpur in the National Capital in search of work, but didn’t get a job due to the lockdown, said police. Police said left with just Rs 1,000, the duo hatched a conspiracy to hire a cab and then carjack the cabbie. On the night of July 26, the Delhi cab driver was found abandoned at a desolate spot in Kotwali Dehat area with his hands and legs tied, said police. On the complaint of the cab driver, a case was registered and police began a probe. Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said, “The driver was assaulted and robbed of personal belongings on Badaun road in Kotwali Dehat and the accused fled in his cab. We got a tip-off that three suspects were on their way to Delhi in the stolen car.” When signalled to stop, said police, the accused first tried to escape, but then opened fired at a police team that chased them. The trio was, however, arrested after a brief encounter and police seized three country-made pistols from their possession and impounded the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unable-to-find-work-due-to-lockdown-two-youths-carjacked-delhi-taxi-driver-in-july-arrested/articleshow/77984805.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Temghar reservoir 97% full, collective storage at 99%||Pune: Stock in the Temghar reservoir, which can hold up to 3.7 TMC, increased to 97% on Monday, pushing the collective stock of the four reservoirs that supply water to Pune to 99%. Panshet and Varasgaon were filled to 100% of their capacities, while Khadakwasla held 97%. The catchment areas of all four reservoirs reported good spells of rainfall over the past two days. In the 24-hour period ending on Monday morning, Khadakwasla recorded 46mm, Panshet and Varasgaon received over 20mm and Temghar had 10mm of rainfall. Temghar’s catchments received the highest rainfall so far this season, at 2,660mm. Temghar has been only reservoir that did not fill to capacity so far this monsoon. Officials in the state irrigation department said that the stock in Temghar has been steadily rising and was likely to reach 100% in the next few days. “We are monitoring the water levels in the dam. There has a been consistent rise. The reservoir will reach its full capacity of 3.7 TMC if heavy spells of rain in the catchments continue,” an official said. The discharge from the dam collects in Khadakwasla. “We have brought down the stock in Khadakwasla to 97%, as two reservoirs have already reached their full capacities, and Temghar is about reach 100% mark. We will have to accommodate water if these three dams release water in case of heavy rain,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temghar-reservoir-97-full-collective-storage-at-99/articleshow/77987031.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Taxmen go on leave to protest VB’s arrests, FIRs||Ludhiana: Cash-strapped Punjab government was hit on Monday, when more than 1,000 officers of the excise and taxation department went on a state-wide mass casual leave against the Vigilance Bureau arresting and booking several officials on charges of bribery and corruption. The decision was taken by a steering committee of the department — set up after fresh arrests were made last week — comprising inspectors, excise and taxation officers (ETO), assistant excise and taxation commissioner (AETC), deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) and additional commissioners. They are demanding cancellation of the FIRs and an inquiry by the department rather than the VB. Officials claimed their colleagues have been implicated on the basis of phone conversations.Due to the mass leave, all the work at the department’s Ludhiana and other offices remained suspended for the entire day.A senior officer said, “All officers are passing through traumatic times. Everyone was shocked by the two FIRs and arrests of our officers by the VB on August 21 on the basis of phone recordings between two persons. As per the FIRs, phones of officials were on surveillance for six months. If this was the case, why were the officers not caught red-handed while accepting bribes? This is the first-ever case in the state’s history where such harsh action has been taken.”Another senior officer said, “The entire case has dented the image of the department. Every other day raids are being conducted on our colleagues just on the basis of vague statements. Several times we have to stay in touch with informers to catch the tax evaders, but officers’ calls with these elements, too, are now being questioned and projected as the ones made for demanding a bribe. Our requests to the government have been ignored, so we were forced to go on mass casual leave. With 1,000 officers not reporting on duty, there will be massive revenue loss to the government and cases of tax evasion will also increase. We are on mass casual leave on Tuesday too and if our demands are not met, we might go on an indefinite strike.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/taxmen-go-on-leave-to-protest-vbs-arrests-firs/articleshow/77984816.cms||Mohit Behl
September 8, 2020||Pune||Heat on 2 cops for asking man to withdraw bribery case||Pune: A woman police sub-inspector and a constable, both from the Warje police station, have been prima facie indicted in the probe by deputy commissioner of police (zone III) Poornima Gaikwad for pressurizing a shopkeeper to withdraw a bribery case against another constable from the same police station. “Based on the outcome, we have now written to the Pune police for action against the woman sub-inspector and the constable,” Rajesh Bansode, superintendent of police, anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Pune, told TOI on Monday. Another senior officer said the ACB had sent a letter in this regard to the Pune city police on Friday evening. Pune’s additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde said, “We are looking this and will initiate action soon.” In June, the ACB had trapped constable Vilas Toge and his accomplice in a bribery case following a complaint from the shopkeeper (40), who runs his business in Warje. “Last month, the shopkeeper again approached the ACB complaining that a woman sub-inspector and a constable from the Warje police station were pressurising him for withdrawing the case against Toge. The ACB then wrote a letter to the city police seeking an inquiry into the matter,” Bansode said, adding, “We had not sought the report from the Pune police, but they sent a copy to us. The report found the allegations to be true.” DCP Gaikwad could not be reached despite repeated calls. The ACB is continuing with its investigation in this case. A crime branch team had earlier raided the shop for black-marketing of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heat-on-2-cops-for-asking-man-to-withdraw-bribery-case/articleshow/77987032.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||PU releases date sheet for final year online exams of UG, PG students||Chandigarh: Panjab University (PU) has released the date sheet for the exams for under graduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for final year students on Monday. A communication is sent to all colleges and departments by controller of examination that authorities has decided to conduct the final semester examinations online for UG and PG classes in the third week of September. The controller office has start sending examination related material to the principal, chief coordinator and controller of examinations of the college through university website and email. The controller office has also sought details from the college principals of all the affiliated colleges and departments of PU to supply the active email IDs (at least two), mobile numbers (including WhatsApp of the college for emergency communication) and name of two senior faculty members who will be engaged for the conduct of final semester examinations. Every college and department has to appoint nodal officer to coordinate for the conduct of online examination. Parvinder Singh, controller of the examination, said the university has allowed to conduct the viva-voce and presentation of final year classes of undergraduate, postgraduate, vocational and diploma up to October 6. The viva-voce and presentation will be conducted online. The awards will be submitted online at webportal and scanned copy will be mailed to email ID. It is also informed that some private, USOL and re-appear candidates will be allocated colleges, their cases should be considered and awards to be sent separately. Officials of the examination said hard copy of the question paper will also sent to nodal centre so that in case student face any issue in downloading the paper, he can get it from the centre. Detailed instructions will be given with admit card of each candidate to avoid confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-releases-date-sheet-for-final-year-online-exams-of-ug-pg-students/articleshow/77985959.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||Fresh peak result of high number of tests||Vadodara: The city and district registered yet another peak of Covid-19 cases with 126 positive cases being reported during the 24 hours since Sunday evening. The positive cases were detected from 2,409 tests during the same period, the highest number of tests in a day so far.Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that since it was expected that the pandemic would peak this month, the number of positive cases being reported was on expected lines. “The situation may remain the same during the coming days and then stabilise before we see the graph going down again,” said an official.The positivity ratio of tests has also been pushed higher marginally during the last four days. It used to hover around 5.1% earlier and has been around 5.2% in the last four days. With the new cases, the total number of cases reported in Vadodara so far has gone up to 8,921. The VMC also confirmed one more death due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death taking the total number of such deaths to 152. As many as 99 persons were discharged on Monday taking the total number of discharged cases to 7,384. As many as 1,385 persons remained under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fresh-peak-result-of-high-number-of-tests/articleshow/77984888.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Protest against payment of tuition fees for lockdown period intensifies in Rudrapur||Rudrapur: The tussle between parents/guardians and private school managements over payment of tuition fees for the lockdown period has further intensified. The parents’ association have opposed the payment of fees citing the state government orders that bar school managements from pressuring parents into paying fees. In the last one month, several social organisations and political parties have staged sit-in protests over the issue. A few weeks ago, agitators formed a human chain to draw the administration’s attention towards their demand and some even wrote letters in blood to the competent authorities and sought their immediate intervention. These agitations have received support from the Congress party, the parents’ association, the traders’ union, members of the Zila Panchayat, councillors of municipal corporation, and other social organisations. Tejender Singh Virk, who is heading the protest under the banner of parents’ association, said, “The lockdown has affected the financial condition of common people to an extent that majority of them are not in a position to pay fees. The education minister has already ordered the schools to exempt students from paying school fees or the lockdown period. We have met the school authorities, staged dharna, wrote letters in blood, but our demand has fallen on deaf ears.” He added that there is no justification for forcing parents to pay fees given the fact that the schools remained closed during the lockdown period. In a similar vein, Sandeep Cheema, member of zila panchayat, said, “It has now become clear that private schools are not taking the government order seriously. Surprisingly, the education department has not issued any order regarding this violation. Some private schools are even forcing parents to deposit accumulative fees instead of just the tuition fees.” On the other hand, school managements argue that without receiving fees, paying their staff and managing other expenses would become difficult. “Education is a must for the progress of the country. We are only asking for the tuition fees as it will help us in paying our teacher’s salaries and in managing other tangible expenses,” said Surjeet Singh, managing director of Delhi Public School in Rudrapur. Mohit Rai, managing director of city-based RAN Public School, “We have delivered the best results in board exams. We do not want our students to miss out on their studies but it’s not possible for us to survive without tuition fees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-against-payment-of-tuition-fees-for-lockdown-period-intensifies-in-rudrapur/articleshow/77984819.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 8, 2020||Agra||UP: Dalit man beaten to death after rumour that he ‘sold’ his daughter||AGRA: Unable to bear the cost of her education, Sarvesh Diwakar had sent his daughter away to live with a relative in Noida for a while. His neighbours, however, heard something else — that he was trying to “sell” his daughter. With righteous rage, they beat him up. He lay on the road for hours, no one taking him to the hospital. Police eventually did, but he died of his injuries on Monday morning. “We have lodged an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the SC/ST Act, and arrested four persons identified in a video shot by a local. The body has been sent for autopsy,” said SP Ajay Kumar. Five people have been identified. Diwakar, 45, was a confectioner from Sirsaganj in Firozabad who had been living in Mainpuri in a rented house with his 16-year-old daughter. She worked as a domestic help in some houses in the locality, sources said, but continued studying. With the Covid-19 outbreak and the pandemic that followed, Diwakar was out of options. He had not been getting any work and sent his daughter away to a relative’s house in Noida so she could be taken care of. But someone in the neighbourhood started a rumour that he was “selling” his daughter off. Soon local residents descended on him. Four video clips show five men beating him up with sticks as he lies, writhing in pain. At some point, someone seems to have moved him from the rooftop where he was attacked and left him on the road. “We got information on Sunday evening that he had been beaten up. A team got there and found him on the road. He was taken to the district hospital, but succumbed to injuries on Monday morning,” SP Kumar said. His daughter got home from Noida on Monday and told police she had been away so her studies would not be disrupted. The Samajwadi Party, meanwhile, tweeted that it will provide Rs 1 lakh financial assistance to the Dalit family and demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-after-rumour-that-he-sold-his-daughter/articleshow/77984823.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Truck runs over woman, child in Kheri||BAREILLY: A woman and her four-year-old daughter were run over by a speeding truck that hit the motorcycle they were travelling on in Nighasan area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Monday morning. The victims were identified as Shaida (30) and her daughter, Alfisa, residents of Dhaurahra area. Shaida's brother was driving the motorcycle when the truck hit it. The mother-daughter were thrown off the pillion and crushed under the truck's wheels. After the accident, the truck driver abandoned the vehcle and fled. Inspector Narendra Singh said the truck is registered in Faizabad district and the driver will be arrested soon. An FIR will be registered after receiving a written complaint, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/truck-runs-over-woman-child-in-kheri/articleshow/77983712.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Not Covid-19 positive, clarifies Madan Kaushik’s son||DEHRADUN: Ayush Kaushik, son of state Cabinet minister and Uttarakhand government’s spokesperson Madan Kaushik, on Monday clarified that he has not tested positive for Covid-19. The clarification comes after TOI, in its September 7 edition, had reported that Ayush was also tested positive along with his father. Talking to TOI, Ayush Kaushik said that he is fine. “I was never tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” he added. Meanwhile, Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, who is undergoing treatment in All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, has been kept in a special ward where doctors maintained that his vital stats are stable and he is doing well. “We are still awaiting the RT-PCR reports of the minister as he tested Covid-19 positive via antigen test,” said Harish Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-covid-19-positive-clarifies-madan-kaushiks-son/articleshow/77984822.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||HCA discord continues as Azhar files complaint against treasurer||Hyderabad: The rift among the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) office-bearers has widened with president Mohammad Azharuddin lodging a police complaint against treasurer Surender Agarwal and another club secretary Moizuddin for allegedly using vulgar language while speaking about him in front of an employee. As the contents of the complaint amount to a non cognizable offence, police referred it to a local court. They registered a case against Surender and Moizuddin after obtaining permission from the court, under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on Monday. After registering the case, Uppal police called the two accused to serve notices and record their statements. Azharuddin had on Sunday lodged a complaint with the Uppal police, alleging that Surender and Moizuddin had used foul language while referring to him during a conversation with an employee Yousuf. Police found out that Azharuddin had approved the representation given to him about pending bonus and increments by HCA employees like Yousuf on Independence Day. “According to the complainant, on Saturday, Surender and Moizuddin reprimanded Yousuf for directly approaching the HCA president instead of following proper procedure. Moizuddin used foul language against Yousuf and also against the HCA president,” Uppal inspector N Ch Rangaswamy said. Azharuddin has been at loggerheads with the other Apex Council members with regard to administrative matters. In fact, five of the Apex Council members, including Surender, had gone against Azharuddin regarding the appointment of the Ombudsman and Ethics Officer last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hca-discord-continues-as-azhar-files-complaint-against-treasurer/articleshow/77987055.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Helpline launched to give details of scholarships||Chandigarh: Youth for Swaraj, a student organisation of Panjab University (PU) launched a helpline number for students who need guidance in applying scholarship under various categories on Sunday. In a recent meeting with various student parties, the PU officials said in the past, out of Rs 5 crore scholarships under various schemes, only Rs 20 lakh was availed by the students. A lacunae that the helpline (8054650788) is aiming to fill — also students can share their problems, which will be forwarded to the dean of student welfare (DSW) to resolve it. Ankur, a member of Youth for Swaraj, said a large number of students require financial help and they can claim it under various scholarship schemes available in the university but candidates are clueless about them. The helpline will try to help students with fee structure and instalments too, he said adding that a list of issues that a student faces will be prepared and tabled with DSW office. Soon, the DSW will hold a meeting with all student parties to discuss giving financial help to those whose families were affected during Covid-19. Meanwhile, the authorities are hoping the helpline will help them collect data about the needs of poor students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/helpline-launched-to-give-details-of-scholarships/articleshow/77985970.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS legislators want memorial for Solipeta||Hyderabad: TRS MLAs sought a memorial constructed in honour of Dubbaka MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. Participating in a discussion to pay tributes to Ramalinga Reddy, MLA Gongidi Sunitha said the government should build a memorial for Reddy who was revered by poor people in his constituency. Rasamayi Balakishan said Reddy fought for aspirations of people for a separate Telangana. “He was the first journalist who was booked under a TADA case. He was very active in pro-Telangana movement,” he said. IT minister KT Rama Rao said Reddy was a journalist who later became a politician to serve the poor. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said it was he who had introduced Reddy to politics as the latter was very passionate about the statehood for Telangana.  Participating in a discussion to pay tributes to Ramalinga Reddy, MLA Gongidi Sunitha said government should build a memorial for Reddy who was revered by poor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-legislators-want-memorial-for-solipeta/articleshow/77987706.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||PU authorities still undecided about student council’s extension period||Chandigarh: Confusing prevailed in Panjab University (PU) over the student council situation. On September 6, the student council completed its one year term, but due to the pandemic, no election could be conducted this year even as decision is still pending about the extension to the existing council . One of the syndicate members, who does not want to be named, said it is not possible to give extension for indefinite period to council. In the past, when there was no council, the student issues were taken care of by the authorities, he said, adding that this could be again adopted by the university. Sources said the committee constituted by syndicate was not notified due to which there was no meeting conducted till date. In July, a syndicate member, D P S Randhawa, a student leader himself in his university days, raised the issue of elections not being possible this year due to Covid-19 in the syndicate. He had requested that considering the exceptional situation, the authorities should allow the existing council to represent students. Chetan Chaudhary, ex-president of PU student council said till date meeting of the committee constituted by the syndicate is not held due to which he is clueless about the legal issues of extension of council. He said for now, the syndicate has given extension to the council. Jatin Singh, convenor of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) said the party has already submitted a representation to the authorities that this council should be dissolved as its tenure was completed on May 31. He said the authorities should come up with a body, which has students and faculty representatives to take up the issues of the students. Nikhil Narmeta, National Students' Union of India (NSUI) leader said the authorities should conduct council elections as it is important for the students. He said student bodies represent the issues of the students. S K Tomar, dean, student welfare, said it is not possible to hold an election and he has no information from higher authorities regarding the duration of the extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-authorities-still-undecided-about-student-councils-extension-period/articleshow/77985980.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Drive at your risk, highways in district getting deadlier||Ludhiana: Deaths on national and state highways in the district have witnessed an increase of 23.30% and 30.4% in 2019, respectively, as compared with the previous year, states the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. The number of accidents on the national highway has increased by 10.86%, while those on the state highways decreased by 14.86% in 2019 as compared with the previous year. As per the latest data, the number of accidents on the national highway in Ludhiana in 2019 was 153, in which 127 died and 94 were injured. In 2018, the number of accidents on the NH here was 138, in which 103 persons had died and 49 were injured. This suggests 10.86% increase in accidents and 23.30% in the number of deaths. The number of accidents on state highways in Ludhiana in 2019 was 63, in which 60 persons had died and 23 suffered injuries, while in 2018, 74 accidents took place, in which 46 persons died and 47 were injured. This points to a decrease of 14.86% in accidents, but an increase of 30.4% in the number of deaths. The data of the past few years shows the highest number of accidents on NH was 183 and reported in 2017, followed by 177 in 2016, and the number of deaths was also highest in 2017 at 147, followed by 127 in 2019. On state highways in Ludhiana, the number of accidents was highest in 2016 at 108, followed by 77 in 2017 and maximum people (92) died in 2016, followed by 60 in 2019. Road safety experts feel the increase in the number of accidents and deaths shows apathy of the government. “It is a road safety emergency. The main reason is that there is no correction of black spots, no implementation of intelligent transport system gadgets, like speed governors, and the medical response system is not sufficient,” says road safety expert Kamaljit Soi. ON CRASH COURSENational highwayYear Accidents Deaths Injuries 2019 153 127 94 2018 138 103 492017 183 147 642016 177 115 96 State highwayYear Accidents Deaths Injuries 2019 63 60 232018 74 46 472017 77 53 582016 108 92 49||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drive-at-your-risk-highways-in-district-getting-deadlier/articleshow/77984867.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Priest protesting Devasthanam Board faints outside Kedarnath||Dehradun: A priest protesting against Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act for two months in a half-naked state outside Kedarnath temple fainted on Monday afternoon. Subsequently, he was airlifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh. Talking to TOI, Varun Arora, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ukhimath confirmed that 32-year-old Santosh Trivedi was moved to Rishikesh. “He was airlifted for treatment. He was protesting at the site for several days,” said Arora. Harish Thapliyal, public relations officer (PRO) at AIIMS Rishikesh, said that the priest was suffering from fever and was unconscious when brought to AIIMS. “The doctors have diagnosed that he has multiple stones in his body. His vital stats were stabilised and he was discharged later in the evening. He has been asked to report after 10 days of medication for operative treatment,” added Thapliyal. It’s important to mention here that Trivedi was staging a sit-in protest in a half-naked state outside the Kedarnath shrine — situated at 11,330 feet from the sea level — since June 12 to protest the formation of Devasthanam Board by the state government. Trivedi used to sit for protest in three sittings, all for four hours, in a day. He wore no wollens but just a dhoti (loincloth) in the freezing temperatures of three-to-five degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, thousands of teerth purohits (chief priests) and other priests associated with Char Dham shrines and 47 other temples from across Uttarakhand are protesting against the state government since the Char Dham Shrine Board Bill was passed last year. According to the priests, the bill aims to take control of these temples on the lines of Vaishno Devi Shrine Board and Tirupati Balaji Shrine Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/priest-protesting-devasthanam-board-faints-outside-kedarnath/articleshow/77984852.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 8, 2020||Varanasi||Mau cops seize vehicles of Mukhtar’s associate||Varanasi: In a drive against the jailed don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his gang, the Mau police on Monday seized 10 vehicles including fives buses worth over Rs 1.69 crore of don’s close associate Suraj Singh, a listed gangster and extortion mafia. Mau SP Manoj Kumar Sonkar said that the action was taken under Gangster Act. Earlier, nine vehicles including four buses worth over Rs 1.05 crore were confiscated on September 1. So far, his 23 vehicles worth Rs 3.61 crores have been seized. Suresh, a resident of Bhiti locality in Kotwali area, had been booked under Gangster Act on May 31, and he is currently lodged in jail. Recently, the Ghazipur district administration had demolished an illegally run hot mixing plant near Andhau air strip and godown on gram sabha land. Besides, an illegally built bridge for fish farming by Mukhtar’s man was also demolished in Mohammadabad tehsil of Ghazipur. In the recent past, the Ghazipur district administration had served a notice for the demolition of an illegally built shopping complex owned by Mukhtar’s wife in the main market. Mukhtar’s men themselves demolished the illegal construction after receiving the notice. Ansari and his men in the eastern UP are facing the heat of police, who not only targeted those involved in extortion trade and contract grabbing, but also broke their monopoly in fish and meat trade. Property confiscated: The police confiscated the properties worth Rs 55 lakh of Amarjeet Yadav alias Kundan Yadav and Rajan alias Badaku under Gangster Act in Chandwak area of Jaunpur district on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mau-cops-seize-vehicles-of-mukhtars-associate/articleshow/77985691.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Agra||With a cap of 5k tourists daily, Taj Mahal to reopen on Sept 21||AGRA: World heritage sites Taj Mahal and Agra Fort will reopen for visitors on September 21 after six months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, only 5,000 tourists would be allowed at the Taj and 2,500 at Agra Fort daily. Earlier, Taj used to see a footfall of up to 80,000 people a day, and the Agra Fort was visited by almost 30,000 people daily during weekends. Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that masks will be mandatory for all visitors at all times and thermal screening would be conducted at the gates. He added that the hotel industry will have to be more cautious as Covid cases are still rising across the nation. “All arrangements have already been made at these monuments as per the culture and health ministries’ guidelines,” said ASI superintending archeologist (Agra circle) Vasant K Swarnkar, adding that entry tickets will be issued by e-mode only and ticket windows will remain shut. However, QR code standees at the East and West gates of the monument will be available for booking entry tickets by scanning the code. He told TOI that the entire premises will be sanitised twice a day and small posters advising people to maintain social distancing and not touch the marble surfaces, doors and railings will be pasted across the monuments. “Group photography will be prohibited, a time limit of 3 hours will strictly be followed and visitors will be advised to keep a sanitiser and water bottle with them as a precautionary measure,” said Swarnkar. Taj Mahal along with other monuments in Agra was shut on March 17 due to Covid pandemic. Earlier, other monuments in the region, including Fatehpur Sikri, were opened from September 1 by the district authorities. The Union ministry had allowed opening of all protected monuments under ASI across the nation from July 6. Local tourism industry hailed the decision of the Agra administration of opening the two most popular world heritage sites. “This step would not only rejuvenate the tourism of Agra but would also make positive contribution to the global tourism industry and would drive the subcontinental tourism,” said Rajeev Saxena, vice-president of Agra Tourism Guild, adding that the government now needs to announce the start of international airlines and start issuing tourist visas for those aspiring to see the Taj Mahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-a-cap-of-5k-tourists-daily-taj-mahal-to-reopen-on-sept-21/articleshow/77984830.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 60 booked for gambling in Lonavla resort||PUNE: The rural police raided a resort in Lonavla in the early hours of Monday and registered offences against 60 men — all tourists from Gujarat — for gambling there and the 12 women serving liquor to the former. About Rs3.4 lakh, gambling equipment and liquor were recovered from the spot. Assistant inspector Vaibhav Swami said all the men gambling were traders. He said all the 72 people, including the 12 women, an owner and the manager of the resort had been booked under IPC sections 188, 269 and the Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/60-booked-for-gambling-in-lonavla-resort/articleshow/77987056.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Huge potholes make for a bumpy ride on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||PUNE: The huge potholes that have surfaced on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass over the past few days have been posing a serious threat to road users. Speeding vehicles can be seen suddenly slowing to a crawl or changing their course as they try to avoid damage. The massive potholes on the bypass could also lead to accidents. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which manages the bypass, attempted to fill the potholes using cement paver blocks but, due to constant movement of heavy vehicles, the blocks can be seen spread out on the road surface posing further threat to commuters, especially two-wheeler riders. Some potholes on the route are so huge that trucks have suffered damage to axles while other heavy vehicles have broken down. The potholes have cropped up at various sites, including Dukkar Khind, Warje, Chandani chowk, Vadgaon, Bavdhan, and others. Suhas Chitnis, project director of NHAI, said, “The rainfall has caused damage to the road surface. We are trying to fill the potholes and the work is still ongoing.” “The cement paver blocks were a temporary solution but now we will use ready mix tar and other materials to fill the potholes. All potholes and road surface will be mended over the next few days,” Chitnis added. Katraj-Dehu road bypass is part of the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway. Thousands of motorists ply on the bypass everyday. Swapna Kothari, a resident of Katraj who works with a firm located in Baner, said, “I was home for three months and resumed office recently. Earlier, the road surface was quite good but big potholes have surfaced recently. Last week, my car was damaged after it went into a huge pothole at Warje.” Software engineer Dinesh Markal, a resident of Sinhagad road, added, “The potholes have caused a serious problem in commuting to Hinjewadi. My cab driver neglected a pothole and my head banged against the car’s roof. The experience was shocking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/huge-potholes-make-for-a-bumpy-ride-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/77987057.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||33 enrol in police’s horse riding courses||Ahmedabad: After a gap of about one and a half years the Gujarat Police Horse Riding Club (GPHRC) is to start providing training to horse riding enthusiasts. Already 33 persons including women have enrolled at GPHRC to learn horse riding. Sources in the city’s mounted police unit said the date for starting the training course will be announced soon. MoS home, Pradipsinh Jadeja will inaugurate the programme at GPHRC. The districts where horse riding clubs will start providing training are Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh, Himmatnagar, Bhuj, Bhavnagar, Mehsana, Dahod and Gandhinagar. While the preparations at the “Ghoda Camp” in Meghaninagar are in full swing, TOI talked with some enthusiasts who have enrolled for the horse riding course. Some said riding is their passion and they bond well with horses, while some said it’s a skill that will help them to seek a career with defence forces. Mounted police inspector N S Barot said there will be two courses for horse riding. “One will be basic and the other will be an advanced horse riding course. After completing the advanced course successfully, a certificate will be given to the trainee,” Barot said. He added the lower age limit for the courses is 12 years and the upper limit depends on the fitness of the trainee. “We have also asked the trainees to attach Covid-19 negative certificate with the form to meet the guidelines of the pandemic. The training will be imparted with proper social distancing,” he said. At present there are 28 horses including Marwadi, Kathiawadi breeds and thoroughbreds. “The thoroughbred horses are used in races and equestrian events. They are classified as hot-blooded, spirited, bold, intelligent and athletic. The original thoroughbreds came from Turkey and Arabia. They became the foundation stallions of the breed. The foundational mares came from such breeds and also from native breeds,” said an official of mounted police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-enrol-in-polices-horse-riding-courses/articleshow/77987094.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
September 8, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi inaugurates 300-bedCovid hosp in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated a 300-bed Covid hospital at BRD Medical College on Monday and said there will be no dearth of beds for patients as the state government is determined to win the battle against novel coronavirus. The chief minister also inaugurated a bio-safety Level-3 Lab (BSL-3), 100-bed PG hostel and a guest house in the campus. “The new Covid hospital inaugurated today has 300 beds while the medical college already has a 200-bed Level-3 hospital. Initially the 200-bed Covid hospital had only 20 ICU beds which were increased to 70 ICU beds. The new Covid hospital has 100 ICU beds. So now there will be no dearth of beds for Covid patients,” Yogi said. The hospital has 50 high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines and 65 ventilators. HFNC machines have given good results across the world and we’ll provide more if required, he said. “I have also inaugurated BSL-3 Lab — the first at any medical college in UP. We will defeat novel coronavirus as we defeated encephalitis which claimed a huge number of lives every year for 40 years. We have been successful in controlling encephalitis deaths,” the CM added. “When the pandemic broke out, we started conducting 72 Covid tests per day in the state with help of the central government. Now, we are conducting 1 lakh 55 thousand tests in a day. We are testing a large number of suspects, conducting door-to-door surveys and tracing contact history,” Yogi said. He said the guest house and PG hostel will benefit the resident doctors, visiting faculty members as well as doctors, paramedical staff and technicians in institutional quarantine. Yogi inspected the help desk, 200-bed isolation ward and 100-bed ICU and held meetings with BRD Medical College principal Ganesh Kumar, doctors, officials, MP Ravi Kishan, Mayor Sitaram Jaiswal and other representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-inaugurates-300-bedcovid-hosp-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77985719.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Bains’ remark on mask lands him in FIRing line||Times News Network Ludhiana: Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA from Atam Nagar constituency Simarjit Singh Bains has landed in another controversy, with civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga on Sunday getting an FIR lodged against him for misguiding people on masks outside Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Earlier, too, Bains and his supporters were booked for staging a protest and violating social distancing and other pandemic rules outside Mini Secretariat on August 11. On Saturday, Bains had held a ‘Janta Darbar’ outside DMCH for people to share their complaints with him. Most of the complaints the MLA received were against overcharging by private hospitals.The civil surgeon in his complaint said, “The video of Bains has gone viral on social networking sites. In the video, he is misguiding residents about Covid-19. He can be heard asking people not to wear masks. But masks are necessary to avoid Covid-19 infections. Due to his statement, people are in confusion.”Division 8 police station SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said on the complaint of the civil surgeon, an FIR has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant), 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act.When Bains and his party had staged a protest the previous month, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal had said that their Covid tests would be conducted. However, nothing happened after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bains-remark-on-mask-lands-him-in-firing-line/articleshow/77984836.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Tourist scheme to be tried out for a month||DEHRADUN: In a bid to boost the pandemic-hit tourism sector of the state, the Uttarakhand government has finalised details of the ‘Tourist Incentive Coupons Scheme’ which was put forward by the state cabinet a few days ago. Under the scheme, tourists visiting the state who register themselves will be provided with either Rs 1,000 discount or a 25% reduction of their accommodation charges (whichever is lesser) subject to a maximum stay of three days. The discount applicable will be adjusted on the accommodation charges by the hotel/homestay owner, tourism department officials said, adding that the hotel/homestay owners can claim the pending bills from the respective government departments on successful submission of documents. The scheme will be applicable only for stay in hotels/homestays in limited areas of Uttarakhand. “The scheme will be tested as a pilot project for one month. An overall expenditure of Rs 2.7 crore is expected under this scheme in the initial month, which will be compensated from the CM Relief Fund. The scheme may be further extended for a period of two months if the outcome is promising,” an official said. Tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar meanwhile said that Uttarakhand will be the first state in India to introduce such an incentive-based scheme to boost tourism. “Countries like Japan and a few other European countries have announced similar incentive-based schemes to woo large numbers of tourists. Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board has initiated this scheme to boost the tourism-related economy as well as to attract a large number of tourists in the state. The launch date of this scheme will soon be announced,” said Jawalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-tourist-coupon-scheme-1st-in-country-to-offer-incentives-to-visitors-tourism-secy/articleshow/77983757.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 8, 2020||Noida||Delhi cabbie attacked with a key by three drunk passengers, dies||GREATER NOIDA: A cab driver, Aftab Alam, was found injured and unconscious in the back seat of his taxi on the Dadri-Bulandshahr highway on Sunday night after he had picked up three passengers on the way back to Delhi. A police team took him to hospital, but Alam (45) succumbed to his injuries. Police said Alam seemed to have been attacked with the pointed end of a key. Alam’s son, who recorded the last call his father made to him from the cab, alleged he was killed by the three passengers, one of whom was heard on the phone demanding to hear ‘Jai Shri Ram’. While Sabir said it seemed they had targeted his father, police claimed it wasn’t Alam but the owner of a roadside stall – where the cab had halted –whom the passengers asked to say ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Alam, police said, was possibly killed during an argument over fare. Alam, who was from Trilokpuri in Delhi, was returning after dropping off a passenger in Bulandshahr when he picked up the three men. The trio was allegedly drinking in the car and started a discussion with Alam on religion. Alam felt insecure and dialled his son. The call, according to Sabir, revealed that the three passengers wanted Alam to drink with them, and when he refused, they asked him to chant the slogan. The call got disconnected a few minutes later and Alam’s phone was found to be switched off after that. Almost three and a half hours later, at 11.30pm, a police team tracked down Alam’s car, a Swift Dzire, near Mohan Swarup hospital in Dadri. Sabir (35) said he received the first call from his father around 7pm, when he asked him to get his FASTag recharged. Alam was about to reach the Luharli toll plaza then. Sabir received the second call at 7.57pm. “This time, my father was not speaking. But I could clearly hear some people talking about religion in the background. They were asking my father to drink with them, but he refused,” Sabir said. Sabir, an MCom student, said his father’s feeble voice in the cab suggested he was scared. “I switched on the call recording on my phone,” Sabir said. According to him, the trio kept targeting a particular community while talking to his father. “Seven minutes into the conversation, I could hear the car coming to a halt and the banging of doors. They were asking each other to contribute Rs 20 for the fare. In the middle of all this, one of them asked somebody, most probably my father, to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. The other two were trying to stop him, but he continued,” Sabir said. After a few seconds, the call got disconnected. Sabir tried calling back, but Alam’s phone was switched off. Alam carried a second phone and that number too was switched off. “I went to Mayur Vihar police station and told the cops there what I had heard on the phone. A policeman traced the number and told me my father’s phone was switched off near Chitera village in Dadri,” Sabir said. Police in Mayur Vihar alerted police. When cops found him, Alam was still breathing. He had injury marks on the head and neck. His phones and cash were missing. Alam’s family believes he was dragged out of the car and thrashed. “There were no blood stains on the seats. They beat him up and then put him in the back seat,” his son said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (central Noida), said Alam seemed to have been attacked with a blunt object. “They hit him following an argument over fare. He was attacked with a sharp object, possibly the pointed end of a key,” he added. Asked about the call recording and the religious slogan, Chander said they were speaking to the owner of the roadside stall where they had stopped for a snack. “The driver was never asked to chant any slogan. The nature of their discussion was friendly,” Chander added. Police said Alam’s car had been captured on CCTV cameras at the Luharli toll plaza. “The three passengers can be seen in footage. Efforts are on to identify them,” Chander said. An FIR has been registered against unknown persons following a complaint by Alam’s family under sections 394 (causing hurt while committing robbery), 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC. Alam would normally drive for aggregators but the last passengers he picked up was not from a booking that came via these platforms. Watch Delhi cabbie killed after three drunk passengers attacked him with a key||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cab-driver-attacked-with-a-key-by-three-drunk-passengers-dies/articleshow/77987713.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Air India reschedules Ludhiana-Delhi flight to morning||Ludhiana: Fulfilling a long-standing demand of the business community in and around the city, Air India has rescheduled its lone Ludhiana-Delhi flight to morning hours.Air India duty officer Suraj Verma said on the demand from the business community and other fliers, the national flag carrier would be operating a morning flight from September 10. The flight would depart from Delhi at 9am to reach Ludhiana at 10.15am and fly back at 10.45am.“It will facilitate better connectivity between Ludhiana and Delhi and further to other domestic and international destinations. It will help not just in terms of better business connectivity, but also promote travel and tourism in the region. The starting Ludhiana-Delhi fare will be Rs 2,200,” said the Air India officer. Initially, the flight would be operating four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday — and the frequency could be increased later depending on the fliers’ demand, he said.Meanwhile, the industry has hailed the change in flight timing. “We had been demanding this for long. Though it would have been better if departure from Ludhiana had been scheduled a little earlier, even this rescheduling is good. The businessmen will be able to reach Delhi on time to attend meetings, visit the market during working hours and also catch connecting flights to other destinations,” said Narinder Bhamra, president, Fastener Manufacturers Association of India.BOX:Base fare goes upAir India officials said earlier the base fare started from Rs 1,500, but now the same would be Rs 2,200, because the Prime Minister’s regional connectivity scheme has ended and Air India would be now operating the flight on its own.PHOTO QUOTES:It’s a good step and will help the industry, as we can go to Delhi for meetings in the morning and our customers can also plan day-long visits. I wish they have a flight in the evening as well, so that we can go to Delhi by the morning flight and return by evening.— Harish Kairpal, Finance Secretary, Knitwear ClubIt’s good for the business community, but they should ensure that it flies regularly. If they schedule the flight a bit earlier, it would be even more beneficial, as the businessmen would get more time to spend in Delhi.— Bipin Gupta, IndustrialistIt is a good move. Now, one can reach Delhi in the morning and return by evening through some other mode of transport. Previously, the flight had an afternoon schedule, which didn’t serve much purpose for the business class.— Daleep Khanna, Industrialist||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/air-india-reschedules-ludhiana-delhi-flight-to-morning/articleshow/77984878.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 8, 2020||Varanasi||Digital mapping to help Gorakhpur develop as tourist hub||Gorakhpur: With the constant efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government, Gorakhpur is on its way to become a tourist hub as the tourist department has started making preparations for the digital mapping of tourist places in Gorakhpur-Maharajganj division. Places like Gorakhnath temple, Gita Press, Kushinagar Nirvan sthali, Sohagi Barwa sanctuary will now be digitally mapped so that tourists can reach these places easily and get details about them on the website. “Various places like Gorakhnath temple, Gita Press, Imambara ,Christ Church, Jatashankar Gurudwara Ramgarhtal lake view point, Chauri Chaura Shaheed Smarak, Tarkulha Devi temple, Gorakh Talaiya, Pt Ram Prasad Bismil memorial, Ramlila Maidan, Vinod Van, Budia Kali Mata temple and Maghar kabir Sthali will be digitally mapped,” regional tourism officer Ravindra Kumar Mishra said. “The tourism department will also go for digital mapping of places of religious interest in Kushinagar, Deoria and Maharajganj districts. Bhagwan Buddh nirvana shtali, Bhagwan Mahavir sthali at Fazilnagar, Surya temple at Turkpatti in Kushinagar district, Lehda Devi temple and Sohagi Barwa sanctuary in Maharajganj district and Devraha Baba in Deoria district, will be mapped,” he added. “The purpose of digital mapping is to attract more tourists and help them in reaching the place. All the information regarding coveyance facilities and hotels will also be made available on the website. We have already taken photographs of the places and they would be uploaded on the website soon. With more tourists, more employment opportunities will be created in the area.” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/digital-mapping-to-help-gorakhpur-develop-as-tourist-hub/articleshow/77985734.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Varanasi||Villagers lynch ‘killer’ before cops in Kushinagar||Gorakhpur: An alleged killer was battered to death by villagers in the presence of cops while he was trying to escape after shooting a school teacher in Rampur Bangra village of Kushinagar on Monday morning. Superintendent of police, Kushinagar, Vinod Mishra said SHO of Taryasujan police station Harendra Kumar Mishra was suspended for his failure to control the mob.  He said the circle officer, city, would conduct a probe into the laxity of cops and added that two FIRs have been lodged in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/villagers-lynch-killer-before-cops-in-kushinagar/articleshow/77985729.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 8, 2020||Pune||Lockdown spurs demand for goods carriers, tempos||Pune: There has been a healthy uptick in the registration of goods carriers in the past three months at the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad regional transport offices (RTOs) These carriers include small and medium four-wheelers and three wheelers. According to official data, the Pune RTO has seen a 100% increase, while the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO witnessed a 75% spike. “The numbers are not at par with pre-Covid times, but the consistent increase is welcome,” an RTO official said. The official surmised that the increase was in large part due to the fact that many people who might have wanted to purchase public transport vehicles, such as autorickshaws, opting to buy goods transport vehicles instead. “There is always a demand for these vehicles, especially because of the pandemic. Having even a small pickup truck means good business,” the official explained. At the Pune RTO, 960 goods carriers and 117 three-wheeler tempos were registered in January. The numbers stood at 880 and 123 in February, and 1,382 and 89 in March, respectively. In Pimpri Chinchwad, January saw the registration of 794 goods carriers and 77 three-wheeler tempos in January, 594 and 98 in February, and 887 and 37 in March, respectively. “An autorickshaw costs Rs1.5-2 lakh. A three-wheeler tempo costs Rs1-1.05 lakh and needs fewer accessories. People have realized that, lockdown or no, smaller goods vehicles will always be in demand. Heavier goods carriers like trucks, however, are not being bought right now,” Baba Shinde, president of Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said. Sudhakar Kapse, who recently bought a goods carrier, said, “I had plans to buy an autorickshaw, but changed my mind as there has been no business for months, and many drivers were forced to do other work. I spoke to people in my association and bought a pickup vehicle. I have contacted some wholesalers and have already started work. Even if there is a lockdown, I will be in business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-spurs-demand-for-goods-carriers-tempos/articleshow/77987058.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 8, 2020||Pune||No more e-passes, but travel business still down||Pune: The scrapping of e-passes has not boosted the earnings of cab drivers or tour operators as those going on short trips prefer to travel in their own vehicles for fear of catching infection in hired cabs. “I have two cars but have had no business in the past six months. We think that people are either too scared to travel in hired vehicles due to the rising number of Covid cases or they don’t have money,” said Mohammed Yusuf, the owner of city-based Say Tours and Travels. Guru Katti, president, Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, told TOI that business has remained dull for the past few months. “Most tourist places have not fully opened. Additionally, religious places are still shut,” Katti said. The representative of another travel company said, “Those with private cars have it easy, but others don’t want to travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-more-e-passes-but-travel-biz-still-down/articleshow/77987060.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress condemns decision to abolish VROs||Hyderabad: Congress has raised serious objections over the decision of the TRS-government to abolish Village Revenue Officers (VROs) system. Terming the decision as unilateral, Congress said KCR-government should have consulted the Congress, other opposition parties, and all the stakeholders on VROs and other provisions of the proposed new Revenue Act. The Congress Legislature Party meeting held here on Monday decided to raise VROs issue, river water sharing dispute between Telangana and AP, rising unemployment with private, school and college teachers selling vegetables after losing their jobs, government failure to control coronavirus among other issues in the current monsoon session of the Assembly. Bhatti Vikramarka, Congress floor leader in the Assembly, opposed the shutting down of “media point” in the Assembly premises on the pretext of preventing the spread of Coronavirus. He demanded that discussions on issues such as Covid-19, sharing of Krishna river water with AP, the Telangana Layout and Building Regularisation Scheme, sanction of universities, belt shops, podu cultivation, demolition of old secretariat, SC, ST and BC sub plans and new education policy, unemployment, allowance for the jobless, lack of infrastructure in government hospitals be taken up for discussion in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-condemns-decision-to-abolish-vros/articleshow/77987724.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||MHRD allots Rs 36.39 for creation of maths, science clubs in schools||Chandigarh: Education department UT Chandigarh have been allotted Rs 36.39 lakh by ministry of human resource and development under Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiya (RAA) for creation of science and mathematics clubs to promote experimental learning. Out of total budget, Rs 15.12 lakh has been allotted for 105 schools for different activities at the elementary level while Rs 21.27 lakh was given for activities at secondary level. At senior secondary level, Rs 3.36 lakh has been allotted for organising exposure visits for 3,360 students. At the elementary level, UT has been given Rs 5.25 lakh for formation of science and maths clubs in 105 schools, Rs 9.45 lakh were allotted for conducting mathematics and science activities to promote experimental learning, and Rs 42,000 was allotted for conducting workshops and seminars for 210 teachers. At the secondary level, Rs 37,200 was allotted for holding brain storming workshop, Rs 15.25 lakh was allotted for organising exposure visit within state for 15,250 students and Rs 1 lakh has been allotted for organising science exhibitions and book fairs in all 20 cluster schools. Further, Rs 2.79 lakh has been allotted for formation of science and maths clubs in 93 schools and Rs 1.86 lakh were allotted for conducting mathematics and science activities to promote experimental learning. UT has been requested to provide UDISE code of selected schools where these activities will be carried out. BOX Talent hunt UT education department has also been given Rs 21.8 lakh for talent hunt activity. Activities include project making, poster, drawing competition, displaying, declamation, speech, debate and caption contest. These activities will support enhancement of learning in specific subjects. The proposed amount would cover expenses of procurement of material, giving participation certificates, prizes, refreshment, honorarium to judges and other logistics. The talent hunt test will be organised at UT level in three subjects — mathematics, science and English. The UT will organise test separately for classes VI, VII and VIII. The UT has been told to conduct the test in line with PISA tests so that the students would oriented to PISA tests in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mhrd-allots-rs-36-39-for-creation-of-maths-science-clubs-in-schools/articleshow/77986006.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing norms eschewed as PU students rush to deposit fees||Chandigarh: Students did not bother to follow social distancing norms at Panjab University on Monday, when they came to deposit fees, submit synopsis and other works. Security staff had a tough time controlling the heavy rush at the counter. Students from various districts had come to deposit first instalment of their fees. Ashwani Kaul, chief of university security, said the students were informed by the staff to maintain social distancing. He said the last date for fees of various courses was round the corner and hence the rush at the counter. He said he will deploy more security guards to handle the situation but the students also have to follow the norms. Meanwhile, two student parties — Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and National Students' Union of India — raised the issue of research scholars with the authorities. In the memorandum that the parties submitted, it was stated that the research scholars have not been allowed to work in the campus, they are being deprived of the use of library resources and journals and even online resources. They demanded that research scholars should be allowed in the university campus and those who have been allotted a hostel, should be allowed to reside in the hostel premises, because it is very unsafe for them to stay anywhere outside the campus. A large number of junior research fellows also said their contingency allowance deadline fell in the period of lockdown. And, according to rules, if they fail to submit their bills before the due date, their whole contingency grant will be lapsed. The research fellows demanded that the last date for the submission of bills and related documents must be extended, and they must be allowed to submit the contingency bills after the circumstances get normalised, because most of the scholars had their bills kept in their hostel rooms, which they had been asked to evacuate in hurry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-eschewed-as-pu-students-rush-to-deposit-fees/articleshow/77985998.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Newborn dies, as ambulance couldn’t reach Uttarkashi village due to lack of road||DEHRADUN: A newborn baby boy, delivered at home, died minutes after birth since an ambulance called to take the mother to hospital for delivery couldn’t reach Jineth village in Uttarkashi for lack of a motorable road. Meanwhile, the mother is undergoing treatment at Dehradun-based Velmed Hospital and is said to be in a critical condition. Ramesh Chandra Awasthi, brother-in-law of Pushpa Devi (the mother), told TOI, “She started getting her labour pain on Saturday night. We called for an ambulance but it could not reach the village due to lack of road connectivity. It was raining and dark and hence, we couldn’t take her to the ambulance waiting for us 2.5 kilometres away from our house. She delivered the baby in the house itself.” He added that the baby boy died within minutes of his birth and the condition of Devi started deteriorating as she suffers from anaemia. Later, Devi was carried on a makeshift cot to the ambulanceby family members and villagers. She was taken to Uttarkashi District Hospital from where the doctors referred her to a higher centre in Dehradun. She was again referred from Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital as ICU beds were not available there as well. The family finally managed to get the woman admitted to Velmed Hospital. Local residents of Jineth village told TOI that they have been demanding the construction of a motorable road to their village for a long time now and although the work has started, it’s pace is extremely slow. Absence of road connectivity coupled with lack of adequate medical infrastructure has been a persistent problem in the Uttarakhand hills and has led to many lives being lost over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/newborn-dies-woman-critical-as-ambulance-couldnt-reach-uttarkashi-village-for-lack-of-road/articleshow/77984892.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 8, 2020||Agra||Woman arrested for sexually harassing stepdaughters||AGRA: A 47-year-old woman was arrested by Aligarh police for allegedly sexually harassing her stepdaughters, after drugging them. The accused had got married to the father of the girls in February this year, after meeting him on Facebook. The girls’ biological mother died in February last year. Police have registered an FIR against the woman under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC and 7/8 of the POCSO Act, based on the complaint filed by her eldest stepdaughter. The complainant told TOI that her stepmother, who claims to be a nurse, used to give them some drugs on the pretext of improving their physical health, and used to sexually molest her and her two minor sisters afterwards. She also alleged that the accused used to show them porn clips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-stepdaughters/articleshow/77984881.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Shelters need to provide amenities and care||By Nisha V, Archana P, Vanitha R & Dr Kishore KDuring the past five months of the ongoing pandemic, many homeless people who were spoken to preferred to be on the streets than in institutional care, even if it meant giving up on shelter and three meals a day. Even with the scarcity of institutions catering to those with multiple vulnerabilities, many still shun them, not just due to curtailing of freedom, but because of poor resources, hygiene and safety. This should be a wake-up call for governments trying to control the spread of a virus by keeping people indoors and for policy makers and civil society organisations to scrutinise the infrastructure of public institutions and care homes that cater to the most vulnerable in society -- socially disadvantaged and often immunocompromised. Be it homeless shelters, mental hospitals, palliative care centres and juvenile homes that cater to people with disabilities, the elderly and children. Chennai now has 53 shelters against the mandated 70 for a population of 8.5 million. Though inadequate, it is among the best in the country both in terms of coverage and services. In terms of children’s homes, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Childline India Foundation found that Tamil Nadu has the highest number of children’s homes in the country at 1,647. However, 650 of them were found to be dealing harsh punishments to its charges, including name-calling, restricting movements, withholding food and basic supplies and beating. There are more than 2 crore children without support in the country, but one in five districts does not have a child care centre. As per the data published by Helpage India in 2009, there are a meagre 1,176 senior living facilities in the country, far less than the demand for such facilities, with only about 45% offering care for below poverty line individuals. The 1.77 million homeless in the country face a similar plight with 11,000 shelters, which equates to 160 people for a facility suited for 100. Besides the basic needs, shelters are supposed to supply bedding, personal hygiene kits, a running kitchen, drinking water, first aid, child care facilities, medical care, linkages for social welfare and livelihood facilitation. But in many such shelters, a clean toilet is a distant dream.In mental health institutions, the stigma apart, erratic quality of care, overcrowding, inadequate mental health professional to client ratio and patients stuck for longer than needed, makes the experience unpleasant and deters others from seeking help. Despite the need for such facilities and visible inadequacies in the existing ones, why are reforms and better approaches in institutional care for the vulnerable not adopted with a sense of urgency? With careful redesigning of social architecture, being cognizant of basic human rights and spending allocated budgets and grants effectively, institutions can become places of quality medical care as well as a place of comfort and safety.Regulation and monitoring have failed in this aspect due to the strong-hold of an ancient system of care from the British era that we have not had the wherewithal to change. While the Chennai corporation has published a standard operating procedure for institutionalising basic services for the urban homeless, it has a long way to go in terms of monitoring, problem-solving collaboratively and creating a sense of accountability among its staff and partners to enhance the quality of life of those accessing its services. Successful management practices require bi-directional sharing between partners, a non-hierarchical structure that favours a bottom-up approach with a shared vision and sense of ownership.High standards of hygiene, open wards, community interactions, user-led audits of the premises and frequent dialogue with service users to elicit feedback will go a long way in improving access to these centres. Several smaller centres with adequate client to caregiver ratios might be easier to manage than large 1,000-bedded monoliths that take away from personal care. This will ensure better prognosis and recovery trajectories as a result of humane care and adherence to public and social health protocols will increase the number of people outreached.What the system needs is an overhaul with a blue-sky approach involving leaders, practitioners and policy makers from different fields, who are willing to work without prejudice, with a willingness to take calculated risks, pilot innovations and relentlessly keep at it, ensuring distressed receive proper care.(The writers are with The Banyan and BALM. Nisha Vinayak is a counselling psychologist, Archana Padmakar and Vanitha Rajesh are clinical psychologists and Dr K V Kishore Kumar is the director)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shelters-need-to-provide-amenities-and-care/articleshow/77986007.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman attempts suicide due to dowry demands||Ahmedabad: A 22-year-old woman, Kalpana Kushwaha, on Saturday lodged a complaint against her father-in-law, Kamal Kushwah, alleging that she had been forced to ingest poison due to his demands that she pay him a dowry. He wanted the money to start a new business as his old one had gone under due to the Covid-19 lockdown. She was taken to Shardaben Hospital where she is being treated. Nikol police has lodged a complaint under Section 498 (A) of the IPC and Sections 3 and 7 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. According to the FIR, she married to Anil Kushwaha in March 2019 and was living with her husband and his parents. She staed in the complaint that due to the lockdown, her father-in-law’s business closed down. “Her father-in-law wanted to start a new business at Bakrol but couldn’t and hence both the husband and father-in-law used to stay home,” said a Nikol police official. She alleged that her father-in-law used to fight with her and abuse her over the household expenses for the past four months. He used to tell her to get a dowry from her parents. She alleged that he would threaten to evict her from the house. Her husband would restrain his father but every few days he would start again. On Saturday, the father-in-law said he was in a severe financial crisis and she should bring money from her parents. “Her father-in-law berated her but her husband intervened. She was so hurt that at about 4pm she ingested poison to kill herself. Her husband rushed her to Shardaben Hospital from where she lodged her complaint,” a police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-attempts-suicide-due-to-dowry-demands/articleshow/77986017.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Make use of LRS, says KT Rama Rao||Hyderabad: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has urged people to utilise the layout regularisation scheme (LRS) announced by the state government. The scheme was announced by the government a week ago to regularise open plots in unapproved layouts. The minister launched a website on Monday to apply for availing the scheme. TR said people can apply for LRS before October 15 and pay the fee before January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/make-use-of-lrs-says-kt-rama-rao/articleshow/77987715.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Agra||Agra DM orders probe into harassment of Armyman, kin by goons in land ‘grab’ bid||AGRA: District magistrate Prabhu N Singh on Monday ordered a probe into a complaint by an Armyman posted in Kargil. Mahesh Singh, 40, against a property dealer and local goons based in Bah for allegedly harassing him and his family for months in a bid to usurp his 111.4 square-foot land. Mahesh Singh, a Havildar with the Rashtriya Rifles (Rajput), said he had bought the plot, near the main crossing of Abhaypura village, in January. He claimed that he had been running from pillar to post for months to get a complaint lodged against the property dealer and his goons, but in vain. “I met the district magistrate Prabhu N Singh on Monday morning. He patiently listened to me, asked a few questions and ordered a probe into the matter. He assured me that suitable action will be taken," said Mahesh Singh. DM Prabhu N Singh said, “A probe has been ordered. As the sub-divisional magistrate of Bah had tested Covid-19 positive earlier and has not joined duty, the tehsildar will investigate the matter and present a report. On the basis of the findings, suitable action will be taken.” Prem Singh, station officer Khera Rathaur, said, “On the basis of the Armyman's complaint, we will be seeking details about the land from the revenue department. An FIR will be registered if the claims made by the complainant are found to be correct. Strict action will be taken in case anyone who tries to harm the complainant or his family members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dm-orders-probe-into-harassment-of-armyman-kin-by-goons-in-land-grab-bid/articleshow/77984886.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 8, 2020||Kanpur||Mahana’s daughter-in-law passes away||Kanpur:The daughter-in-law of state cabinet minister Satish Mahana passed away after prolonged illness on Monday. Radhika Mahana, 35, wife of minister’s son Karan Mahana, was a homemaker and a resident of Lal Bangla. She was suffering from some chronic ailment. Late on Sunday night, after her condition deteriorated, her family members rushed her to a nursing home, where she breathed her last. She is survived by her husband and two children. Family sources said Radhika was cremated at Siddhnath Ghat. BJP leaders and workers attended the funeral. To recall, the minister had recently tested positive for the novel coronavirus and isolated himself at his official residence in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mahanas-daughter-in-law-passes-away/articleshow/77985781.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||City youth picked up by Aravalli cops||Ahmedabad: The mother of a 22-year-old man on Sunday approached Sabarmati police of Ahmedabad city with a complaint that her son had been abducted by unknown persons in a car from the Kabeer Chowk locality.During the investigation, police came to know that he was picked up by Aravalli police. Inspector R H Vala of Sabarmati police said that Aravalli police did not inform them as to why Vinod was picked up. “The Aravalli cops did not inform us about his crime but just told us that he was wanted in some crime. They came in a private vehicle so there was confusion,” said Vala adding the abduction FIR will now be null and void.According to the complaint filed with Sabarmati police, Vinod Lohar, 22, a resident of Krishna chawl at Kabeer Chowk, was standing outside with his friend when three men came in a car, pushed Vinod inside the vehicle and left with him. Lohar’s mother Chetna approached Sabarmati police and said that her son had been abducted and his phone had also been switched off. Sabarmati police then registered a case of abduction and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-youth-picked-up-by-aravalli-cops/articleshow/77986026.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||MC launches 5 online municipal services||Chandigarh: Mayor of Chandigarh, Rajbala Malik and municipal commissioner-cum-chief executive officer of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) K K Yadav on Monday launched five municipal services — legal case management, apni mandi and day market, public relations, sports and cultural branch and agenda management. The addition of these services will add to the ease of management of various municipal works along with the improving of efficiency of the staff. Various stakeholders, such as municipal officers, related mandi contractors and retailers will be able view the status of applications/requests online. Municipal commissioner Yadav said the e-governance project is being implemented by Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) for approximately 28 municipal services, which upon implementation will facilitate the municipal staff and the citizens of Chandigarh. “By implementing online services, citizens will be able to get the services such as water and sewage connections, online booking of community centres, submission of the property tax, grievance redressal, online building plan approval system from the comfort of their homes,” Yadav added. Anil Garg, additional municipal commissioner-cum-additional CEO, CSCL and N P Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-launches-5-online-municipal-services/articleshow/77986022.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Police explore ways to nail drunk drivers||Pune: The Sunday’s accident on Balewadi High Street has spurred the city traffic police to consider different measures to catch vehicle users involved in drunken driving and posing a threat to other road users. Against 3,037 persons booked for drunken driving between January and August 2019, only 1,069 people have been booked in the corresponding period this year. Last year, the police had reported a total of 7,503 drunken driving cases. “Since March 24, when a nationwide lockdown was announced, we stopped checking motorists for drunken driving due to concerns set off by the Covid-19 pandemic. The liquor shops and permit rooms too were closed and there were hardly any vehicles on the roads till the phased opening of the lockdown started early in June,” additional commissioner of police (traffic) Sanjay Shinde said. Another reason to stop the checking was the fact that it involved use of breathalyzers on the motorists, which was fraught with risk for the traffic police personnel coming close to such motorist for conducting a test. Shinde said, “Technological solutions and other safety measures can be adopted to catch such drivers while maintaining safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-explore-ways-to-nail-drunk-drivers/articleshow/77987069.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Akhada Parishad moves SC to prevent demolition of temples in Haridwar||Haridwar: A special leave petition (SLP) has been filed in the Supreme Court (SC) by Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the apex body representing the country’s akhadas (sects of seers) against the state administration's notice served on a few akhadas for demolition of temples constructed on Kumbh Mela land in Bairagi Camp area of Haridwar. ABAP general secretary Hari Giri said that the SLP was filed on September 4. As reported by TOI a few days ago, the temples were built on the land given to the akhadas during the 2010 Kumbh on a temporary basis and the administration has now started the process of reclaiming the land for the 2021 Kumbh. Threatening to boycott the forthcoming Kumbh Mela if the administration goes ahead with the move, the seers have alleged that “a decisive battle against the government will be fought to protect the places of worship”. "If temples are demolished in BJP’s rule, which other party will defend them?" a seer said. The demolition notice was served on the structures of Nirvani akhada, Nirmohi akhada and Digambar akhada on August 29. In view of a vehement protest by Haridwar seers against the notice, the administration did not go ahead with its plan to demolish the temples. Effort was made to contact Haridwar DM C Ravishankar regarding the matter, but he was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhada-parishad-moves-sc-to-prevent-demolition-of-temples-in-haridwar/articleshow/77983802.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||54-yr-old held for raping, ‘impregnating’ minor daughter||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Monday arrested a 54-year-old man on the charges of raping and “impregnating” his minor daughter.In her police complaint, the 14-year-old girl said, “I have four elder sisters, who are married. My father is unemployed and mother works as a labourer. My father and I stay at home while mother goes out to work. My father has been raping me for the past few months. Initially, I remained quiet as he had threatened me against speaking about it. But later, I told my mother about his misdeeds. When my mother objected to it, my father threatened to kill her. When he again raped me on Friday, I ran away from our house.”On Saturday evening, the minor returned home and apprised her relatives and neighbours of her ordeal. She also alleged that she was pregnant. Sub-inspector Jagdeep Singh said, “The complainant approached the police on Monday and a case was registered against the accused under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused has been arrested. The medical examination of the girl will be conducted to ascertain if she is pregnant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/54-yr-old-held-for-raping-impregnating-minor-daughter/articleshow/77984920.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Shuffling sectors in Mohali due to wardbandi invites criticism||Mohali: Interchanging of sectors or phases due to delimitation of wards (wardbandi) in Mohali has invited criticism from residents as well as former councillors. Residents are not in the favour of interchanging the sectors due to the fresh wardbandi. Former SAD-BJP councillors believe that Congress has initiated wardbandi to include sectors in single ward and interchanging them from the existing wardbandi. The wards are also likely to be re-numbered. Opposing the move, former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi, former councillors R P Sharma, Bobby Kamboj, Sukhdev Singh Patwari, said they would put forward their objections after delimitation of the wards. Former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said, “It is clearly mentioned in the amendment by the central government’s election commission that there will be no interchanging or merging of sectors of the existing wards during the fresh wardbandi. We have come to know that the MC is indulging in reshuffling of the sectors during the delimitation of the wards. If this happens, we will move court against the decision. We will not work on anyone’s whims and fancies.” The Punjab government had recently constituted a board to decide on the delimitation of wards of the municipal corporation in Mohali. The first meeting of the board was slated to be held on September 1. The board will also decide allotment of 50% of the wards reserved for women. The Punjab government is poised to hold the MC elections in October this year, if there is some respite from the Covid-19 pandemic. The board comprises director of the local bodies or the Mohali deputy commissioner as the chairman, supported by the commissioner of the Mohali MC, former Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi and local resident Amarjit Singh. The Mohali municipal corporation has already initiated the process of establishing ‘wardbandi’ for preparing a list of wards under its limit. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said a plan was being chalked out to complete the wardbandi. Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi said, “The board will decide on the delimitation of the wards and inclusion, deletion and merger of various sectors in the existing wards. The idea is to simplify the wardbandi by adjusting sectors and reshuffling them as per the suitability of adjustment. We will soon hold a meeting on this and submit a report to the government.” On December 20, 2019, the Punjab government had issued a notification for holding elections for the six municipal corporations across the state in 2020. According to the notification, general elections of the municipal corporations are due to be held in 2020 with reservations for women as per the notification dated October 30, 2019. The notification says, the elections will be held in 50 wards and 2.36 lakh voters will cast their vote in Mohali. Of these, 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC). Five seats have been reserved for scheduled caste, two for women (SC), three for backward class and two for women (backward class), 43 for general category, of which 23 seats are for women and 20 for men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shuffling-sectors-in-mohali-due-to-wardbandi-invites-criticism/articleshow/77986011.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Conmen use KBC to trick people||Ludhiana: Beware of fraudsters trying to lure you with a lottery of Rs 25 lakh in the name of Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC).These days, some unknown numbers are sending messages on WhatsApp, announcing you have been selected for a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh. In some cases, audio clips are also sent in which a man claiming to be a KBC manager asks the call receiver to give a WhatsApp call on a cellphone number to claim the reward. In a few cases, the fraudsters share an online link.“Clicking on any link shared by the fraudsters can allow them to steal your personal and confidential information, further leading to monetary loss,” said cyber experts.A city resident said he received a WhatsApp message from the “KBC call centre”. It stated that his mobile number has won Rs 25 lakh reward. The fraudster claimed to have dropped the cheque at a nearby bank branch and asked the resident to give a WhatsApp call on the number of the manager to get the reward. At the end of the message, there was a link. The resident was asked to click on it to connect with the bank manager. A resident of Gill Road received an image with the logo of KBC and picture of Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan, announcing he has won Rs 25 lakh prize in an All India SIM Card Lucky Draw Competition. Along with the image, there was an audio recording in which a man, who introduced himself as Vijay Kumar, claimed to be a KBC manager. He stated that amid Covid-19 outbreak, all telecom companies along with KBC have decided to organise a lucky draw and that his number has been selected for the prize. In this case, too, the resident was asked to give a WhatsApp call to a certain number to get the prize. The fraudsters also tried to ensnare a resident of Model Town, who received an audio clip from an unknown number and was asked to give a call to the bank manager. Assistant commissioner of police (cyber crime) Prabhjot Kaur said, “All these messages are fraud. People should be aware enough to not believe in winning any contest in which they have not even participated. Moreover, clicking on an online link may cause a huge loss of private and confidential information.”“Also, people should not share their confidential information with anyone over a phone call or on any random link received from an unknown number. Another thing to be taken care of is do not believe in any caller claiming to be from KBC or any other company, even if that number is available on Google or Truecaller application. Besides, we will also make city residents aware about such fraud messages via social media,” the ACP added. Don’ts Do not believe in any caller announcing a prize Do not click on any random link received on WhatsApp or via SMSDo not call to any number which seems suspiciousDo not share your personal and confidential details with anyone Do’sCross-check the information shared by caller on the authentic website of the company Immediately report to the police against such fraud messages and calls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/conmen-use-kbc-to-trick-people/articleshow/77984894.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 8, 2020||Pune||PCB to carry out fire safety audit of hosp||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) on Monday decided to conduct a fire safety audit of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital, two days after a blaze in the facility’s operation theatre following a short-circuit. The cantonment board’s fire brigade personnel and the electric engineering department will conduct the audit. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “The experts will submit their report, based on which we would take action.” Kumar said the PCB-run hospital’s electrical lines were installed around 15 years ago and its quality had deteriorated over the years. “We got this information following our preliminary inspection after the incident.” PCB has made a separate power station for the newly constructed building on the hospital premises. “The power supply to each section would be provided as per the requirement,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-carry-out-fire-safety-audit-of-hosp/articleshow/77987078.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 8, 2020||Agra||83 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 83 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra, till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 3,459. Also, a 58-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. The Agra resident was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome along with diabetes. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 110 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. While 47 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 3,459 cases, 2,699 [78%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 650 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/83-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/77984902.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Agra||SNMC under stress as Covid +ve cases surge again in Agra||AGRA: The SN Medical College in Agra is under stress again as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 10 days has surged, quite alarmingly. On Monday, 93 patients were under treatment at the existing 100-bed facility at the government hospital. Administration at SNMC is now planning to start another 100-bed Covid-19 facility in the next three days. The new facility will be having at least 30 ICU beds. Significantly, private nursing homes in Agra are running out of oxygen supply. The IMA has already cautioned the district administration in this regard. As testing of Covid-19 has gone up in the district from a few hundred to over 2,500 daily, the number of cases have also shown an upward trend. In the past 48 hours, Agra reported 168 new cases. The total active cases are now 650 and the recovery rate has fallen to 78%. So far, 2,699 have been discharged. The number of samples tested is 1,34,695. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The existing 100-bed Covid-19 facility is likely to get fully occupied with patients soon. We have 20 beds in reserve. Seeing a surge in the number of Covid patients, we are going to start another 100-bed Covid-19 centre in three days." “For now, we have sufficient availability of oxygen. In a worst case scenario, we have sent a proposal to the state government for two oxygen generators. This will end our dependence on liquid oxygen. Each generator costs around Rs 1.3 crore. It will help provide 150 litres of oxygen on a daily basis," he said. SNMC is also working on a plan to set up an advanced pathology for diagnosis of health issues related to Covid-19 patients. For this, four modern machines have been acquired from a company authorized by the state. These include high-performance liquid chromatography, fully automated biochemistry analyzer, hormone analyzer, point of care testing and Elisa reader. IMA Agra's district president Dr Ravi Mohan Pachori said, “With the increase in Covid-19 cases, the demand for medical oxygen has grown by more than 300% in the past two weeks. We have updated the district administration about the situation. With high demand, the suppliers have increased the price of oxygen by over 15%. If the situation gets worse, we will have to use industrial oxygen to save the patients." District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “There is no shortage of oxygen supply at the government centres. We are working to ensure private hospitals and nursing homes do not suffer from a short supply of oxygen. Drug administration has been directed to prepare a list of suppliers and communicate with them so that the gap in demand and supply is covered in a time-bound manner. State authorities are also working in this regard."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-under-stress-as-covid-ve-cases-surge-again-in-agra/articleshow/77984915.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 8, 2020||Pune||Senior citizens can now travel on PMPML buses||PUNE: Senior citizens above the age of 65 will be able to travel by Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses from Tuesday. According to sources, the decision was taken in view of the demand from senior citizens and activists. “Children below the age of 10 will not be allowed in the buses,” an official said. The PMPML authorities also proposed a fare hike in the board meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizens-can-now-travel-on-pmpml-buses/articleshow/77987064.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 8, 2020||Agra||Agra: Major fire at chemical factory in Sikandara||AGRA: A major fire broke out at a chemical manufacturing unit in Agra’s Sikandara area on Monday. While property worth lakhs was gutted, no casualties were reported. According to chief fire officer A R Sharma, the fire broke out around 3pm and continued till 7:30 pm. Fifteen fire tenders from various places were rushed to the site and the fire was doused within two hours, added Sharma. Talking to TOI, SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said that the cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. He said that the nearby residential areas were evacuated and ambulances were called for any eventuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/major-fire-at-chemical-factory-in-agra-no-casualty/articleshow/77984928.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Patiala MC distributes ID cards for street vendor, but many left for native towns||Patiala: The municipal corporation (MC) Patiala is distributing ID cards for registered street vendors in the city to relocate them in the vending zones. However, a number of migrant vendors, have already left the city to their native places. The civic-body has even taken advertisements in the newspapers besides asking corporation workers to trace the vendors and give them the ID cards. The street vendors, under the new vending policy, were supposed to be issued ID cards along with the space in the vending zones. None of the vendors would be allowed to enter the non-vending zones. This was done as part of the move to counter the traffic problem. Punamdeep Kaur, MC commissioner, said, “Due to the pandemic, many migrants who registered as street vendors have returned to their home states. We have handed over ID cards to around 1,000 vendors. These vendors will be allocated a space in the vending zones.” Last year, the civic body had given the task of identifying the vending zones as well as the street vendors in the city to a private firm which identified around 4,025 vendors, including 2,000 movable street vendors. These vendors are categorised in three separate categories of A, B and C that includes the prominent points in the city under vending zones. The officials revealed that around 600 immovable vendors will be given space at rehri market at Ghalaouri gate in the first phase while for the remaining 1,400 immovable vendors, 28 different pockets have been made under vendor zone in the city where they will be allocated space. Similarly, 28 pockets have been identified as the non-vending zone where no vendors will be allowed to stay or move. Sunil Mehta, MC superintendent, said, “We have around 2,076 stationary vendors, 510 mobile vendors, 808 weekly vendors for Sunday market and 680 mandi-vendors enlisted. Under the central government scheme, we are also getting sanctioned loan of Rs 10,000 to the vendors having ID cards. So far, 194 ID card holder vendors have applied for loan, of which 18 have been sanctioned loan by the banks after our recommendation. Under the scheme, these vendors have to return only 700 per month for an year and it will save them Rs 1,600 of the loan repayment amount. We are making efforts to trace out all vendors and provide them ID cards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/patiala-mc-distributes-id-cards-for-street-vendor-but-many-left-for-native-towns/articleshow/77986032.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Two killed in road accident||Coimbatore: Two people were killed and two others were injured in a road accident on the Sulur to Sellakarachal road on Sunday.The deceased were identified as A Ravi, 40, a resident of Sulur and P Satheeshkumar, 28, of Salem. D Vinoth, 22, of Erode and S Lingusamy, 25, of Tirupur were injured. Satheeshkumar was on the way to Sulur from Sellakarachal on his motorcycle, police sources said. Vinoth and Lingusamy were riding pillion. The vehicle crashed into Ravi’s two-wheeler that was coming from the opposite direction. While Ravi died on the spot, the injured were taken to a private hospital at Singanallur, where Satheeshkumar died without responding to treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77986027.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Congress to protest on first day of Assembly session||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress has announced to hold a protest on September 23 — the first day of Assembly session at Dehradun — over issues like plight of farmers in state, unemployment, poor Covid-19 strategy, Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act, and inflation. In addition, the Congress has also announced to hold protests in all blocks of the state on September 12 over unemployment. Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said that a number of decisions taken by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government are against the people of Uttarakhand. “By bringing the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act, the government ignored the voices of lakhs of people who were opposing it. The priests and other stakeholders were not even heard before the Act was passed in the state Assembly,” said Dhasmana. He did not fail to mention that the poor condition of the healthcare sector in the state has become evident after the outbreak of Covid-19. In a similar vein, Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni said, “There is a dearth of job opportunities in the state and a high number of employees working in the private sector were sacked in the past few months. However, the government has put forth no solution for the issue. We have asked our party members to maintain social distancing norms and wear masks while protesting against the state government policies.” She added that all the block-level committees have been alerted for the September 12 protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-to-protest-on-first-day-of-assembly-session/articleshow/77984941.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Surveys not helping: Teachers||Hyderabad: Teachers are complaining that as it is taking about three to four days for people to know their result after submitting samples, those with mild symptoms are coming to schools and meeting students at their homes while conducting surveys. They said that because of this the virus is spreading. The school education department officials, meanwhile, said that a decision such as giving WFH option to teachers should come from the government as it is a policy decision. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surveys-not-helping-teachers/articleshow/77987080.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases continue to gallop, tally breaches 25k||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand breached the 25,000 mark on Monday, as the state recorded 807 fresh cases, taking the total case count to 25,436. Deaths of seven Covid-19 patients were also recorded on the day, taking the death toll to 348 in the Himalayan state. With the rapidly rising number of infections, government hospitals dedicated to treating Covid-19 in the four high-load cities of the state – Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar and Nainital – are increasingly citing unavailability of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and ventilators, forcing patients to get admitted at private facilities. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of the Covid-19 Control Room though said that adequate preparations were in place. “The state has 17 government hospitals dedicated to the novel coronavirus. There are a total of 2,326 isolation beds in these 17 hospitals, apart from 1,826 beds with Oxygen support, 347 ICU beds and 390 beds with ventilators. Besides, there are 400 Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the state, which can accommodate a total of 29,800 people.” On Monday, Dehradun became the city with the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases, having recorded 241 fresh cases. Nainital reported 142 cases, Udham Singh Nagar 118 and Haridwar 73 cases. Among the hill districts, 84 cases were reported from Pauri, 41 from Tehri, 35 from Uttarkashi, 19 from Champawat, 12 from Chamoli, 13 from Almora, 15 from Rudraprayag and seven each from Bageshwar and Pithoragarh. In some relief, 473 patients recovered from the disease on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 17,046 in the Himalayan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-continue-to-gallop-in-ukhand-total-tally-breaches-25k-mark/articleshow/77983809.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun locals asked for inputs to make city suitable for cyclists||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Smart City Limited has invited suggestions from the city residents for preparing a proposal to be sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for the ‘Cycle for Change’ challenge. The residents can submit their suggestion at smartnet.niua.org and the link for the feedback forms is also available on the website of Dehradun Smart City Limited. Ashish Srivastava, CEO, DSCL said “The residents must provide us with their valuable suggestions so that the proposal can be made according to specific requirements of the people.” Based on the proposal, the Union ministry will choose 11 cities in the month of October which will be given a grant of Rs 1 crore and technical support to make the cities more suitable for cyclists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-locals-asked-for-inputs-to-make-city-suitable-for-cyclists/articleshow/77984936.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops undertake uphill task of keeping Morni clean, green and safe||Panchkula: ‘Clean Morni, Green Morni’ has become the latest obsession of Panchkula police. Challans are being issued and cases registered with renewed vigour against those consuming liquor at public places or flouting traffic and Covid-19 norms in Morni. Police can be spotted busy at work even on holidays and weekend. According to the police, Morni is seeing a lot of crowd since Himachal Pradesh is closed. Various reports have come regarding flouting of traffic norms and consumption of liquor at public places on Morni roads. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar has been asked to chalk out a plan for ‘Clean Morni, Green Morni’ initiative. Under the initiative, on weekends, all vehicles entering Morni from Nada Sahib Gurudwara side and from Burj Kotiyan village will be checked by the police at entry points.This is being done to ensure that the hilly area is a safe place to visit even for families to enjoy weekend. During the special drive this weekend, the police issued challans to 66 persons for not wearing masks — 27 challans on Saturday and 34 on Sunday. Eight challans under Motor Vehicle Act were also issued to those found violatimg traffic norms. In charge of Morni police post, sub-inspector (SI) Maan Singh said under the ‘Clean Morni, Green Morni’ drive, challans to over 150 persons have been issued so far. “We are installing special check posts on rush days — holidays and weekends — to provide a safe environment to the tourists and families coming here,” the SI added. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja appreciated the efforts of the police department for increasing their presence and establishing special check posts to prevent miscreants from creating a nuisance in the hilly area. DC Ahuja also asked the police department to provide information on speed limits and dangerous turns in Morni so that public works department can be requested to install sign boards to help the tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-undertake-uphill-task-of-keeping-morni-clean-green-and-safe/articleshow/77986024.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
September 8, 2020||Kanpur||Illicit liquor recovered in raids in Jhansi||Jhansi: On its second day of district-wide drive against spurious and illegal country-made liquor, the Jhansi police and excise department, conducted raids at the outskirts of the city and rural belt across the district on Monday. They recovered a large quantity of spurious liquor and raw material. At many places, the raw material was found hidden in plastic barrels buried underground. Police took help of drone cameras and JCB machines in the raids. At a place in Padri village, the police found a tubewell hand pump fitted to the barrels filled with liquor underground. The police found ten thousand litres of raw material stored in 50 barrels here. District magistrate Jhansi Andra Vamsi said that the administration, with the help of police, has recovered 1,245 litres of illegal country-made liquor and 14,000 kg of raw material in past two days. “We will not allow manufacturing or sale of illegal and spurious liquor under any circumstances. It poses grave danger to the health of those consuming it as well as loss to the government exchequer. We will be continuously raiding such hideouts time to time,” said Vamsi on Monday. District excise officer, Pramod Kumar Goyal has appealed to people to purchase liquor only from licensed vendors and warned not to consume liquor packed in pouches under any condition as they can prove fatal. He has also issued phone numbers to inform any such illegal activity in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/illicit-liquor-recovered-in-raids-in-jhansi/articleshow/77985828.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plaint filed against loan sharks for harassment, one detained||Ahmedabad: Sahistabanu Pathan, 32, wife of Shaukatkhan Pathan, filed a complaint on Sunday against four persons alleging that her husband committed suicide on September 3 due to the harassment by them. She said her husband had borrowed Rs 5 lakh from Ibrahim Malek of Ramol. Pathan was paying Rs 10,000 per month as interest to the accused. She has named Ibrahim Malek, Sibu of Bapunagar, Zakir Saiyed of Ramol and Akumiya Hydermiya of Ramol in her complaint. Her husband had also borrowed Rs 1 lakh from Sibu and was paying an interest of Rs 10,000 per month to him also. Pathan had taken Rs 3 lakh and Rs 1 lakh from Zakir and Akumiya respectively and was paying interest of Rs 10,000 monthly to them. Pathan could not pay the interest after the lockdown imposed due to the Covid -19 pandemic and was constantly being threatened with dire consequences by the accused. “Malek threatened Pathan that he would take away his house as he had mortgaged it with him. Pathan was disturbed with all these and on September 3 hanged himself to death,” said inspector K S Dave of Ramol police station. After completing the last rites of her husband, Sahistabanu lodged the FIR against the accused. Police have detained Malek. The other accused are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plaint-filed-against-loan-sharks-for-harassment-one-detained/articleshow/77986044.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Four killed as building collapses||Coimbatore: Four people, including two women, died after a two-storey apartment collapsed at KC Thottam near Chetti Street in the city on Sunday night following incessant rain.The deceased were identified as Swetha alias Shalini, 25, her neighbour K Gopalsamy, 72, his wife Kasthuri, 65, and their son Manikandan, 42. Fire personnel rescued G Vanaja, 65, her grandson Dhanveer, 5, her son-in-law Manojkumar, 47, and her neighbour Manikandan, 42, and two others from the debris and admitted them to CMCH. Manikandan, however, died without responding to treatment on Monday night at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Officials said heavy rain was the prime reason due to which the two storey building caved in leading to the deaths. The house was owned by Vanaja, who lived with her family on the first floor. Swetha, one of the deceased, was her daughter-in-law.  A major portion of the building fell on a tiled house located next to the building where Gopalsamy, his wife Kasthuri and his son Manikandan were living. The aged couple died instantly while their son passed away at the CMCH. Officials said the search operation to retrieve the bodies lasted for 20 hours. The locality is within a containment zone with many Covid-19 cases.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 1 lakh each to the family members of the deceased.Meanwhile, collector K Rajamani instructed building owners to demolish dilapidated and abandoned buildings to check such incidents. “Dilapidated structures in corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats should be demolished immediately. Revenue and local body officials should collect details of such buildings. Those who fail to remove such structures will face severe action,” a press release said. “Dilapidated government buildings will also be demolished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-killed-as-building-collapses/articleshow/77986031.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||City firm offers chopper tours||Coimbatore: While the pandemic situation may have put a lid on vacationing for photoshoots and hosting gala events, families are finding innovative experiences to splurge.On Saturday, a newly-wed couple who had to postpone their honeymoon because of coronavirus travel restrictions, decided to splurge on a city tour with a difference. The duo, along with their families, decided to go on a 30-minute tour of the city they grew up, in a helicopter. “We enjoyed the aerial view of the city, especially the Adiyogi statue,” the bride told TOI. “It was like looking at the city we have known all our lives from a different perspective.”On Monday, an elderly couple decided to take their son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren on a helicopter ride over the Isha Yoga Center and Thondamuthur where they own a farm. “The gentleman wanted to take his wife to see the Adiyogi statue and sunset from there, to give her a different experience. He wanted to give his son and grandchildren an aerial view of the farm,” said Ranjith, director of city-based Express Holidays, which has tied up with Planet-X Aerospace Services Pvt Ltd here to promote tourism development using a business class helicopter.The helicopter will be stationed at the Ganga Helipad Service Center. While couples can opt to do a one-hour photoshoot standing around it or sitting inside it for Rs 20,000, they can also take a 30-minute ride for Rs 75,000. The helicopter can accommodate five people on a single trip. “We also plan to promote it as a fancy entrance for couples to their wedding, for flower showering and even offer it for medical emergencies including transporting patients or organs,” Ranjith said.People can take the helicopter to holiday destinations including Munnar, Coorg, Hampi, Mangalore and Puducherry, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-firm-offers-chopper-tours/articleshow/77986037.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Corporation readies Covid beds at Athipattu||CHENNAI: The city corporation has asked officials to get the Tamil Nadu Housing Board complex at Athipattu ready for Covid-19 patients as more beds will be required if there is a spike in cases in the coming months. Besides, buildings of 33 colleges converted into Covid care centres have to be returned in a couple of months. A total of 51 colleges were handed over to Greater Chennai Corporation to be converted into Covid care centres. “Two blocks in the Athipattu TNHB complex are ready to occupy. There are 2,200 beds there and all electrical work is completed. However, the TNHB has applied to Metrowater for sewage and drainage connections and to electrical connection to the TNEB. If these are approved, they will be tested and the complex would be ready to occupy,” said an official. After K P Park in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, this is the second housing tenement to be converted into a Covid care centre. Of the 11 blocks only five were handed over to the civic body. The building comes under Ambattur zone and the civic body had mainly created it to ensure that those from the outer zones such as Madhavaram, Ambattur, Alandur could use it without having to travel to the city. However, with colleges requesting the civic body to hand over their buildings, there is a possibility that patients would be shifted to this facility in the coming month. “In a week, two blocks will be ready. By the end of the month all five blocks will be ready,” said an official. Presently, there are 1,848 patients in 14 educational institutions that have been converted into Covid care centres. While the general instruction is not to use a Covid care centre as an examination centre, several institutions want to keep their buildings ready in case the government announces opening of colleges. However, the civic body may not be able to return the buildings at least until November, said an official. “May be those that were unoccupied and weren’t converted will be returned. But those functioning will continue for some more time until the government takes a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-readies-covid-beds-at-athipattu/articleshow/77986035.cms||Komal Gautham
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Cracks appear in Nainital’s Tiffin Top, geologists survey site, to submit detailed report||Nainital: A team of geologists and disaster management experts surveyed Tiffin Top — one of Nainital’s top tourist attractions at an altitude of 2,290 metres — on Monday, days after boulders fell from the hill, sparking concerns about the future of the fragile geological terrain where deep cracks had appeared earlier this year. Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal said a team of local administration, experts and geologists has surveyed the site and would submit a preliminary report to the state government on probable causes behind the cracks as well as suggest preventive measures. “We will ask the state government for a geotechnical investigation," he said. Popularly known as Dorothy’s Seat, the famous picnic spot located on top of Ayarpatta hill allows tourists to enjoy a view of the Naini Lake and the entire town. A bench was built to mark the spot by British Army officer Colonel J P Kellett in the memory of his wife, Dorothy Kellet, after she died aboard a ship to England in 1936. In May this year, cracks had appeared on the site. Last week, boulders had rolled down the hill worrying residents who had just months before, in February, witnessed recurring landslides at Cheena Peak, the highest peak in the town. Last year, portions of the Lower Mall Road had also collapsed. In 2018, a study published in the Journal of Earth System Science, had predicted that the tourist town was at risk of “catastrophic” landslides since the hill slopes on which it was located were unstable with the soil and rocks gradually but continuously sliding downward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cracks-appear-in-nainitals-tiffin-top-geologists-survey-site-to-submit-detailed-report/articleshow/77983840.cms||Prashant Jha
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Train, inter-dist buses resume service||Coimbatore: Almost five months after operation of passenger trains was stopped as a containment measure for Covid-19, the Southern Railway resumed train services from Monday. Currently, as many as five trains are being operated from the district: 02675/02676 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast intercity special, 02084/02083 Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore janshatabdi special, 02679/02680 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast express special, 02673/02674 Chennai – Coimbatore – Chennai superfast express special and 02671/02672 Dr MGR Chennai Central – Mettupalayam – Dr MGR Chennai Central superfast daily special. Of these, three trains – two to Chennai and one to Mayiladuthurai – are currently being operated from Coimbatore junction while the other trains will operate from the district from Tuesday. On the first day, the trains recorded a footfall of 50% of its usual strength, which is expected to increase in the coming days, he said. “Only those passengers with confirmed tickets would be allowed inside the railway station after scanning for Covid-19 symptoms. A thermal scanner has been installed at the entrance, apart from a camera near the information centre where passengers are required to show their tickets face identification for our records,” said the official. The Coimbatore division of TNSTC operated 504 inter-district mofussil buses on Monday. A release said 154 buses were operated from Coimbatore, 130 buses from Tirupur, 160 buses from Erode and 60 buses from Nilgiris. Even though officials said that they had given specific instructions to operate buses only with 60% seating capacity, many buses were seen chock-a-block with passengers, with no signs of social distancing norms. A TNSTC driver said, “as the number of buses are limited, the frequency of these buses has reduced, forcing people to wait for a longer time. In this situation, commuters do not listen to us even if we asked them not to step in.”The State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) operated seven buses from the district to Chennai on Monday. An official said more buses will be operated depending on demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/train-inter-dist-buses-resume-service/articleshow/77986048.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man abuses nurse for snipping ‘friendship’||Ahmedabad: A nurse, 27, of a city hospital lodged a complaint at Shahibaug police station on Sunday against one Umang Makwana of Mehsana for harassing her to maintain friendship and arriving at her hospital and abusing her over the issue. The nurse stated she was friends with Makwana about one and a half years ago. She now has a 6-month-old son. Makwana had been insisting on continuation of friendly relations, against her consent. On Saturday, Makwana arrived at the hospital while the nurse was on night duty, and began abusing her when she refused to continue the friendship. “The nurse called up her husband, who came to the hospital and then they called police. We registered a case against the accused under Sections 354 (d) 294 (b) and 506 (1)” said an official of Shahibaug police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-abuses-nurse-for-snipping-friendship/articleshow/77986050.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Top official loses father to Covid||Hyderabad: State public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao, who has been at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle, lost his father to virus on Monday. The official’s father had been undergoing treatment for the past 22 days. Meanwhile, state health minister, Eatala Rajender, expressed deep shock over the death of Rao’s father and spoke to him over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/top-official-loses-father-to-covid/articleshow/77987106.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala seeks clarity on ranking criteria from Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: Peeved by the steadily dwindling rank that Kerala posts on the national ‘Ease of Doing Business’ (EoBD) ranking, the government has written to the Centre, asking for more clarity on the way Union department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) prepares the list. Kerala is ranked 28th in the latest list (2019) announced on Saturday. Before that, the state was ranked 21 in 2018. “The ranking of 2019, covering different states and UTs, lacked clarity. The ranking, published on DPIIT website, did not reveal either the criteria adopted for scoring and ranking or disclose the feedback from states and UTs,” claimed S Harikishore, MD of Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation on Monday. As the state’s nodal agency for industrial promotion, KSIDC has approached the Centre seeking the details of the criteria applied in deciding the status, he said. Industries minister E P Jayarajan had hinted about the move to approach the Centre after the ranking was published on DPIIT website on September 5. As per Business Reform Action Plan of 2019, each state had to complete 187 missions. Of these, Kerala has accomplished 157 missions, which is 85% of the mandated missions. The details in this regard are not available on the website that put out the ranking. While it was stated that the ranking would be decided based on the ‘Reform Action’ points and feedback scores obtained from states and UTs concerned, the details of this process are also not available on the website, Harikishore added. “Details regarding the yardsticks adopted for the scoring and ranking have not been shared among the states or revealed on the website, which has resulted in lack of clarity regarding the process of ranking. This is why KSIDC decided to approach DPIIT on the very day the ranking was published,” he said. Since 2016, as many as 52,137 MSME enterprises started functioning in Kerala, which accounts for 40% of all businesses the state has in this job-generating sector. The state has clocked an estimated investment of Rs 4,500 crore in MSME sector, which itself vouch for the strides made by Kerala in industrialisation, the official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-seeks-clarity-on-ranking-criteria-from-centre/articleshow/77984946.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||3 accused in emu scam awarded 10-yr jail term||Coimbatore: The special court under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in financial establishment) Act, 1997, on Monday sentenced three directors of JPR Emu Agri Farms India (P) Limited at Kinathukadavu here to 10 years of imprisonment for cheating 78 investors of Rs 1.67 crore.J Padmanaban, 40, of Pacharpalayam near Sulthanpet, S Jayakumar, 39, of Kondampatti and D Rajasekaran, 38, of Vadavalli had launched the firm in 2011 to lure investors into two Ponzi schemes.A scheme offered six emu chicks and a shed to rear them for Rs 1.5 lakh investment, which would be returned after two years. The investors were also promised Rs 6,500 as monthly incentive and Rs 15,000 as yearly bonus.The second scheme offered Rs 7,000 monthly incentive for every Rs 1.5 lakh investment, which would be returned after two years. The investors were promised Rs 20,000 yearly bonus.After the promises failed to materialise, 78 investors lodged a complaint with the economic offences wing (EOW) police in 2013. Police registered a case against the firm, three directors and staff member Aravind under sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and section 5 of the TNPID Act. Police arrested the four men, who later secured conditional bail.The EOW police filed a chargesheet before the TNPID court in 2014 and trial started in 2015. Special public prosecutor S Manickaraj appeared for the victims.TNPID special court judge A S Ravi on Monday sentenced Padmanaban, Jayakumar and Rajasekaran to 10 years imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 56 lakh on them. Aravind was acquitted.Padmanaban and Rajasekaran, who appeared before the court, were lodged in a sub-jail. The judge issued a warrant to arrest Jayakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-accused-in-emu-scam-awarded-10-yr-jail-term/articleshow/77986046.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Kin of dead accident victim awarded Rs 14 lakh in compensation||Chandigarh: The motor accident claims tribunal (MACT) awarded compensation of more than Rs 14.19 lakh to the family of deceased who died in a motor vehicular accident. MACT directed the driver, owner of the vehicle and the insurance firm to jointly pay the compensation. The deceased was identified as Krati Rani. When Krati, a resident of Jalandhar, died in the accident, her family moved the MACT to claim a compensation of Rs 50 lakh under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. It was stated in the application that the deceased was 48 years old, who was running a tiffin service from home and was earning Rs 3 lakh per annum. The accident took place on November 13, 2014, when Krati was going from her village to Ambala to attend a wedding. At Shahbad to Barara road, at about 9:30am, the car that the deceased was travelling in was hit by a tanker coming at an uncontrollable speed from the opposite side. The car was also extensively damaged. Krati died in the course of her treatment in the hospital on the same day. It was stated by the family that the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving of the tanker driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kin-of-dead-accident-victim-awarded-rs-14-lakh-in-compensation/articleshow/77986040.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs to quiz Ramees and five others in prison||KOCHI: Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case was granted permission by the Ernakulam additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court on Monday to again question six accused, including prime accused Ramees K T, by visiting them in prison. Also, the NIA court in Kochi granted custody of four accused to National Investigation Agency (NIA). Accused Jifsal CV, Muhammad Abdu Shameem, Abdul Hameed P M and Aboobacker Pazedath were produced before the court on Monday morning and were sent in NIA custody. Jifsal, Shameem and Hameed were sent in NIA custody till Friday while Aboobacker till Wednesday. The accused were allegedly financiers and buyers of the racket. Customs had requested to question Ramees, Mohammed Shafi, Hamjad Ali, Said Alavi, Abdu P T and Hamsath Abdusalam who are lodged at Ernakulam district jail in Kakkanad. In the petition seeking permission to quiz them, customs stated that it was necessary to question the accused to obtain ‘clarity as to the modus operandi and details of other accomplices behind the smuggling activity’. However, sources said that customs sleuths are likely to seek clarity from the mastermind Ramees on information available in open sources about his connection with the accused in the drug case probed by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bangalore, as well. NIA in the petition seeking custody of the accused submitted that custodial interrogation of Jalal A M, Mohammed Shafi, Said Alavi, Mohammed Anwar T M, Samju T M and Hamjad Ali has revealed the involvement of Jifsal, Aboobacker, Mohammed Abdu Shameem, Abdul Hameed and Shamsudheen (A-25) in the conspiracy to smuggle gold from the UAE through diplomatic channel and were part of the crime, including in raising funds and distribution of the smuggled contraband. NIA told the court that the four accused persons played a major role in the offence and that documents and digital evidence were seized in raids held at their houses on August 26. NIA has so far arraigned 25 persons as accused in the case, and 20 persons have been arrested till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-to-quiz-ramees-and-five-others-in-prison/articleshow/77984959.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Travellers enjoy first Hyderabad Metro ride after five months||HYDERABAD: Even the fear of coronavirus could not dampen the enthusiasm of passengers trooping into the Metro station on Monday morning when Hyderabad Metro Rail services resumed operations on the 29-km Corridor I (Red Line) between Miyapur and LB Nagar after over five months. Following the Covid-19 guidelines, markings to ensure physical distancing, pedal-operated sanitisers, temperature checks and safety announcements greeted passengers on resumption of the services. Around 7am, the first Metro post-lockdown, towards Miyapur started its trip, with many passengers seen taking selfies. All passengers were responsible enough to maintain physical distancing and wear face masks throughout their journey. With trains every five minutes between 7am and 12 noon and 4pm to 9pm, Hyderabad Metro Rail will ferry only 300 passengers, which is one third of its carrying capacity, for the three-coach trains. Supraja Chowdhary, a commuter at Miyapur Metro Station, said, “I am really happy to be travelling in the Metro again. Since there is no rush, it was easier than pre-Covid days when passengers used to struggle for a seat.” “I was spending nearly Rs 400 every day to travel in autos and cabs. The resumption of Metro will save me at least Rs 300 every day,” said K Harish, a commuter who travelled from LB Nagar to Miyapur. TOI’s visit to LB Nagar and Miyapur stations revealed that only asymptomatic people were being allowed to board trains and enter stations. “We are happy that we were permitted to resume services. We are taking all precautions and are strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines,” said NVS Reddy, managing director, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travellers-enjoy-first-metro-ride-after-5-months/articleshow/77987742.cms||Moulika.KV
September 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State MPs to raise airport privatization issue in Parl||Thiruvananthapuram: The conference of members of Parliament from Kerala has decided to put pressure on the Centre to change its decision to hand over the operation of Trivandrum International Airport to a private player. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at the conference that if the Centre was going ahead without considering the opposition from the state, the state government would not cooperate with the move in any manner. The demand of the state is to hand over the operations to a company in which the state government has a key stake. Tharoor sticks to his stand: Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor expressed his dissent on the chief minister’s proposal. He added that the development of the airport can be ensured only with the intervention of an active, private player. Other demands by state: The conference also decided to urge the Centre to retain Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd in the public sector itself. In addition to providing a special grant to the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the conference also decided to seek Rs 7,000 crore to the state as compensation for implementing GST, till July this year. The moratorium on bank loans should be extended till December and there should be a discount on the interest during the period of moratorium, the chief minister said. The state also sought more freedom to utilize the state disaster response fund, and the MPs also urged the Centre to restore the names of Variankunnath Kunjammad Haji and Ali Musaliyar from the list of freedom fighters in the dictionary published by the state. The conference also decided to urge Centre to sanction permission for the proposed coast guard academy in Azheekal in Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-mps-to-raise-airport-privatization-issue-in-parl/articleshow/77984973.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||After being set free, man stabs eunuch||Ahmedabad: A 32-year-old eunuch, Pranjalde Pavaiya, lodged a complaint against one Sagar Panchal of Vastral late on Sunday night, alleging that Panchal stabbed Pranjalde on his left hand near the SRP barracks in Ramol. Pranjalde had lodged a complaint against Panchal on August 10, alleging sodomy and robbery. As Panchal’s parents approached the complainant and made an apology for their son, the complainant filed an affidavit in the court and Panchal was able to get out of jail. Pranjalde alleged that late on Saturday night, near the SRP barracks in Ramol, Panchal and his friend came on a scooter and intercepted the auto in which the complainant was travelling. Panchal abused the complainant for lodging a complaint against him and stabbed the complainant on his left hand. Panchal also threatened the complainant. “We have registered a complaint and are hunting for the accused,” said a senior police official of Ramol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-being-set-free-man-stabs-eunuch/articleshow/77986100.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s approach to agriculture educationneeds refresher course||By V MurugappanIn the National Education Policy 2020, it is observed that agricultural education with allied disciplines will be revived. Although agricultural universities comprise approximately 9% of all universities in the country, enrolment in agriculture and allied sciences is less than 1% of all enrolment in higher education. Its capacity and quality must be improved to increase agricultural productivity through skilled graduates and technicians, innovative research, and market-based extension linked to technologies.For 70% of Tamil Nadu’s population, farming and its allied activities are the means of livelihood. The farmers need continuous counseling on improved crop husbandry practices. The primary responsibility of the state is to ensure stability and sustainability in agricultural production. There is an urgent need to develop quality human resources to face the challenges arising due to changing climate, inefficient use of agro-inputs, depleting quality of the natural resources and rising competitiveness globally.But there is a gap when it comes to training. In 2019-20, the number of eligible aspirants for admission in agricultural courses in Tamil Nadu was more than 52,000. But available seats in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s (TNAU) 14 constituent colleges and 28 other self-financing agricultural colleges were 4,595. Restricting student intake in a subject like agriculture which is primarily concerned with livelihoods of farmers is not justified.There exists a need for a more pragmatic admission policy for Tamil Nadu in agricultural education to better use the available educational infrastructure and resources. As per guidelines of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University the minimum land requirement for one college is 110 acres, as students need hands-on training in nursery units, animal sheds, compost making yards, apiary and farm ponds learning about agronomy, soil science, microbiology, seed technology, animal husbandry and rural development. Nearly `90 crore crore is the cost of establishing one agricultural college. Thus the cost of infrastructure in the existing colleges exceeds₹`3,500 crore. This massive infrastructure created is under utilisedbecause many of the colleges run only BSc agriculture courses with sanctioned admission strength of 120 students per year. The utilization of high-end infrastructure and teaching faculty is below the bar. No institution or college, either medicine, engineering or arts and science offers only one course. There is ample scope in agricultural colleges for offering additional degrees from among those approved by the academic council of TNAU. There is a need to convert these colleges of agriculture into market-driven institutions. Each of these 42 colleges with modern infrastructure can be turned into knowledge centres for the local farming community. The government can profitably use these to set up technology parks and organise regular farmers’ mela that fosters a reciprocal relationship between institutions and the farming community, which is now lacking. Expectations from institutions are ever growing and these agricultural institutions whose primary objective is rural development and food production should be reoriented by sound policies to meet these aspirations. (The writer is a former Tamil Nadu Agriculture University professor)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadus-approach-to-agriculture-educationneeds-refresher-course/articleshow/77986071.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth demands ban on online sale of sharp-edged weapons||Aurangabad: Chandan Lakodkar, a 24-year-old youth, has written to the new police commissioner requesting measures to put a complete check on the sale and supply of sharp-edged weapons through e-commerce websites.A couple of years ago, Lakodkar was getting ready to join the forest department, but had lost the opportunity after being booked in a case under the Indian Arms Act.He was 22 years old when he was arrested for purchasing a sharp-edged weapon online. It was avilable for sale as an artifact/showpiece on several portals.After making the purchase, the weapon was delivered through courier service providers. However, on May 29, 2018, the anti-terrorism cell as well as the crime branch of the city police registered an offence against several youths for placing such online orders and purchasing sharp-edged weapons.Lakodkar said he was impressed by a movie and had searched for a sword like the one shown in the film. He then purchased the product from an e-commerce website. “I ended up ruining my career instead,” he said.He said he had submitted multiple applications with evidence, but so far, nothing has been done to address the issue. He said he was making the applications so that other youths do not make the same mistake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-demands-ban-on-online-sale-of-sharp-edged-weapons/articleshow/77983854.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Udumalpet honour killing: SC takes up TN’s plea||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine the appeal filed by the Tamil Nadu government challenging the Madras high court order acquitting the prime accused in the 2016 Udumalpet honour killing case.A bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, granting permission to appeal, said the case needs to be considered. It also said that the array of parties should be amended to incorporate Tamil Nadu government as a party to the case.The counsel appearing for the state government sought direction from the court to prevent the accused from travelling abroad. However, the bench said it is not inclined to pass any such order.In June, over two years after a sessions court in Tirupur sentenced to death six of the 11 accused in the murder of V Shankar, 22, a dalit man who had married Kausalya, hailing from an ‘upper’ caste, the Madras HC set aside the death sentence imposed on her father B Chinnaswamy and acquitted him of all charges. It also commuted the death sentence of the other five accused to 25 years imprisonment. The trial court in December 2017 acquitted her mother Annalakshmi and uncle Pandidurai.CCTV footage showing the murder near the Udumalpet bus stand had gone viral on social media, leading to protests in the state.Kausalya became the lead prosecution witness in the case against her parents and others. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/udumalpet-honour-killing-sc-takes-up-tns-plea/articleshow/77986065.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Did not ask banks to drop regional language: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamanan||CHENNAI: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamanan, responding to a tweet by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, on Monday said there was no instruction from her ministry to remove regional languages at nationalised banks and ATMs. Siva had tweeted, “We condemn strongly the removal of regional languages at banks and ATMs.” He urged the minister to immediately restore the status quo. Responding to it, the finance minister said the ministry had not issued such an instruction. “There are no instructions from @finMinIndia to banks and ATMs to remove regional language.” The tweet further read, “We encourage use of regional languages. If there is any such instance of ‘removal’ please bring it to my notice, I assure speedy action.” She tweeted in Tamil. The MP thanked the minister for her immediate response. “I responded immediately to the minister and also enclosed a cash withdrawal challan used in Canara Bank and a DD challan from Indian Bank as evidence,” Siva told TOI. He urged the minister to include the regional language in bank related documents and ATMs for the benefit of customers who cannot read or write Hindi or English. The removal or non-availability of regional language hit social media on Monday amidst the rekindled political storm over ‘imposition’ of Hindi and three language policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/did-not-ask-banks-to-drop-regional-language-fin-min/articleshow/77986110.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling: One more cleaning supervisor at Calicut International Airport nabbed||KOZHIKODE: The directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) has taken one more cleaning supervisor at Calicut International Airport into custody in connection with the smuggling of around 4kg gold compound through the airport on Sunday. With this, the number of cleaning supervisors under DRI custody, in connection with the incident, has risen to four. Two DRI officials were knocked down by the car, in which smuggled gold was being transported by two members of the smuggling gang, just 1km away from the airport. The gold compound, brought outside the airport by cleaning supervisors, was handed over to the two-member gang just before the incident, said DRI sources. They added that the arrest of five persons currently in custody – including four cleaning supervisors and the accused Nissar who was nabbed from the car that hit the DRI personnel – will be recorded late on Monday night. They will be produced in court on Tuesday. Officials said that the compound was deposited in the waste bin kept at the temporary Covid hall of the airport where arriving passengers wait for data collection and checks before they reach customs area. Sources said that since gold was brought in compound form it could evade detection through the doorframe metal detector at customs area. Also, cleaning staff manage to evade frisking by customs as there are many staff from various departments on duty at the airport for managing Covid-related arrangements for incoming passengers. Meanwhile, DRI suspect that more than one passenger, who arrived in the repatriation flight from Qatar, was involved in smuggling gold. Also, a search is on for Fazlur Rahman, the driver of the car which rammed the bike of DRI officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/1-more-cleaning-supervisor-nabbed/articleshow/77984971.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Villagers gherao BSA a day after boy died in accident on school campus||Bareilly: A day after a 13-year-old boy was killed after a cemented slab fell on a group of children playing on the campus of a primary school in Mehndipur village under Bhojpur in Moradabad, angry villagers gheraoed the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) and other officials who on Monday visited the school to inquire into the incident and meet the bereaved family. The villagers, who were demanding Moradabad district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh to visit the school and the victim’s family, did not allow the officials to leave the campus until a heavy police force came to their rescue and dispersed the protesters. BSA Yogendra Kumar told TOI, “A cemented slab collapsed and fell on a group of children playing on the school campus on Sunday when the school was closed. Two children were severely injured in the accident. Later, one of the children succumbed to his injuries during the treatment at a hospital. The next day we went to inspect the school and necessary repairing works were carried out. We also wanted to meet the family of the deceased child, but an angry crowd encircled us and started protesting against the district administration and the education department.” “We tried to pacify them, but the angry villagers were not ready to listen to us. They were demanding the DM to visit the area. Soon, Sadar SDM Himanshu Verma, accompanied by a heavy police force, came to our rescue. It was natural for the family to react as a life was lost. We have assured the deceased’s family of financial help by the government, while the school building will also be repaired.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-gherao-bsa-a-day-after-boy-died-in-accident-on-school-campus/articleshow/77981945.cms||Maria Khan
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Rlys Ferozepur div offsets Covid-19 losses with goods trains||Times News Network Ludhiana: Even as the railways have faced major financial losses due to cancellation of all major long route trains, the revenue earned by local railway authorities increased by 134% in August. They achieved this by increasing the speed of almost 90 long-route freight and parcel trains to different parts of the country by more than 46%. Authorities said total earning for August, earned by running maximum number of goods trains, is almost Rs 327 crore, 134% more than the revenue generated in 2019 through the same process. Last year, the division earned Rs 140 crore, of which around Rs 58 crore came from passenger trains and Rs 80 crore from freight earnings while Rs 2 crore was categorised as miscellaneous earnings. It is for the first time that local officials have generated such a large amount of revenue by running as many goods trains as possible. Earlier, Ferozepur division generated its all-time highest revenue in July by running 84 freight trains loaded with essential goods and raw material. Although the Covid-19 lockdown ate into the earnings of the railways, local railway authorities quickly adapted to the situation by increasing their revenue from special trains containing goods and parcels. Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways has emerged as one of biggest transporters of essential goods. It has ferried more than 16 lakh tonnes of essential commodities through several trains to different parts of the country. During these days, 70 to 90 trains containing parcels completed almost 160 trips to ferry essential goods from different stations under the jurisdiction of the division to the rest of country. Divisional railway manager, Ferozepur division Rajesh Aggarwal said, “The high command of northern railway is happy with the performance of operational and commercial department of the railways as they have increased their revenue from Rs 140 crore to Rs 327crore in the single month of August by ensuring smooth functioning of all goods trains.” He added, “Ludhiana is the industrial hub of north India. We are getting effortless support from big industrial houses of the city to generate huge amount of earning in a single day.” He said a team of seven has been deployed for the purpose. “Railway authorities have also launched their e-portal for goods and parcel trains to keep a tab on the goods being supplied to different states through fast moving goods train,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rlys-ferozepur-div-offsets-covid-19-losses-with-goods-trains/articleshow/77984967.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Booze sent through transport company seized, one held||Ahmedabad: With cops alert to liquor trafficking in the state, bootleggers seem to have found a new ways of smuggling liquor in. On Sunday, crime branch sleuths seized 224 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 144 bottles and cans of beer, worth Rs 1,12,000 from the warehouse of a transport company in Sarkhej. Crime branch sources said after being tipped off, they raided the warehouse of Gujarat Goods Service near Sarkhej-Sanand Crossroads and found the contraband. “We held one person, Amirchand Chorsaiya, who used to handle the unloading and loading of goods at the warehouse. On preliminary interrogation, it emerged that the consignment was sent from Bhiwandi in Maharashtra to one Patel Agency on SG Road. We suspect the company on the bill is fake. The same agency had received goods several times in the last two months. We are investigating the number from which inquiries about the goods sent from Bhiwandi were made,” said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/booze-sent-through-transport-company-seized-one-held/articleshow/77986114.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Govind Swarup, radio astronomy pioneer and man behind GMRT, dies at 92||PUNE: Govind Swarup, the man who pioneered radio astronomy in India, passed away at Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune on Monday. He was 92. He had been admitted for old-age related ailments. He was known for important research contributions. One of his student’s observations, which Swarup guided, provided strong support for the Big Bang theory. Swarup set up the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope, among the biggest, near Pune, and a radio telescope in Ooty, earning the country the reputation as one of the leading nations for research in radio astronomy. The National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research issued a statement that said Swarup had been admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic 10 days ago for weakness and other complications. NCRA director Yashwant Gupta said, “Today, the world has lost a doyen of science, India has lost a pioneer, and we have lost a father figure. It is a sad day for us at NCRA, even as we prepare for the simple last rites as per the wish of his family.” Swarup was born in 1929 at Thakurwada. After his MSc from Allahabad University in 1950, he went on to get a Ph.D from Stanford University in 1961. He returned to India in 1963, and joined TIFR at the invitation of Homi Bhabha. There, he built a strong radio astronomy group, that continues at the NCRA. Astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar said they would all miss him. “He has done a lot of work in radio astronomy and GMRT is his creation. It is an irreparable loss," he added. Eminent scientist R A Mashelkar said Swarup was an institution. “A man passes away but the institution stays behind and he gave us institutions like the NCRA and the GMRT. His life was a message that us says, ‘yes, we can’.” Mashelkar said Swarup started work in India against odds, but became a pioneer. Somak Raychaudhuri, director of Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, said Swarup built the most important international scientific facilities in India since ISRO, and deserved to be spoken of in the same league as Saha, Bose, Raman, Bhabha and Sarabhai as one of the architects of modern India, and Indian pride in science. “He deserves a Bharat Ratna. He leaves behind an amazing legacy for all of us, and we will be talking about him for years with the same respect,” he added. Raychaudhuri said GMRT was the ultimate example of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' with its indigenous technology and materials that the world uses. Eminent scientist Vijay Bhatkar recalled that the IISERs were Swarup’s idea. Swarup received the Padma Shri, the Bhatnagar award, and the Grote Reber medal. He was a fellow of distinguished academies, including the Fellowship of the Royal Society. Astrophysicist Ajit Kembhavi, who has known Swarup for 50 years, called him a great scientist and a close friend. “His views on the universe were expansive. He never gave up no matter how hard the problem. When I met him six months ago, he was weak but full of ideas," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swarup-radio-astronomy-pioneer-man-behind-gmrt-dies-at-92/articleshow/77987107.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 8, 2020||Kozhikode||CB to probe cheating cases against MLA||Kozhikode: The district crime branch (CB) has taken over the investigation into the cheating cases against IUML leader and Manjeshwaram MLA M C Kamaruddin. The cases will be investigated by a team led by DSP Satheesh Alakkal. Kamaruddin is the state working committee member of IUML and former district president of the party. The cases have been handed over to the crime branch after more people came forward with complaints against the MLA. The allegation is that Kamaruddin and others collected money for Fashion Gold Jewellery. There are 11 cases registered in Chandera police station and five in Kasaragod station. Apart from these, there are also cheque bounce cases registered against him. C Ashraf and P Subair, hailing from Kallar in Kasaragod, had filed a case against Kamaruddin stating that the cheques he gave have bounced as there was no money in the account. The five cheques are signed by the chairman of the jewellery Kamaruddin and managing director T K Pookoya Thangal, who is the district committee member of IUML. The interesting fact is that many of the complainants are IUML workers who invested money in the project. Fashion Gold was established in 2003 at Cheruvathur accepting investment from the public. Later allied shops were also opened at Payyannur and Kasaragod. It is estimated that more than 700 people had invested in the project. The incident has become a major headache for UDF, especially IUML, as elections are fast approaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cb-to-probe-cheating-cases-against-mla/articleshow/77985003.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU’s dept of agronomy is now Dr Rattan Lal Labs||Ludhiana: As a tribute to World Food Prize laureate and illustrious PAU alumnus Dr Rattan Lal , PAU vice-chancellor and Padma Shri recipient Dr B S Dhillon renamed the department of agronomy as Dr Rattan Lal Laboratories on September 5. The online ceremony was attended by dignitaries from Ohio State University (OSU), USA including president, Dr Kristina Johnson, World Food Prize laureate and director, Carbon Management and Sequestration Center, Dr Rattan Lal and vice-provost, OIA, Dr Gil Latz as well as deans and directors from PAU including vice-chancellor Dr B S Dhillon, Dr N S Bains, director of research, Dr G S Sangha, dean, Postgraduate Studies, Dr K S Thind, dean, College of Agriculture, Dr Shammi Kapoor, dean, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities and heads of departments. Dr Dhillon called it a red letter day in the history of PAU and said it was a privilege to be associated with one of the most illustrious former students of the varsity, who stood first in the first batch of graduates of PAU in 1983 and brought laurels to both Punjab Agricultural University and Ohio State University. “By honouring you, we are honouring ourselves”, Dr Dhillon remarked. The vice-chancellor traced the ties between PAU and OSU back to 1962 when the latter mentored a number of PAU scientists who brought academic excellence and work culture to the university. “The result”, said the vice-chancellor, “ was the Green R evolution in India during the 1960s and 1970s in which PAU played a motherly role, thereby transforming the country from being food deficit to a food exporting nation.” Dr Dhillon elaborated on the role of the university in sustainable agriculture, citing the example of crop residue management and direct seeded rice. He highlighted the role of OSU alumnus and former PAU vice-chancellor, Dr G S Kalkat in strengthening the bond between the two universities, which led to the formation of the Food Industry Center in PAU. He also invited OSU president Dr Johnson to visit the university after the pandemic. The 16th president of Ohio State University, Dr Kristina Johnson described Dr Rattan Lal as an unbelievably outstanding and inspiring personality with a humble demeanor. Calling for deeper partnerships with PAU, Dr Johnson said she was confident that under Dr Rattan Lal’s dedicated guidance, the two universities would achieve major milestones in providing safe food to the planet and stopping climate change. Accepting the honour by PAU, Dr Rattan Lal (who was also celebrating his birthday) referred to the event as his best birthday ever and expressed gratitude to the university for sowing in him the seeds of hard work and excellence. “It is a momentous occasion as the Ohio State University is celebrating its 150th anniversary this year, Dr Rattan Lal said as he mentioned the likes of great scientists, Dr N S Randhawa, Dr Bhumla, Dr Kalkat, Dr Kanwar, Dr Parihar and Dr Samundri, whose contributions in the field of agriculture are priceless. He congratulated university scientists for playing a frontier role in making the country the largest producer of 15 crops and soon projected to become leading producer of wheat and rice too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paus-dept-of-agronomy-is-now-dr-rattan-lal-labs/articleshow/77984985.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan to launch 34 ‘centre for excellence’ schools||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would inaugurate on Wednesday 34 new school buildings built as part of the ‘centre for excellence project’ being rolled out in every assembly segment. The project launched as part of the public education rejuvenation mission is funded by KIIFB. Through the centre of excellence project, one school from each of the 141 assembly constituencies is provided financial assistance of Rs 5 crore by KIIFB for physical infrastructure upgrade. In addition to the Rs 5 crore KIIFB funds, MPA funds and alike has also been pooled in many constituencies for the project implemented by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) The 34 school buildings being inaugurated are in 10 districts. These include eight schools in Kozhikode, five in Kannur, four each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Ernakulam, three in Kottayam, two each in Malappuram and Idukki and one each in Alappuzha and Thrissur. By virtue of this project, buildings with a total builtup area of 7.5 lakh sqft comprising hi-tech classrooms, kitchen block, dining hall, toilet blocks, laboratories and auditoriums have been set up. Earlier, 22 buildings under the Rs 5 crore category were inaugurated. With the inclusion of 34 schools, a total of 56 school buildings under the project would be functional. Similarly, infrastructure upgradation of 32 schools under Rs 3 crore category have been completed. “KITE has taken all necessary steps to hand over 200 schools by December,” said K Anvar Sadath, chief executive officer, KITE. KITE Victers channel would be live telecasting the inaugural function from 11am to 11:30am. The First Bell digital classes scheduled at that time has been shifted to 10:30am and that of standard I has been moved to 10am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-to-launch-34-centre-for-excellence-schools/articleshow/77984982.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mahad link: 70 Navi Mumbai buildings under lens||NAVI MUMBAI: Over 70 buildings in Navi Mumbai constructed by persons or firms associated with the accused in the Tarique Garden building collapse, are said to be under Cidco’s scanner. An official at the Cidco building permission department said, “There are somewhere between 70 and 80 buildings across Navi Mumbai under the scanner. These buildings are developed by the accused, Farooque Qazi, or firms and partners associated with him or other accused. Some of the buildings are linked to the architect of the Mahad building. Cidco will be checking the buildings physically.” Sources reveal that the builder’s firm developed four buildings in Taloja area. One more building has been traced at Gawli Mohalla, Mahabaleshwar. A PCMC team had visited some of the buildings. Cidco PRO Priya Ratambe said, “We have received three building construction proposals in the last four years from the accused builder and his firm.” A close associate of the builder said, “Buildings developed by the builder are on 12.5 percent land scheme or on partnership. Cidco had visited one particular building in Taloja on allegations of encroachment several months ago.” Replying to allegations, Ratambe said, “Cidco hasn’t issued any notice for illegal encroachment to builder Farooque Qazi or Kohinoor Developers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-70-buildings-linked-to-mahad-collapse-accused-under-cidco-scanner/articleshow/77987787.cms||Umesh K Parida
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Spike in Covid-19 cases: Tamil Nadu does u-turn, to hold final year exams online||CHENNAI: In view of rising Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu higher education department on Monday reversed its earlier decision to conduct pen-and-paper exam for final year college students and asked all state universities to instead conduct the exams exclusively online. The state has around four lakh students in the final year of arts and science, engineering and other professional courses and bringing these students to exam halls would pose a major health risk to students and their families. “The exams for final year students will be held only in online mode,” the vice-chancellor of a state university told TOI. Exams are likely to have both multiple choice based and descriptive type questions. Students may be asked to write the exams in front of a digital screen and upload a copy of their answer scripts, he added. The exam duration is likely to be reduced to two hours. “If students are not able to attend the online exams, they will be given a chance to appear for supplementary exams,” an official from another state university said. Anna University is likely to go ahead with its earlier plan of conducting an one-hour online test for all final year students. “The test will be based on multiple-choice based questions. Students can take the test from anywhere and the test will be monitored by artificial intelligence tools,” an official from the university said. The university’s exam schedule is expected in a day or two. Many universities like the University of Madras and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University had released the exam schedule for offline exams. Officials from the universities said they will decide about the fresh schedule (for online exams) after consultation. Sources in the higher education department said providing hostel facilities for outstation students would be a major challenge and the decision to conduct exams only in online mode was taken based on the feedback from professors, students and parents. As per the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) direction, the universities have to conduct final year exams before September 30. However, the Supreme Court gave permission to the state governments to seek extension of the deadline from UGC in view of Covid-19 situation. The state government also decided to give only a minimum pass for students who have arrear exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spike-in-cases-tn-does-u-turn-to-hold-final-yr-exams-online/articleshow/77986127.cms||A Ragu Raman
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||14% of Gujaratis not worried about Covid infection: Survey||Ahmedabad: A survey aim at knowing the mental and physical condition of people in the state during and after the lockdown has revealed that 13.75% of people across the state do not fear being infected by the virus at all while moving around.The online survey conducted on a sample of 1,098 persons by the city-based Khyati Institute of Physiotherapy revealed that while 13.75% of respondents were not worried about infection at all, 52.8% felt slight or moderate fear of infection. Against these, a little over 33% are gripped with fear as they said that they were “severely” and “extremely” worried about contracting Covid-19 while going out of their homes and coming in contact with others. The questionnaire posed 10 queries. The majority of respondents, 82%, recalled that they faced difficulties during the lockdown in procuring basic necessities, while more than 17% people faced no difficulty.Due to restrictions on movement as economic activities were shut due to the nationwide lockdown, nearly 60% respondents reported deterioration of their financial condition. Some 58% said that they have cut down on their expenditure due to the changed economic circumstances. While 53% people experienced improvements in family ties and claimed that the lockdown was beneficial for their mental health, 40% reported improvement in their physical health also. However, nearly 19% of respondents reported deterioration in their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-of-gujaratis-not-worried-about-covid-infection-survey/articleshow/77987118.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plus II classes start on Doordarshan||BHUBANESWAR: In the wake of closure of schools for last several months due to the corona pandemic, the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) started classes for students of Class XI and XII over Doordarshan from Monday. This will benefit over three lakh students across the state, official sources said. “We initially started an one-hour programme for science students. Gradually the classes for arts and commerce streams will be launched. Doordarshan has a wider reach and people who are facing problems of internet accessibility will benefit,” said B S Poonia, state project director, Odisha School Education Programme Authority (OSEPA). He said the state government has started teaching students of Class IX and X through Doordarshan for the last few months. “We got very good response from the classes in Doordarshan from high school students, so we decided to replicate the same for higher secondary classes,” Poonia added. A large number of students are not able to attend online classes due to lack of smartphones and internet connections. Also poor network connectivity in interior and rural areas has been a major cause of concern in the state. Teachers in the rural areas have been demanding to offer classes though Doordarshan or radio so that more students can be reached out as many of them have to face technical challenges to take online classes. “We had never exposed to online teaching before the corona pandemic. It has become very difficult for us to learn the nuances of online teaching amidst the pandemic. So we had requested the government to launch teaching through Doordarshan, which would help many poor students without phone and internet connections,” said Damayanti Kanungo, a teacher in Chilika area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plus-ii-classes-start-on-doordarshan/articleshow/77985012.cms||Minati Singha
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||67 new govt schools to be set up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s plan to provide affordable and good quality education to students living in far-flung villages will result in 67 new government schools taking shape this year. The government had approved 118 schools for 2019-20 but only 67 will be set up this year given the Covid-19 crisis, said sources in the education department. The department has recently written to district collectors stating that 67 elementary schools are to start immediately for which infrastructure arrangements have already been made. In districts such as Ahmedabad, Dholka and Dholera, three new secondary schools will be run using the infrastructure of existing primary schools. Six schools will be opened in Banaskantha, Bharuch, Talaja, Mahua and Bhavnagar. Five schools will be opened in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Schools will also be opened in the tribal areas of Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Dang, Patan, Mahisagar and Panchmahal. The dropout rate in these rural areas was rising as there were no educational facilities available locally beyond primary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/67-new-govt-schools-to-be-set-up/articleshow/77987126.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||67 new govt schools to be set up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s plan to provide affordable and good quality education to students living in far-flung villages will result in 67 new government schools taking shape this year. The government had approved 118 schools for 2019-20 but only 67 will be set up this year given the Covid-19 crisis, said sources in the education department. The department has recently written to district collectors stating that 67 elementary schools are to start immediately for which infrastructure arrangements have already been made. In districts such as Ahmedabad, Dholka and Dholera, three new secondary schools will be run using the infrastructure of existing primary schools. Six schools will be opened in Banaskantha, Bharuch, Talaja, Mahua and Bhavnagar. Five schools will be opened in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Schools will also be opened in the tribal areas of Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Dang, Patan, Mahisagar and Panchmahal. The dropout rate in these rural areas was rising as there were no educational facilities available locally beyond primary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/67-new-govt-schools-to-be-set-up/articleshow/77990966.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Officials denying info under RTI Act must be sacked, says HC||Chennai: Public information officers (PIOs) who refuse to provide details sought under the Right To Information (RTI) Act must be shown the door, said the Madras high court on Monday. Justice S Vaidyanathan, who made the observations, also directed the Tamil Nadu government to issue a circular to all its departments, public sector units and corporations warning PIOs about the legal consequences of not furnishing information under the Act. “Nowadays, officials adopt the tactic of answering mechanically that the information sought is exempted under the Act, without actually ascertaining whether the information sought falls within the ambit of the said provision,” the judge said. “Such officers must be taught a lesson, and, in my view, they are unfit to hold the post of public information officer. They should be shown the door, so that it will be a lesson for other officers to act in accordance with the terms of the act, failing which they may also face similar or more serious consequences,” said Justice Vaidyanathan. The judge passed the order while dismissing an appeal moved by Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) challenging the order passed by the Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC). The issue pertains to an RTI application of P Muthian, a retired deputy collector, seeking information on vacancies in state government service for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and seats allotted to the backward community, particularly to muthuraja, muthriyar, ambalakarar and vanniya kula shatriar sub-castes. Since TNPSC refused to provide the info, he had moved the TNIC, which passed an order in 2009 directing the TNPSC to give the information sought. Justice Vaidyanathan said: “The apex court has held that even the office of chief justice will come under the purview of RTI Act, by observing that transparency does not undermine judicial freedom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/officials-denying-info-under-rti-act-must-be-sacked-says-hc/articleshow/77986139.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s new electronics policy targets $100 billion output by 2025||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday unveiled an ambitious electronic hardware manufacturing policy as part of which it aims to provide skill training to more than one lakh people in the next four years for employment in the sector. The policy, unveiled by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami aims to transform the state into a globally competitive electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM) destination. It seeks to increase Tamil Nadu’s electronics industry output to $100 billion and to contribute 25% of total electronic exports from India by 2025.  It will also increase the level of value addition that is done in Tamil Nadu, especially across focus sectors such as mobile handsets, LED products, fabless chip design, PCBs, solar photovoltaic cells, besides medical and automotive electronics. Taking off from the Centre’s electronic manufacturing clusters (EMC) scheme, Tamil Nadu has classified its districts into Class A, B and C for state-level incentives. Expectedly, Chennai and neighbouring Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet are classified as category A as units making or assembling electronic hardware and mobile handsets already operate in the region. Coimbatore, Cuddalore and Vellore come under category B. Several southern and western districts as well as industrially backward Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Dharmapuri are classified as category C, which will enable new industrial units to get higher financial incentives. Classifying industries under MSMEs, large and mega projects, the state has offered varied incentives in line with the size of investments and employment potential. For MSMEs, the government will formulate incentives to help scale up their business to serve as vendor base for large and mega investors, the policy said. The policy lays thrust on skilling, with incentives being offered to industrial units for training first-time employees and a higher incentive for training women. State-owned agencies such as Sipcot, Elcot and Sidco will offer ready built infrastructure while the private sector will be encouraged to establish ESDM parks. Special focus is also on semiconductor fabrication for which Tamil Nadu will constitute a special task force to create an appropriate eco system. A separate package of incentives will be offered for units in the FAB sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-new-electronics-policy-targets-100bn-output-by-2025/articleshow/77987141.cms||D Govardan
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||Woman suffers miscarriage, 3 booked||Vadodara: Three persons were booked by the Jawaharnagar police for assaulting a pregnant woman in her mid-20s who later suffered a miscarriage. The incident occurred on Sunday night in Bajwa village on the outskirts of the city. According to the police, the accused barged in the house of the complainant identified as Kanita Vahoniya at about 8.30 pm.One of the accused Rajesh Hathila began arguing with Kanita and asked her why she was spreading rumours about his wife, Surekha. The argument soon turned into a brawl following which Rajesh assaulted Kanita, who was two month pregnant, with a stick. She suffered injuries on her abdomen and suffered a miscarriage. The cops have booked Rajesh, Surekha and Kalsingh Hathila who are absconding.The police said that the accused are neighbours of Kanita and her husband used to spend a lot of time with them that led to frequent arguments between the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-suffers-miscarriage-3-booked/articleshow/77985028.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||67 new govt schools to be set up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s plan to provide affordable and good quality education to students living in far-flung villages will result in 67 new government schools taking shape this year. The government had approved 118 schools for 2019-20 but only 67 will be set up this year given the Covid-19 crisis, said sources in the education department. The department has recently written to district collectors stating that 67 elementary schools are to start immediately for which infrastructure arrangements have already been made. In districts such as Ahmedabad, Dholka and Dholera, three new secondary schools will be run using the infrastructure of existing primary schools. Six schools will be opened in Banaskantha, Bharuch, Talaja, Mahua and Bhavnagar. Five schools will be opened in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Schools will also be opened in the tribal areas of Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Dang, Patan, Mahisagar and Panchmahal. The dropout rate in these rural areas was rising as there were no educational facilities available locally beyond primary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/67-new-govt-schools-to-be-set-up/articleshow/77990969.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Defer local body polls: Plea in Kerala high court||KOCHI: A petition has been filed before Kerala high court seeking to postpone local body elections for six months to prevent spreading of Covid-19 . The petition was filed by Muhammed Rafi of West Bazar at Thennala in Malappuram through advocate P Babu Kumar. In the plea, the petitioner stated that he intends to contest in the panchayat elections. Justice PB Suresh Kumar has scheduled an admission hearing in the case next week. Due to Covid, the panchayat office and public health centre are closed in Thennala area as there are 63 patients in the rural village, of whom 10 are in serious condition, the petition said. A large number of people have not been enrolled in the voters’ list and only two Akshaya centres are present in the area to submit online applications, the petition said. In Kerala, restrictions imposed by health workers will be violated during the election campaign. If election is conducted in this scenario, there is every chance of a calamity in the state, the petitioner contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/defer-local-body-polls-plea-in-hc/articleshow/77985023.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Anna Library gets two chemical-free disinfection tunnels||Chennai: The school education department has set up two hi-tech disinfection tunnels at the Anna Centenary Library that reopened last week. In April, disinfection tunnels were set up across the state by district administrations and were eventually panned by the department of public health for their unscientific approach. The ones at Anna library, however, does not involve any chemical spraying on the human body. The one kept at the main entrance is integrated with an infra-red thermometer and an automatic hand sanitizer and works on the principle of ionisation, say officials. The officials also claimed that such tunnels are in use in countries such as South Korea and Japan. “The ionisers emit negative ions, which latch on to positive ions such as dust, pollen, fungal spores and most importantly, airborne bacteria and viruses. The increased weight of the bonded molecules make them fall to the ground, thus reducing the risk of viruses,” said G Priyanka, project head at Brigantia Technologies which installed the tunnel. A herbal steam tunnel installed at another entrance automatically emits a steam when a person walks through the tunnel. “As many as 18 herbs, based on the suggestions of doctors and professors at Arignar Anna Government Hospital Of Indian Medicine at Arumbakkam, are used and there are no chemicals added,” said an official. Each of the tunnel costs above Rs 3 lakh. Temperatures of visitors are manually checked again as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-library-gets-two-chemical-free-disinfection-tunnels/articleshow/77986131.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Surat||67 new govt schools to be set up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s plan to provide affordable and good quality education to students living in far-flung villages will result in 67 new government schools taking shape this year. The government had approved 118 schools for 2019-20 but only 67 will be set up this year given the Covid-19 crisis, said sources in the education department. The department has recently written to district collectors stating that 67 elementary schools are to start immediately for which infrastructure arrangements have already been made. In districts such as Ahmedabad, Dholka and Dholera, three new secondary schools will be run using the infrastructure of existing primary schools. Six schools will be opened in Banaskantha, Bharuch, Talaja, Mahua and Bhavnagar. Five schools will be opened in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Schools will also be opened in the tribal areas of Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Dang, Patan, Mahisagar and Panchmahal. The dropout rate in these rural areas was rising as there were no educational facilities available locally beyond primary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/67-new-govt-schools-to-be-set-up/articleshow/77990970.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||152 IIT-Madras students bag internships with top companies||CHENNAI: On Day 1 of the internship drive at Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), students bagged as many as 152 internship offers including two international ones from top companies. Microsoft offered a maximum of 21 internships. Other top companies such Google, Jane Street and Rubrik took part on the Day 1. These companies interviewed students through video conferencing platforms and offered internships for the summer of 2021. “We had requested companies to be flexible considering that several of our students were in remote and far-flung locations where internet connectivity may not be as good as in urban locations. The collective efforts of internship student heads and their teams, in collaboration with the companies who participated in this approach, resulted in positive outcomes,” said N V Ravi Kumar, advisor (internship) at IIT-M. The institute also conducted surveys among students and recruiters before finalising Day 1 of the internship drive on August 30. There were 147 offers on Day 1 of the drive last year, with a total 554 internships offered during the last academic year. Student teams that organised the event said it was a challenge to organise an online internship drive as the students are spread-out in the various regions of the country. It took us months of planning to provide a fair opportunity to all students to secure an internship in their dream company, said Kunal Gupta, Sourabh Thakur and Omkar Thombre, students from the internship team. Internships are mandatory for BTech. and MTech courses besides dual degree students as part of their academic curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/152-iit-m-students-bag-internships-with-top-cos/articleshow/77986186.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Resume physical hearings: Lawyers||Aurangabad: Lawyers from the city staged an agitation outside the district and sessions court on Monday, demanding the resumption of physical hearings in courts as they were facing severe financial crisis. Heavy police security was deployed outside the court to avoid any untoward incident as the lawyers had threatened a road blockade. The agitation passed off peacefully, said police. The lawyers shouted slogans and highlighted their financial problems resulting from months of lockdown. They also cited the example of a suicide by a lawyer from Nanded and warned that if courts do not return to normal functioning, the number of suicides may increase. The lawyers pointed out that several of them are unable to pay rents of their houses and offices during the current situation. “We want the court to resume physical hearing while following the social-distancing norms,” lawyer Rakesh Kulkarni told TOI. “After the imposition lockdown, courts have been hearing only emergency matters, especially bail applications.” The lawyers said they have sent letters highlighting their demands, including grant of Rs 10 lakh of interest-free loans, to the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court, law and judiciary department at the state secretariat and to the lawyers’ council. The lawyers have also sent letters to the Maharashtra and Goa Bar Council and the Maharashtra government demanding Rs 10,000 as compensation to junior lawyers across the two states from March to September this year. Sandeep Rajebhosale, another lawyer, said, “During the current pandemic, courts are working partially, making the situation grim for lawyers. The clients are not paying the dues as courts are not hearing the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/resume-physical-hearings-lawyers/articleshow/77983994.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 50, arrested, drugs worth Rs 1 lakh seized from her residence||Pilibhit: Police on Monday claimed to have arrested a 50-year-old woman and seized drugs worth Rs 1 lakh from her residence in Deshnagar locality under Pilibhit kotwali. Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said a police team raided the residence of Fatima Bi and seized 10gm smack,150gm ganja, 52gm charas and 50 injections of Avil. “The woman was peddling drugs for a long time. Her husband Aqil Shah and their son-in-law Rifaqat, a resident of Naugvan Pakadia village under Sungarhi police station, have over a dozen cases of drug peddling cases registered to their names,” said the SHO. The woman was booked under the appropriate sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-50-arrested-drugs-worth-rs-1-lakh-seized-from-her-residence/articleshow/77981993.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Many places of worship open their doors for devotees||JAIPUR: Months after being shut in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, many places of worship in the city opened their doors for devotees from Monday. In Jaipur, Khole Ke Hanumanji at Laxman Dungri and Iskcon’s Akshay Patra on Goner Road reopened with precautionary measures in place. Akshay Patra has decided to open from 10am to 1pm and 4.30pm to 7.30pm with restriction on the number of people who can visit at a time. Also, 32 temples in Jaipur district under Devasthan Department have reopened. Akash Ranjan, officer at Devasthan Department, said, “We do not have high footfall in our temples. On normal days, the number does not go above 50 per day. So, it will be easier to tackle the situation. We have painted circles on the floor and posters for coronavirus awareness on the walls.” Similarly, the 1,200-year-old Tanot Mateshwari temple on the Indo-Pak border and Baba Ramdeo temple in Ramdeora of Jaisalmer district opened for devotees on Monday as per the guidelines of the central government. Jama Masjid, the biggest mosque in Jaipur with a capacity of 2,500, too started functioning from Monday. Mufti Syed Amjad Ali of Jama Masjid said, “We have made a rule that only half the capacity of the mosque will be filled to read namaz and maintain social distance. On normal days, our count does not cross more than 50, except on Friday. We have advised other mosques to follow the government guidelines.” Ajmer Dargah too opened its doors on Monday. District authorities made a visit to the dargah to monitor the arrangements. St. Andrews Church at Chandpole has decided to remain closed till September 30. Reverend Jagdish Sharma told TOI, “We were supposed to open on September 13 (Sunday). But with the rising number of cases, organising a mass with social distancing was an issue. So, our committee has decided to remain shut till September 30.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-places-of-worship-open-their-doors-for-devotees/articleshow/77987164.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Attingal ganja haul a planned op||Thiruvananthapuram: A calculated and planned operation by the excise team at Attingal, near the capital, resulted in the largest-ever seizure of ganja consignment smuggled into the state. The team of officials led by anti-narcotic special squad circle inspector T Anikumar acted on the basis of specific inputs on the consignment and vehicle details, a day before the operation. The Andhra Pradesh-registered truck that transports light motor vehicles was filled with ganja in concealed chambers, and the original destination was Mysore where the contraband was supposed to be sold to small distributors. “The two arrested persons revealed that ganja was filled in the truck on the Andhra-Odisha border. There was an agreement with a person to stash the ganja in the capital district, from where it would be redistributed across the state,” said excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan. Though the original plan was to redistribute the consignment from Mysore, the accused changed their plan due to action by law enforcement agencies in Karnataka. They brought in the consignment through Vazhikkadavu checkpost in Malappuram, which is usually not on the radar of agencies for drug smuggling. The nexus between Jithin Raj, a Kannur native believed to be the kingpin behind the smuggling, and Jayachandran, the person who promised safe hideout for stashing ganja in the capital district, helped the smugglers reroute their destination to Thiruvananthapuram. The drug was to be split into consignments of 200kg and 100 kg units for distribution in Thrissur and Kannur. The case has now been handed over to assistant excise commissioner, Thiruvananthapuram, for a detailed probe. Excise officials refuse to disclose the source of information behind the latest operation. “One method is to infuse informers into ganja trading rackets and extract details from them. In such cases, when the consignment is intercepted, the informer is allowed to escape. Excise officials also get information from those working for the racket and who are unhappy with the treatment meted out or tip-offs from rival gangs,” top excise sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/attingal-ganja-haul-a-planned-op/articleshow/77985038.cms||KP Saikiran
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Appointment of Bamu registrar scrutinised||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) on Monday conducted further inquiry into allegations surrounding the appointment of registrar Jayashree Suryawanshi. The inquiry was initiated after a complaint by political activist Nagraj Gaikwad.  In a complaint to the office of joint director of education (higher), Aurangabad, Gaikwad questioned the validity of Suryawanshi’s tenure as a faculty member of a local college between 1993-94 and 2007-2008. As per documents available, she was appointed to the institute by claiming to be a reserved category candidate. But there is no record of her caste-validity certificate at the tehsil office. Therefore, she is not eligible for the Bamu job as her teaching experience is void, Gaikwad added. He alleged that no competent panel was in place to confirm her appointment at the institute. On August 24, Bamu submitted its inquiry report to the joint director’s office, but it did not reach the public domain due to the pandemic.  Gaikwad called for further inquiry at the varsity level. Suryawanshi said she and the college concerned have submitted necessary documents. Bamu pro vice-chancellor Pravin Wakte said the college concerned has sought more time to produce remaining documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/appointment-of-bamu-registrar-scrutinised/articleshow/77984007.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra slashes Covid test rates for third time||Mumbai: Maharashtra government again slashed the price cap for Covid-19 tests in private laboratories. This is the third time it has slashed testing rates in six months. With this, a RT-PCR test has been capped at Rs2,000 to Rs1,200 depending on point of collection. The earlier rates were Rs2,500-Rs1,900 for the same categories. TOI on Monday had reported that even as the pandemic has advanced and the state government is unlocking many sectors, the government was planning to make tests, masks and sanitisers affordable to encourage more people to use these. A GR issued on Monday by principal secretary (health) Dr.Pradeep Vyas stated that home collection of swabs had been capped at Rs2,000 from Rs2,500 while, collection of samples from drive-through collection centres, quarantine centres, hospitals and clinics will cost Rs1,600, down from Rs2,200, and picking up a sample from a collection centre will cost Rs1,200, this is Rs700 less. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the rates were reduced to make it feasible for people to undertake tests if they show symptoms and over the last few months the cost of PPE kits and test kits have reduced, so private laboratories must pass on benefits to people. High testing rates have been seen as an obstacle by experts in getting more people to test for the virus, so there has been a demand to make testing cheaper. “The cost of a testing kit too has come down by half, so the benefit should be passed on to the public,” Tope had told TOI. He also said the state will come out with a notification to cap the price of masks and sanitisers in few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-slashes-covid-test-rates-for-third-time/articleshow/77986218.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||Contractor cheated under false pretext||Vadodara: A civil contractor living in Padra was cheated by an unidentified man who promised him a bank loan. The accused used the complainant Naresh Makwana’s documents to take two loans worth Rs 65,000 from himself from a private bank. Makwana told police that in February he had received a call from a man who had identified himself as a loan executive of the private bank. Makwana said that he needed a loan of Rs 25,000 and asked the man to come to his home to collect the documents. A few days later, the accused asked Makwana to send images of his Aadhar and PAN card along his signature to him through WhatsApp for processing the loan. On February 25, the accused called Makwana asking him to forward all SMS that he had received to him which he did. Makwana, later, did not hear from him again and when he called back, the number was switched off. The victim then went to the private bank to inquire about the accused. He was told that no person using the mobile phone number through which he had received calls works at the bank. Makwana, however, did not pay much heed then. In July, Makwana received letters from the private bank asking him to pay the instalments for the loans which he had taken. The accused had taken two loans of Rs 38,997 and Rs 25,998 using Makwana’s documents. Makwana then complained to police about the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/contractor-cheated-under-false-pretext/articleshow/77985069.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Fake gutkha factory raided in Kota||Kota: In a joint operation, a combined team of ATS, SOG and the city’s Udhyog Nagar station police carried out a raid at a house in Shivsagar on Thegda-Raipura Road and seized a large number of fake gutkha products of two branded companies on Monday. One person was detained while the owner of the factory is yet to be nabbed.acting on a tip-off that fake gutkha products of branded companies were being manufactured in a house in Shivsagar, a joint operation by ATS, SOG and Udhyog Nagar station police was carried out, Kota city ASP Praveen Jain said. A huge quantity of raw materials for gutkha, a large number of fake gutkha products of two branded companies were found to be manufactured in two rooms of the house with two packing machines, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-gutkha-factory-raided-in-kota/articleshow/77987166.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rs 2.78L looted from Indian Overseas Bank||BHUBANESWAR: An unidentified man barged into a branch of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) in Nandan Vihar area here, held two women staff at gunpoint and robbed Rs 2.78 lakh on Monday. The heist took place around 3.40 pm in the crowded area under Infocity police limits, leaving the commissionerate police red-faced. Police said no visitor was present in the bank when the loot took place. The bank did not have any security guard as well, police said. “We are verifying the CCTV footage of the bank. Our officers are on the job to identify the accused,” deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash said. One accused executed the daring robbery inside the bank whereas his associate waited for him outside in a two-wheeler. The robber was wearing a helmet. Police said the two women staff members, including one physically handicapped, were about to shut the bank when the accused stormed into the premises and pulled out a revolver. The bank’s other staff members had already left. The two frightened women bankers were forced to hand over the cash (around Rs 2.78 lakh) to the robber, an officer of Infocity police station said. While the two women were immediately unavailable for comment, police said the duo raised an alarm only after the accused fled. Though the bank had an emergency siren alert system, the two women could not press the button out of fear. By the time they pressed the button, it was too late, the officer said. Police suspect the robber might have conducted a recce before committing the offence. The accused executed the robbery in such a fashion that the neighbouring shops of the bank did not get a whiff of the crime. “We heard the shouts of the two women bankers. But the robber had already disappeared,” said Madan Mohan Swain, a grocery store owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rs-2-78l-looted-from-indian-overseas-bank/articleshow/77985056.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan panchayat elections: Voting in four phases from September 28||JAIPUR: The State Election Commission (SEC) announced elections to the posts of remaining 3,848 sarpanchs and 35,968 ward panchs to be held in four phases from September 28 to October 10. The model code of conduct has come into effect with the announcement of elections. Polling will be held in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines issued by the central and state governments. Elections to the posts of 1,003 sarpanches will be held in the first phase, scheduled to be held on September 28 (Monday). In the second phase, 1,028 posts of sarpanchs will go to polls, scheduled on October 3 (Saturday). In the third phase on October 6 (Tuesday), 943 sarpanchs will be elected and, in the fourth phase on October 10 (Saturday), 874 sarpanchs will be elected. Polling will be held from 7.30am to 5.30pm and counting will be done on the same day for all four phases. According to the schedule released by the SEC, the filing of nomination papers will be on September 9 for the first phase, September 23 for the second, September 26 for the third, and September 30 for the fourth phase. Elections to the posts of up-sarpanchs will be held on September 29 (first phase), October 4 (second phase), October 7 (third phase) and October 11 (fourth phase). While the elections for sarpanchs will be conducted by electronic voting machines (EVMs), in the case of ward panchs, ballot papers will be used. Over 1.28 crore voters will participate in the polls, as per SEC data. Of the total, 67.07 lakh are male and 61.15 lakh female voters. There are 74 third gender voters. Elections to 7,463 gram panchayats were completed in January and March earlier this year. State election commissioner P S Mehra said, “The use of masks will be mandatory for all involved in election activity, including election workers, voters, candidates and polling agents. They are also required to sanitise their hands at regular intervals. Apart from this, training sites, polling booths and polling stations will have to be sanitised before use.” The number of voters at each polling station has been reduced from 1,100 to 900 to maintain social distancing. Also, the time for submission of nomination papers and scrutiny has been increased by 30 minutes. Mehra said that election control rooms will be set up at headquarters and at district levels for sharing information and taking prompt action on complaints. The control room number is 0141-2227786 and it will work from 8am to 8pm daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-local-body-polls-in4-phases-from-sep-28/articleshow/77987169.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai cop among 2 to die, senior Thane officer tests positive||Mumbai: Two more police personnel, from Navi Mumbai and Osmanabad, succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll in the state force to 176, of which 16 were officers. There were 178 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total to 17,091, of which 13,851 recovered and 3,064 are being treated. Navi Mumbai police headquarters constable Ravindra Patil (48) and Bembli police constable Dayanand Kale (57) were the two who succumbed. Meanwhile, a senior IPS officer from Thane police commissionerate tested positive on Monday. He told TOI he had mild symptoms of fever and cough and his condition was stable. Thane police data shows that 130 officers and 1,182 constables were positive. Nearly 1,175 were discharged and 19 succumbed. Nineteen personnel, including an officer, succumbed in the last six days. Mumbai Police reported the highest toll of 70, includes seven officers, in the state. Till date, 5,066 tested positive, of which 88.7% (4,493) recovered and 503 are in hospitals. The positive sign is 3,791 (84.4%) of those who recovered have resumed duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/navi-mumbai-cop-among-2-to-die-senior-thane-officer-tests-positive/articleshow/77986219.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Red tape delays completion of land acquisition for MRTS||Chennai: The Madras high court may have delivered its final order on completion of the Velachery-St Thomas Mount MRTS extension more than a year ago, but red tape has delayed completion of the land acquisition by releasing payment to litigating land owners for more than four months. Sources in Southern Railway said they planned to visit the office of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) this week and check with the officials concerned on the progress. Land owners who had been fighting with the state government over compensation for the land containing the last 500 metres of the project submitted their documents in March, May and June this year after final orders from the Madras high court in June. Documents with TOI show that the special tahsildar (MRTS extension) in the CMDA has affixed his seal on the documents and the litigants have submitted their acceptance. “We were told the acquisition is over and payment of Rs 2.15 crore would reach us in a week,” said a land-owner who filed the papers in May. S Venkateswaran, a litigant who filed the papers in June and was promised Rs 2.57 crore payment within a week, said he and the others had been meeting the special tahsildar every week. “He asks us to wait for 10 days. This has been prolonging for 4-5 months. This shows that we, land-owners, are willing to give the property for a state government’s infrastructure project, but officials are not willing to process it,” he added. Internal documents show the government has directed CMDA to make payments at the earliest. When contacted a senior official handling the process said the payments would be made in a week. However, sources said the housing department has moved the Supreme Court against the high court order, but the case is yet to be listed. Southern Railway can start construction only 18 months after it is handed over the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/red-tape-delays-completion-of-land-acquisition-for-mrts/articleshow/77986217.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Won’t implement 3-language formula, Tamil Nadu writes to Centre||CHENNAI: Reiterating Tamil Nadu’s opposition to the three-language policy proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, higher education minister K P Anbalagan said the state had already decided to continue with the two-language policy. In a letter to Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on the NEP, Anbalagan said, “Tamil Nadu has always followed the two-language formula, which has been a success.” He also opposed the proposal to conduct entrance exams for undergraduate courses by the National Testing Agency saying it would discourage rural students. “The Tamil Nadu government is not for such a proposal. This will be an added burden on students,” he said. Pointing out that the NEP had been discussed with the TN chief minister and all senior ministers, Anbalagan said a seven-member committee headed by the higher education secretary had been formed to go through the policy and offer comments and recommendations that could be adopted by the state. “Therefore, Tamil Nadu would be in a position to submit detailed remarks in due course of time,” he said in the letter. The state will be able to achieve the NEP’s target of 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) by 2035 in the 2020-21 academic year itself, he said, adding it would achieve the ambitious target of 65% GER by 2035 due to various measures, including opening of new colleges, introducing new courses and increasing the capacity of existing colleges. On restructuring of higher educational institutions and making them autonomous degree awarding colleges, Anbalagan said non-autonomous colleges should be nurtured by the universities to which they are affiliated to improve quality. “Hence, the present model of Tamil Nadu should be allowed to continue,” he said in the letter. Welcoming the move to convert BEd into a four-year integrated degree programme, he said it would enable students to complete their degrees early and enter the teaching profession early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wont-implement-3-language-formula-tn-writes-to-centre/articleshow/77987173.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 24 fishermen rescued, search on for 31 others||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE: To rescue fishermen struggling at sea due to adverse weather caused by low-pressure in the sea, the Indian Coast Guard launched a search and rescue (SAR) operation off Kerala coast. The SAR, held in association with other maritime security stakeholders, has rescued 24 fishermen on Monday and the search for remaining 31 is progressing. “The deterioration of weather on Monday had 14 fishing boats with 55 fishermen in distress close to Kerala coast. The timely action in alerting the fishing boats in the vicinity has seen 24 fishermen rescued by the Indian Coast Guard, fellow fishers, marine enforcement wing and coastal police. The lookout for remaining 31 fishermen is in progress,” said a statement from the Coast Guard, Kochi. The missing fishing boats are from Ponnani, Kayamkulam, Alappuzha, Munambam and Azhikode harbours. The boat Noorul Huda that left Ponnani with four persons on Sunday capsized after water entered through a crack. Kabeer, hailing from Ponnani, is missing while three others swam to the shore. The capsized boat also washed ashore. K Kunhumon and K Ubaid, who went to sea in a fibre boat named Ponnos, from Tanur are missing. The remaining three persons swam to safety after the boat met with an accident. Meanwhile, six fishermen stranded in deep sea after their fishing boat capsized were saved by fellow fishermen off Ponnani coast on Monday. Three fishermen were missing in two other separate incidents. Nasar, Kunhan Bavu, Munawar, Subair, Shabir and a guest labourer were saved by the fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/24-fishermen-rescued-search-on-for-31-others/articleshow/77985078.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Police begin probing food adulteration racket||JAIPUR: Even as city police have registered FIRs and arrested five persons in connection with the food adulteration racket, the medical and health department was yet to take samples from nearly 270 stores which were allegedly selling substandard food and FMCG products. According to the food adulteration Act, the medical and health department will have to take samples of seized goods for further testing and if samples are found bad, the department needs to submit the Istegas (legal complaint) in the court against traders. Also, seized substandard materials need to be disposed. Under the Act, the court can impose a cash penalty on shopkeepers if it is proved that they were selling substandard items. TOI on Monday spoke to police officers associated with the investigation and health department to know the progress. “Our job is the investigate the crime angle which includes 420 (cheating), 466 (forgery) and 467(forging a document or item for benefit) of Indian Penal Code. As far as seized goods are concerned, the medical and health department will have to take the samples and send them for testing. If the samples failed the tests, they will have to act as per the provision of Food Adulteration Act,” said Sulesh Chaudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police (crime). She said the list of the seized goods had been sent to the chief medical and health officer and food safety officer for action. Despite the fact that seizures were done jointly by police and health department teams, samples have not been collected yet. “We have taken samples from a few places. We will pick up samples from other places in a dy or two,” said a senior officer of the health department. It may be recalled that police on Friday and Saturday had seized heavy amounts of substandard food items and FMCG products like hair oil, shampoo and other items and arrested five persons. In the investigations, police have established that Gwalior-based businessman Giriraj Bansal and his son Ketan Bansal were running this racket in which various wholesalers in Jaipur and other parts of Rajasthan are involved. Box Directions by the police and health department for consumers buying food and FMCG products · If the date of production and expiry date of a product is not clear on its pack, don’t buy it and complain at the nearby police station · If there are two date of manufacturing and expiry date on a packet containing food items or FMCG product, it could be substandard, avoid buying it · If there is any tampering on the packet of food product or FMCG product, refrain from buying it · If the product sold by a retailer or wholesaler is been sold in much subsidized price than its actual price, there could be a foul play. Thus avoid buying it · Avoid purchasing the food item of FMCG product if it is found unpacked while buying · Tomato ketchup, soya sauce, milk products, wheat floor, Maida are the items which needs to be purchased only when if they have indication of “Best before” · If there is sale of a product where the shopkeeper is promising a whooping discounts upto 60 percent or more, you need to be cautious||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-begin-probing-food-adulteration-racket/articleshow/77987176.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Poor infra projects pose environmental threat to Vandalur||CHENNAI: Vandalur, known for its greenery and water bodies, is facing an environmental threat from poorly planned infrastructure projects and lack of a waste management plan. Residents complain of water logging and contamination of groundwater as a result of haphazard dumping of garbage, which ends up clogging natural waterways. O Subramania Pillai of Venkateshapuram resident welfare association and a resident of the area for more than 30 years said, “There has been a lot of development in the past few years but not in terms of civic amenities for locals. Bridges and highways have been constructed, but many internal roads are in a pathetic condition. They get flooded every time it rains”. “Water channels from the hills to Vandalur lake are clogged with garbage. People don’t have designated places to dump garbage so they throw it on lake beds and vacant plots. The place that had good groundwater all these years might face issues of contamination if this is not addressed,” said another resident. According to Arun Krishnamurthy of NGO Environmentalist Foundation of India, rapid development of the place had completely diverted the fresh water flow. “As we are working on the restoration of the Vandalur lake, we found that many canals are blocked and constructed upon. But water has its memory and will flow in the same way as it did several years ago. It is a natural disaster in the making.” “These areas are water intense and the development here should be hydrologically sensitive,” said Krishnamurthy who is himself a resident of Mudichoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poor-infra-projects-pose-environmental-threat-to-vandalur/articleshow/77986211.cms||Komal Gautham
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur police to send notice to Gwalior businessman and son||JAIPUR: After busting the food adulteration racket, police are now planning to send a notice to the Gwalior businessman and his son for questioning. Police have also sought the criminal antecedents of the accused from Gwalior police. Giriraj Bansal and his son Ketan, who are well known traders of Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) selling food items and FMCG products in over 16 districts of Rajasthan including Jaipur, have emerged as the kingpin of the racket in Jaipur and other parts of the state. TimesViewDuring his earlier stint as chief minister, Ashok Gehlot had launched the 'Sudh ke liye yudh' campaign against the menace of food adulteration. He had even gone over the top to advocate the extreme of death penalty for those involved in the crime, inviting the ire of traders. The government is currently mulling stringent penal provisions, as under existing IPC provisions, adulterators can only be handed a maximum sentence of six months and imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 or both. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has recommended stringent punishment, and proposed an amendment to its food safety and standards law of 2006 to enhance the punishment to life imprisonment and increase the fine to up to Rs 10 lakh. It had also proposed the setting up of a state food safety authority. As a first step, the government would do well to implement the FSSAI proposal if it's serious about tackling the increasing instances of adulteration.“In his initial days, Bansal had a petrol pump and a gas agency. He has flour manufacturing units in cities such as Banmore, Malanpur, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Bhopal,” said a senior police officer. During probe, it was found that an election monitoring team had recovered Rs 51.50 lakh from a white going to Gwalior from New Delhi at Allabeli police checkpoint on the highway during the last Lok Sabha elections. “This was when the Lok Sabha election model code of conduct was on. At that time, he could not produce any documents in relation to this amount and the matter was handed over to the income tax department,” said a senior police officer. Ajay Pal Lamba, ACP (crime) who is leading the investigation said, “We will invite him for questioning through notices. He is the prime accused in this case and won’t be spared at any cost. Our investigation team is on the job of collecting more incriminating documents and other things against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-police-to-send-notice-to-gwalior-businessman-and-son/articleshow/77987174.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: 24 fishermen rescued, search on for 31 others||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE: To rescue fishermen struggling at sea due to adverse weather caused by low-pressure in the sea, the Indian Coast Guard launched a search and rescue (SAR) operation off Kerala coast. The SAR, held in association with other maritime security stakeholders, has rescued 24 fishermen on Monday and the search for remaining 31 is progressing. “The deterioration of weather on Monday had 14 fishing boats with 55 fishermen in distress close to Kerala coast. The timely action in alerting the fishing boats in the vicinity has seen 24 fishermen rescued by the Indian Coast Guard, fellow fishers, marine enforcement wing and coastal police. The lookout for remaining 31 fishermen is in progress,” said a statement from the Coast Guard, Kochi. The missing fishing boats are from Ponnani, Kayamkulam, Alappuzha, Munambam and Azhikode harbours. The boat Noorul Huda that left Ponnani with four persons on Sunday capsized after water entered through a crack. Kabeer, hailing from Ponnani, is missing while three others swam to the shore. The capsized boat also washed ashore. K Kunhumon and K Ubaid, who went to sea in a fibre boat named Ponnos, from Tanur are missing. The remaining three persons swam to safety after the boat met with an accident. Meanwhile, six fishermen stranded in deep sea after their fishing boat capsized were saved by fellow fishermen off Ponnani coast on Monday. Three fishermen were missing in two other separate incidents. Nasar, Kunhan Bavu, Munawar, Subair, Shabir and a guest labourer were saved by the fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/24-fishermen-rescued-search-on-for-31-others/articleshow/77995423.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Covid awareness campaign launched in 3 dists||Jaipur: State government has flagged off vehicles for spreading awareness on Covid-19 in three of the worst-affected districts. The vehicles will be used to spread the message of Covid prevention and the need to remain extra vigilant. The state government has said that the people not following preventive measures against Covid is one of the major causes of the spread of the virus. In cooperation with a UN agency, United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), the state government has launched a campaign — “campaign communication vehicles” to create awareness on Covid in three districts of the state — Alwar, Jodhpur and Ajmer. The artistes travelling with the vehicles will organize nukkad nataks (street plays), through which they will create awareness on how to prevent the virus from spreading. National Health Mission (NHM) mission director (state) Naresh Thakral said that awareness material such as pamphlets will be distributed to the people during the nukkad nataks. In each of the three districts, 100 each revenue villages have been selected, where the vehicles will reach under the campaign, which will conclude in October. It is the second phase of the awareness campaign. In the first phase, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had flagged off five communication campaign vehicles on June 22, covering urban areas and gram panchayats of six districts of Rajasthan – Jodhpur, Jaipur, Udaipur, Kota, Ajmer and Alwar, as part of sensitising the communities on the various precautions for prevention of Covid, provision of health services after the lifting of the lockdown and key messages on mental health and other social issues. In the first phase, 405 gram panchayats and 342 different areas in the six cities were covered from June 22 to July 31, which evoked a good response among the community. UNFPA’s state programme coordinator Sunil Thomas Jacob and REC general manager Harsh Baweja were present when the three vehicles were flagged off. The campaign also popularized Naubat Baja (7733959595), a missed-call based edutainment channel where messages and information on Covid-19, health, government schemes and programmes for the welfare of youth, adolescents and women, are being disseminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-awareness-campaign-launched-in-3-dists/articleshow/77987180.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Big rush to apply for central govt scheme||Madurai: Hundreds of street vendors have been gathering at Madurai Corporation’s main building for the past few days without maintaining physical distancing or wearing masks properly to register for the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi. They have been queuing up although only less than 100 online applications can be processed in a day. Office-bearers from street vendors’ association have charged the corporation officials of putting vendors life at a risk due to mismanagement of the crowd. They said that the crowd could have been managed better since only 6,243 people will get the loan in the first phase. There are more than 12,000 street vendors in the city. Under the scheme, each registered street vendor will get a Rs 10,000 loan which can be repaid in monthly instalments. N Selvam, deputy general secretary of roadside vendors association attached with CITU, said that efforts could have been taken to reach biometric id cardholders first as they are the top priority. Instead, information was put in the public domain attracting a large crowd. An official from National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) said that they tried every means to reach out to biometric id card holders, but many could not be reached. When the issue was taken to the notice of corporation commissioner S Visakan, he said that he will sort out the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/big-rush-to-apply-for-central-govt-scheme/articleshow/77987192.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Bheem Army stir against Dausa rape||Jaipur: A protest was organised near Albert Hall on Monday, against the rape of disabled girl in Dausa in the month of August. Members of Bheem Army Rajasthan including many other social activists protested near Albert Hall regarding the degrading condition of safety and security in the state.Dayal Chand Bhati, member of Bheem Army said, “Every other day we are reading about rapes in the state. A minor disable girl who was kidnapped and raped in broad day light, explains the condition of law and order in Rajasthan. If a girl is not safe near her home just imagine the plight of girls in rural areas and travelling far away. Government must wake up and pull up their socks.”Bheem Army demanded strict action against the culprits and speedy trial in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bheem-army-stir-against-dausa-rape/articleshow/77987185.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Govt’s claim of having enough Covid-19 facilities mere eyewash: Opp||Jaipur: The Opposition on Monday targetted the state government for being ill-equipped to deal with the corona pandemic, while alleging that the state government’s claim of having no dearth of resources for treatment of Covid-19 patients was merely an eyewash.However, the health department claimed that they have enough facilities for Covid-19 treatment. “We do not have any shortage of resources for Covid-19 treatment. The state has 3,018 beds equipped with oxygen supply, of which currently 872 are in use. The government has arranged for sufficient beds and the department is continuously increasing the number of beds,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. He further added that recently 50 beds have been taken from the railways, while a few days ago 50 beds were increased at RUHS hospital. Apart from this, 100 covid care beds have been increased at RUHS hospital. Besides, the state government claimed that at present there are 913 ICU beds, of which 406 are in use and similarly, out of 490 ventilators, 113 are being used. There is no shortage of resources in the state. He said that 130 Covid-dedicated hospitals are being run in the state, while 292 Covid care centres have also been developed.Reacting to the statement, former health minister and BJP leader, Kalicharan Saraf alleged that the figures provided by the state government were just eyewash. “Serious patients are not getting ICU facilities. They are running from government hospital to private hospital, but no ventilator is available for them. As far as availability of oxygen for patients is concerned, even at SMS hospital, the government is unable to ensure proper supply of oxygen,” said Saraf. He further added that the government is claiming that they have added 500 beds for Covid-19 patients by converting Jaipuria hospital into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, but the reality is that not even 100 beds in Jaipuria hospital has required facilities for Covid-19 treatment. “While there is significant spike in Covid-19 cases, beds are not even available at RUHS hospital and private hospitals,” said Saraf, demanding that the government should make availability and occupancy of beds in government and private hospital public, so that people should know about the availability of beds in a particular hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-claim-of-having-enough-covid-19-facilities-mere-eyewash-opp/articleshow/77987184.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, Covid coordinators must for housing societies||The outside of a building being sanitizedAhmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has made it mandatory for all housing societies, apartment complexes and colonies to appoint Covid coordinators. The decision was taken at a meeting held on Monday. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad said, “After getting positive results through the last intervention of Covid coordinators for offices, institutions, commercial and industrial units that have 30 or more workers, the AMC has decided to have coordinators for all residential societies.” Under Rule 11 of the regulations for prevention and containment of Covid-19 framed by the Gujarat government under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the AMC has made it mandatory for the secretary, chairman, organizer, manager or owner of every residential society to appoint someone Covid coordinator and to inform the assistant municipal commissioner concerned. The AMC stated that if visitors to the society have Covid symptoms it will be the responsibility of the Covid coordinator to inform the authorities or the nearest urban health centre for testing. They will also have to prepare a history of contacts in the last 14 days, and will have to send the report to the assistant municipal commissioner of their ward Apart from ensuring that no home quarantined person comes out, the AMC states that in micro-containment zones, office-bearers of the society will be responsible to no one comes into contact with any person with Covid. The office-bearers will have to ensure that antigen testing is done for all residents of a micro-containment zone. The AMC made it clear that for any negligence or non-compliance the chairman /secretary shall be held responsible and shall invite prosecution under Section 188 of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. AMC said that now, as the sero-positivity study has confirmed that immunity is not necessarily being developed in people in terms of antibodies, and as there is no vaccine available, prevention is the need of the hour. AMC has therefore decided to take these measures to enable community participation in Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-covid-coordinators-must-for-housing-societies/articleshow/77986367.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hearing deferred to Oct 12 in Varsha-Anubhav case||CUTTACK: The court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM), Cuttack, on Monday deferred for six weeks hearing on a complaint filed against Kendrapada MP Anubhav Mohanty’s wife actor Varsha Priyardarshini under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. Though Varsha’s complaint was filed on August 7, the report of the district protection officer (DPO) was not available as per standard procedure when the matter came up for the first hearing before the SDJM. The DPO’s report – recorded statement of the alleged victim (Varsha) is essential for issuing notice to the accused (Anubhav) in a complaint under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. Varsha’s counsel Ram Krushna Rath said, “The SDJM, Cuttack posted the matter to October 12 for hearing along with the DPO’s report”. Varsha has alleged mental harassment and mental torture by her actor-turned-politician husband while seeking protection, maintenance and compensation. Their marriage was solemnised on February 8, 2014. In her complaint Varsha has sought direction to Anubhav “to pay compensation and damage, right to residence in share household or pay Rs 20,000 per month for house/residence rent at her level in society, Rs 50,000 maintenance per month, compensation of Rs 13 crore and Rs 2 crore towards loss of earning and medical expenses”. According to the complaint Varsha was “unable to lead a peaceful conjugal life. On many occasions she was allegedly subjected to mental and physical torture, abused in vulgar language, beaten with hand and sticks and kicked by her husband. Both were living as husband and wife till December 2019, Varsha stated in her complaint, while claiming that though she “wanted to make a plan for the future generation, Anubhav simply avoided”. She further alleged that on June 11, 2020 Anubhav had openly asked her to give mutual divorce otherwise face the consequences. Anubhav on July 16, 2020 filed a petition in a family court in New Delhi for dissolution of his marriage with Varsha solemnized on February 8, 2014 by a decree of divorce under Section 13 (i) (a) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The BJD MP has filed for divorce from his wife on grounds of cruelty. One of the contentions in the divorce petition filed by Anubhav is that the marriage between the two had not been consummated. According to the petition, Varsha has not been living with Anubhav since May 1, 2019. The divorce petition is scheduled for first hearing on October 7. Meanwhile, Varsha has also filed before the family court, Cuttack, a petition for restitution of her conjugal rights under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. “The petition is scheduled for October 14. After completion of the proceeding we will move the Supreme Court for transfer of the divorce petition from the family court in New Delhi to the family court in Cuttack,” said Varsha’s counsel Ram Krushna Rath. In a press release, Anubhav said: “My marriage has been in bad shape since long. I have tried my level best to reason, to explain, to understand, and to make amends; unfortunately, things did not shape up as expected. Hence, it seemed the best way to part ways amicably. I and my family sincerely tried our best for a mutual separation just because we were concerned about each other’s social image and dignity. Only after failing in this I had no other option left rather than filing for a divorce petition in Court of Law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hearing-deferred-to-oct-12-in-varsha-anubhav-case/articleshow/77985083.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC disposes of 15 pleas on gram panchayat admins, 20 more to be heard next week||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday disposed of 15 matters over appointment of administrators to gram panchayats pending elections to local self-governance bodies after accepting state submissions that only government officials would be appointed, not private persons. HC will next week hear another 20-odd matters which demand continuation of panchayat members till fresh elections can be held after lockdown. State advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted a statement that government would not appoint private individuals as administrators, in terms of a June 25 ordinance and government resolution of July 13, but would appoint “government officers”. The state has appointed administrators to 4,899 panchayats, but no private person. Petitions had challenged an ordinance amending Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act to provide for administrators as elections were difficult due to Covid-19 and a GR was issued in July enabling chief executive officers of zilla parishads to consult district guardian ministers and appoint administrators to almost 14,000 panchayats whose terms expired or were due soon. Some petitions opposed the GR as it enabled appointment of private individuals as public servants. Senior counsel Milind Sathe, for a petitioner, said appointment of private persons was “legally impermissible”. He said the guardian minister of a district was not a constitutional authority and thus did not have a statutory mandate. “Panchayats exercise immense power, including a crucial one of taxation,’’ said Sathe, and “mass appointments’’ would mean private people would exercise wide financial powers which could not have been contemplated by law. Girish Godbole, counsel in another petition, also argued against the ordinance and submitted that the “purpose” of providing for “consultations with guardian minister is only to give an upper hand to the political party in power’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-disposes-of-15-pleas-on-gram-panchayat-admins-20-more-to-be-heard-next-week/articleshow/77986220.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||After 70-day break, the left flank of Chandpole smart road opens||Jaipur: A part of the Chandpole road was opened on Monday after more than 70 days because of construction of a smart road. The stretch from Khajane Walon Ka Raasta to Chandpole Gate is now open, giving relief to shopkeepers in the market. The left flank of the road from Choti Chaupar was shut on June 22 for 70 days to complete the smart road. The project on the right side of the road from Choti Chaupar was already completed. Around 30 metre stretch till Choti Chaupar is yet to be completed which will take another 10 days. A Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) official said, “We are almost done with our work of Smart Road. We took a few days extra for its construction because of traffic and lockdown guidelines that we have to follow. Within 10 days, this work will also be completed.”According to the plan, JSCL will construct 11 smart roads in the city out of which Kishanpole is already completed and Chandpole project will be over within a few days. Chandpole Market Association President Subhash Goyal said, “We are happy with the results. Last year, when the other side of the road was being constructed, they took a very long time and we faced enormous business losses. At least this time, officials completed their work on time.”As customers were not coming to the market due to the pandemic, it made the work of JSCL easier. They were able to complete the work on time without any hurdle of traffic and customers. Due to low footfall of customers, shopkeepers didn’t face any discomfort in business. After this, JSCL is expected to start the work of another road in Walled City by October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-70-day-break-the-left-flank-of-chandpole-smart-road-opens/articleshow/77987210.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||27 trucks with illegally mined stone seized||Alwar: The pink and red sandstone illegal mines in Bharatpur district have turned into goldmines as their demand has increased manifold after the announcement that the Ram Mandir would be made up largely of the Bansi Paharpur stone. In a massive joint operation by the district administration, mining department and forest, the team seized 27 trucks of expensive stones worth crores in Bharatpur. According to the official, the stones were being brought from Banshi Paharpur area, where there is a Supreme Court-imposed ban on mining. In a seven-hour-long operation, nearly 200 forest and police personnel seized these trucks. District collector Bharatpur Nathmal Didel said, “In Banshi Paharpur area, no mining leases are allotted. Since, massive illegal mining was happening in the region, a joint operation was carried out by police, district administration and forest department, in which 27 trucks were seized and a driver was arrested. The administration will prepare a report on the hilly region of Paharpur and send it to government. Deployment of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) will also be done to prevent illegal mining in the area.” Sources said that as this stone is relatively expensive, it is smuggled to nearby states on a large scale. The residents of several villages including Bayana, Rudaval, Rupbas, Banshi Paharpur and Suka Sula hills get involved in illegal mining throughout the night on orders from the mining mafia. Sources further said, illegal mining activity has suddenly increased in the region including Band Baretha wildlife sanctuary, in past few days, as the demand for sandstone shot up sharply in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. “The red stone which is obtained from mines in Bharatpur is world famous. There are many stone-cutting units in nearby region of Banshi Paharpur. Thousands of tonnes of sandstone slabs can be witnessed lying at these units. Ever since the demand for sandstone has increased after the announcement of the temple, illegal mining has also increased in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/27-trucks-with-illegally-mined-stone-seized/articleshow/77987197.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gardens to reopen from Thursday||Vadodara: VMC will open its gardens for public from Thursday. Timings have been restricted and measures are being taken to ensure no crowding. Gardens will remain open from 6am to 10am and 4pm to 10pm. Wearing masks is compulsory. Children below 10 years and elderly aged above 65 years will not be allowed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gardens-to-reopen-from-thursday/articleshow/77985135.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||VC aide held with R2.2 lakh bribe on Ajmer varsity campus||Ajmer: The ACB caught one Ranjeet Singh with Rs 2.20 lakh from his residence inside Maharishi Dayanand Sarswati University here on Monday evening. Singh is the private secretary-cum-driver of university vice-chancellor RP Singh. ACB officials said Ranjeet was accepting bribe on behalf of RP Singh. The bribe was allegedly to grant affiliation to a college in Nagaur district. A man from Nagaur reached the house of Ranjeet and just when he was handing over the money to Ranjeet, the ACB team caught him red-handed. Singh also worked at JNV University in Jodhpur and there was a controversy over appointments. He was later made the vice-chancellor of MDS University in Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vc-aide-held-with-r2-2-lakh-bribe-on-ajmer-varsity-campus/articleshow/77987235.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Successful brain surgery on Covid patient at GRH||Madurai: Doctors at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai successfully performed an external ventricular drainage (EVD) procedure to remove effects of cerebral oedema -- fluid build-up and swelling in brain -- on a critically-ill 45-year-old Covid-19 patient. In a statement on Monday, GRH dean Dr J Sangumani stated the team of doctors in the hospital carried out the life-saving EVD procedure successfully despite high risk complications. “When the patient was admitted to GRH, she was in a critical condition and required ventilator support. A CT scan revealed that she had cerebral oedema,” the dean said. Cerebral oedema occurs when fluid builds up around the brain, causing an increase in intracranial pressure and swelling. The team of doctors from department of neurosurgery led by Dr R Veerapandian successfully carried out an EVD procedure on September 2 to remove the effects of cerebral oedema. EVD is a device used in neurosurgery to treat fluid build-up and relieve high intracranial pressure. The woman is recovering and continues to be on ventilator support. She is being treated for both Covid-19 and neurological issues. The patient was at high risk as she had already undergone three brain surgeries at a private hospital in the last two months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/successful-brain-surgery-on-covid-patient-at-grh/articleshow/77987232.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Flood-hit districts face shortage of cattle fodder||KENDRAPADA: It is coming up to a week since floods hit villages in Kendrapada and Jajpur districts, but life is still difficult. Shortage of fodder for cattle has emerged as the big concern. “Residents of Bari, Dasarathpur, Binjharapur, Barachana, Dharmasala and Korei blocks in Jajpur and Rajkanika, Aul, Pattamundai, Marsaghai and Derabishi blocks of Kendrapada are struggling to pick up the pieces,” said Manas Sahoo of Kalamatia in Bari. “Some who are better off have begun to rebuild their houses, salvaging rubble and adding new material,” he added. Ramesh Mallick (56) of Mohanpur village under Aul lost his six-room thatched house to the floods. He said he would have to start over again. The recent floods wiped out households’ stock of food. In many areas, fodder for livestock remains unavailable. A large number of flood-hit villagers had tethered their cattle on roads and embankments to save them from drowning. “Flood-hit areas are facing shortage of cattle fodder. I have four cows and earn Rs 6,000 each month by selling milk. I tied my cows on the road on Wednesday after floodwaters entered our village. The water washed away my haystack and damaged the grass fields in the area. My cows have eaten nothing for five days,” said Sarat Das (45) of Penthapala village under Pattamundai block. Like Sarat, many milkmen are worried at the acute crisis of green fodder for cattle, coupled with the high prices of hay in the affected villages. Most farmers who took shelter on roads, embankments and highland along with their cattle are yet to return home as floodwaters have destroyed their houses and cowsheds. They urged the authorities to supply fodder for cattle. When contacted, Sambeet Satapathy, Kendrapada emergency officer, said, “As many as 18,235 houses were razed to the ground in the district by the floods. A large number of farmers lost standing crops over 55,000 hectares as per our preliminary report. We will soon provide house building assistance and other help to the affected people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/flood-affected-districts-face-shortage-of-cattle-fodder/articleshow/77985140.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai, Kanchi to be split to set up DRO in Tiruvallur||CHENNAI: Residents of western and northern suburbs can expect to get issues over property registrations resolved with ease as a new district registrar office (DRO) is being created in Tiruvallur district. The new DRO will have 14 sub-registrar offices in Tiruvallur by bifurcating Chennai North, South and Kancheepuram districts. Currently, these (14) sub-registrar offices generate Rs 1,000crore revenue, which is 10% of the total annual income generated by the registration department. While Avadi and Poonamallee sub-registrar offices from Chennai South, that witness high value land transactions, would be part of the Tiruvallur DRO, Redhills, Ponneri and Gummidipoondi registration offices would be carved out from Chennai North for merging with the neighbouring district. Eight sub-registrar offices operating largely in the rural pockets of Tiruvallur including Tiruthani that are part of Kancheepuram DRO will come under the purview of Tiruvallur DRO. The department is preparing a proposal in this regard. According to official sources, the separate DRO will facilitate quick redressal. "It will benefit the public at large because local residents need not have to travel to far-off places to redress their grievances," a senior registration department official said. In the present situation, people in the northern and western suburbs need to visit their respective DROs in the core city for issues including guideline value. But, addressing their problems is time consuming as Chennai North and South DROs handle a chunk of sub-registrar offices with high value transactions. T Sadagopan, president of the Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Centre at Pattabiram said access by buses and trains to Tiruvallur for those residing in the western suburbs is easier than to commute to Chennai. "Moreover, the district registrar will participate in review meetings with the district collector where public grievances can be addressed quickly," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-kanchi-to-be-split-to-set-up-dro-in-tiruvallur/articleshow/77986290.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Car info puts cops on Bypass accused trail||KOLKATA: Police have established the identity of the accused in the Anandapur case in which two women — a 31-year-old banker and her 47-year-old rescuer — were injured around Saturday midnight. Initially identified as Amitabha Bose, cops have found out his real identity after questioning the woman he was in the car with, and whom he allegedly molested. He was on the run till late on Monday. “His name is Abhishek Pandey,” said a Lalbazar officer. He lives in an apartment in Mukundapur, off EM Bypass. It was the woman herself who initially shielded his identity, the cops claimed. “She was in a relationship with him for two years. But we still do not know why she hid the fact initially,” said an officer. The cops believe Pandey may have fled towards Farakka, where his father had been based in for a long time. Alternatively, a few hideouts of his friends in and around the city are also on the radar. The black Honda City that he was driving while committing the crime has been seized from around the Purbalok premises. The accused’s mother has claimed that the survivor and the accused had known each other for over five years and were set to get married after Bhai Phonta. Police claimed that a few more correct details — if shared initially by the 31-year-old banker — could have helped crack the case. “We do know that she knew the accused, who worked in a financial firm, for several years. She was allegedly in a relationship with the accused for two years. However, we still do not know why she hid the fact initially even though she is a victim of abuse. She had also not revealed the real name of the accused. When we asked her how her mobile details got deleted by a person who barely knew her for four days (as she had claimed initially), her answer was unsatisfactory. On Monday, we went to a Patuli restaurant where the duo had dined on Saturday. There, we recorded the manager’s statement. We also checked CCTV footage. We then traced the car through CCTV footage and established its registration number. It was then that the real identity of Pandey got established,” explained an officer. “We now have a version of events by stitching together whatever the victim and other witnesses have told us. On Saturday, we believe the couple had an argument over something. During the argument, Pandey became abusive and the victim bit his hands. This enraged Pandey, who started hitting her. It was then that the victim sought help from outside. That is when the couple — Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati — interfered. However, even this version might change after we arrest Pandey,” said an officer. Talking to TOI, Satpati said he was yet to be contacted to record his statement. “It was an attempt on my wife’s life and I would like to lodge a complaint. The cops were really helpful that night but till today, I have not been updated about the case,” he said. Senior officers at Lalbazar said they would talk to him soon. “Chatterjee is the key witness as well as a victim. We will record her statement.” The cops will get both women to record their statements before the magistrate. “While Chatterjee’s statement has left no doubt whatsoever, the other victim’s statements need to be cross-checked,” said an officer. A police team is likely to visit her office soon even as another is likely to speak to her family in Jalpaiguri. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-info-puts-cops-on-bypass-accused-trail/articleshow/77986297.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Parents hail order, schools not very happy||Jaipur: The interim order of Rajasthan High Court directing schools to charge only 70% of the tuition fees in three instalments till January 31 has provided much-needed relief to parents. Parents’ associations, which had been demanding fee waiver for the session since March, feel relieved while schools feel that it is infringement in their autonomy.A section of parents who didn’t get any waiver are delighted by the interim order. Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert, said even a relief of 30% would mean a lot for the parents. “My son studies in a school whose annual fees is close to 1.50 lakh. The waiver means I will be saving Rs 50,000-60,000 in a year,” said Choudhary.Another section said even 70% fee is too huge for them to pay. “We demanded at least 50% fee waiver on grounds that schools are not incurring any variable cost and teaching online has reduced the further costs to less than 10-20%. Since sales at my store in Raja Park has gone down by 90%, how can the court have expected that I will deposit 70% of the fees,” Nilesh Goyal, a readymade garments owner whose two son study at an elite school in Mansarovar, said.“This is the interim order and the court will take a final call about the remaining 30% fee after hearing parents and managements. I appeal to all stakeholders to work together for academic upgradation of students and not to indulge in any further controversy,” said Damodar Goyal, president of the society for private unaided schools in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-hail-order-schools-not-very-happy/articleshow/77987236.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Allow more people for social events, demand caterers||Jaipur: People associated with tent and catering business in the city staged a protest on Monday demanding some relaxation in government rules in organising social events. Since lockdown, all public gatherings including marriages, religious functions, parties have been prohibited, which have directly affected the tent and catering business. Shyam Sundar, member of Jaipur Catering Dealers Samiti Jaipur said, “The Centre has increased the cap to 100 persons in social events. Why can’t Rajasthan government follow that. We are suffering economic losses due to this. We want the government to at least allow 400 people in social events in big places where it is easier to maintain social distancing.”They also handed over a memorandum to the district collector demanding easing of rules of social gathering. There are around 15,000 caterers in Rajasthan including 50,000 people who are attached to event work – tent, flower decoration, music, band. The government is yet to take any decision on it, but officials in the district administration are not ready to accept the demand. “It is not possible to allow 400 people in a social gathering. With just 50 people in an event, the number of coronavirus patients are rising, just imagine how much the positive cases will increase? There are losses in every sector and it is not possible to put people’s lives at risk,” said a district administrative officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allow-more-people-for-social-events-demand-caterers/articleshow/77987223.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Orange alert for 4 districts today||KOCHI: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the state and issued ‘Orange alert’ for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Malappuram on Tuesday. IMD has warned of squally weather with wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas. High waves in the range of 2.8 to 4.6m are likely to occur till Tuesday along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds may vary between 25 and 83cm/sec. There is a rough sea warning in coastal and low-lying areas of Kollam, Alappuzha, Kochi, Ponnani, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod. These areas may experience surges (gushing of sea water into these areas) intermittently till Wednesday because of high period (18-23 sec) swell waves, having 2.0-2.7 m height. The fishermen and coastal population are advised to be cautious during this period. Boats plying near to the coasts may be avoided during this period as the coastal regions are likely to experience its effect more. The boats may be anchored at a fair distance from each other, to avoid collision and damage. Taking out the boats from the shore to the sea and back should be avoided. The effects of these events in the open ocean is likely to be minimal. On Monday, Cherthala received the highest rainfall in the state with 18cm followed by Haripad, Kumarakom, Chalakudy, Kodungallur (17cm each). While Mancombu recorded 16cm of rainfall, Kochi naval airport received 15cm rains. Vaikom, Piravom and Nilambur got 13cm rainfall each and Ernakulam South and Irinjalakkuda received 12cm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orange-alert-for-4-districts-today/articleshow/77985141.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||‘Conduct survey to identify all left out Silicosis patients’||Jaipur: Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup on Monday directed the social justice department to conduct a survey to identify all the silicosis patients in the state who have been left out - the ones who had applied for benefits offline before 2018 - to ensure their certification and providing financial assistance.Reviewing the pending cases of silicosis, Swarup also directed the department of mines and labour to make payment that are pending in all the certified cases within 10 days. The health department has been asked to get all the pending cases approved soon.The payment of around 6,000 silicosis patients is pending of the 15,000 certified patients. The chief secretary has asked the social justice department to submit a survey plan in 10 days. He said, by conducting a survey in the entire state, the left out patients should be identified and their certification process must be completed in a time-bound manner.During the survey, the eligible people, who had applied offline before 2018, will be identified by the district collectors. Following their identification, they shall be provided financial assistance as per rules by uploading the details on the portal.Gayatri Rathore, secretary, social Justice and empowerment department, informed that a Silicosis fund is being created so that money could be transferred to the patients from this fund if there is any delay in payment. The district collector will be the sanctioning and disbursement authority for the fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-survey-to-identify-all-left-out-silicosis-patients/articleshow/77987246.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||RUIDP to amend pipeline plan to save Sonar Fort||Jaisalmer: The loopholes in the pipeline laying project at Sonar Fort being carried out by the Rajasthan Urban Infrastructure Development Project (RUIDP) will be fixed soon.The pipeline was damaging the foundations of the fort due to excess seepage of water. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup in Jaipur on Monday.A senior ASI officer said that a consolidated report of the six hill forts, included in the world heritage site list, will have to be submitted to Unesco by January next year. Various issues like site management plan, visitor management sub-plan, sewerage work done by RUIDP at the Sonar fort and progress of conservation works along with removing of illegal constructions and encroachments was discussed at the meet. A report will be prepared and submitted to the director, world heritage, Government of India and ASI.Sources said it was decided that site management plans will be formulated for all the six hill forts and will be implemented soon. Apart from this, discussion was held on parking problem at Kumbhalgarh fort. The meeting was informed that a proposal for acquisition of land for parking is pending with the district collector and will be sent to the state government. After its approval, a gazette notification will be issued. The issue of mining around Chittorgarh fort was also discussed.Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said action will be taken to remove illegal constructions and shift the vegetable market.The six hill forts — Sonar fort, Kumbhalgarh fort, Chittorgarh fort, Amber fort, Gagron fort and Ranthambhore fort — were included in the world heritage site list of Unesco in 2013.Officials of ASI, collectors of the six districts and officials of other departments were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ruidp-to-amend-pipeline-plan-to-save-sonar-fort/articleshow/77987253.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Notice to firm after 277 workers test +ve||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation issued a show-cause notice to a construction company, PSP, asking why a fine of Rs 1 crore should not be imposed on it. AMC authorities found that 277 workers, of the 1,050 at three construction sites of the company, had Covid-19.The AMC also said that that despite having more than 30 workers, the company failed to appoint a Covid coordinator. The notice asks the company why a fine of Rs 1 crore should not be imposed for not appointing a Covid coordinator and if one was appointed, why the decision was not conveyed to the AMC.The notice stated that the company had also violated guidelines issued by the AMC and the state government. AMC medical officer for health, Bhavin Solanki, in a statement said that the AMC has made it mandatory to appoint a Covid coordinator if a company has more than 30 workers. PSP has labour colonies at the GMDC ground, the Paladium Mall site and near Zydus Hospital. Teams of health workers visited these sites and tested labourers there. The 277 labourers found to have Covid were moved to Covid care centres and hospitals.The AMC teams said social distancing and proper hygiene were missing at the colonies. AMC said that the hefty fine was imposed as the AMC had to make arrangements for medical and paramedical staff and logistics.The AMC directed the company authorities to reply to the notice within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/notice-to-firm-after-277-workers-test-ve/articleshow/77986357.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer receives 104.5% more rains from average||Jaisalmer: The desert district which reels under drought and prays for rains every year has received unusual rainfall this monsoon.Compared to other districts, Jaisalmer received 104.5% more rainfall from the average. The district has witnessed such excess downpour after a gap of 15 years.However, the farming community is not happy over this as their crops have suffered heavy damages. Many farmers are using pumps to flush out water from their fields. Many roads in rural areas have been washed away and some routes have been blocked. Villagers are forced to take long routes to reach their destination.Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said the district has witnessed record rainfall. The average rainfall in Jaisalmer is 146.8mm while from January 1 to September 6 this year, the district has received 343.4mm. He said Ramgarh tehsil received 28mm, Sam 195mm, Fatehgarh 344mm, Pokhran 473mm and Nokh 38mm.Modi said efforts are being made to repair the damaged roads, and restore electricity and water supply. Also, a survey of damages in the fields and collapse of huts is in progress and compensation will be given as per rules.Rainwater accumulated in Lanela ka Rann spread in an area of 15sqkm has become a new tourist point in the district. This place is 20km away from Jaisalmer.11-year-old drowns in pitAn 11-year-old boy, Sattar Khan drowned in a pit full of water near his house at Raimala. He was playing near his home when he fell into the pit. The family members rushed him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-receives-104-5-more-rains-from-average/articleshow/77987239.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC suspends interviews||Ajmer: The abrupt suspension of interviews slated for September and October for public relation officers, surveyors and RAS by the Rajasthan Public Service Commission has caught the ire of candidates. The interviews for PRO posts were scheduled to start from Monday while RAS interviews were planned from October 5.An RPSC official said the interviews were suspended by the state government because of Covid. Candidates set to appear in the interviews from Monday has accused the government of deliberately delaying the process for political gains. “I don’t understand the logic behind the suspension of interviews citing Covid as a reason. Is the government sure that the situation will become normal in the coming months,” asked and aspirant in Ajmer on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-suspends-interviews/articleshow/77987250.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Vijay Rath to join coronavirus fight||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani e-flagged off ‘Vijay Rath’ from Gandhinagar on Monday to create public awareness about the dangers of Covid-19. However, fears are being expressed that the project might instead contribute to further spread of the pandemic in rural areas, as people will gather to view street plays and audio visual presentations on the dangers of the pandemic. The rath, which will be accompanied by about 350 artists – mainly from Ahmedabad and Surat – will first cover five districts of Junagadh, Kutch, Banaskantha, Surat and Ahmedabad. Later, it will cover around 90 talukas in all the remaining districts over the next 44 days. The artists will perform street plays and use other performing arts to educate people on how to fight the pandemic. The CM said the entire nation is taking steps to control spread of the pandemic. He exuded confidence that the ‘Vijay Raths’, after the success of Dhanvantari Rath, Sanjivani Rath and 104 helpline, will further intensify the fight against the virus. Rupani said that the efforts to control the pandemic have already yielded 82% recovery rate with the people’s cooperation. Gujarat’s fatality rate has come down from 7% to 2.9%, he said, adding that the state’s positive cases stands at 3.5 to 4% as against the national average of 8 to 9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vijay-rath-to-join-corona-fight/articleshow/77986341.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Stork reality: Winged visitors land in Delhi zoo amid calm||NEW DELHI: Even as the National Zoological Park continues to remain shut for visitors during the pandemic, over 400 painted storks have migrated to Delhi. The number could cross 500 as officials are expecting more birds to fly down in the next couple of weeks. The zoo is providing an “undisturbed natural habitat” to the storks in the absence of visitors. Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, told TOI, “With no visitors, the zoo has turned into a mini forest and we are providing a natural habitat to the birds without any disturbance. They are enjoying the tranquility.” The first flock was spotted on August 6. Zoo officials said they arrived early this year. They usually come by mid-August. “Painted storks are inland migratory birds who come here for nesting and breeding. They are currently building nests on trees near the waterbodies and will lay eggs around December. When their chicks learn to fly in a few months, the birds will return by March,” said Pandey. Every year, 200 to 400 chicks return to their native places with the adult painted storks. Though the zoo is known for animals in captivity, painted storks have been making their way there for decades. “Painted storks are waders and catch fishes and insects in shallow water. Our artificial waterbodies have fishes, but we add 40kg of two-inch fishes in the ponds daily to ensure a proper diet to the large congregation of birds. During the breeding season, we will increase it to 60kg fishes per day,” said an official. Officials said if the zoo opens next month, visitors would be delighted to see the birds. Tickets would be available on the zoo website whenever it opens. With a long yellow-coloured beak, painted storks are known for their white and slightly black plumage and pinkish tail. Apart from the storks, birds like rosy falcon, Indian black ibis, little cormorant and common duck were spotted in the ponds. Currently, there are over 100 species of birds in the zoo. Watch Delhi: Winged visitors land in zoo amid lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stork-reality-winged-visitors-land-in-zoo-amid-calm/articleshow/77986303.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cases of coronavirus soar, but fewer critical care beds available||LUCKNOW: The city recorded over 900 new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Monday, overwhelming the already overburdened critical care facilities in various hospitals. The 950 new cases took the city’s tally since the outbreak to 33,453. Of these 24,358 (72.8%) patients have recovered and 8,643 (25.3%) patients are in hospitals or home isolation. Around 48% of the total isolation beds for mild symptomatic patients were vacant in city hospitals, but 84% of HDU beds and 96% ICU/ventilator beds were occupied. According to the bed availability status report, there are 3,750 beds in 29 hospitals, government-aided and private, that have been designated as Covid facilities in L1, L2 and L3 categories. Of the total beds, 2,051 beds were vacant on Monday afternoon. However, the situation of high dependency units (HDU) and ICU/ventilators was grim — only 88 out of 569 HDUs and 10 out of 282 ICU/ventilator beds were vacant, in comparison to Sunday afternoon when 113 HDUs and 10 ICU/ventilator beds were available. In fact, top medical institutes—KGMU, SGPGIMS and RMLIMS—were working almost to capacity. In KGMU, all 40 and 60 ICU/ventilator beds were full, while 39 of 116 isolation beds were vacant. Its new Covid hospital with 100 ICU and 220 HDUs is expected to become operational in two days and bring some relief. Similarly, in RMLIMS, all the 30 HDUs and 20 ICU/ventilators were full. Around 27 isolation beds out of 83 were free. In SGPGIMS, of the total 202 beds in Covid hospital, only six were available — four isolation beds and two ICU /ventilator, while HDUs were full. The hospital has total 104 isolation beds, 20 HDUs and 78 ICU/ventilators At Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, all the 20 ICU/ventilators were occupied and only one of 80 HDUs was vacant. At Integral Institute of Medical Science, none of the 10 ICU/ventilators was free and only four of 70 HDUs were available.  The situation was similar at other hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-of-coronavirus-soar-but-fewer-critical-care-beds-available/articleshow/77987265.cms||Yusra Husain
September 8, 2020||Pune||Rush for certificates to avail seats under quota despite education department’s 90-day window||PUNE: The admission season has begun and students are trying to grab the best seat possible in colleges, and at the same time wanting to get the benefit of government schemes. Many students and their parents are rushing to colleges, offices of the district collectorate and the citizen’s facilitation centres across the city to get the required certificates to get admission under the quota system. While the education department has said that caste certificate, non-creamy layer certificate etc and other reservation related certificates can be submitted at a later date, parents are queuing up in front of these offices to get the certificates. From standard XI to postgraduation courses, there is provision of reservation of seats for economically and socially backward students on submission of documents. The deputy director of education in Pune region has given three months to submit the certificates even after admission to students given the Covid-19 situation. Seema Rahane went twice to get a non-creamy layer certificate for admission of her son to a post-SSC diploma course. Rahane said, “I am seeking this certificate for the admission of my son. We are not able to process it online and to get the benefit of the scheme I have to get this certificate. I know I am risking my life by stepping out but getting the certificate is equally important.” At the Vishrantwadi citizen’s facilitation centre, on a daily basis, at least 10-12 students or parents arrive for applying online to secure the certificates. The official at the centre, said many come in groups and it is difficult to manage them sometimes. “We have ensured that social distancing is maintained and help them apply online. Some come only to enquire, some have applied earlier so they come to check status and there are some who come to apply for these certificates,” the official added. Joint director at the deputy director of education, Meena Shendkar, said, “We are giving admission to students irrespective of the documents availability. We have given students three months to submit the documents. Hence, they do not need to rush to any office for getting the certificates. Students can also apply online.” Pune city tehsildar Geeta Dalvi said they have already issued about 1,000 certificates online and have made all arrangements for online application to ensure that students do not have to move from one place to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rush-for-certificates-to-avail-best-seats-despite-three-months-window/articleshow/77987844.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 8, 2020||Madurai||As lockdown eased, hospitals in Madurai witness rise in footfall||MADURAI: Hospitals in the city are beginning to see a rise in footfall of non-Covid-19 patients following the relaxations in movement of people and public transport. However, doctors said that even with things returning to normalcy, telemedicine and online consultations should still be made use of when possible. “We are seeing considerably more non-Covid-19 patients this week, compared to previous weeks. We are expecting a further increase in the coming weeks. All emergency cases are functioning as per usual and we are resuming elective surgeries as well in a phased manner. Measures are being taken to prevent any crowding,” said Dr J Sangumani, dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). In private hospitals too, many patients who had not visited during the lockdown period, are slowly returning. “We are witnessing a rise by at least by 40% compared to the previous week. More walk-in patients are coming in now than those with appointments. More patients are coming from southern districts like Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli,” said Dr B Kannan, medical administrator at a private multi-specialty hospital in the city. He added that while telemedicine and video consultation services at the hospital still remain open, it is seeing fewer takers. Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai said that just because lockdown has been relaxed, patients should not shun telemedicine and video consultations with doctors. “The Covid-19 pandemic is nowhere over. Unnecessary visits to hospitals must be avoided. Telemedicine and hospitals visits should be complemented with each other. Any regular check-ups or consultations to show X-ray and scan reports to get opinion can preferably be done over phone or video calls,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-lockdown-eased-hosps-witness-rise-in-footfall/articleshow/77987241.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Miscreants take woman hostage, loot Rs 10k, jewellery||Bijnor: Miscreants, on Monday, took a woman hostage and looted Rs 10,000 and gold jewellery worth lakhs from her possession in Chamraula village under Chandpur police station area. A probe has been ordered. The crime was committed by five men when a woman and her husband were asleep on the first floor of their house. The miscreants barged into the couple’s house and took the woman hostage at gun point. They tied the couple with a rope and robbed them of Rs 10,000 and gold jewellery. Neighbours rushed to help hearing the couple shout. Miscreants had managed to escape by then. The woman, eight months pregnant, filed a complaint against unidentified miscreants. Police are probing the matter. According to officials, a case will be registered in this connection after investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/miscreants-take-woman-hostage-loot-rs-10k-jewellery/articleshow/77985151.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Teen spends Rs 2.3 lakh from grandpa’s account on PUBG||NEW DELHI: A 15-year-old boy addicted to mobile video game Player Unknown’s Battleground bought skins for his character and climbed levels by spending Rs 2.3 lakh from his grandfather’s bank account. However, his game account was soon hacked due to which he could not use the upgrades despite reaching the ace level. The game was recently banned by the Centre. When his grandfather started inquiring about the money, the teenager cooked up a story about the bank account being hacked. A complaint was lodged with the cyber cell. The teen’s grandfather had retired from BSNL and had recently transferred his pension fund in his bank account. A probe revealed that the money had been transferred to a Paytm account using the debit card. Police quizzed the family members since only they knew the PIN of the card in the elderly man’s possession. The boy soon admitted that he had used the money to buy “UC” or points required to buy weapons, skins and rise up levels in the game. He had transferred the money to a Paytm account and deleted the text messages containing the OTP and confirmation of the transfer from his grandfather’s phone. Later, when the teen realised that he would get caught, he cooked up the story about the bank account getting hacked. He panicked when his PUBG account got hacked and his access was revoked. Police have counselled the boy and informed his parents about the incident. Watch 15-year-old boy spends Rs 2.3 lakh from grandpa’s account on PUBG||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-spends-rs-2-3-lakh-from-grandpas-account-on-pubg/articleshow/77986305.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Centre violating GST law, Gehlot tells PM Modi||Jaipur: The Centre has violated the rules of GST in payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the states, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said recently in a letter to the prime minister.Referring to the GST Council meeting on August 27 where the states were told to borrow for covering the shortfall in the compensation cess, the chief minister said the Centre's position is that this is to be paid only from the Compensation Fund and it is not government of India's obligation to finance the shortfall. "This is against the letter and spirit of the Constitutional amendment by which the states gave up their constitutional right to levy certain taxes in favour of the central government as well as the understanding reached in the 7th, 8th and the 10th meetings of the GST Council meetings," the chief minister said in the letter. The constitutional amendment allowing for the merger of several states' taxes into GST states that compensation will be provided to the states "for loss of revenue on account of implementation of the goods and services tax..." Under The GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years, starting from 2017. "It is clear from above that it is the obligation of the Central Government to ensure that the states receive, without liability, the full amount of compensation, notwithstanding the shortfall in the collection of cess and that the compensation can neither be increased nor decreased without amending this Act. I would like to emphasize that the quantum of compensation to be paid to the states is not an executive decision of the central government or the Council but is a legal obligation on the government of India under the Act," Gehlot said in the letter. He said the Council does not have the power to alter the compensation mechanism without getting the Act amended. "Therefore, there is no ambiguity that the shortfall in revenues must be met by revenue transfers from the Central government," Gehlot reasoned. Pointing out the problems of borrowing from RBI which was told by the Centre in the recent Council meeting, the letter sought to know if the states borrow from the RBI, will the RBI hold state government debt on its balance sheet as it does that of the central government? Secondly, would the loans so taken be interest bearing? The chief minister said that it is inequitable because under the RBI Act, all RBI surpluses are transferred to the government of India as dividend. "While the central government reneges on its promise of paying the compensation to the states, it would end up making profit from the interest paid by the states," Gehlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-violating-gst-law-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/articleshow/77987266.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||Thane takes antigen tests to doorstep, Diva next hotspot?||Thane: The civic body is collaborating with gated complexes to encourage residents to opt for antigen tests as a precautionary measure to detect positive cases in time. A civic official said they were approaching housing societies, especially those in containment zones or areas reporting many cases. Officials said many hesitate to visit civic offices or hospitals, fearing exposure, so having a testing centre right at their doorstep may encourage many to opt for it. “Tests will be voluntary. We are taking committee members’ help to convince residents to opt for the test, that will give us an idea of the virus’ trajectory in certain pockets, and help us to take timely action,” said deputy civic chief Sandeep Malvi. This came as the city reported 274 new cases on Monday, taking the tally to 27,969, while six deaths were reported, taking the toll to 864. The recovery rate was 87%, with 24,442 recovering and 2,663 under treatment; 4,744 tests were done on Sunday and nearly two lakh totally. Meanwhile, Diva, with dense localities and poorly-developed infrastructure, is now posing a fresh challenge as cases are increasing and overtaking other hotspots. A latest review revealed the suburb registered a 1.2% growth rate of cases, next only to Majiwada-Manpada, which had a rate of 1.3% on Saturday. Naupada-Kopri has seen cases rising by 1.1%, while earlier hotpots of Lokmanya Nagar, Wagle estate and even Mumbra recorded rates of 0.4%-0.8%. “Diva has congested localities and community taps and toilets add to concerns. A dense travelling population daily increases chances of close contact between people risking chances of infection. We try to create awareness but limited infrastructure leaves little scope for maintaining effective social distancing. Residents are helpless as they have to travel to earn a livelihood,” said Shiv Sena corporator Shailesh Patil. The civic authorities claimed they were doing their best to ensure no outbreak of the virus here and are conducting timely checks and antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-takes-antigen-tests-to-doorstep-diva-next-hotspot/articleshow/77986221.cms||Manoj Badgeri
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||BJP forms panels to boost Centre policies||Jaipur: The state BJP has rolled out its outreach campaigns in the state. The party has formed four committees — Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliance), New Education Policy (NEP), Sewa Saptah and Andolan Abhiyan to promote the Union government’s flagship schemes and policies to design state-level campaigns in the state. Every committee has three members, including one party office bearer and an MLA.The Atmanirbhar Bharat committee will reach out to the street vendors, small and medium-sized enterprises, poor families to encourage them to take the benefit under various schemes. “The committee will ensure that no street vendor will be left behind in taking the advantage of a loan of Rs 10, 000 to re-start their businesses. The campaign will reach out to the remotest corner of the state,” said Ramlal Sharma, spokesperson, BJP. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-forms-panels-to-boost-centre-policies/articleshow/77987255.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Cops arrest man who chopped off wife’s body over illicit relation||ALWAR: Police on Monday claimed to have solved the murder of a woman whose body was chopped off into several pieces and dumped in various places. Police recovered severed parts of the woman on August 14. Police said the woman was murdered by her husband on suspicion that she was having an illicit affair. Her husband Amit Gupta (32) has been arrested. The woman, identified as 30-year-old Komal Gupta, got married to Amit Gupta a year ago. It was Amit’s second marriage. The accused was currently out on bail in a case of murdering a another woman after raping her in 2013. Police said Komal and Amit worked in a factory in Bhiwadi and lived in a rented house in Santhalka. Komal was a resident of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh and Amit hailed from Bharatpur. After marriage, Amit opened an e-Mitra shop in Bharatpur. But, due to Covid-19, his shop remained shut and he shifted to Bhiwadi in April. Police said after shitfing to Bhiwadi, Amit came to know that Komal frequently talked to the nephew of his ex-husband over phone. Suspecting that she had illicit relations, Amit fought over it with his wife frequently. On August 11, Komal forced her husband out of her room. Police said Amit then planned to murder his wife. On august 12, he gave her opium and after she became unconscious, he tied her hands and legs and choked her to death. He cut her body into pieces with a knife and dumped it in abandoned areas of Bhiwadi. Bhiwadi SP Ram Murti Joshi said it was difficult to identify the body as parts were thrown at different locations. However, police continued its investigation and achieved a breakthrew when the body was identified. Police then conducted a door-to-door survey in the areas and collected records of people living on rent. Cops also collected information about people who left the place and shifted to other locations after losing their jobs. While carrying out a survery, police came to know that a Komal and Amit had been missing from their rented accommodation in Santhalka village. Finally, police reached the place where he was hiding and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-arrest-man-who-chopped-off-wifes-body-over-illicit-relation/articleshow/77987261.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||I will be up on my feet soon. I must stand up: Rescuer after surgery||Kolkata: I will be up on my feet soon. I must stand up. These were the first words of Nilanjana Chatterjee, the 47-year-old braveheart who had her leg crushed under the wheels of a sedan while trying to save a woman on Saturday night, immediately after she was wheeled out of the operation theatre following an hour-long surgery on Monday afternoon. As she was being taken to the ‘recovery unit’, Nianjana looked spirited, smiled and gave a ‘thumbs up’ to doctors and nurses. Within minutes, she met her husband Deep Satpati, who had been anxiously waiting for the operation to be over. “Everything’s fine… I am relieved,” she told him. According to the medical team at Ruby General Hospital that has been formed to supervise her treatment, Chatterjee is stable and will undergo a dressing on her surgical wound three days later. “She will remain under observation and we will try to make her walk in a few days if her condition permits. She will stay in hospital at least for five days more,” said a Ruby spokesperson. Even though Chatterjee had been in immense pain ever since she was brought to the hospital with a fractured right leg, she never let her injury dampen her spirit, according to hospital sources. “She was obviously worried and a little apprehensive about the surgery. But she kept cooperating with the nurses and doctors and never showed her anxiety. It made it easier for us,” said a hospital official. He added that the woman was on pain killers after the surgery. The surgery fixed her fractured fibula and tibia (shin bones) with a titanium plate, screws and a rod. The surgery was led by orthopaedic surgeon Kunal Sengupta and plastic surgeon Dipanjan De. While Sengupta fixed the bones, Dey worked on the injury. “She had a deep gash on the skin that had to be sutured. It will take some time to heal but she is stable and should recover soon,” said De. He added that it was still early to predict how soon Chatterjee would be back on her feet. “The fractured bones have just been fixed. It may take some time for them to bear the body weight. She remains under observation and we will monitor the healing process,” added De. Chatterjee’s right leg was crushed under the wheels of the car which left the upper part of her fibula and tibia fractured. The broken bones had even penetrated her skin, causing an injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-will-be-up-on-my-feet-soon-i-must-stand-up-rescuer-after-surgery/articleshow/77986310.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 8, 2020||Pune||Digilocker ignored for NIOS students||PUNE: Students from National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) have an admission hurdle as colleges refuse to accept certificates from digilocker. Shravan, who applied for admission to First Year Junior College (FYJC), was allotted a college. “ They told me to produce my original migration certificate and school leaving certificate. Both are available in digilocker. But the college sought undertakings stating that I would submit the originals later. Now, they are want me to submit the original LC when I was in standard VIII by Tuesday to confirm my admission,” Shravan said. His school told him to pay Rs 750 but said a certificate would not be available at such short notice. “It will take six months for me to get the original certificates. But I am afraid that the college will cancel my admission if I don’t submit the certificates on time,” Shravan added. Suresh also from the same board, is from the reserved category and comes from an economically weaker family. His first year BCom admissions are stuck as the college insists on original certificates. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune division, said, “Certificates from digilocker are authentic and must be accepted by the institutes. Colleges cannot deny admission citing lack of certificates, especially in the pandemic situation where getting a certificate is not possible. We have told principals to give students at least six months to submit the original documents. Students facing any such problems must approach the deputy director’s office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-sideline-digilocker-tell-open-board-students-to-submit-original-docus/articleshow/77987887.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||‘Nutrition, exercise can beat pain in wrist and fingers’||Lucknow: Change in lifestyle and lack of exercise in times of coronavirus pandemic has led to increase in complaints of stiff muscles and pain in body, especially in hand and wrist. According to doctors and physiotherapists, the problem has aggravated in people working from home and spending long hours on computers and laptops. On the eve of World Physiotherapy Day, doctors and physiotherapists discussed common problems faced by people and steps to prevent them during a webinar on ‘Adverse effects on lifestyle caused by Covid-19’, on Monday. Doctor Santosh Kumar Upadhyay of Extracare Physiotherapy Centre said, “Many people are suffering from Carpal Tunnel syndrome wherein a person experiences pain and tingling in wrist, thumb and fingers. Patients confuse these symptoms with slip disc or cervical spondylitis but the main cause is incorrect posture.” “Those working from home spend long hours on computers and laptops. Diabetes and thyroid also aggravate such conditions,” he said. If left unattended, Carpal Tunnel syndrome could lead to weakening of muscles of hand, Dr Upadhyay added. Speaking on treatment, Dr Akanksha said people should try not to bend their wrist too much. “Electrotherapy and manual therapy, along with physical exercises, are helpful in treatment of this syndrome. As compared to women, men are three times more vulnerable to the problem,” she added. She advised people to take nutritive diet and avoid folding of wrist while sleeping. She added that one should use mouse pad while working on computer as it supports the wrist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nutrition-exercise-can-beat-pain-in-wrist-and-fingers/articleshow/77987278.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot heads 20 depts as wait for cabinet rejig on||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot is now saddled with nearly 20 departments. Apart from the original 11 departments that were initially with him, he is now being tasked with departments of former ministers Sachin Pilot, Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh who were sacked after they revolted against him. Besides, the department of social justice and empowerment of ailing minister Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal has not been allotted to any other minister. This is in sharp contrast to his first tenure when Gehlot was a chief minister without any portfolio. In his first tenure from 1998-2003, Gehlot was a chief minister without any portfolio. He was not officially holding any department. It was then hailed as his Gandhian approach. During his second tenure, he was handling the all-important departments of home, finance, personnel, etc, which is almost similar to now. Gehlot had then said he was compelled to handle more departments as he could not find talent within the government to handle such portfolios as many veterans had to bite the dust in the elections. With the much awaited cabinet reshuffle taking more time than expected, the chief minister is now called upon to keep all these departments till the party high command works out a formula for the ‘rehabilitation’ of the Sachin pilot faction. Sources said Ajay Maken, who is the new general secretary incharge of the state, had to cut short his last visit due to the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee. Maken is again reaching Jaipur on Tuesday and it is likely that he would discuss the issue with the chief minister. The Sachin Pilot camp is waiting for the decision of the three-member committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi which restored the stability of the government here. The process would be completed only with accommodation of the MLAs from the Sachin camp in the government and party organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-heads-20-depts-as-wait-for-cabinet-rejig-on/articleshow/77987271.cms||---
September 8, 2020||India||Won’t apply 3-language formula, Tamil Nadu tells Centre||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has made it clear to the Centre that it would not introduce the three-language policy and continue with the two-language formula in the state, reports Ragu Raman. “Tamil Nadu has always followed the two-language formula, which has been a success. The state government has already taken a decision to continue with the two-language policy in future,” higher education minister K P Anbalagan said in a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, while reiterating the AIADMK government’s opposition to the controversial feature of the New Education Policy (NEP). The minister also opposed the proposal to conduct entrance exams for UG courses by National Testing Agency, saying the move would discourage rural students. The Tamil Nadu government is not for such a proposal,” he said in the letter dated September4. “...after detailed deliberations and as per the instructions of the CM, the Tamil Nadu government formed a seven-member committee headed by the higher education secretary to go through the policy (NEP) and offer comments and recommendations that could be adopted by the state,” Anbalagan said in the letter. Pointing out that NEP’s target of 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) by 2035 will be achieved by the state in 2019-20 academic year itself, the minister said Tamil Nadu can achieve the ambitious target of 65% GER in 2035. Watch Won’t apply 3-language formula, Tamil Nadu tells Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-apply-3-language-formula-tamil-nadu-tells-centre/articleshow/77988162.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Easy papers, Covid norms reduce stress levels at Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: Easy question papers and strictly followed Covid-19 norms reduced stress levels of final year students of Lucknow University and affiliated colleges during the examination that began on Monday. On the first day of the examination of BA (English) and BSc (Zoology), the attendance was 86.3%. As many as 3,169 examinees were registered for the examination, of which 1,575 (86.2%) wrote the test. In the first shift BA (English) examination, as many as 1,575 (86.2%) of 1,827 students wrote the paper. Students look relaxed on LU campus and (above ) a view of the examination room in Lucknow University on the first dayA view of the examination room in Lucknow University on the first dayIn the second shift of BSc (Zoology) examination, 1,161 (86.5%) students of 1,342 were present. The students shared that the paper was simple and easy to attempt in comparison to the theoretical examination. “The questions were very easy. Unlike the theory paper in which we have to write answers in a comprehensive manner, the one-word answers were easy to attempt,” said an LU BA student Jyotsna. Another student, Arushi Singh of Isabella Thoburn College said, “So much of choice given in the paper was of great help as of 100 questions we had to attempt only 50.” Another student, Anvita from IT College said, “We were stressed about writing the examination in pandemic time but proper social distancing, thermal scanning and sanitization was followed in our college which reduced our stress levels.” Even the BSc paper was easy. “There were no complex questions. Even questions asked from tough portions like DNA processing and gene regulation, chromatin organization were easy,” said LU BSc (Zoology) student Divya Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/easy-papers-covid-norms-reduce-stress-levels-at-lu/articleshow/77987350.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Roko-toko system of police patrolling to be introduced in Margao||Margao: The South Goa police have intensified night patrolling in the district. Deputy superintendent of police (Margao) Kiran Poduval on Monday issued instructions to in-charges of police stations of Margao and Quepem to brief and debrief all police personnel — on patrol vehicles as well as mobile patrol officers and other patrolling staff — about the need to be alert about any suspicious movements or activities in their respective jurisdiction. Officiating South Goa SP Mahesh Gaonkar on Sunday held a review meeting with all senior officials of the South Goa division and issued instructions with a view to enhancing law and order apparatus in the district. Following a furore generated among the public following the murder of jeweller Swapnil Walke in Margao, sources said that the police have now laid special emphasis on preempting any criminal activities. Poduval said that he has now introduced the ‘roko-toko’ (stop and check) system in Margao in a bid to create a sense of deterrence among criminals. This system has been in force in Quepem for a long time and has proved to be effective in bringing down the crime rate there, it is learnt. “As part of the roko-toko campaign, we randomly stop suspicious looking elements and question them. If they fail to give satisfactory answers they will be rounded up and their antecedents checked,” the Dy SP said. Poduval said that inspectors have been told to implement roko-toko practice seriously in order to ensure effective policing. He exuded confidence that the practice will keep a check on criminal activities, including peddling of narcotics. The practice, police sources said, will also lead to enhanced compliance of tenant verification. Police personnel have also been sensitised about this aspect, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roko-toko-system-of-police-patrolling-to-be-introduced-in-margao/articleshow/77987377.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Temple body lodges complaint||Visakhapatnam: Officials of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devastham lodged a complaint against four persons in connection with the alleged gold scam at Gopalapatnam police station limits on Monday. In the complaint, Y Srinivasa Rao, the assistant executive officer of the temple body alleged that the accused created fake receipts and forged the temple executive officer’s signature. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/temple-body-lodges-complaint/articleshow/77985171.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||45,000 units of blood donated on Pilot b’day||JAIPUR: Sachin Pilot supporters used his 43rd birthday on Monday to showcase his popularity. They placed billboards across the city and attempted a record in blood donation, showing solidarity with the young leader. Pilot supporters claimed a record donation of over 45,000 units of blood, collected in nearly 400 blood donation camps, organised across the state. Pilot, who had appealed to the supporters not to come to Jaipur to wish him amid the pandemic, interacted with his followers through social media platforms and conveyed his gratitude for holding the blood donation camps on his birthday and for greeting him on the occasion. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, BJP state president Satish Poonia and other leaders also wished Pilot, who is MLA from Tonk, on his birthday. Earlier in the day, the chief minister and other leaders tweeted to congratulate Pilot. “Wishing you a very happy birthday @SachinPilot ji. May you be blessed with happiness, good health and long life,” Gehlot tweeted. In Jhalawar, 6,151units of blood were collected while the collection in Jaipur(city) crossed 7,222 units. Apart from blood donation, tree plantation, fodder distribution for animals, eye donation resolution, blood donation resolution, body donation resolution, distribution of food and fruits among the poor, book distribution to poor children were held. Interacting with his supporters on social media, Pilot said, “I thank the party workers and supporters for organising the blood donation camps and for wishing me on my birthday. I am happy that all participated with enthusiasm for the noble cause, which will help people,” Pilot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45000-units-of-blood-donated-on-pilot-bday/articleshow/77987338.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Salary cut: Staff seek CS support||Jaipur: As state government employees started their five-phase stir against salary cut on Monday, the representatives of All Rajasthan State Government Employees Federation met chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and submitted a memorandum urging the government to withdraw its decision to deduct one-day salary and release their pending salaries for the month of March.According to state general secretary of the federation Tej Singh Rathore, the chief secretary assured them of bringing their demands to the notice of chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The cabinet had decided to deduct two days’ remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day salary of other state government employees (ministerial and sub-ordinates) from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund.In a memorandum to the chief secretary, they demanded their pending salaries for March (16 days) be released and withdraw the order to deduct one-day salary.They also demanded that the government must reverse its order to stop payment of cash for 15 days (out of 30 days privilege leave) when they go on leave. Further, they demanded that the government should have a dialogue on their 15-point demand charter which was submitted earlier. The charter includes issues pertaining to salary cuts, new pension scheme, contractual employees etc. On September 9, statewide protest will be held in villages, tehsils, sub-divisions, districts by burning the pay cut order. A campaign on Twitter against the government’s order will be run on September 14 and 15. On Sept 21-22, the employees will leave all the department WhatsApp groups for two days. They will neither take orders, nor give any information to higher officials (non-cooperation with the government).tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/salary-cut-staff-seek-cs-support/articleshow/77987322.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Covid-positive man ends life hours before son dies in hospital||KOLHAPUR: A 56-year-old priest, distraught after testing positive for Covid-19 along with four other family members, ended his life at his residence in the Dudhgaon village of Sangli district on Sunday. Police have recorded the death as an accidental death. The deceased and members of his family — wife, two sons and a daughter-in-law — had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. In the family, only the priest’s young granddaughter had tested negative. His 34-year-old son, however, had to be admitted to the Miraj hospital as his condition was critical. As another blow to the family, this son succumbed to the infection within hours of his father’s suicide. The son was not aware of his father’s death. Miraj police have recorded the statements of family members and neighbours. The preliminary inquiry suggests the 56-year-old priest was stressed following the positive tests of his family members. While all others were asked to quarantine themselves at home, his eldest son, who was into computer business, had to be admitted to a Miraj hospital. This son’s condition further distressed the priest, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-positive-man-ends-life-hours-before-son-dies-in-hosp/articleshow/77984180.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Four-month high: Kolkata flight count hits a century||Kolkata: Flight count at Kolkata airport hit a century on Sunday, exactly 102 days after operations resumed post lockdown. A day later, however, not a single flight took off as the state went into a total lockdown for a day. Though it is still way short of the 240-score it regularly clocked before the pandemic sent the aviation industry into a tailspin, it has been a rollercoaster ride to 100 with several air pockets along the way. Flights in Kolkata had resumed on May 28, three days after it did in rest of the country. Battered by cyclone Amphan, Kolkata was still limping back to normal when the first set of flights took off. On the first day, only 11 flights departed. After restrictions were lifted from June 1, the flight count increased to 45 and continued to rise till it reached 60-61 by mid-month. Flights continued to cruise at that level till June-end when the state's request to the Centre to stop flights from highly infected Covid states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat led to the flight count going up to 72 on July 5 as fliers scrambled to travel a day before the ban set in. On July 6, the flight count plunged to 41. Flights at the airport hit another turbulence when the state announced the twice-a-week complete lockdowns from July-end. Though 43 flights operated on the first lockdown day on June 23, there have been no flights on lockdown days since then, just like September 7 when no flights landed or took off from Kolkata just a day after it touched 100. What led to the recent rally and the century home-run is resumption of flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Nagpur three times a week. Though there was no ban on flights from Kolkata to these cities, most airlines did not operate one-way flights as they were difficult to schedule and also unviable. IndiGo did start one-way flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai a day after Independence Day. But the real impetus came on September 1 when the embargo was lifted after nearly two months. Suddenly, the flight count shot up to 93. The next day though, it plunged to 69 (courtesy the ban on flights from the six cities four days a week, including September 2) again before hitting a high of 94 the next day. “It appears that passengers are gaining confidence in air travel and we hope to reach the pre-Covid figures by the end of this year,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. As the airport clocked 100 departures and the same number of arrivals on September 6, it also recorded the highest number of outgoing passengers at 16,350. With 52 flights, IndiGo contributed most to the surge followed by SpiceJet, Go Air and Air India. Airlines though are cautious about the flyer-count as 80% of travellers are migrant workers heading back to their place of work. “Since there are no regular trains now, these labourers are taking flights to head to their workplace. But they are less likely to resort to air travel in future once normal train operations resume. Only after the transport situation in the country normalises for good, we can have a clearer picture,” said an airline official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-month-high-kolkata-flight-count-hits-a-century/articleshow/77986391.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Beds kept vacant due to shortage of oxygen||Kolhapur: The shortage in supply of oxygen cylinders is forcing the city-based hospitals to keep the beds with oxygen-support facility vacant. There are over 700 oxygen-support beds in the city and the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started making surprise visits to all the hospitals. There have been complaints from patients and their kin about hospitals denying admission citing lack of beds. But most of these beds are being kept vacant for the want of oxygen. During one such surprise visit conducted by mayor Nilofer Ajrekar, a hospital was found denying admission to patient despite having vacant beds. Health officials were then asked by the mayor to issue a show-cause notice to the hospital. “We were told that there is lack of oxygen supply due to which the relatives of the patient were informed about the unavailability of the bed with oxygen support. However, the bed can be useful for other patients. We are trying to get the oxygen supply from various plants. Also, we have found that the proper information is not being provided to the relatives regarding the availability of the beds,” Ajrekar said. Meanwhile, the help desk at district collector’s office calls every hospital on a regular basis to check on the availability of the beds. The demand is growing from the corporators and activists to develop an online dashboard to let the relatives know about the bed availability. “The relatives should also know how many beds will be vacant in next couple of hours in a particular hospital. We have appointed one official each for every private hospital who can keep the dashboard updated regularly and communicate with the relatives,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/beds-kept-vacant-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen/articleshow/77984194.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Events industry seeks to lift curbs on social gatherings||Workers being testedAhmedabad: Citing financial troubles and rising unemployment in the event management sector since the lockdown, industry players have sought to lift restrictions on social gatherings. Event managers and representatives of companies in the hospitality sector in their representation to the state and central governments mention that at least five crore families of weddings, events and exhibitions sector are facing the threat of unemployment. The industry has so far made losses of Rs 5,000 crore, according to industry players.Despite the permission granted by the government of India to organize weddings and events with gatherings of up to a maximum of 100 persons, there is no sanction for the exhibitions and conferences and this has hardly given respite to event managers. Moreover, thanks to the pandemic and the lockdown, there were mass cancellations of bookings for catering, events, venues, decoration and other allied businesses hitting the industry’s revenues adversely.Exhibitors, caterers, event managers and others have jointly sought a relief package along with lifting of restrictions. The association also sought relief in income tax and GST along with more credit.Narendra Somani, president, HRA, Gujarat, said, “At present, according to the unlock guidelines, the upper limit for inviting the guests for a marriage function is set at 100 persons, which is not sufficient to meet the expectation of the industry. The governments should increase the invitation limit for number of guests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/events-industry-seeks-to-lift-curbs-on-social-gatherings/articleshow/77986402.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar launches poll campaign with blistering attack on Lalu Prasad||PATNA: Sticking to his campaign theme of “15 years of ‘Jungle Raj’ vs his 15 years of ‘Susashan’”, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar launched a blistering attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his entire family on Monday at a virtual rally officially launching JD(U)’s poll campaign. In his three-hour speech, Nitish recounted in considerable detail his government’s achievements in all spheres over the past 15 years and contrasted it with the 15 years of the “pati-patni sarkar’ referring to the RJD rule of Lalu Prasad and later his wife Rabri Devi’s tenures between 1990 and 2005. Aware that today’s youth may not be aware of the Lalu-Rabri regime, the Bihar CM repeatedly asked his party workers to inform the new generation as to what was the situation of law and order, roads, health sector and governance in the state till 2005. “Tell the new generation about all the good work done by our government and scenario that prevailed before 2005. They were children then, but now they are adults. It is necessary to inform them; otherwise, they might fall in the hands of the ‘wrong people’,” Nitish said. He particularly emphasised his government’s achievements in healthcare, education and law and order. “Before 2005, only around 80 people visited primary health centres per month. Now the numbers are over 10,000,” he claimed. On the education sector, he said, “When I came to power, the number of girls appearing in Class X exams was just 1.7 lakh, and in the last Class X exams, the number of girls outnumbered the boys. I ensured that everyone gets to go to school.” He was particularly scathing about the law and order situation during the Lal-Rabri regime, calling it ‘jungle raj’. “Ask people if they dared to come out of their homes during the night,” he said, addressing the youth. Towards the fag end of his speech, Nitish added a new arsenal to his armoury. In an apparent departure from his practice of not raking up personal issues of political opponents, the JD(U) chief raised the issue of alleged misbehaviour done with Aishwarya Rai, the estranged wife of Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. “Look at the kind of treatment they meted out to the granddaughter of a great politician and former Bihar CM Daroga Prasad Rai.” Aishwarya’s father Chandrika, who has recently joined the JD(U), had won the 2015 assembly poll from Parsa seat on RJD symbol and also became a minister in the grand alliance government. Referring to Aishwarya, Nitish said, “She is a well-educated woman. Look what kind of treatment was meted out to her. People talk about education while selecting girls for marriage. Look what happened to this educated woman. And she is the granddaughter of a great leader no less.” In an attempt to attack RJD on its Muslim-Yadav core base, Nitish also referred to Jai Vardhan Yadav, the grandson of former Union minister Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav and Faraz Fatmi, the son of another former Union minister MAA Fatmi, who left RJD to join JD(U). “What kind of treatment was meted out to the grandchildren of big politicians like Daroga Prasad Rai and Ram Lakhan Babu? Daroga Babu and Ram Lakhan Babu helped a lot to whom in politics? Why the son and the grandchildren of such great people are quitting their party?” Nitish said making a frontal attack on the Lalu-Rabri family. On the coming assembly polls and its arrangements amid the Covid pandemic, Nitish said it was the Election Commission’s call on how to hold the election. “But in a democracy, the public is the ultimate master. They will decide to whom the voters will allow serving for the next five years,” Nitish added. “If given another opportunity to serve, I will ensure irrigation water to all farmland and a strong network of roads in rural areas to connect the one village to others as well as connect the village roads to the nearby state highways and national highways,” the JD(U) chief promised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-launches-poll-campaign-with-blistering-attack-on-lalu/articleshow/77986392.cms||Madan Kumar
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Free testing on self-referral available in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has made available the option of free Covid-19 testing, on a self-referral basis, to contain the spread of the infection.AMC health officer Neeta Padalkar on Monday said citizens, who feel that they may have been infected, can now get themselves tested for free without a doctor’s referral. “The aim is to detect the Covid-19 cases at an early stage. Such early detection is the key to contain the spread. We appeal to all the citizens to approach the nearest testing centre in case they feel they have developed symptoms,” she said. The civic body has extended testing facilities at 25 locations, including public places like bus stands and railway stations.Speaking about complaints of areas reporting Covid patients not getting sealed like before, Padalkar said the norm for defining containment zones has evolved. “We are now following the concept of micro-containments. As a result, the whole area is not under curbs. Only houses/buildings concerned will be under the scanner where disinfection drives and other measures will be carried out,” she said.On the alleged reduction in percentage of contact tracing of Covid patients, the health officer said it was an error associated with database maintainance.“Currently, our contact tracing ratio is shown as a single digit, which is not factually correct. Data entries of all high-risk and low-risk contacts traced could not take place properly, which reflected in the poor contact-tracing ratio displayed,” she saidMeanwhile, the district reported 438 fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the total number of active cases to 5,333. A total of 214 patients were discharged from different facilities, whereas four patients succumbed to the infection on Monday. The total number of Covid cases rose to 25,979, including 752 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/free-testing-on-self-referral-available-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77984206.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||2 from Lawrence Bishnoi gang held||Jaipur: Claiming to have busted a contract killing attempt by the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, Bikaner police on Monday arrested two members associated with the gang. Both were in possession of a loaded pistol and two magazines. However, their third accomplice, also a notorious gangster from Haryana, managed to flee. Both have been taken under two-day police remand. Spotting suspicious vehicles moving towards Gajner, a police team chased these vehicles upto 20km when the driver of the vehicle accelerated. “After a long chase, we arrested two persons identified as Pappu Singh (26), a native of Reda village of Churu and Yogesh alias Master alias Sunny (35), who is a native of Haryana,” said a senior officer of Bikaner police. Police stated that both, along with their third accomplice Kala Jhatedi, were on a mission to eliminate somebody. “Kala Jhatedi is a notorious gangster from Haryana and is part of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. He managed to flee from the scene,” said Bhajan Lal, station house officer of Gajner police station, who was part of the chasing team.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-from-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-held/articleshow/77987375.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||High BP, diabetes, cardiac ailments behind most Covid deaths in Kolkata: KMC||KOLKATA: Among the people who died after contracting the novel coronavirus, a high number of them suffered other health conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac ailments, a finding that had now prompted the Kolkata Municipal Corporation to conduct a co-morbidity survey among residents of areas with high prevelance of Covid cases, said a senior civic official on Monday. Kolkata’s Covid case fatality rate (CFR) was 3.2% in August-end, which was more than Bengal’s case fatality rate of 1.9%. The KMC survey, the officer said, was an attempt to identify people with serious ailments, who might require immediate medical attention. According to sources in the KMC health department, health workers will now reach out to homes in Covid high-prevalence spots with a questionnaire on health conditions of the family members of patients. They will also record the age. The workers will ascertain whether the people being surveyed are under medication or not and they will also try to zero in on SARI or ILI patients. Based on the feedback, KMC, along with the state health department, will reach out to people who are more at risk. “These will not only be people with such medical conditions but also residentspeople,” an official said. Covid fatalities have been more in the 75-plus age group. According to a source in the civic health department, Covid data collected from 144 KMC ward health units suggested most Covid patients in Kolkata died because of several comorbidity conditions they had. High blood pressure, high blood sugar and cardiovascular ailments led to sudden deterioration in the condition of Covid patients, the initial KMC findings indicated. And combination of these co-morbidity factors proved lethal for some Covid-positive patients, a KMC health department source confirmed. The sources said among the Covid victims who had either cardiovascular diseases or high blood sugar were several doctors, including a KMC borough executive health officer. This apart, patients with a history of COPD or renal failure were also vulnerable when they contracted the novel coronavirus, said a civic health department official. T K Mukherjee, an advisor to the KMC health department and a physician, iterated cardiovascular diseases, hypertension and diabetes existed among a section of Covid-19-positive patients and that led to a sudden and sharp deterioration in their health conditions, and in many cases, even caused their deaths. “These co-morbidity factors have caused multiple Covid mortalities in Kolkata and elsewhere. Covid-positive patients having COPD or renal failure as co-morbidity factors were also vulnerable,” Mukherjee said. Late August, civic and state health departments started a co-morbidity survey in the wards for better Covid-19 surveillance and care. The findings would be an indicator for the need number of hospital beds and intensive care units that would be needed in the city, a senior state official said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also said, “People having high blood sugar and hypertension have increased morbidity and mortality rates. They become vulnerable when they contract the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-bp-diabetes-cardiac-ailments-behind-most-covid-deaths-in-kol-kmc/articleshow/77986407.cms||Saikat Ray
September 8, 2020||Mumbai||RBI accepts K V Kamath report, loan relief for Covid-hit companies||MUMBAI: Companies in sectors such as retail and wholesale trade, textiles and engineering which were repaying loans before the Covid crisis can look forward to easier terms of repayment while NBFCs, power, steel and real estate businesses that were struggling even before the crisis may have to face the pain of recovery action. The RBI said on Monday it has broadly accepted the recommendation of the five-member expert committee headed by K V Kamath. The panel has identified 26 sectorsimpacted by the crisis and has prescribed six key ratios within which the resolution plan has to be finalised. For sectors not mentioned the ratios can be decided by the individual bank. These ratios essentially determine how much debt a company can build up in relation to its capital and income. “Time is of essence at the present juncture. Considering the large volume and the fact that only standard assets are eligible under the proposed scheme, a segmented approach of bucketing these accounts under mild, moderate and severe stress may ensure a quick turnaround. To complete this task, simplified restructuring for mild and moderate stress may be prescribed. Severe stress cases would require comprehensive restructuring,” the panel said in its report. For instance, all sectors must have a debt service coverage ratio equal to or more than 1. What this means is that the company has to generate operating income to cover its annual debt and interest payments after restructuring. Also, all banks are required to have a current ratio of at least 1. This means that the company’s debt due in a year or less are at par with their assets. The only exception is aviation where a ratio of 0.4 has been allowed because airlines follow the cash and carry model for revenue purpose, thereby creating almost nil debtors and higher current liabilities in form of advance received from customers. Also, airlines enjoy six to nine months of credit from vendors. Last week, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had asked banks and NBFCs to implement the one-time restructuring plan by September 15. The government and the RBI are keen to ensure that the stressed sectors hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic get relief and are able to restart their activities vigorously. The 26 sectors specified by the RBI include automobiles, power, tourism, cement, chemicals, gems and jewellery, logistic, mining, manufacturing, real estate, and shipping among others. The advantage of this checklist is that banks restructure loans of all companies that fulfill the conditions without fear of subsequent action by enforcement authorities if loans go bad. The flip side is that these fixed parameters could reduce the headroom for banks to restructure loans for some sectors using their judgment. According to analysts, some of the prescribed ratios are half of what the lenders seek for sanctioning loans to companies at normal times. This means that banks can reduce loan instalments for stressed borrowers by extending loans by two years provided the companies generate enough cash to meet the reduced liabilities. What makes the resolution framework for Covid-related stress different from earlier schemes is that it applies to all lenders (all banks, NBFCs and housing finance companies) and not just banks and makes an inter-creditor agreement mandatory where multiple lenders are involved. “All lending institutions shall mandatorily consider the following key ratios while finalizing the resolution plans in respect of eligible borrowers. It is further clarified that signing of ICA is a mandatory requirement for all lending institutions in all cases involving multiple lending institutions, where the resolution process is invoked...The requirement of additional provisions, if the ICA is not signed within 30 days of invocation, does not substitute for the mandatory nature of ICA,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rbi-accepts-kamath-report-loan-relief-for-covid-hit-cos/articleshow/77987909.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||GCCI slams govt as ease of biz spirals downward||Panaji: Reacting to Goa’s downward spiral in the national ease of doing business rankings, the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said it came as “no surprise”, adding that the state government has worked to introduce more hurdles for the private sector. In a blistering critique of the government’s efforts, the GCCI said the authorities have only paid lip service to business reforms while blatantly ignoring industry. The department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), in its business reform action plan (BRAP) ranking of states, pegged Goa at 24. GCCI said that if Goa wanted to improve its position, the state needs to create a task force with industry members and create an action plan. “Far from attracting new investment to the state, the government seems to be bent on making the going tough for existing industries,” said GCCI president Manoj Caculo. “Infrastructure in most industrial estates is crumbling, red tape has increased, costs — both actual and hidden, are constantly going up, making it difficult for industry to survive.” He said that the government has neglected genuine demands of industry, which has resulted in no fresh investments in the state and the closure of existing industrial units. Caculo said that though Goa might have ticked a few more boxes than the previous years when it comes to implemented reforms, Goa has failed to make life easier for entrepreneurs. “It is high time that the government introspects and puts its act together,” Caculo said. “Instead of appointing costly consultants, it should form a task force involving all industry associations to prepare a roadmap and ensure that it is followed both in letter and spirit. Unless this happens, Goa’s dream if at all to scale up the EODB ranking will only remain a pipe dream.” GCCI said that despite the Covid pandemic creating “misery and financial stress” for the private sector and the economy, the state has done little to assist entrepreneurs. “Even in these trying times, instead of providing relief and assistance to the industry, it is being burdened with additional costs. The government seems to be totally insensitive to the industry needs, promises are broken and there is only lip service,” said Caculo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-slams-govt-as-ease-of-biz-spirals-downward/articleshow/77987431.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||33 test positive from 3 trains arriving in city||Passengers arriving at the Kalupur station beind tested for Covid-19Ahmedabad: The health department teams of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation found that 26 passengers of the Rajdhani Express that arrived in the city on Monday were infected with Covid. In all, some 1,872 passengers of three trains from Delhi, Gorakhpur and Muzaffarpur were checked and 33 tested positive. Officials said the decision to test passengers was taken after the authorities found that several persons coming to the city from Rajasthan, UP, Jharkhand, MP and Bihar tested positive. Officials said that so far over 400 labourers had tested positive in the city, of which 52 were at the Bullet train project construction site and more than 200 were at construction sites of a company, PSP. The authorities said that on Monday, the 823 passengers who arrived in the city by the Rajdhani Express were checked. Some 519 passengers who arrived from Gorakhpur were checked and three were found to be positive, while of the 530 on the train from Muzaffarpur, four tested positive. AMC officials said these 33 patients were either sent to home quarantine or to Covid care centres or hospitals. Officials said such checking will also begin at the Sabarmati and Maninagar stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-test-positive-from-3-trains-arriving-in-city/articleshow/77986463.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Applications invited for fellowship||Aurangabad: Applications have been invited for Kishore Vagyanik Protsahan Yojna (KVPY) — a fellowship programme of the central government aimed at encouraging research in basic sciences among youth — for which the aptitude examination will be held on January 31. The last date for submitting the online application for the fellowship is October 5. Divided into three categories, the fellowship is given to students who are enrolled in Class XI or Class XII (withsScience subjects) or those studying in first-year of degree course (Basic sciences). The students willing to pursue B.Sc.,B.S., B.Stat. B.Math., Int. M.Sc. or Int. M.S, among other identified courses are eligible for the fellowship. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/applications-invited-for-fellowship/articleshow/77984222.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||10,000 Board Trains On First Day Of Unlock||Lucknow: The Lucknow Metro was back on rails after a gap of 169 days on Monday. Day one saw a moderate turnout of about 10,000 with mostly those going to office or workplace using the `contactless and cashless' mode of public transport. “About 7,000 people travelled on the Metro by 8pm which increased to nearly 10,000 by closing time at 10pm. The average ridership before lockdown was about 72,000 daily,” said Kumar Keshav, managing director, UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC). All the 16 trains were run on Monday from 6am-10pm. The maximum passenger footfall was registered at Munshipulia station followed by Sachivalaya and Hazratganj stations. Most of the passengers were regular users and already had smart cards, hence were allowed entry at stations after thermal scanning.  The automatic sensor at the gates detected the smart card from a distance and gave access to the passengers. Those who bought tokens got the ones sanitised through UV technology. Passengers were allowed to sit on alternate seats to maintain social distancing. Masks were mandatory and those who did not bring were given by metro on payment. Trains and station premises were sanitized at regular intervals. Officers said that since the footfall is not very high at present, there is no need at present. to put restrictions on the number of passengers in a train to check overcrowding. Social distancing is not an issue with Lucknow metro because trains are available every five minutes, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10000-board-trains-on-first-day-of-unlock/articleshow/77987393.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Collector orders 26 pvt docs to join CPR hospital||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai has ordered 26 doctors, who are working in private hospitals or running private clinics, to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients admitted at the CPR hospital. Over 400 patients are undergoing treatment at the largest public hospital of the district located in Kolhapur city. The administration has recently taken the decision to Covid patients in critical condition in the hospital. The patients with mild symptoms are now being treated at the Covid care centres and some other private hospital. As several doctors and nursing staff of the CPR hospital contracted Covid-19, there is an acute shortage of doctor and nursing staff. The situation is similar at the IGM hospital in Ichalkaranji. Chandrakant Mhaske, the dean of CPR hospital said, “The order to get the service of 26 doctors from the city has been issued on Saturday. These are trained and experienced doctors. They will soon start their service at the hospital and will help overcome the difficulties arising due to the absence of doctors.” A senior district official said these doctors have to provide service at least seven days at a stretch and then they will be granted leaves for some days, accordingly, the work hours and schedule will be drawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collector-orders-26-pvt-docs-to-join-cpr-hospital/articleshow/77984209.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||E-book to help identify trees in Sahyadri from its leaves||Pune: Environmentalist and botanist Shrikant Ingalhalikar has released an e-book to help nature lovers identify the various trees found in the Sahyadri valley of the Western Ghats simply by looking at their leaves. The e-book, titled, ‘Trees of the Sahyadri’, will be now available to students, botanists, forest department staff, landscape designers, nurserymen, environmental decision-makers and ecologists at their fingertips. The book has all the information about the trees found in the region by the classification of their leaves. Ingalhalikar, who had spent many years trying to identify a tree through its leaf structure, said, “About 400 species of trees can be found in the mountain ranges of Sahyadri. Renowned scientist, Carl Linnaeus, had discovered a method of identifying his botanical formula from flowers and fruits in the 18th century, which is still in use today. However, the flowers and fruits of the trees are available only at certain times of the year and it is often difficult to check them as they are at a height. In contrast, the leaves of the tree can be easily obtained at low altitudes and at any time of the year.” He stated that the leaf-based field guide offered quick and easy navigation for identification of 333 forest trees, 24 mangroves and 43 urban tree species. “The book also includes photographs of the leaves of all the 400 trees, the classical and Marathi names of the trees, as well as a brief information of their genesis,” Ingalhalikar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-book-to-help-identify-trees-in-sahyadri-from-its-leaves/articleshow/77987911.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist admin starts ‘chase the virus’ campaign||Kolhapur: The district administration, in order to reduce the number of Covid patients being reported across Kolhapur and break the chain of infection, has decided to trace 15 to 20 contacts of every Covid positive patients and the responsibility for the same has been given to the on ground staff that comprises ASHA workers and teachers. Currently, around 7 to 8 close contacts of ever Covid patient are being traced in the containment zones. However, the number is quite low when compared to the state government’s target of 10 people. During a recent meeting, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray suggested the district administration officials to start ‘chase the virus’ campaign and the same was started from Monday. District collector Daulat Desai said, “We have appealed to the local residents, mandals and NGOs to participate in this campaign. We have decided to trace at least 15 contacts for each patient reported in last couple of weeks and those who will be reported in the future. It will help us stop the spread and detect patients early and eventually reduce the death rate.” Action against violators A fine of over Rs 1.29 lakh was imposed on the very first day of the drive against those not following safety guidelines including wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing. The drive is being carried by the local bodies with the support of the police. Over 1,200 people were were fined for violation of rules on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-admin-starts-chase-the-virus-campaign/articleshow/77984228.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata metro sets daily target of 1 lakh passengers after services resume||KOLKATA: Nearly 1 lakh people may commute by Metro daily, even in its graded form of service, after the resumption of services from September 14. Earlier, it was thought that 50,000 passengers would be able to travel by the city’s lifeline daily. Metro Railway is gearing up to resume operations from September 14, with a special service for NEET examinees the day before. Only the north-south section will be operational now. East-West Metro services continue to remain suspended. TimesViewCommuters should stick to the new-normal rules and do what is expected of them. Any deviation or delay can disrupt services. We are still taking baby steps towards normality and several services and amenities are returning after a long lay-off.“Not everyone will travel between Kavi Subhas and Noapara. As some disembark, some others will board the trains. So, 1,000 people may board a train,” said the official. The timetable for Metro operations is also being finalized. The Metro’s 12-hour service is being split in four slots. The first slot is from 8am to 9am when five pairs of trains will ply at an interval of 12 minutes. During the second slot from 9am to 11.30am or the peak hour, fifteen pairs of trains will ply at an interval of 10 minutes. The third slot is from 11.30am to 4.30pm when 20 pairs of trains should run at an interval of 15 minutes. Finally, the fourth slot is between 4.30pm and 8pm when 15 pairs of trains will run. However, the interval for this final slot has not been finalized. An official said, “There is confusion over the last slot. Metro Railway is yet to tell us if the last train leaves the station around 8pm or 7pm.” In all, 55 pairs of trains will run during 12 hours, taking the total number of trains to 110. Metro authorities are planning to run only a third of its total fleet of 288 trains. The projected ridership needs to develop the link, from which e-passes for boarding a Metro will be generated. TOI on Monday reported that Sanjoy Chatterjee, director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the state transport department, is working on this system. State officials said during peak hours, more passes will be issued to ensure optimum occupancy at the stations like Dum Dum, where 2.3 lakh people board between 9am and 10am, and less from Park Street, where 4,000 board during this time. More than two gates will be opened at Dum Dum, Esplanade and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar because of more commuters at these stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-sets-daily-target-of-1-lakh-passengers-after-services-resume/articleshow/77986414.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Heavy rain prompts dam discharge||Aurangabad: The city and the outskirts, which had been lashed by heavy rainfall in the 24-hour period ending on Monday morning, received another few hours of medium to heavy showers in the second half of the day. The downpour on Sunday had caused some damage to the kharif crops in certain areas. Also, the irrigation department had to open 16 gates of the overflowing Jayakwadi dam by Monday afternoon. The incessant showers also led to power cuts for a brief period in some areas, besides causing waterlogging in the low-lying areas of the city. While the tehsil limits of Aurangabad registered around 30mm rain by 8 am on Monday, few revenue circles, including those covering the city limits, received more than 50mm rainfall. Ajay Chaudhari, the district disaster management officer, said the crop-damage assessment was in progress. “Maize and other kharif crops took a hit. Following complaints from the farmers in a few talukas, the necessary assessment is on with the help of the agriculture department and other authorities,” he said. By Monday afternoon 16 flood-gates of the Jayakwadi dam were releasing water at the rate of 8,384 cusec. The left bank and right bank canal systems of the dam were also releasing water at 500 cusec and 600 cusec, respectively, while the water release from hydro-power plant was taking place at the speed of 1,589 cusec, the official data revealed. Harsul dam, which is also filled to its designed capacity, witnessed addition to its storage and increase in the reach of backwaters in the fringe areas, including Jambhulwan, a tree-plantation project by the civic body. As per the official data, all nine talukas of the Aurangabad district, including Gangapur (29mm), Vaijapur (18mm) and Paithan (16mm) reported measurable rainfall. Aurangabad district reported 124% of the expected showers of the season, whereas the Marathwada region as a whole recorded 85% of expected showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-rain-prompts-dam-discharge/articleshow/77984233.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Gang waylaying trucks to rob tyres, batteries busted, two held||LUCKNOW: Barabanki police on Monday busted a gang involved in waylaying trucks, holding drivers hostage at gunpoint and fleeing with its wheels and batteries. Police arrested Firoz and Munna alias Musharaff, both residents of Gurea village, Moradabad from Ramsanehi Ghat. The duo confessed to have committed 56 similar crimes this year in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, UP and other states. Police recovered 13 wheels and three batteries from their truck bearing registration number of Moradabad. SP Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi said truck driver Sukhchandan informed Ramsanehighat police station that some criminals stopped his truck, trained a pistol at him and cleaner Ravi, opened all the six tyres of truck and battery and fled. “We asked him to take us to the crime spot and found a similar incident was reported in Ranimau police station area of Ayodhya,” he said. Police teams scanned footage of CCTVs at two toll plazas and noticed a truck with registration number of Moradabad crossing Ahmadpur toll towards Ayodhya and then Raunahi toll towards Lucknow. The truck was found registered in the name of Firoz, a history-sheeter. “Firoz hails from Gurera village infamous for looting truck drivers and tyres. He is one of the 10 most wanted criminals of the district and 23 cases are registered against him,” SP said. “The duo disclosed that all the families in their village are involved in looting truck tyres. The villagers have over 2,500 trucks in which they travel across the country and target truck drivers taking rest after consignment delivery,” said police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gang-waylaying-trucks-to-rob-tyres-batteries-busted-two-held/articleshow/77987399.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fever clinic footfall sees decline, down by 25%-50% of July count||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in the city have been witnessing a decline in footfall at their fever clinics, the first place where a suspected Covid-19 patient reports visits, seeking tests or treatment. The number reportedly started dipping from mid-August and currently, it is down by 25%-50% of what it was in July. Health experts said one of the major reasons for this drop was the rise in the number of patients with mild or no symptoms, who by now knew how to take care of themselves without visiting hospitals. “In July, we would have an average daily footfall of over 47 patients at our fever clinic. The number dropped to about 35 in August. The downslide continues,” said Rana Dasgupta, CEO (eastern region), Apollo Hospitals Group. The state health department in March had asked all hospitals to set up fever clinics to check Covid-suspected patients. While most hospitals had very few such patients in April and May, the number started swelling by June, peaking in July. It again started decreasing from August. “The number started rising in June and peaked in July. We noticed that the number decreased from August,” said Sudipta Mitra, spokesperson for Peerless Hospital. “The number of Covid samples reaching our lab has also gone down. Earlier, we would test about 350 samples a day, but now it is about 220 samples a day.” The Mukundapur unit of AMRI Hospitals checked about 40 patients a day at its fever clinic and the Dhakuria unit 30 in the first week of August. But at both hospitals, the footfall at the fever clinic came down to almost half in the first week of September. “The reasons for this drop are reduction in number of cases in the city, more video consultations and people panicking less and staying at home. Also, some fear they might contract the novel coronavirus at fever clinics,” said Debkishore Gupta, infectious diseases control specialist at CMRI. Doctors said many asymptomatic patients were now getting the test done at home. Only patients who are at high risk category, like contacts of confirmed patients or people with severe symptoms, are visiting hospitals. “Now, many patients, especially those with no or mild symptoms, know how to monitor themselves at home. They are getting cured at home without tests,” said Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fever-clinic-footfall-sees-decline-down-by-25-50-of-july-count/articleshow/77986416.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Discom to expand network to address consumer plaints||Guntur: The Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) has decided to open 11 sub-electricity revenue offices in Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts. Junior Accounts Officers (JAOs) at Electricity Revenue Offices (EROs) will be shifted to the sub-EROs to resolve consumer grievances. “The decision has been taken to address consumer grievances, right from getting new connection to faulty bills. We are fully committed to serve consumers at their doorsteps,” said J Padma Janardhan Reddy, chairman and managing director, CPDC. Speaking to media here on Sunday, Reddy said that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had directed the energy department to clear all grievances of consumers through a single window system and within the deadlines. He said that three sub-ERO offices would come up in Vijayawada city and one in Nuzvid covering Krishna district. Similarly, two new offices in Tenali and one each in Guntur and Narasaraopet would start functioning immediately. In Prakasam district, new sub-EROs are coming up in Kandukur, Pamur and Ongole. Janardhan Reddy said that the new scheme for agriculture sector would come into force from next April. “Agriculture power will be free even in the future and farmers do not need to worry about installation of the meters,” he said. Reddy said that the process of installing the meters will begin only around April, 2021. He said that the state government has decided to launch the new scheme in Srikakulam district as pilot from December, 2020 and will extend it to other districts from April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discom-to-expand-network-to-address-consumer-plaints/articleshow/77985333.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Police intensify probe into chariot fire incident||Rajahmundry: Police have intensified their investigation into the fire incident in which a chariot was gutted at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Antarvedi of Sakhinetipalli mandal in East Godavari district late on Saturday night. Forensic experts have gathered objects as evidence from the scene and several persons have been questioned in connection with the incident. Police are also trying to gather cellphone data. Speaking to TOI, Eluru DIG KV Mohan Rao said that six suspects have been picked up and were being questioned. “In the primary investigation, no explosive or chemical substances were found at the scene but we are waiting for reports from FSL (forensics), electrical, and fire departments in order to build up the case,” the DIG said and added that the police have taken a very serious view of the incident. When asked what could have led to the fire, the DIG said that a person with mental illness, who has history of setting dry leaves and other things on fire, had been caught with six matches on him near the site of the fire. The chariot had gotten covered by leaves which had gone dry. He said that it was also possible that someone was trying to get honey, from a beehive which had formed on the chariot, by using smoke to scatter the bees which could have triggered the flames. The DIG said that all possible leads were being followed and clues teams and dog squads have been deployed to gather more evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-intensify-probe-into-chariot-fire-incident/articleshow/77985384.cms||Samson Raj
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district witnesses 520 Covid cases, 32 deaths in a day||Kolhapur: A total of 520 people tested positive for Covid-19 and 32 succumbed to the contagion across Kolhapur district in the last 24 hours till Monday evening. With the latest infections, the total count has increased 29,363. On the brighter side, 18,876 of the patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The district has so far reported 907 deaths due to the illness. Meanwhile, the district received 20 ventilators through PM-CARES fund. They will be provided to CPR Hospital and IGM Ichalkaranji Hospital. However, 16 ventilators donated earlier by NGO’s and individuals to CPR Hospital continue to remain unused. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered the hospital administration to fit the ventilators as soon as possible. Sangli district reported 683 fresh cases of Covid and 23 deaths on Monday, taking the total count to 17,708. A total of 683 have died and 9,478 have recovered so far. Sangli MP tests positive Sangli MP Sanjaykaka Patil and Tasgaon Town Council’s chief executive officer Prithviraj Patil tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Both had attended the inauguration ceremony of a Covid hospital, for which Tasgaon MLA Suman Patil was also present. Only a couple of days back, MLA Patil and her son had tested positive for the contagion. Sangli superintendent of police Suhail Sharma tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. So far, six MLAs from Sangli district have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-witnesses-520-covid-cases-32-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/77984240.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Ragini’s police custody extended by 5 days; model held||Bengaluru: The Ist ACMM court on Monday afternoon extended actor Ragini Dwivedi’s police custody by five days. Ragini, who was arrested on Friday, in connection with alleged peddling of drugs in parties involving Sandalwood celebrities, had been initially sent to three-day police custody. On Monday, she was produced through video conference and CCB sleuths sought an extension of 10 days. “The accused has to answer many more questions. Also, we need to take her statements on the pieces of evidence we seized in the form of mobile phones and laptops from her house. We have to extract names of revellers from her. Please grant 10 days of police custody,” police mentioned in their application. However, judge Jagadish handed Ragini to five days in police custody. The actor appeared from the a rehabilitation centre located near Kidwai hospital through video conference. A posse of women police personnel took Ragini in a private car to an undisclosed place for questioning and brought her back in the evening. Meanwhile, CCB police also arrested a model for his alleged role in the racket. The accused is Niyaz, who is from Kerala. “Niyaz is a model and resides in Koramangala. His arrest was made on the basis of clues provided by one of the arrested accused. Niyaz, who has strong links with the modelling industry, is also a long-time peddler in the city,” said a senior CCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/raginis-police-custody-extended-by-5-days-model-held/articleshow/77985901.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||3k visit Nandi Hills on reopening day||Chikkaballapura: Enthusiastic visitors waited at the gates of the famed Nandi Hills on Monday morning when it opened for tourists after a gap of nearly five and a half months. N Gopal, special officer, Nandi Hills, said nearly 3,000 persons visited the spot on Monday. He said the response would have been better if not for the increasing Covid-19 cases in and around Chikkaballapura. He said most visitors were from Bengaluru and places such as Tumakuru, Doddaballapura and Kolar and there were no foreigners among them. Nearly 50-odd bikers were waiting at the gates when they opened at 8am and gradually, visitors began coming via cars and bikes. Some parked their vehicles at the foot of the hills and walked. The gates were shut at 5pm. Hundreds of visitors waiting to view the sunset from atop the hill had to be moved out. Gopal said nearly 70 persons had reserved rooms in the guest houses on the hill hoping to see the sunset, but a light drizzle around 6pm played spoilsport. He said rooms at various guesthouses, including KSTDC facilities, have been booked to full capacity for the next couple of weekends. N Krishnappa of Nandi village said since the spot was opened to the general public after a gap of over five months, businessmen in and around the hill station were hoping things would improve. However, many people are wary of venturing out due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in Chikkaballapura district over the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3k-visit-nandi-hills-on-reopening-day/articleshow/77985812.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||400 kilos of ganja seized in Narsipatnam||Visakhapatnam: Visakha Rural police seized over 400 kilos of ganja in Narsipatnam town on Tuesday. The contraband was being transported in a container vehicle in which the smugglers had installed a separate box. Two smugglers from Uttar Pradesh — Pradesh Munesh Kumar and Krishna Kumar — were arrested. The ganja, worth around Rs 50 lakh had been procured from the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB) and was being moved to the northern states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/400-kilos-of-ganja-seized-in-narsipatnam/articleshow/77878328.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mysuru||KARP Mounted Company’s dedicated veterinary unit relocated||Mysuru: The decision of the state government to relocate the nearly 70-year-old dedicated veterinary hospital of the Karnataka Armed Reserve Police (KARP) Mounted Company has left the police unit in a fix. In the stable of the KARP unit are 48 steeds, the use of which is now largely restricted to ceremonial events such as the Mysuru Dasara, Independence Day, Republic Day and All India Police KARP officials are worried about the impact that the relocation of the dedicated veterinary hospital to Hanchya village will have on the health of the horses. Commandant of KARP Mounted Company MG Nagaraj pointed out that horses required urgent medical attention. “Horses have to be treated immediately when they suffer from infections. Although we have only 48 horses in our stable now, the sanctioned strength of the unit’s stable is 90. We will acquire more horses once the constables are recruited. In such a situation, the decision to relocate our veterinary hospital is certainly a problem, made more difficult given the Covid-19 crisis,” Nagaraj told TOI. The hospital in question has been functioning at the headquarters of the mounted company from 1951. It is administered by the animal husbandry and veterinary department. The rationale cited by the government for relocating the veterinary unit is the reduced strength of the KARP Mounted Company’s stable. The government has pointed out that the unit, when relocated to Hanchya, would treat the livestock of hundreds of farmers in neighbouring villages. Rumours of the veterinary hospital’s relocation being motivated by politics were denied by the authorities. On the other hand, cops have repeatedly written to officials in the animal husbandry and veterinary department, seeking a reversal of the decision, but to no avail. Recently, Mysuru district minister ST Somashekar defended the government’s decision, stating that the hospital was a greater necessity in Hanchya than at the KARP unit. However, he assured the horses at the police unit would receive the medical attention they needed. Director of the veterinary department SC Suresh said they would depute a dedicated staff member to tend to the horses at the KARP Mounted Company unit. “In its new location, the veterinary hospital will be able to offer services to 4,000 livestock animals, and hundreds of farmers will benefit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karp-mounted-companys-dedicated-veterinary-unit-relocated/articleshow/77987551.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 8, 2020||Mangaluru||No respite from parades for rowdy-sheeters||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city police is warming up to the old normal even as the world struggles to cope with the new normal. Facing the brunt of this ‘old normal’ are the 2,000-odd history-sheeters in city police limits who are regularly being summoned for rowdy parades. “With society returning to normal in a phased manner, there is also a steady rise in crime, and action against such routine offenders is needed,” says Vikash Kumar Vikash, city police commissioner. These parades were ‘normal’ during pre-Covid19 days. “City police has undertaken the exercise this time police stationwise and every rowdy, through this exercise, is beingreminded that police is watching them despite the pandemic,” the commissioner said, adding: “It is easy for these anti-social elements to slip to their old ways in the current scenario. Knowing that they are being watched, bodily offences are under check. We are keeping track of activities of each of these 2,000-odd individuals, who have rubbed the law on the wrong side for whatever reason. With people back in action through phases on unlock, the lack of surveillance on such elements can have a bearing on societal health.” According to Vikash, parades send out three clear-cut messages to these elements — firstly, their past conduct is reviewed and they are bound under provisions of law; secondly, they are warned not to indulge in anti-social acts in future; and thirdly, they are put on notice of harsh punishment, including externment and invoking of the Goonda Act that awaits them if they err. “These parades are also meant to convey a message to them to reform,” he said. “For those who show the inclination to leave behind their shady past and join mainstream, the department will go the extra mile to rehabilitate them,” he said. Most of them have a criminal record for an act committed in the spur of the moment and it is the endeavour of the department to ensure they do not get bogged down by their past. This fear of the law will also deter small-time offenders from spreading their wings,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-respite-from-parades-for-rowdy-sheeters/articleshow/77987335.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat reports 1,330 new cases, 15 deaths||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, Gujarat reported 1,330 new Covid-19 cases, taking its total to 1.05 lakh. This was the seventh consecutive day that the state reported more than 1,300 daily cases. These included 286 cases from Surat, 172 from Ahmedabad, 148 from Rajkot, 128 from Vadodara, and 107 from Jamnagar. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot have now reached 32,781, 22,538, 9,065 and 5,812, respectively. Vadodara became the third district after Ahmedabad and Surat to cross 9,000 cases. The state also reported 15 Covid deaths, taking the death toll in the state so far to 3,123. These included six deaths from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Amreli, Banaskantha and Bhavnagar. Total deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 1,737, 662, 142 and 103. Some 1,276 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total of people who have recovered to 86,034. These discharges include 376 from Surat, 284 from Rajkot, 113 from Jamnagar, 99 from Vadodara and 81 from Ahmedabad. The number of active cases in the state is now 16,514, or 15.6% of total cases recorded so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients in the state is now 3% and 81.4%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 72,690 tests in these 24 hours, taking the total number of tests to 28.53 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-reports-1330-new-cases-15-deaths/articleshow/77986469.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers raise DBT concerns over free power||Amaravati: Opposition parties are gearing up to intensify the movement against the proposal to install meters to agriculture pump sets. There are apprehensions among farmers about the new direct benefit scheme for power subsidies. “Why should government create separate accounts and remit money to pay bills. It can directly pay the same to the discoms,” asked N Nageswara Rao, a farmer of Yadlapadu village. The government has agreed to follow rules prescribed in Centre’s Electricity (amendment) Bill, 2020, with a guise to get additional loans. The amount the government could get as additional loan is around Rs 1,500 crore while it is gearing up to spend close to several hundreds of crores to purchase new meters. “It is going to be a burden for farmers as often meters get damaged or stolen from fields as the government would offer them free only once,” said CPM’s P Ramarao. Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, advisor to the state government and YSRC general secretary, however, rubbished the talk of removing free power. “The late YSR pioneered free power scheme for agriculture sector and Jagan has inherited it from his father. Farmers will never fall prey to TDP’s campaign,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-raise-dbt-concerns-over-free-power/articleshow/77985351.cms||Samdani MN
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Students of prestigious pvt schools lured into taking drugs: Min||Mysuru/Bengaluru: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday claimed the students of high-profile corporate and international schools in cities are being lured by miscreants by selling ice creams and fruits laced with drugs.Those who have been spoiling students will be dealt with an iron hand, Kumar said during his visit to Chamarajanagar on Monday.He said the BJP had raised the issue three years ago. “Now that the party is in power, we’re determined to curb the menace by taking it to a logical end. We’ll send all those who are part of the drug mafia to jail,” he said.Later, Kumar took to Facebook to clarify his statement. “I didn’t make the allegation against any particular school. My statement was based on observations made by some members in the legislative assembly. They had alleged that drug peddlers were active near rich private schools,” he stated.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the government won’t protect anyone involved in the menace. “For the first time in the country, we’ve taken strong steps against the menace,” he said. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said he had directed the director general of police to go for joint operations with neighbouring states. “New evidence is emerging day by day...investigation is on, they (police) have been given free hand in the probe,” he added. Opposition leader in the assembly Siddaramaiah said drug mafia has been active in Karnataka since many years and urged the government to bring in a legislation to uproot the menace. He also urged police to probe the link between accused actor Ragini Dwivedi and the BJP. “BJP leaders are saying Ragini had no relation with the party. But there are pictures and videos of Ragini campaigning for BJP candidates in elections,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-of-prestigious-pvt-schools-lured-into-taking-drugs-min/articleshow/77985834.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||20k cases, 475 deaths in 7 days of Sept in Vidarbha; recovery rate also up||Nagpur: The Covid-19 scenario in Vidarbha region has taken a never before leap in the first seven days of September. The region has recorded about 20,000 new cases and 475 deaths in September so far, which is a strong hint that the peak of Covid-19 cases as projected in mid-September is near. The silver lining to this scenario is the increasing recovery rate. The recovery rate, which was around 63% in August-end, has now reached over 66% and nearing to state’s average of 71%. Especially in the first seven days of September, recovery rate of Vidarbha is around 74%. With more than 14,400 recoveries in September so far, total 51,669 patients have defeated the virus. A total of 3,134 new cases were detected in a day in Vidarbha. These include Nagpur (1,985), Amravati (305), Chandrapur (152), Buldhana (150), Yavatmal (139), Bhandara (103), Akola (89), Washim (81), Wardha (57), Gondia (54), Gadchiroli (19). Thus the total has reached 78,480. Vidarbha region reported 65 Covid-19 deaths. In September, toll due to Covid-19 has been more than 50 daily. Monday’s 65 deaths include Nagpur (50), Amravati (5), Bhandara (2), Wardha (2), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2), Akola (1), and Yavatmal (1). With 2,464 patients discharged on Monday, total Covid-19 recoveries in Vidarbha surpassed 50,000-mark. Patients recovered in a day include Nagpur (1,390), Amravati (212), Chandrapur (199), Yavatmal (181), Buldhana (150), Washim (84), Gondia (68), Gadchiroli (65), Akola (53), Bhandara (43), and Wardha (19). AMRAVATI: Posting its first single-day triple-century spike with 305 cases, the district took its Covid count to 7,310 on Monday. Today’s spike beat Sunday’s record of 269. The district also reported five deaths that took the toll to 158. A report by civil surgeon’s office said 212 patients were given discharge today that took the number of recovered patients to 5,474. This left 1,285, including 15 in Nagpur, under treatment. Another 387 are in home isolation, the report added. The five deaths included a 39-year-old man from.Meharbaba Colony in Chandur Railway, a 62-year-old man from Bachchraj Plot in Amravati, a 65-year-old woman from Badnera, a 60-year-old man from Mangrulpeth in Warud and a 15-year-old girl from Gautamnagar here. She is the youngest among the 158 who died of coronavirus in the district to date. CHANDRAPUR: The district crossed 4,000-mark with the detection of 152 new Covid patients on Monday. While the Covid-19 patient count has reached 4,055, two more deaths were reported during the day taking the collective toll to 48. The district also witnessed 199 patients being discharged during the day taking the total of cured patients to 2,049, while 1,958 patients are under treatment now. In view of the worsening Covid situation, district administration, in consultation of traders unions, has decided to impose four-day janata curfew in Chandrapur and Ballarpur cities from September 10. All establishments will remain closed during the curfew save health and emergency services and shops of essential commodities. Last three weeks have seen explosion of Covid-19 spread in the district. The first coronavirus patient in Chandrapur was found on May 2 and it took 104 days to reach the total of 1,000 patients (August 14). However, The 2,000-mark came in just 15 days (August 29) and 3,000 was crossed in five days (September 3). The latest 1,000 patients came in just four days taking the Covid-19 total beyond 4,000. Officials claimed that the doubling rate in the district is 10 days. The Monday’s casualties include 53-year-old from Balaji ward and 54-year-old from Binba ward in Chandrapur city. Both comorbid patients were suffering from pneumonia and died at Chandrapur GMCH while undergoing treatment. Newfound patients are 89 from Chandrapur city, Chimur 12, Pombhurna 12, Ballarpur 10, Bramhapuri 3, Bhadrawati 5, Mul 2, Rajura 6, Warora 6, Saoli 3, Gondpipri 2 and two travellers from Mumbai and Wani in Yavatmal district. WARDHA: Two men from Hinganghat — 81-year-old and 55-year-old — died due to coronavirus during treatment, while 57 persons tested positive for the infection on Monday. Meanwhile, 19 patients were discharged. Total 655 test reports were received and 57 of them were positive. Now, the total count of Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 1,775. Total 738 are under treatment. Till date, 1,003 patients have defeated coronavirus. Monday’s 57 cases, which include 29 women, were the highest in a day. These cases are from Wardha (29), Ashti (10), Hinganghat (7), Selu (4), Deoli (3), Arvi (2) and one each from Karanja and Samudrapur. Including two deaths on Monday, the district’s toll has now climbed to 34. GONDIA: The district continued to report Covid-19 death for the 9th day in a row taking the total number of casualties to 34. However, the number of patients recovered are higher than the number of new cases emerged today. Total 54 patients were found infected against which 68 patients recovered. GADCHIROLI: With 65 patients recovered in a day, the number of Gadchiroli’s recovered patients surpassed 1,000-mark on Monday. Total 19, including 2 health workers in district hospital, tested positive taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 1,301. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 81%. With only one death reported till date, that too outside the district, Gadchiroli’s Covid-19 toll remained unchanged. Total 246 patients are under treatment in the district. BULDHANA: A spike of 150 new Covid-19 cases was reported in the district on Monday. On the other hand, 150 patients recovered and were discharged the same day. After reporting casualties for 3 days in a row, no Covid-19 death was reported on Monday. Now, the district has 3,995 total cases, including 2,883 patients recovered, 58 deaths and 1,054 under treatment. Buldhana had received 530 reports on Monday out of which 150 were positive. About 30% positivity rate is alarming factor for the district. WASHIM: Total 81 new patients of Covid-19 were detected, while 84 persons recovered in a day on Monday. This took total Covid-19 cases in Washim to 2,244 and recoveries to 1,589. No Covid death was reported today. Now, the district has 613 patients under treatment. Recovery rate in Washim jumped over 70% on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20k-cases-475-deaths-in-7-days-of-sept-in-vidarbha-recovery-rate-also-up/articleshow/77986997.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks names of Covid patients in Rajkot||Ahmedabad: Another PIL was filed in the Gujarat high court on Monday seeking directions to the state government and particularly the Rajkot Municipal Corporation to declare names of those persons who are tested Covid-19 positive. A week ago, the high court had rejected similar demand made for the Bhavnagar district and the Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation, which stopped revealing identities of Covid patients from July 10. The demand for declaration of Covid patients’ names has been asked for by petitioners so that others could take precautions. However, in Bhavnagar’s case, the state government had taken a stand that disclosing patients’ name brings social stigma for them in socio-economically backward areas, and cases of social ostracization have also come to the government’s notice. The HC had accepted the government’s contention, rejected the PIL for Bhavnagar, but suggested the authorities should alert residents of a locality, in which Covid case is detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-names-of-covid-patients-in-rajkot/articleshow/77986453.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||From next week, call NMC and get bed in Covid hospital||NAGPUR: NMC is finally addressing the issue of even serious patients not getting beds in Covid Hospitals. It is all set to launch Centralized Admission System (CAS) next week under which, the civic body claims, patients will just need to call and beds will be made available to them in government or private Covid hospitals. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, met with four other IAS officers in city Madhavi Khode, textile commissioner, S Ramamoorthy from Maharashtra State Mining Corporation, Ranga Nayak from MGNREGA and Manisha Khatri from Vidarbha Statutory Development Board, assistant commissioners, zonal medical officers of 10 zones and others for finalizing standard operating procedures (SOP) for CAS and tracing and testing of high risk contacts of positive patients on Monday. Guardian minister Nitin Raut has asked the four IAS officials to assist NMC in Covid-19 control. All four have started working and have been given two zones each. Now, there are six IAS officers at the civic body for Covid-19 instead of regular posting of only one. CAS has been formulated on the lines of system in Mumbai as per suggestion of team of experts from Mumbai that visited here last week. NMC has already launched a helpline number where anyone can call round-the-clock and get to know vacant beds in government as well as private hospitals. It will be developed into a War Room. A War Room will be developed at all 10 zones. A helpline number with 4-5 lines will be provided at all Zonal War Rooms. “The numbers will be made available to public soon,” Sharma told TOI. According to him, beds in all government and private hospitals will be given a unique number. There will be dashboard at all war rooms where live status of beds will be available. Patient or their relative will need to call helpline number of respective zone and ask for bed in government or private hospitals. The person at war room will allocate a vacant bed. The hospital will get alert with name of patient on the specific bed. The patient will get a call back and will be told to get admitted in the given bed. Patients will not have choice of hospital. “Problem is that most patients want admission in select 4-5 private hospitals. Then they allege there are no beds. We need cooperation of people and make beds available to all,” Sharma said. NMC had started Covid services at 31 private hospitals having 1,300 beds. “30 more private hospitals have been given permission. GMCH, IGGMCH are 1,200 beds. Two trust-run hospitals at Hingna—Lata Mangeskar and Shalinitai Meghe Hospital too started services,” he said. Only around 15% positive patients require hospitalization while rest can be treated at Covid Care Centres and in home isolation. For the last few days, number of active patients is over 13,500 in the district of whom around 11,200 are from city. Sharma also said Red List concept has been finalized for tracing and testing high-risk contacts of positive patients. “Earlier, family members of positive patients were considered high-risk and other contacts low-risk. Now, a third category has been finalized as Red List. Comorbid and senior citizens are high-risk. High-risk persons who are family members of positive patients will be considered in Red List. We will trace and test all of them and monitor their results and isolation,” he said. Earlier, zonal medical officers used to look after entire work of Covid. Now, assistant commissioners under supervision of IAS officials will take care of the system. “Situation requires administrative set-up along with medical, so assistant commissioners have been given more powers now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-next-week-call-nmc-and-get-bed-in-covid-hospital/articleshow/77987023.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gender disparity in education hits Andhra Pradesh’s literacy rate ranking||VISAKHAPATNAM: As per the 75th round household survey conducted by National Sample Survey Organization for 2017-18, Andhra Pradesh with a literacy rate of 66.4% has been ranked the worst among all Indian states. But the numbers only reflect a striking gender disparity and inequality in attaining female literacy. There is a near 14% difference between the male (73.4%) and female (59.5%) literacy rates as per the survey. It is further worse with 53.4% literacy rate among rural women. However, the same data highlighted the gradually shrinking gap in the enrolment ratio in the young cohort, indicating a reducing gender gap and changing perceptions towards girl child education. Older adults, still being a majority of the population, continued to highlight the literacy gap. Andhra Pradesh has had an almost equal female population ever since 1901 when it was 1,004 for every 1,000 males. It was 997 as per the 2011 census. But age-old societal boundaries and low literacy rate limited women’s role in society. Even though things have significantly improved in the last two to three decades, experts said that the then prevailing poor school infrastructure for girls, social milieu, lack of awareness and perceptions, priority towards son’s education, early marriage system, etc. might have contributed to a skewed female literacy rate. Prof V Balmohan Das, former vice-chancellor, Acharya Nagarjuna University, said that the last four decades have witnessed a sea change in female enrolment in educational institutions. “The perception towards female education has significantly changed among parents over the decades with the parents now giving more preference to their daughters. There were hardly any female students in some courses during our student days. But now, in a very good sign, we can see women in all sectors. I hope with the decreasing gap in enrolment, the state will soon record the best literacy rates in the country,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gender-disparity-in-education-hits-aps-literacy-rate-ranking/articleshow/77985373.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s fingerprint bureau running at half-strength||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fingerprint detection may have landed several criminals behind bars, however, over 47% of posts in the fingerprints bureau currently lie vacant in Andhra Pradesh. This, as efforts are on to give legal cover to investigators who collect finger prints of convicts as well as suspects in criminal cases. The Finger Prints in India in 2019 published by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there are only 53 personnel currently employed in Andhra Pradesh’s fingerprint bureau as against a sanctioned strength of 104. In 2018, the department had 58 personnel. A senior official with the crime wing of the police department said that for them, fingerprints provide a foolproof scientific clues to identify the suspected person involved in a crime since they separate a person from everyone else. In the digital age, fingerprint science is also one of the most important tools used by several investigation agencies to arrest those accused. “There is an urgent need to strengthen the fingerprint bureau to record the storage of prints of suspects from crime scene,” the police official said. The Andhra Pradesh Finger Prints Bureau (FPB) had shifted to Mangalagiri are in Guntur distirct in 2016. At present, the bureau uses Papillon Automatic Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) and has 18 remote query work stations under operation. The FPB functions under the administrative control of Mangalagiri CID additional director general of police (ADGP) and the bureau is headed by a director at the rank of deputy superintendent of police (DSP). As on December 31, 2019, the bureau had close to 1.3 lakh sets of ten digit finger print slips of convicted persons in its records. “Criminals are turning tech-savvy and smart enough not to leave finger prints at crime scenes. In cases of property offence such as theft, burglary and robbery among others, fingerprints continue to be of help to the police department. It is difficult to collect fingerprints in cases of pre-planned crimes,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-fingerprint-bureau-running-at-half-strength/articleshow/77985317.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Union home secy to meet cine industry reps today||Kolkata: The Union home secretary will meet the representatives of cinemas/multiplex industries’ associations and hear their views on September 8. Two members of the cine-industry from Kolkata have been invited to join the meeting via video conference. Firdausul Hasan, president of the Film Federation of India, who has been invited to join the meeting, said, “Cinema is one of largest revenue earners. If malls, Metro and bars can be opened, theatres should re-start too. In the era of loneliness and mental isolation, it is important to turn away from the virtual screens and return to the theatres. Of course, health protocols will have to be followed.” Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitors’ section of EIMPA, who has been invited to the meeting, said the survival of many people associated with films has been at stake now. “Some 45 countries have allowed the cinemas to reopen. Till date, we haven’t heard of any cases of Covid-19 from cinema halls. We will request the ministry to allow us to reopen with 50% occupancy. If that’s not possible, we will even be fine if allowed to operate with 30%. Otherwise, the entire viewership and content will be transferred to OTT platforms. We can’t let that happen,” Saha added. Meanwhile, SVF entertainment has made a video championing the cause of #SaveTheCinemas with the catch lines: “The wilds belong to the wild. Cinema, to cinema halls.” Mahendra Soni, co-founder and director, SVF Entertainment, said, “The whole idea of putting the video out is to make everyone feel that movie theatres have a big role to play in our daily lives. We all have grown up learning so much from the films we have seen on big screens. The experience of watching a favourite movie in a theatre is irreplaceable. We are confident that whenever theatres open, they will come back stronger and everyone will welcome it with open arms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/union-home-secy-to-meet-cine-industry-reps-today/articleshow/77986421.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Rain disrupts sand supply, boosts black market ops||Vijayawada: Continuous rains and flood in river Krishna has created a sand shortage across the district. Daily labourers and masons have been left in the lurch due to this shortage which has forced most builders in the city to halt construction activities. The construction sector had already been hampered since the onset of the pandemic but had started picking up from August. In some cases, sand reaches have not been functioning for over 20 days now due to the heavy rainfall and subsequent flooding which has disrupted the supply of sand in the open market. Retailers claimed that they had not received their shipment even ten days of placing their order. However, builders allege that illegal supply of sand is continuing across the district. A builder from Gollapudi, J Ramesh Babu said, “Bulk booking agents have started selling sand in the black market. A tractor-full, which usually costs Rs 35,000 is being sold for Rs 12,000. Thegovernment should keep an out on such activities.” Meanwhile, the joint collector has directed mining authorities to intensify sand mining operations and shift it to stock points to clear pending orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rain-disrupts-sand-supply-boosts-black-market-ops/articleshow/77985327.cms||Venu Lanka
September 8, 2020||Vijayawada||NEP-2020 is progressive and future-oriented: Guv||Vijayawada: Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Monday said that the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) is a progressive and future-oriented initiative that offers equitable access to higher education by bridging the gap between current and desirable learning outcomes. The governor was speaking at the Governors’ Conference on ‘Role of the National Education Policy 2020 in transforming higher education’. The governor said that AP welcomed the policy and is planning to implement the policy considering state-specific needs to achieve quality standards in the higher education system. He further said the government is planning to establish a state-level research board to promote multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional research with links to industry as well as national and international funding institutions. The governor said the state is developing a ‘learning management system’ to promote blended learning with online education for rural and disadvantaged students by setting up ‘eLearning communities’ to bridge the digital divide. A committee is studying NEP-2020 recommendations and will suggest measures, he said. Earlier at the meeting, while delivering the inaugural address, President Ram Nath Kovind said the success of NEP will depend on effective contribution of both Centre and states and will require coordination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nep-2020-is-progressive-and-future-oriented-guv/articleshow/77985379.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cases of land grab few and far between: Police||Visakhapatnam: City police have claimed to have received very few complaints of land grabbing under Vizag North sub-division where the proposed executive capital is set to come up. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of police (North) R Ravi Sankar Reddy said five persons, including a realtor, were recently arrested for their involvement in grabbing land worth over Rs 10 crore at Madhurawada. Reddy added that no other complaints related to land grabbing have recently been reported under the north zone, comprising Madhurawada, Anandapuram and Bheemili. “We have less than five complaints related to land grabbing in the past few months and some of them were civil matters, while some were disputes among family members to claim property. We will initiate action against those involved in land grabbing incidents and we have been appealing to the public to approach the police without a second though in the event of anyone trying to grab their land. Land grabbers will not be spared in a peaceful city,” said Reddy. With the executive capital likely to come up north of the city, land prices between Madhurawada and Bheemili have surged by over 30%. “There is an urgent need to check activities of land grabbers as some people have been trying to grab vacant public and private lands with forged documents. Lack of coordination among various departments has led to these incidents,” said K Lokanatham, district secretary of the CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-of-land-grab-few-and-far-between-police/articleshow/77985360.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Offline exams for final year students if they miss online: Nagpur University||NAGPUR: A day after announcing online examinations for final year students from October 1-18, Nagpur University on Monday clarified that those missing it for any reason could appear for offline exams from October 19 to 31. The decision has been taken as per the chancellor’s directives. The Academic Council’s decision of holding online exams through multiple choice questions (MCQs) was endorsed by Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) and later cleared by Management Council on Monday. The reports of all the three statutory bodies along with suggestions by members on conducting the already-delayed exams was submitted to state higher and technical education department and chancellor’s office in the evening. TOI had first reported about NU’s plans to hold MCQ-type exams and how it would be held from October 1-18. Interacting with media, NU vice-chancellor Subhash Choudhary, accompanied by registrar Neeraj Khaty and BOEE director Prafulla Sable, assured that no student would be deprived of appearing for the exam. While stating that the exam timetable would be declared within a couple of days, the trio exhorted examinees not to change their mobile numbers at least for two months as the entire process — from hall tickets to online papers to result declaration — would be conveyed through it. “We will be launching an app for a single-point access for students. We’ve taken care about net connectivity and bandwidth problems. Therefore, once paper is downloaded, the examinees will not need connectivity, till they finish,” said Khaty. NU would convene a meeting of principals of all affiliated and conducted colleges from Bhandara, Wardha, Gondia, Nagpur rural and city in a couple of days to apprising them of the online exams. “As this is being done for the first time, we will inform principals about it. Subsequently, they would pass on information to teaching, non-teaching staff and students in their respective colleges. They would also be explained on awarding marks. As per scheme of things, 50% would be provided on internal assessment and remaining on students’ performance in MCQ paper,” said Sable. The VC said mock tests would be conducted for students with 10 questions from September 24-27 and NU also can test its servers and remove discrepancies. “Those opting for offline mode will have to visit exam centres where they will be provided with questions and optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets. Though the results can be out immediately, we will provide the mark sheets in four to five days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/offline-exams-for-final-year-students-if-they-miss-online-nu/articleshow/77987059.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Stressed doc offers to quit Covid work||NAGPUR: Yavatmal’s renowned critical care specialist, Dr Mahesh Shah, whose entire hospital was converted into a Covid-19 hospital to deal with the surge of patients in the district, has expressed his unwillingness to continue Covid-19 work. In a letter to Yavatmal’s district collector M Devender Singh, the doctor listed reasons behind his decision, foremost of which is a lot of pressure from politicians for admission of patients. “The tremendous pressure is disturbing me in my daily practice. Kindly relieve me from this work. Till your order, I will see only my admitted patients,” reads Dr Shah’s letter to the district collector. This is the first case in Maharashtra where a private doctor, whose hospital has been designated as a Covid-19 hospital, has written with clarity about problems like pressure for admission, from reporters and the media at large and false social media campaign with the intention to blackmail. “Some people are taking advantage of the difficult situation and running social media campaigns on WhatsApp and Twitter against me which is denting my image. This is not good for me and my hospital,” wrote Dr Shah. In fact, since the last three days, some individuals are making posts against Dr Shah viral on social media platforms. They have accused him of charging huge sums for treatment and also for asking one Covid-19 negative patient to get admitted in the isolation ward. However, those running negative media campaigns have not lodged any police complaint against Dr Shah nor have they approached the IMA or the medical council. “This was a failed attempt to blackmail me,” said Dr Shah, who has already started gaining support from the medical fraternity. “This is a sorry state of affairs. Kudos to Dr Mahesh Shah for taking this bold public step. May be this will wake up the authorities and the public,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of IMA. Many doctors from the city have termed the concern raised by Dr Shah as true and genuine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stressed-doc-offers-to-quit-covid-work/articleshow/77987029.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 8, 2020||India||Implementing NEP collective responsibility: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the new National Education Policy focuses on critical thinking and learning in line with students’ interests while urging all stake-holders to implement it in letter and spirit to realise its full potential. “Our youth will now be able to learn according to their interests,” the PM said adding that in the NEP, the first since 1986, the pressure on students to take specific streams has been removed. Addressing the inaugural session at the ‘Governors’ conference on the Role of NEP in Transforming Higher Education’, Modi said, “It is our collective responsibility that the policy is implemented in letter and spirit. The more teachers, parents, students are associated with education policy, the more relevant and broad-based it will be.” In his address, President Ram Nath Kovind urged the Centre and states to increase funding in research and innovation to give impetus to a large economy like India. The conference was attended by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, MoS (education) Sanjay Dhotre, governors, LGs/administrators of states and also some CMs and state education ministers. The PM said the education policy like defence and foreign policies is not of the government but of the country and interference should be minimal. “With vocational exposure right from early age, our youth will get better prepared for life,” he said, adding that their participation in the global job market and employability in India will increase. On the sidelines of the conference, West Bengal education minister said the state would not implement the policy as of now as “undermines the country’s federal structure”. Watch National Education Policy focuses on learning and studying: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/implementing-nep-collective-responsibility-pm-modi/articleshow/77988169.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid: 25 deaths, 498 new cases reported across Satara||Kolhapur: As many as 25 deaths were reported across Satara district along with 498 new cases on Monday with Khandala and Koregaon tehsils recording the maximum number of cases. Of the 498 cases, 98 were reported in Satara tehsil, while 37 cases were reported in Karad. Khandala and Koregaon tehsils reported 67 and 78 cases, respectively. Phaltan (36), Wai (68), Maan (5) and Mahabaleshwar (36) were also among the list of tehsils reporting new cases. “Of the 25 people who succumbed to the contagion on Monday 12 were women while the remaining were men. Among them18 were senior citizens. Satara and Karad recorded eight and five deaths, respectively, while three were from Khatav tehsil,” a health official said. “Satara district has so far reported 18,988 positive cases, out of which 10,777 of them have been discharged. The number of active patients stands at 7,698 while the death toll has gone up to 513,” he added. Meanwhile, Solapur rural recorded a total of 513 patients till Monday evening along with 16 deaths — including 10 men and six women. “Malshiras and Pandharpur tehsils reported four and three deaths, respectively. The total number of cases in Solapur rural has increased to 14,815, out of which 9,499 have been discharged. There are 4,275 active patients and 411 people have so far succumbed to the contagion,” an official said. On Monday, Solapur city reported 47 new cases and two deaths. The number of actives cases stands at 761, while the death toll is at 429. With addition of these new cases, the total number of patients in the city has gone up to 7,079, out of which 5,889 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-25-deaths-498-new-cases-reported-across-satara/articleshow/77984255.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records fourth case of Covid re-infection||Ahmedabad: The city civic authorities on Monday announced fourth confirmed case of Covid-19 re-infection — this time a 33-year-old male resident doctor at the LG Hospital. TOI had earlier reported three confirmed cases of re-infection that included a 60-year-old homemaker from Behrampura and two doctors — one each from SVP Hospital and GCRI on Civil Hospital campus. All three cases had got re-infected after a gap of about four months. While the homemaker got discharged, the two medicos were under treatment. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in a release on Monday said that all four cases had got their first infection between April 15 to 21 and second infection between August 18 and September 6. ‘All these cases had mild or asymptomatic disease in first infection as well as in second infection. One patient has recovered and among other three, one is getting treatment at GCRI and two other are under home isolation,’ mentioned the release. Blood and nasopharyngeal samples of these cases will be sent to Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) for further research, said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-fourth-case-of-covid-re-infection/articleshow/77986450.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Dehradun||Pacemaker surgery under Ayushman Bharat scheme||DEHRADUN: For the past one year, a 65-year-old woman from Uttarakhand would keep losing consciousness. Her pulse rate was a steady, low 35 — a normal range is 60-100. When she was admitted to AIIMS-Rishikesh, her doctors thought of trying something new, ‘physiologic pacing’. It was also the first time the procedure was covered by the Ayushman Bharat scheme. In physiologic pacing, a pacemaker is placed in an area of the heart where it can imitate its electrical activity — unlike regular pacemakers. “A special pacing wire is fixed directly to the patient’s own heart electrical system,” said Dr UB Mishra, dean of academic at AIIMS-Rishikesh. “This is the first such special pacemaker implantation done free of cost under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the country.” She was admitted to the emergency ward on August 24, in a critical state. “We placed a temporary pacemaker. She was stabilised in the CCU (critical care unit) and our cardiologists found that not enough blood was flowing to her brain because of the low heart rate. That was causing the fainting spells,” said Dr Bhanu Duggal, the head of cardiology. “That is when we decided to implant a permanent pacemaker with the new procedure. Cardiac electrophysiologist Dr Sharada Sivaram, who is experienced in this technique, coordinated the procedure with me and others in my team.” This was on August 31. Dr Sivaram said conventional pacemakers have been seen to weaken heart muscles, which this procedure can prevent. “Conventional pacemakers can correct low heart rates but have been shown to cause weakness of heart muscle in some patients. The new technique completely prevents this problem and can be used in patients with weak heart muscles and those suffering from heart failure to completely reverse the condition.” The procedure, at Rs 2 lakh, costs half of what the traditional one does. “As far as we know, there have been 20 cases in which physiologic placing was done in the north,” said Professor Ravikant, director of the institute. “Since Ayushman Bharat covers this, patients can avoid even that cost,” Dr Sivaram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-under-ayushman-bharat-aiims-docs-place-pacemaker-that-mimics-hearts-electrical-activity-in-65-year-old/articleshow/77984267.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Online push: Get character certificates in just a week||LUCKNOW: On the lines of Mumbai and Delhi, city residents will also be able to apply online for character certificate on the website of Lucknow police commissionerate. Police commissioner Sujeet Pandey launched the website ( lucknowpolice.up.gov.in) during a function at Reserve Police Lines on Monday. The commissioner said, “One can get information related to different departments and wings of Lucknow police commissionerate and its working. Details of police officials posted in Lucknow and their CUG numbers are also available. More services are proposed to be provided. In the first phase, character verification and tenant verification facilities are being started.” The time taken in issuance of character verification certificate will be reduced to seven days from 2-3 months. Residents may apply online for the certificate and make payment under the one-step verification facility. The applicant will get a message after the character certificate is ready and the institutes concerned will be able to check if the certificate is issued by the police department. The verification will be available in Hindi as well as English. Under the scheme, services related to traffic, cyber security and prevention of crime against women will be made available soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-push-get-character-certificates-in-just-a-week/articleshow/77987441.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Locals harass Covid-free flight attendant for ‘spreading virus’||KOLKATA: An air hostess employed with a leading domestic airline has lodged a complaint against her Howrah neighbours alleging they have been repeatedly harassing and stigmatizing her as well as her parents blaming her as Covid carrier and for spreading the virus in the neighbourhood. The woman, a resident of Nil Ratan Mukherjee Road in Howrah’s Shibpur, wrote in her complaint to the Howrah City Police commissioner on Monday alleging she has been facing the harassment for the past several days. “I am continuously harassed by some people of my locality because I am an air hostess. After resumption of air services, they have started accusing me of being Corona positive. Last Wednesday some of them physically assaulted me and accused me of being a Corona carrier while I was feeding stray dogs. My character has been questioned repeatedly. Please help me as I am scared and feeling unsafe,” the woman wrote in her email complaint to the city police commissioner. The woman is a member of the cabin crew of an airline and said she often comes home late and has to leave home early as she commutes via office-provided transport. She said she had no idea while she was earning a living as a front line Covid worker and helping thousands reach their homes, there would be trouble brewing in her own home, with her parents, too, facing humiliation. “The group of neighbours had first started questioning my character for commuting so late in the night. They even bad mouthed my parents for allowing me to work in the sector. And now they blame me as a Covid carrier. On Monday, I had no duty as flights were not operational but on Tuesday I have a flying schedule. I am scared if they will again attack me when my office car comes to pick me up,” she told reporters on Monday adding that the neighbours have also threatened her not to inform the cops. The Howrah City Police commissioner and the local Shibpur police station has promised to give her all necessary support. “She had given a similar complaint against apartment residents last November, which led to investigations and a charge sheet. We have assured her of co-operation again and asked her to come and file a complaint on Tuesday. We have got DC Central to speak and assure her,” said Howrah City Police commissioner, Kunal Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-harass-cov-free-flight-attendant-for-spreading-virus/articleshow/77986476.cms||Rupak Banerjee
September 8, 2020||Goa||Hosp waste found in room, visitors fume||Saligao: Patients visiting the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa have raised an alarm after noticing red plastic bags filled with discarded PPE kits and other bio-medical waste lying dumped in a room adjacent to the parking lot utilised by the hospital staff. Mapusa resident Shekar Naik said that the room was filled to capacity and that some bags have even been dumped below the staircase leading to the first floor. “This kind of hazardous medical waste can pose a serious health risk for both, hospital staff and the people visiting the district hospital.” People have demanded that medical waste be disposed of immediately due to the serious health hazard it poses. When contacted, North Goa district hospital medical superintendent Dr Mohandas Pednekar told TOI that the medical waste would be “cleared up within one or two days”. “The waste could not be lifted as the bio-medical waste incinerator has broken down,” Pednekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hosp-waste-found-in-room-visitors-fume/articleshow/77987451.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Rise in family conflict among lecturers, study finds||Mangaluru: While parents of students have been complaining about the challenges of coping with online classes, the transformation phase during the pandemic has not been an easy one for most lecturers either. Of the 61 married women lecturers in departments of commerce and management in colleges in Mangaluru and Bengaluru who participated in a study, 80% said they were stressed. The study was conducted by Dolan Champa Banerjee, HOD, postgraduate department of Commerce, St Agnes College (Autonomous) in June-July. Dolan said that in the absence of domestic help, working from home and managing household chores including demands for food delicacies from family members had a direct impact on lecturers, who now have to be more accessible to students. She said lecturers experienced more work to family conflict than family to work conflict. “When faculty worked from college, they had fixed hours of work. But for many, everything has been topsy-turvy, especially, if they have kids,” she said. “When they log in at 9.30am to take classes, their kids will also have to log in. Space at home and the availability of devices is a challenge. The dual role [work and home] that is happening round the clock is killing most of them mentally. Since they work online, the day does not end at 4.30pm. Students text or reach out over the phone late evenings seeking guidance.” The study showed only 13.3% respondents said they get time to pursue hobbies. Time management is crucial and more than 80% of respondents agreed they were stressed out. There have been many instances of spouses losing jobs or business of the spouse having a drastic impact which leads to severe mental agony of faculty. Also financial responsibility of the family automatically shifts to women. The study also found that 82.3% of married women faculty have no time to exercise or get rid of pandemic-related anxiety. Interestingly, 93% of respondents said they completed online certificate courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rise-in-family-conflict-among-lecturers-study-finds/articleshow/77985311.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Sterilisation plan halted during lockdown resumes in Nashik||Nashik: The district health department has resumed sterilisation programme in rural areas while ensuring all Covid safety measures. The department is now urging more people to come forward for the procedures.Health officials of the Nashik Zilla Parishad on Monday said sterilisation procedures, which had been halted since the nationwide lockdown came into force in March, have started again on government directive. “The sterilisation procedures such as vasectomy for males and tubectomy for females have started again, but not many people are staying away, apparently due to fear of contracting coronavirus,” Ravindra Chaudhary, senior health officer of the ZP, said.“We have instructed the centre heads of all medical facilities to fix a day for such procedures and spread awareness about the same. The centre heads have also been told to ensure social distancing and sanitisation,” he said. Nashik district has been given a bloc-wise target of 26,966 sterilisation procedures. Apart from this, the talukas are given targets of conducting postpartum sterilisation, sterilisation on second issue, Intrauterine Contraceptive Device (IUCD) insertion procedure, Postpartum Intrauterine Contraceptive Device (PPIUCD) insertion procedure as well as distributing oral pills under the family welfare programme.Health officials said that awareness would also be spread through Ashas and health workers to motivate more and more people to come forward for family planning. The focus would be on motivating men to go for vasectomies, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sterilisation-plan-halted-during-lockdown-resumes-in-nashik/articleshow/77984290.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||2 in Jalna nabbed for extortion bid||Aurangabad: Pundaliknagar police on Sunday arrested two menon the charges of demanding Rs 50 lakh as extortion from a woman BSNL official in Jalna. In her complaint, Sujata Narwade (42), a deputy circle officer serving with BSNL, resident of Nandanvan Colony, said that she and two of her colleagues were waylaid by the suspects while their car was passing the Seven Hills flyover. The suspects claimed to be representatives of two men with whom the complainant’s husband had some financial disputes and asked her to shell out Rs 50 lakh. The occupants of the car recorded the entire incident and submitted it to the police along with the complaint. The accused have been identified as Feroz Khan (23), a resident of Husain colony, and Fayyaz Pathan (30) of Baijipura area of the city, assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-in-jalna-nabbed-for-extortion-bid/articleshow/77978710.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||14,500 CCTV cams linked to UP 112, plans to use AI||LUCKNOW: Criminals appear to be set for a rough time as the city’s security surveillance system goes hitech, linking 14,500 CCTV cameras dotting key areas with the UP 112 control room and plans to use artificial intelligence (AI) in cash-vans to counter bank robbers. Lucknow police commissioner, Sujeet Pandey said that the system would maintain security of individuals and households, banks, educational institutes and offices. “Now if a crime takes place, like a robbery in front of a house, its live footage would be seen with its precise location at UP 112 along with the call and a Police Response Vehicle (PRV) would reach the spot immediately,” said Pandey. He said that the 14,500 locations have been mapped digitally and linked with the PRVs of UP 112 roaming in the city. Pandey added that in the coming months, AI-based CCTVs would be installed on cash-vans and linked with UP 112 and banks. Similarly, CCTVs installed at railway stations, bus depots and other public places will also be linked with the UP 112 server. The officer said that later on the quality of CCTVs would be improved and their numbers would be increased, which will also capture suspicious activity by transmitting a particular heatwave to a network, alerting UP 112. It would then dispatch a PRV to address the issue timely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/14500-cctv-cams-linked-to-up-112-plans-to-use-ai/articleshow/77987462.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nashik||MIDC seeks to allot 174 Ambad units||Nashik: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has invited applications for allotment of 174 outlets in flatted estate building in Ambad industrial estate of MIDC here. The MIDC took time to start the allotment process due to some technical issue, like a higher rate. Initially, MIDC had quoted a high price for the outlets but the industries wanted to reduce the rate. There are 48 outlets, including eight commercial and 40 industrial outlets in the ground floor, 61 in the first floor, and 65 in the third floor of the estate building. MIDC has quoted a price rate between Rs 4,515 and Rs 5,115 per sq ft for the outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-seeks-to-allot-174-ambad-units/articleshow/77984306.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 8, 2020||Goa||London flight lands with 150 Indians||Panaji: Around 150 Indians who were stranded in London returned home on Monday aboard a Vande Bharat repatriation flight that landed at Goa International Airport. The flight, operated by Air India, is the 13th Vande Bharat flight and the second under the travel arrangement that India has made with the UK. The return flight took off from Goa airport later with 93 adults and two passengers. “The 49th relief flight took off from Goa Airport early Monday morning to London with 95 passengers — some Indians and some foreigners,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. ‘Transport Bubbles’ or ‘Air Travel Arrangements’ are temporary arrangements between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights are suspended because of the pandemic. India has created these transport bubbles with USA, Canada, Germany, France, UK, Maldives, UAE and Qatar. The passengers who returned from London were screened and later had their swab samples collected for testing by the health department.  Malik said that the Union ministry of civil aviation and Airports Authority of India have received proposals from several airlines to operate flights to Goa as part of the air bubble created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/london-flight-lands-with-150-indians/articleshow/77987456.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Plasma drive: Vasco govt staff screened||Vasco: In a bid to encourage those who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma, Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai invited government employees from the taluka for a screening test at Ravindra Bhavan, Baina on Monday. “As people are hesitant to donate plasma, we decided to invite government employees first to set an example. Almost all those in-charge of various departments were approached and asked to send their staffers who had recovered from Covid-19 for the test. A majority of those who came to Ravindra Bhavan were personnel from the mamlatdar’s office, health department and the police. A team from GMC blood bank conducted the screening,” Desai said. He also said that as per protocol, a screening test is first done to check whether a person is eligible for plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plasma-drive-vasco-govt-staff-screened/articleshow/77987460.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||‘Political interference affecting police’||Panaji: Goa Forward Party on Monday slammed the state government for interfering in the functioning of the police and investigations. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that Goa’s deteriorating law and order situation is the result of the government’s apathy and unwillingness to address social issues created by the pandemic. “Goa police should be competent to anticipate and prevent crime before it happens,” said Sardesai. “Wayward political and ministerial interference in police transfers are replacing efficient officers with pliant stooges whose inefficiency will put lives and property in danger.” Sardesai said that because of the pandemic lives and livelihoods have been lost and the financially weak do not have enough to tide over the time till a vaccine is found. He said police officers are transferred or appointed based on directions from the government .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/political-interference-affecting-police/articleshow/77987465.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Families can now hold funeral of the deceased||JAIPUR: Bodies of patients, who have died or suspected to have died of Covid-19, will be handed over to the family for cremation in the state with riders. Bodies taken by relatives must be disposed as per the ‘guidelines on dead body management’ with precautions. In case the relatives of patients refuse to take the body, the local municipal body will cremate the same according to the religious beliefs of the deceased as earlier. The state government has also rolled back the decision on compulsory Covid tests of dead bodies. Now, it is not necessary to conduct a test of the dead body (brought dead to the hospital). Only bodies of those who died having influenza-like symptoms and severe acute respiratory illness will be tested. Families will be allowed to take the body to the cremation ground or burial ground directly from the hospital. The complete guidelines have been issued by health department principal secretary Akhil Arora. “The decision has been taken keeping in mind the emotions of people in consultation with experts in the light of orders issued by the Karnataka High Court, guidelines issued by the Centre,” said a senior health department official. Till now, the JMC was responsible for cremation and burial of bodies of those who died of Covid and it was not handed over to the family. The burial or funeral ground was specified earlier, but it can now be done at any graveyard or funeral ground close to where the patient belonged. Up to 20 persons will be allowed to attend the funeral. The guidelines issued by the Centre states, “The main driver of transmission of Covid is through droplets. There is unlikely to be an increased risk of Covid infection from a dead body to health workers or family members who follow standard precautions while handling the body.” The state has also decided not to keep the body at the hospital until it receives the Covid test report. As per the new guidelines, dead bodies of such suspected cases will be handed over to relatives immediately and laboratory confirmation of Covid should not be awaited. The hospitals have been directed to hand over the body only after packing it in a clean, transparent, leak-proof, zipper body bag to family members. Hospital officials will also give information about safe handling of bodies. Families will give a self declaration that they will not violate protocols of handling and cremating bodies. No permission will be required from the district administration to transport the body from one district to another. But, information must be given to the district administration, health department and local body where the body is to be taken. A representative of the local body in urban area and a representative of SDM in rural area will be present at cremation and burial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/families-can-now-hold-funeral-of-the-deceased/articleshow/77987461.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||A week on, only 50% bars open shutters for business||Panaji: A week after the government allowed bars, restaurants and taverns to restart operations, only about 50% of them have opened for business. Industry stakeholders who are balancing strict operating SOPs and reduced business volumes are hopeful that the situation will stabilise shortly. “Though people have opened, business is very low and it will take more than a month for it to stabilise,” president of the All Goa Bar and Restaurant Owners’ Association (AGBROA), Michael Carrasco said. The excise department has laid the onus of ensuring that the social distancing norms are followed on licensees, and Carrasco said that those who have started operations have done so with a few tables. To add to the seating constraint facing operators, which reduces turnover, “consumers now prefer the non-air conditioned section of bars and restaurants because they fear the Covid-19 infection spreads faster in a closed air-conditioned environment”, Carrasco said. In this situation, he said that those operating from rented premises will probably not resume operations any time soon, at least not till things normalises. “They are unable to pay the rent. The shops along the beach line are totally closed,” Carrasco said. “One could easily recover the high cost of operation six months ago, but things are different now. An operator should call himself lucky if he is able to break-even,” said a licensee from North Goa. Many are also not able to restart owing to lack of workforce. As with other sectors, this industry also relies on manpower from other states. “Many will restart after September 15 after their outstation employees join duty,” he said. Finally, shops and restaurants along the highways, who relied on tourists and other travellers, can’t expect a rise in business volume till economic activities pick up. “There are at least seven to eight bars and restaurants in each village along the national highways. There will be more in some places. Unless there is a rise in economic activity, all will be struggling to survive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-week-on-only-50-bars-open-shutters-for-business/articleshow/77987464.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Petrol pump owner shot dead in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 36-year-old petrol pump owner was shot dead in broad daylight at the parking lot of a multistorey building near Kukarkheda Mandi on Sikar Road in Vishwakarma industrial area here on Monday. Six armed men allegedly gunned him down and decamped with a bag containing at least Rs 7 lakh. According to police, the incident took place at 11am on Monday when Nikhil Gupta came to the parking lot to deposit money in a bank housed in the apartment. The culprits, who were waiting for him, opened fire as soon as he got out of his car. “The businessman collapsed and the assailants snatched the cash bag and fled,” said a senior police officer of Jaipur (west). He is survived by his wife, daughter and parents who live in Vidyadhar Nagar. According to preliminary investigation, Gupta had tested Covid-19 positive and Monday was his last day of quarantine period. He had came out to deposit the money in various banks. “It appears that robbers had a clear idea that Gupta would come out of his house to deposit money after his 14-day quarantine period. It gives the impression that a persoon of close acquaintance could be behind the murder and robbery,” said Bajrang Singh, addtional deputy commissioner of police (west). Soon after the incident, a large number of policemen rushed to the spot along with a dog squad and officials of the Forensics Science Laboratory (FSL). “The victim was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said a senior police officer. He sustained bullet injuries on his shoulder a little above his heart. Initial investigation suggested that the businessman was heading to a bank to deposit money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petrol-pumpowner-shotdead-in-city/articleshow/77987468.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger on trek kills cow, injures two in Peddapalli district village||HYDERABAD: A male tiger, which was sighted in Jayashankar-Bhupalapalli district last week and was travelling close to 30 km every night in search of territory, entered Peddapalli district and killed a cow and injured two in Machupeta village of Mutharam mandal on Monday. The cattle owner, who saw the tiger attacking his cattle, informed the forest officials that the tiger went back into the forest after he raised an alarm. The forest officials, led by divisional forest officer (DFO) M Raviprasad, rushed to the village, inspected the area and initiated efforts to monitor the movement of the tiger. Speaking to TOI, Manthani forest range officer Mohammad Shaukat Ali said, “The big cat entered Pedapalli by crossing the river Manair, a tributary of river Godavari river, between Adavisrirampur-Khammampalli of Mutharam mandal. We took measurements of the fresh pug marks, which were found in the area where it killed the cattle, and also set up for camera traps for more details in case the tiger comes back later in the night to feed on the prey.” The tiger, which is believed to have entered the state from either Tadoba tiger reserve in Maharashtra or Indravati tiger reserve in Chhattisgarh, travelled across Mahamutharam, Malhar and Chityal mandals of Jayashankar-Bhupalapalli district for a week. On August 29, it killed a cow owned by Nunavath Sammaiah in Nimmagudem of Mahamutharam mandal of Jayashankar-Bhupalapalli district. In a statement, additional collector Laxminarayana asked the villagers, farmers and shepherds not to venture into forest since the tiger was moving in Mutharam mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-on-trek-kills-cow-injures-two-in-peddapalli-dist-village/articleshow/77986492.cms||Moulika.KV
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Soon, enjoy boating and food at lake||Hyderabad: Durgam Cheruvu will soon have a floating restaurant with a capacity of 80 seats, a 25-seater boat and a speedboat after the inauguration of the cable bridge. “Tourism minister Srinivas Goud has directed us to chalk out a plan that will offer a range of activities to tourists. Works pertaining to the boats are underway and the project will be completed within a month,” said B Manohar, managing director, Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation (TSTDC). Sources said that a jetty boat will be converted into a restaurant. The TSTDC plans to have a multi-cuisine floating restaurant that will serve dishes ranging from South Indian to Mughlai. “The fee has not been decided yet, the duration of the ride is one hour. As of now, the plan is to provide good ambience with music. There are no plans to arrange live performances. The floating restaurant can be booked by a group of people for events and birthday parties,” said a GHMC official. While the ride duration of the speedboat is 10 minutes, the ride duration of the 25-seater luxury boat is yet to be decided. “We are expecting good number of visitors once the parks and recreational spaves reopen. We are also receiving enquires regarding film shootings at the lake,” said a TSTDC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-enjoy-boating-and-food-at-lake/articleshow/77986488.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Spike in fatalities for sixth continuous day, tally at 245||Panaji: Goa continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 mortalities for the sixth consecutive day on Monday as nine deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 245. Of this, 52 deaths have been reported in the last seven days. The state’s tally of active cases dropped for the second successive day,. The active count touched 4,501 as the number of patients cured surpassed the total of new infections. On Monday, 588 patients were declared cured and discharged while 344 new cases were detected. In the last two days, the total samples tested dipped to around 1,500 -1,600 from 2,000-2,500 samples a day. The mortality bulletin released by the health department on Monday stated that eight men and a woman who succumbed to the disease had developed bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distressed syndrome (ARDS) soon after they were admitted to hospital. Three patients - two men – a 49-year-old from Ponda, a 46-year-old from Assagao and a 55-year-old from Navelim – had history of comorbid condition. The man from Ponda died within a less than an hour of admission. In other cases, except one – all patients have died between the first and sixth day after being admitted to the hospital. The other six men who succumbed to Covid are an 83-year-old from Navelim, a 68-year-old from Chimbel, a 66-year-old from Merces, a 54-year-old from Ponda, a 52-year-old from Betki, Ponda and a 83-year-old from Mapusa. All six persons had one or more comorbidities. The government has repeatedly stated that patients are being brought in late for treatment, which is why the state is witnessing a rise in fatalities. In North Goa, Porvorim sits on top of the list for having the highest number of Covid cases. Its total of active cases stood at 278 cases. The other centres that have over 200 active cases are Sankhali community health centre (256), and the urban health centres of Mapusa (211) and Panaji (216). In South Goa, Margao urban health’s total of active cases stood at 440, while that of Ponda primary health centre stood at 319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spike-in-fatalities-for-sixth-continuous-day-tally-at-245/articleshow/77987469.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two dupe 4 college aspirants of Rs 1.5 lakh with promise of seats||KOLKATA: A 39-year-old woman has alleged that two youths, one residing at Kasba and the other at Burtolla, have duped her niece and three of her friends after promising them admission at a north Kolkata college. In the process, the two accused, Himangshu Ghosh (21) and Aman Jaiswal (28), defrauded Rs 1.5 lakh from the victims. The Chitpur police has registered an FIR under relevant sections of cheating and forgery. Though cops nabbed the duo within 48 hours of the complaint they wondered why the victims relied only on the words of the two young men without checking on their own. According to police, Rina Banka (39), a resident of an apartment on the Rajdanga Main Road, alleged that she met Jaisawal in the month of July through acquaintances and spoke about the admission of her niece. It was then that Jaiswal introduced her to Ghosh, who claimed to be a former student of the college and knew both the college union president and the principal. “Ghosh had impersonated himself as an ex-student and induced the complainant’s niece and her three friends to get admission in the college in lieu of a hefty donation money. The victims then transferred a total Rs. 1,51,000 through cash payments and online transactions into the accounts of the accused. In return, the accused sent emails with forged online receipts and claimed they had been issued by the college. Later, when the victims finally went to the college to complete the admission formalities, they realized that they had been duped,” said an investigating officer. “We looked into the bank transactions. Some money was distributed using e-wallets. There were multiple transactions after the money was deposited. We developed leads from these and arrested them. We believe they had duped other students too,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-dupe-4-college-aspirants-of-rs-1-5-lakh-with-promise-of-seats/articleshow/77986542.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||HC reserves verdict on former DGP’s plea for anticipatory bail||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday reserved its verdict on the anticipatory bail plea filed by former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the alleged abduction and murder case of Balwant Singh Multani. Justice Fateh Deep Singh reserved the verdict after a marathon hearing of the case for around four hours via video conferencing. Saini’s counsel contended that the former DGP was earlier granted anticipatory bail in the same case by a Mohali court and that he should have been granted bail even after the addition of murder charge in the same case. He also pleaded that in the same matter, an FIR was registered by the CBI in 2008 but it was set aside by the apex court. Objecting to Saini’s plea, the counsel appearing for the prosecution agency submitted that initially the former DGP was booked under Section 364 of IPC for abduction and the investigation in the case was at initial stage. However, later the special investigation team had gathered more evidence against Saini regarding the custodial death of Multani, he argued. HC was informed that Saini’s custodial investigation is needed to gather information about involvement of more officials in the crime and about the disposal of the body of the deceased. HC was also informed about the pendency of criminal case against Saini before the special CBI court in Delhi. HC also heard the arguments of both the parties on the second plea filed by Saini seeking quashing of FIR registered against him by the Punjab Police. After hearing the arguments by all the parties, Justice Singh reserved its verdict. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered in May this year under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Later, section 302 (murder) was included in FIR registered against him and others at Mataur police station Mohali on August 21. Saini had approached the HC after a local court in Mohali denied him anticipatory bail in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-reserves-verdict-on-former-dgps-plea-for-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/77986496.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||GU choir to launch Gandhi-inspired music today||Panaji: The Goa University choir is set to release an original piece of music composed and recorded remotely, on Tuesday. The song, based on the words of Mahatma Gandhi, involves over 50 singers and soloists who recorded their parts in their own homes. Titled ‘My life is my message’, the choir’s conductor Santiago Girelli, who is a visiting research professor for western music at Goa University, said that “this composition seeks to be a beacon of hope in these challenging times”. The piece, composed by Girelli, is arranged for mixed choir, piano, strings, soloists, organ and bells, and claims to “explore the links between eastern and western harmonies”. “Singing from home in a virtual choir is a new experience for all of us,” he said. “Humans have been singing together for thousands of years, but usually, face to face. Now, with Covid-19, we are exploring ways of creating music together but at a distance.” He also said that the pandemic gave the choir a “rare opportunity” to connect with singers and musicians from around the world. After its release on Tuesday, the video will be available on all GU choir platforms on social media, as well as on other streaming services. Meanwhile, the choir is currently preparing its next online concert in collaboration with soloists from India and Europe, including the Goan singer Sonia Shirsat. It will be a series of original compositions and will be broadcast from the Figueiredo house on the eve of Gandhi Jayanti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-choir-to-launch-gandhi-inspired-music-today/articleshow/77987485.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Week after border curbs go, hotel occupancy rises to 15%||PANAJI: The hospitality industry is witnessing a rise in hotel bookings, albeit minimal, since the state government lifted entry restrictions last week. “The hotel bookings have gone up from 4-5% to 15 %. It will gradually improve in the days to come,” hospitality trade body Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) president Nilesh Shah said. “Don’t expect a windfall, every month we will see a rise in the footfalls, but it will be slow. But once a Covid vaccine comes in the market, we may see stabilised occupancy of 70% to 80 % in February-March,” he said. Stakeholders feel that post-September 15, after the frequency of flights increases, the state is likely to see comparatively more footfalls. A South Goa travel and tour operator said that he is skeptical of any immediate results. Four to five hotels have intimated that they are not opening for the season due to lack of staff and other issues, he said. As the pandemic set-in in March, most hotels sent their staff home and had said that they will be called when operations resume. “Their staff is from other states and unlikely to return immediately, so they are not in a position to resume operations in the next few months, at least,” the tour operator said. To encourage international travellers to visit Goa, Shah said the TTAG has already requested the government to have an “air bubble” arrangement with source markets such as Russia, Ukraine, Poland and the UK from October to allow charter operations. We have also asked the government to open e-visa portal for tourism purposes, the TTAG president said. “Unless it is done, bookings will not start,” he said. All registered hotels in the state should be able to resume operations without taking permission afresh from the tourism department, the trade body head said. In July, with a new stand operating procedure (SOP) in force, the tourism department had mandated all hotels desiring to restart operations amid the pandemic will have to seek permission afresh and fulfil laid down conditions. Since then 500 hotels have been granted permissions, but many opted to remain shut after finding that operations would be unviable. “Those who opened are also not happy since bookings were very low in the last two months,” the South Goa operator said. Shah said swimming pools and boat cruises should be allowed to be opened with 50% capacity if they wish to see a rise in the number of arrivals. Former TTAG president Ralf D’Souza said Goa will need to be promoted in the international market in a focussed manner and Goa Promotion Board — proposed in the tourism masterplan, which is yet to be approved by the government — will have to do it. “We have to recapture lost markets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/week-after-border-curbs-go-hotel-occupancy-rises-to-15/articleshow/77987471.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Want Kashi, Mathura back; ready to move court: ABAP||Prayagraj: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of 13 recognised monastic orders in the country, has decided to raise the demand for getting two Kashi and Mathura temples fully restored to Hindus on the lines of Ayodhya's Ram Janmabhoomi. The parishad announced after the meeting that it would try to make things happen through amicable solution, otherwise it would move court. It also called for support of VHP, RSS and other Hindu bodies to their demand. The ABAP also said the government should not ban Magh Mela next year though it could be a low-key affair. The representatives of all 13 akharas held an emergency meeting at Shri Math Baghambari Gaddi and passed eight resolutions unanimously after a marathon discussion. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “The akhara parishad appeals for support for liberating Kashi and Mathura from Hindu organisations, including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), and from every common man, including Hindus and Muslims. We want a solution for this long pending demand to be found amicably failing which ABAP would move the court.” “The akhara parishad would launch a countrywide movement to marshal support for the demand. ABAP would do everything possible within the framework of the Constitution to liberate the two temples,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/want-kashi-mathura-back-ready-to-move-court-abap/articleshow/77987492.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB awaits Rs 10 cr dues from govt||Secunderabad: Officials of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) have expressed concerns over receiving the Rs 10 crore dues every month from the state government. The officials say that despite the state finance minister T Harish Rao assuring the board of sanctioning Rs 10 crore dues nearly two months ago, the board has not yet received the amount. “We are awaiting the amount of Rs 10 crore for the past two months and the SCB members are pursuing the issue with the state government. Once we get the amount, we will complete works that are pending in all eight civilian wards,” SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy told TOI. The SCB CEO said that the major issues in water supply and sanitation raised by ward members may get resolved if the amount is sanctioned. When contacted, SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna said, “We have already raised the issue with the animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, who had earlier played a key role in getting the state government to clear the dues. We hope the state government will clear the dues soon after the assembly session.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-awaits-rs-10-cr-dues-from-govt/articleshow/77986498.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||2 panchayati raj officers suspended||Lucknow: The state government on Monday suspended district panchayati raj officers of Ghazipur and Sultanpur on charges of anomalies in procurement of pulse oximetersand infrared thermometers at the local level. Anil Kumar Singh and Krishna Kumar Singh, the panchayati raj officers of Ghazipur and Sultanpur, were served suspension orders and were subsequently attached with the respective divisional offices. According to additional chief secretary (panchayati raj), Manoj Kumar Singh, the two equipment were available in the market at Rs 2,800. However, Anil Kumar Singh centralised the procurements and got them purchased at Rs 5,800. Likewise, Krishna Kumar Singh put forth a bill of Rs 9,950 for the equipment before the state government. Deputy directors (panchayati raj) of Ayodhya and Varanasi divisions would conduct investigation against Anil Kumar Singh and Krishna Kumar Singh respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-panchayati-raj-officers-suspended/articleshow/77987470.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Elgar Parishad case: NIA detains 2 Kabir Kala Manch members in Pune||PUNE: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday detained two members of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) for questioning in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. Confirming the development, an NIA officer, who did not wish to be named, said the two detained KKM members were taken to Mumbai on Monday evening for further questioning. The detained duo are among the six KKM members named in the FIR a city realtor had lodged with the Vishrambaug police on January 8, 2018, alleging provocative and inflammatory speeches at the Elgar Parishad. K KM was one of the organisers of the Parishad held on December 31, 2017, on the eve of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Koregaon Bhima near Pune. KKM member Jyoti Jagtap told TOI, “Our two members were called to the NIA office in Mumbai three days ago for questioning. On Monday, the NIA officials detained them in the case. One of them stays in Wakad, while the other stays in Yerawada.” The Pune police, which probed the case till it was transferred to the NIA in January this year, had claimed that Elgar Parishad was a part of a larger conspiracy of the banned CPI (Maoist) to create unrest and overthrow elected government. Nine prominent activists from Delhi, Mumbai, Thane, Faridabad and Nagpur were arrested for their alleged Maoist links by the time the case moved to the NIA. Three more activists were later arrested by the NIA. The Pune police had carried out searches at the houses of the two detained KKM members in April 2018, besides others in Pune and state. Documents seized during these and a search on June 6, 2018, revealed an alleged Maoist plot to execute a “Rajiv Gandhi-type incident”, the police had claimed then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nia-detains-2-kabir-kala-manch-members-from-pune-in-elgar-case/articleshow/77987942.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Property, land registrations in Telangana stopped in their tracks||HYDERABAD: The government stopped registration of properties and land tracts in all 142 sub-registrar offices (SROs) in Telangana from Tuesday.  The property registration wing will have holidays from September 8 till further orders. While this would pave way for tahsildars taking control of agriculture land registrations, registration of will deeds, marriage registrations and franking services will continue as usual. In a GO (No. 102) issued on Monday, the registration and stamps (R&S) department said land and property registrations had been stopped immediately with a view to providing quality service in registration of property documents and also to bring in changes relating to process the documents. “Since MRO offices will officiate as registration offices in rural areas, some SROs in the rural areas will be shifted to urban localities. A committee has been constituted with the district registrars and other officers of the registrations department to work out the modalities,” a senior official of the R&S department said. A formal training was given to some revenue officers some time back. But, it did not yield good result as the revenue officers were burdened with other duties. Some officers said that SROs were doing agriculture land registrations based on pattadar passbooks and dharani websites. “If government wants mutation to be done quickly, it can fix a timeframe for mutation after completing registrations,” an R&S officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-land-registrations-stopped-in-their-tracks/articleshow/77986501.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Private schools can charge 70% of tuition fees: Rajasthan HC||JAIPUR: In a major relief to private schools as well as parents who have been agitating against schools seeking fee reduction, the high court on Monday directed schools to let students continue their studies online by paying 70% of the tuition fees charged annually. In an interim order, the single bench of Justice S P Sharma directed parents to pay 70% of tuition fees in three instalments by January 31. The high court gave the interim order on a petition filed by the Society of Catholic Education Institutions In Rajasthan and others on Monday. The court made it clear that “on non-payment of tuition fees, the student(s) may not be allowed to join online classes, but shall not be expelled from the school.” The court also spelled out the time for paying the fees in three instalments. The first instalment has to be paid on or before September 30, while the second must be paid by November 30, and the third by January 31, 2021. The court said the question regarding the remaining fees would be examined at the stage of final disposal of writ petitions. The court noted that the “total infrastructure cost, which the school may incur for regular studies during normal days, has been definitely reduced as schools are not opening daily.” Though the institutions have to incur certain additional expenditure for developing online classes, the same would be less than individual expenditure incurred by parents for providing infrastructure to each ward, who is taking online classes from home, the court observed. “There are also cases where the parents may have two or three children. Each one would require a separate laptop or computer as all of them would be undergoing online classes at the same time. Thus, a comparative balance is required to be maintained,” the court said. Dinesh Yadav, one of the counsels for private schools, said the petition challenged the orders issued by the education department on April 9 and July 7 which resulted in a stalemate. He said the state education department on April 9 issued orders that private schools cannot charge fees for the three months of lockdown. Later in July 7, it issued another order that school could not charge fees till physical schooling begins. Meanwhile, the CBSE asked schools to start online classes. But the parents refused to pay the fees, citing these government orders, which created the messy situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-schools-can-charge-70-of-tuition-fees-raj-hc/articleshow/77987494.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cantt residents hold candlelight vigil||Secunderabad: Residents of the north-eastern colonies of Secunderabad held a candlelight vigil on Monday demanding the reopening of all civilian roads in the military area. Hundreds of families lit candles in their residences and expressed their solidarity with the movement. “Instead of organising small gatherings, in view of Covid-19 pandemic, families joined in the candle light ceremony in all the residential colonies,” CS Chandrasekhar, secretary, Federation of North-Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS), told TOI. “The families shared their candlelight vigil on their Twitter accounts and also on Green Sainikpuri Twitter account. This is a fight, which has been going on for the past six years, against the blockade of civilian roads by the local military authority (LMA). FNECS will continue its fight till all the roads are reopened,” said Chandrasekhar. “FNECS is appealing to the elected representatives to raise their voice in the ongoing Telangana assembly session and also in the Parliament session to begin in the next couple of weeks,” said an FNECS member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-residents-hold-candlelight-vigil/articleshow/77986530.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 8, 2020||Pune||VPMS highlights social issues in video-making contest||Pune: Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Lohegaon recently conducted virtual house activities for Standard IX and X students. A video-making competition on ‘social issues in India’ was conducted for Standard IX students. The pupils highlighted issues such as the plight of migrant workers, the work of Covid warriors, adverse effects of nepotism and cronyism in their videos. Standard X had their house activity of video-making based on “inspirational/motivational videos”. Students illustrated inspirational stories of personalities such as Prashant Gade, who overcame doubt, dilemma, and discouragement and created a prosthetic arm that gave thousands a new chance at life, contribution of Major Vikram Batra at the Kargil war, author JK Rowling, IAS officer Palakh who helped many children from economically weak sections complete their education. From Standard IX, the first position was bagged by Coral house and from Standard X, the first position was secured by Sapphire house. Mindful eating and nutrition talk at PPS, Nanded City The sports department of Pawar Public School, Nanded City organized two sessions for students, parents and teachers on the occasion of National Sports Day. A session on ‘mindful eating’ was conducted for Standard I to V by one of the parents, Nivedita Jamsudkar, a nutritionist. Another session on ‘nutrition and sports’ was conducted by Prasanna Choudhari, a national roller-skating champion, for Standard VI to X. “Helping your children become mindful eaters is a gift that will serve them throughout their lives. When they have a healthy relationship with food, their weight is managed naturally,” said Jamsudkar. She advised students to eat a variety of foods to have a balanced diet. Students were told about mindful eating exercises. Choudhari guided the secondary school students with the number and type of nutrients needed for teenagers. He directed all students to learn more about the importance of fitness and suggested them to spend at least one hour of the day on the ground playing any sport.The sports department also organized an online sports quiz on Microsoft Teams on the occasion. Online singing competition at Air Force SchoolAn online singing competition was organized by Air Force School, 9BRD, Chandannagar recently. The first round was based on participant’s choice of Hindi songs on the Karaoke music track available online and participants sent their video clips to the school’s music faculty. The second round for shortlisted candidates was a theme-based round, where the students sang Hindi patriotic songs. The competition was judged by the music faculty on the basis of vocal range, entertaining value, rhythmic sense and synchronization with the track. Principal Garima Goel congratulated the participants and felicitated the winners with e-certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vpms-highlights-social-issues-in-video-making-contest/articleshow/77987949.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Employee dismissal unsustainable if no reasons for not holding inquiry recorded: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that the order of dismissal of an employee in absence of sufficient reasons recorded in writing dispensing with the requirement of holding inquiry into the person’s alleged misconduct is not sustainable. The high court clarified that “the authority empowered to dismiss or remove a person or to reduce him in rank has to record reasons in writing as to why it is not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry”. “Such satisfaction has to be a subjective satisfaction of the authority so empowered. Mere observation that the departmental enquiry at this stage does not appear to be justified is not sufficient to invoke powers under Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India to dismiss an employee,” Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the high court held. He passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Sarabjit Singh, a dismissed Punjab police constable. The petitioner had joined Punjab police in March 2011. Two FIRs have been registered against the petitioner. The first FIR was registered in February 2020 on charges of rape and criminal intimidation over allegations that in 2010, before the petitioner joined police service, he had an affair with the complainant and the couple had a physical relationship. It was alleged that after getting the job, the petitioner stopped talking to the complainant. Therefore, she had reported the matter after remaining silent for over a period of nine years. The second FIR was registered against him in March 2020 for evading arrest and related charges when the cops tried to arrest him in relation to the first FIR. After this, the petitioner was dismissed by the state government under clause (b) of the 2nd proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution from the service while dispensing with the requirement of holding departmental enquiry. Challenging the dismissal orders, the petitioner argued that the state police authorities did not record the reasons for dispensing with the requirement of holding inquiry and, therefore, the order is not sustainable. After hearing the case, the HC observed that on careful reading of the impugned order, it is apparent that no reason whatsoever has been recorded as to why holding of the inquiry is not reasonably practicable. “What has been recorded is ‘it does not seem justified to conduct departmental inquiry at this stage.’ In the considered view of this court, this is not sufficient compliance of the mandate of Article 311 of the Constitution. On careful reading of clause (b) of 2nd proviso, it is apparent that the authority empowered to dismiss or remove a person or to reduce him in rank, has to record reasons in writing as to why it is not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry,” observed the HC. While directing the state to reinstate the petitioner into the police service with consequential benefits, the HC, however, made it clear that it would be open to the state police authorities to initiate departmental inquiry against him over his alleged misconduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/employee-dismissal-unsustainable-if-no-reasons-for-not-holding-inquiry-recorded-hc/articleshow/77986535.cms||Ajay Sura
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||No plans to float national party now: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Putting to rest all speculations of him foraying into national politics, chief minister, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao said he has no plans to float a national party now. He further said any decision to enter national firmament would be taken at an appropriate time.  “I am of the opinion that only a non-BJP, non-Congress front can deliver what people want,” he is believed to have told his partymen at the crucial legislatie party meeting on a day when the monsoon session began. He said: “If there are any such plans to float a national party, I will discuss with you and take your views into consideration.” Making a mention of forthcoming GHMC elections and Dubbaka bypoll, he said party surveys had revealed that TRS would win Dubbaka election by over one lakh votes. “We will also win 104 divisions out of 150 in GHMC polls. However, we cannot let our guard down or be overconfident.” He said Congress may get one or two more divisions when compared to the previous GHMC elections. “BJP may be confined to winning the same seats as it did in the last polls,” KCR said. On the new Revenue Act, the CM said the proposed Act would be a model Act in the entire country. “Tahsildars will be given agriculture land registrations and some powers will be given to the higher revenue authorities,” he explained. “Many reforms have been introduced in the agriculture and municipal administration departments. Regulatory cultivation is going to be a boon for farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-no-plans-to-float-national-party-now/articleshow/77986532.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Fund crunch: Roads not recarpeted for seven years in Cantt||Secunderabad: The roads in Secunderabad Cantonment roads are riddled with potholes, some even knee-deep, and their condition has only gone from bad to worse due to the incessant rains. Surprising it maybe, but even the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials admit that the roads have not been recarpeted for the past seven years, and the SCB continues to face heat not only from the people but also from the elected ward members as they are unable to get the roads repaired. Citing fund crunch in the board, SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy told TOI, “The state government is yet to clear dues amounting to Rs 60 crore. We have been actively pursuing the issue with the government but we have not received any response yet.” The CEO further said that the SCB is not getting its share of taxes. “For instance, we are to receive dues worth Rs 50 crore towards transfer of property tax. Though the property owners in SCB are paying four per cent stamp duty, another five per cent transfer duty and 0.5 per cent registration fee to the state government, we are not receiving our share. We should also receive an amount of Rs 10 crore as per the allocation made on the basis of recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission. So far, only the first instalment of the grants have been received,” Ajith Reddy said. Stating that the board is facing a financial crisis as allocations have been cut due to the pandemic, he said that the board would have funds if the state government clears all pending arrears. “Problems regarding road repair, sanitation works and water supply need to be fixed,” the CEO added. The SCB’s engineering wing is yet to take up the survey on roads and is attending only to urgent repair works such as filling potholes on a few stretches. “SCB needs nearly Rs 10 crore for recarpeting all the roads,” a senior SCB engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-crunch-roads-not-recarpeted-for-seven-years-in-cantt/articleshow/77986512.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 8, 2020||Pune||Two held for operating illegal abattoir||Pune: The Dehu Road police on Sunday arrested two men for operating an illegal slaughterhouse in Gandhinagar and seized meat, suspected to be beef, and four bullocks from the spot. Shivshankar Swami, a member of a cow protection group, lodged an FIR in this regard. He also lodged a separate FIR, alleging that the arrested duo threatened him. A non-cognizable offence has registered with regard to the second FIR. Swami said that he received a tip-off that the suspects were running the slaughterhouse. “With the help of the Dehu Road police, we checked the spot and found one animal was killed inside a house and four bullocks were in a tempo nearby,” Swami said. “We nabbed two men at the spot. They revealed that they planned to sell the meat,” an officer from the Dehu Road police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-operating-illegal-abattoir/articleshow/77987950.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana assembly session to be on till September 28||HYDERABAD: Assembly’s monsoon session, which began on Monday, will be held till September 28. The government will introduce a resolution on Tuesday urging the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao. Short discussions will be taken up on proposed revenue bill, PV Narasimha Rao centenary celebrations, Covid cases, construction of new secretariat, new irrigation projects proposed by AP government, GST and introduction of some bills. Assembly’s business advisory committee (BAC), headed by speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, decided to dedicate one hour for question hour and half hour for zero hour every day except on Tuesday. Only six questions will be allowed during the question hour. The BAC, which was attended by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and leaders of various political parties, also decided to hold meetings between 4 pm and 6 pm when special bills will be presented before assembly. KCR said the government was ready to discuss all issues pertaining to the welfare of people. He said the government proposed 16 items for short discussion, which will be finalised by the speaker. The CM asked the speaker to allocate time based on the strength of the parties. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka urged speaker to consider issues like LRS, BPS, Krishna water sharing issues, sanction of new universities, SC & ST sub-plan, BC sub-plan, new education policy and podu cultivation etc for discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-assembly-session-to-be-on-till-september-28/articleshow/77986529.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dentist arrested for raping 20-year-old niece||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old dentist, who allegedly raped his 20-year-old niece, was arrested on Monday by Petbasheerabad police. Officials said that the victim moved to the city from Andhra Pradesh to pursue her studies and for a few days, she had stayed in the residence of the accused, who is her uncle, before moving to a hostel. The dentist, in the absence of his family members, sexually abused the victim when she used to visit his family. Police said that the accused abused her multiple times. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim, the accused was booked under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dentist-arrested-for-raping-20-year-old-niece/articleshow/77986547.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Masks the new normalin both Houses||Hyderabad: As the monsoon session began on Monday, white attire was the new normal in the House with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and all legislators coming dressed in white clothes. KCR wrapped his kanduva covering his mouth, while the MLAs were seen mostly wearing white masks. Women members had coloured masks on them. MLA Gongidi Sunitha wore a pink color mask, while IT minister KT Rama Rao came to the House wearing a handloom mask. Only one MLA occupied the table, strictly following the social distancing norms and Covid-19 guidelines. Another noticeable thing was no MLA was seen moving from his or her respective seat. Only ministers were allowed to get their personal secretaries into the House premises. In the legislative council also, all the MLCs wore the masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/masks-the-new-normalin-both-houses/articleshow/77986564.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Duo in cop net on charge of assault & robbery||Pune: The Pimpri police on Saturday night nabbed two men, who were on the run after assaulting and robbing a 58-year-old man of his cellphone worth Rs5,000. The complainant — Ashok Dahale of Kharalwadi — suffered injuries near his right thumb. A Pimpri police team led by assistant inspector SA Chavan arrested the duo — Mosin Sayyad (20) and Shubham Nariya (21), both from Pimpri. “We have recovered the robbed cellphone, a knife and the motorcycle used by the duo,” Chavan said. On Saturday morning, Dahale was walking to his house, when the two men on a motorcycle blocked his way near Kharalwadi bus stop. “They threatened Dahale with a sharp weapon and tried to snatch his cellphone. Dahale started resisting them. The suspects assaulted him with the weapon and fled with his cellphone,” Chavan said. He said the complainant had given partial details of the duo’s vehicle registration number. “We went to the spot and collected information from the autorickshaw drivers that were at the spot and also from our informers,” Chavan said. He said the police then laid a trap and took the duo into custody. “The suspect Sayyad has two cases of thefts registered against him,” Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-cop-net-on-charge-of-assault-robbery/articleshow/77987952.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||After IAF’s letter, Vij announces key steps to save Rafale from birds||Ambala: With the Indian Air Force (IAF) expressing serious concern about the safety of Rafale aircraft from birds at the Ambala airbase, Haryana home, health and urban local bodies (ULB) minister Anil Vij on Monday directed officials to take important measures, including setting up of solid waste management plant, to tackle the crisis. On August 5, IAF director general (inspection and safety) Air Marshal Manavendra Singh had written a letter to Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, asking for support of the civil administration in tackling the threat to Rafale aircraft from birds in the vicinity of the Ambala Cantonment airbase. The Air Marshal expressed had asked the Haryana government to ensure implementation of the solid waste management (SWM) scheme saying that garbage attracts large birds like black kites. He had also suggested a ban on pigeon breeding and flying in 10-km radius of the airbase. Following a meeting with officials of Ambala Sadar Municipal Council (MC), Ambala City Municipal Corporation, Cantonment Board Ambala and IAF on Monday, Vij said, “Firstly, it was decided to start the solid waste management plant on priority in Ambala. Secondly, the dairies around Ambala Cantonment and city will be shifted out. Thirdly, the open drainage system will end in Ambala Cantonment and city and cleaning of big drains will be carried out with machines.” He said, “It is a matter of pride for us that Rafale aircraft squadron has been established at Ambala IAF station. So, we need to pay attention towards the serious issue raised by the IAF. The government, non-government and social organizations have to work together to make flying safe for the fighter jets in Ambala.” The minister said a committee had been formed for this entire task and ULBD chief engineer Bhaskar Gupta would be its chairman and Ambala Sadar MC executive officer (EO) Virender Nehra and Virender Saharan of Ambala City MC would be members. He said a meeting would be held every month to check the ground reality of the works and implement required improvements soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-iafs-letter-vij-announces-key-steps-to-save-rafale-from-birds/articleshow/77986565.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor infra plagues Amrabad tiger reserve, roars for revamp||Hyderabad: The Amrabad tiger Reserve is in need of a massive revamp as the forest department staff grapples with lack of basic infrastructure. Although several women employees were recruited to the reserve forest department after bifurcation, no washrooms or changing rooms have yet been built for their assistance. Administrative approval for Rs 7.5 crore has been given by Centre. The recurring costs of Rs 1.45 crore will be equally borne by Telangana and Centre. But the tiger reserve continues to suffer with minimal amenities. As per government orders, vehicles which have already run for 2.5 lakh km or 15 years shall not be used anymore. But it has been observed that a jeep allotted to the forest range officer in Maddimadugu of Amrabad division has run for 6.1 lakh km. A forest and environment ministry document about the centrally sponsored ‘Project Tiger’ revealed that the anti-poaching squad’s jeep has run for 4.3 lakh km. Around 17 beats in Maddimadugu rance are only approachable by the river. According to Dr Vaibhav C Mathur, the assistant inspector general of forests for Project Tiger, the field director of Amrabad reserve is currently being operated from an old guest house with two rooms. A field office and a quarter is required for the field director. “The exit and entry routes to the reserve needs checkpoint for keeping a tab on movement of people. There are around 12 hamlets, but only two watchtowers have been built. We need more watchtowers to detect fires. A road network around five villages is also required,” said a forest official. The wireless network in use is inadequate and there is no mobile network in interiors of the reserve. Installation of improved wireless network has hence been proposed. The computers used for uploading wildlife census data is outdated and the tiger reserve needs funds for upgradation too, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-infra-plagues-amrabad-tiger-reserve-roars-for-revamp/articleshow/77986575.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Questions raised over work at Qutb Shahi Tombs||Hyderabad: City resident Mohammed Habeebuddin, in a letter addressed to the minister of minority affairs Koppula Eshwar, has objected to the work taken up at the Qutb Shahi Tombs. Habeebuddin, a resident of Shaikpet, alleged that the land is Waqf land and the state government has no right to enter into a contract with a third party to maintain it. Citing the Waqf Survey Commissioner report from 2006, Habeebuddin states that the “entire land is Waqf land and spread over an area of 103 acres-30 guntas.” He alleged that “the state government has directly entered into an MOU on 10-1-2013 with (an) international agency (Agha Khan Trust for Culture)” for the restoration of 80 ancient monuments, stating the agreement must rather be with the erstwhile AP Waqf Board and current TS Waqf Board. He further quotes the AP State Waqf Tribunal as having given an order in 2013 asking the respondents from restraining from changing the nature of the property. In a response to the claim, Ratish Nandy, CEO of the Agha Khan Trust for Culture, said: “We have undertaken the conservation of these Qutb Shahi Monuments on the invitation of the Department of Archaeology of the Government of Telangana. The Department of Archaeology was entrusted with the care of these great structures even during the time of the Nizam Government.” He added that “the Aga Khan Trust for culture’s objective here is to ensure that these great buildings are carefully conserved and passed on to future generations in a better condition. We have already undertaken conservation on 40 off the 80 monuments after the Waqf tribunal restraining order removed in September 2013.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/questions-raised-over-work-at-qutb-shahi-tombs/articleshow/77986563.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||State’s law & order on life support system: Congress||Lucknow: Cornering the Uttar Pradesh government over law and order situation, Congress party leaders on Monday said that the 'law and order situation in UP was on ventilator'. “UP has become the hotspot of crimes against women, particularly dalit girls. The rule of law has gone for a toss,” said Dheeraj Gurjar, All India Congress Committee secretary. CLP leader Aradhana Mishra Mona said that the surge in incidents of violence, rape, gang rape, murder, harassment of women only indicate that UP had become a shelter home for criminals. “The incidents of heinous crimes from dozens of districts, like Lucknow, Lakhimpur, Sitapur, Gorakhpur, Agra, Pratapgarh and Kushinagar, exemplify the abysmal situation. What happened to BJP government’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign? The truth of the touted Yogi model is a nightmare for girls,” she said. Party MLC Deepak Singh advised the chief minister not to get swayed with the media management of his Team-11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-law-order-on-life-support-system-congress/articleshow/77987495.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Police recover 11 stolen vehicles||Pune: The Chinchwad and Hinjewadi police on Sunday recovered 11 stolen vehicles following the arrest of two youths and detention of three minors in separate cases. The Chinchwad police team led by assistant inspector Abhijit Jadhav on Sunday night stopped three motorcycle-borne minors for illegal driving and brought them to the police station. Police said the trio admitted to having stolen the motorcycle from near Empire Estate building in Chinchwad. “They had also stolen vehicles from Khadki, Hinjewadi, Wakad and Bhosari. We have recovered three autorickshaws and six bikes from the trio,” senior inspector Ravindra Jadhav said. In Hinjewadi, the police on Sunday arrested two youths and recovered two stolen motorcycles worth Rs40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-recover-11-stolen-vehicles/articleshow/77987951.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Civil society says netas responsible for downslide, calls for sustainable development||Panaji: Expressing concern over the state’s political leadership and the focus on mega infrastructure projects, civil society members said that Goa needs a course correction towards sustainable development. Holding elected representatives across parties responsible for Goa’s slide towards corruption and mismanagement, prominent citizens said that a citizen’s forum needs to be created to push for the betterment of the state. For Goa to witness real development, the state needs people from different political ideologies to work together but without any political ambition, said ENT surgeon Dr Jorson Fernandes, who was the coordinator for a webinar hosted on Saturday. “The major corruption in the political system has been associated with the conversion of land, and this then becomes a major funding source for politicians,” said former chief justice of Allahabad High Court and former judge of the Bombay High Court justice (retd) Ferdino Rebello. Even chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry Blaise Costabir said that people are disappointed with the political dispensation and corruption in Goa. The use of money and muscle power has put Goa on a path that does little to benefit locals and only serves the interests of those in Delhi, said the speakers at the webinar. Acclaimed Konkani novelist Damodar Mauzo, who has been at the forefront of several agitations, said that freedom of expression is threatened and pressure is being exerted by authorities on those who speak out. “Electoral reforms are the need of the hour,” said Mauzo. “If one looks at the growth rate of the Goan population, it is zero, while the same is not true in the case of migrants. With the result, by 2021 migrants will outnumber Goans,” said Mauzo. Fr Bolmax Pereira said that people need to question politicians. “It is one’s right and one needs to exercise the right. Our politicians must be made accountable. Enough of the utterances that people are against development. For whom is the present development?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civil-society-says-netas-responsible-for-downslide-calls-for-sustainable-development/articleshow/77987509.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad's Durgam Cheruvu bridge to dazzle with architectural lighting||HYDERABAD: Durgam Cheruvu is soon expected to have an added attraction on holidays— the illuminated pylons and cables at the lake will display 25 themes on holidays and festivals, which include Independence Day, Diwali, Eid, Telangana Formation Day and Bathukamma. The multi-coloured lighting will have different themes to suit the occasion. For instance, on Independence Day and Republic Day, the bridge will be illuminated with colours of the national flag. The lighting system has been installed at a cost of Rs 8.9 crore. The civic body said it is planning to inaugurate the bridge this month. “We have requested all the buildings located in the vicinity of the bridge to deck up their houses with colourful lighting for the bridge’s inauguration. The inauguration will be held in the evening for a stunning view,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan. Sources say the LED lights have been installed on the barriers to avoid streetlights from playing spoilsport. “These lights are fixed parallel to the road level and provide good illumination,” said a GHMC engineer. The bridge also has an exclusive walkway decked up with footpath railing lights. “While the illumination on roads is for better vision, illumination on pavements is for decoration too,” said a GHMC engineer. The GHMC has also decided to install deck lighting system, by which the surface under the bridge and the surrounding rocks will also be illuminated to improve the look of the bridge and its vicinity. The pylons currently display the national flag, pictures of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and MAUD minister KT Rama Rao. The cable bridge has been constructed at a cost of around Rs 184 crore. It is expected to reduce the travel distance from Mind Space to Jubilee Hills by around 2 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/durgam-cheruvu-bridge-to-dazzle-with-architectural-lighting/articleshow/77986605.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Rajasthan varsity chairman arrested in scholarship scam||Yamunanagar: A Haryana vigilance bureau (VB) team from Panchkula on Monday arrested the chairman of a private university in Churu district of Rajasthan for his alleged role in the post-matric scholarship scam. The accused — Joginder Singh Dalal of Ramgopal Colony, Rohtak — had allegedly committed a fraud of Rs 24.51 lakh on the pretext of providing post-matric scholarships to 41 scheduled castes/schedule tribes (SC/ST) students of Yamunanagar district. The FIR had been registered at VB’s Panchkula police station dated September 10, 2019. On Monday, Joginder was produced in a Yamunanagar court that sent him to 6-day police remand. Officials said the fraud was allegedly committed in the 2015-16 academic session. Besides Joginder, other accused in the FIR were university registrar Jitender Yadav of Narnaul in Mahendergarh district, Gurdev Kaur and her daughter Ritik Singh of Yamunanagar, Mayank Chaudhary of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Mukesh Kumar of Ladwa, Kurukshetra. DSP Shareef Singh, VB’s investigation officer (IO), said, “Joginder has been taken on production warrant from Sunaria Jail, Rohtak, where he was lodged after arrest in another fraud case (04/2019) of post-matric scholarship registered at Rohtak VB police station.” Assistant district attorney (ADA) Ashutosh from Yamunanagar court said, “During the remand, the police would make recovery of the money, ATM cards of 41 bank accounts opened in the names of students, documents related to their admission in the university, and a car which was used to collect money from Panipat toll plaza.” The Panchkula team of VB on January 10, 2020, had arrested co-accused Gurdev Kaur and her daughter Ritik Singh from Yamunanagar, who ran their NGO as a front to procure documents from 41 students belonging to SC/ST families and then used the same for scholarship scam after opening bank accounts in their names and showing them admitted to the university concerned. DSP Shareef said, “Both Gurdev and Ritik are out on bail from the court, while university registrar Jitender Yadav, Mayank Chaudhary, an accomplice of Gurdev, and Mukesh Kumar are yet to be arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rajasthan-varsity-chairman-arrested-in-scholarship-scam/articleshow/77986604.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Follow Covid norms, Speaker tells MLAs||Hyderabad: In addition to wearing masks, MLAs will have to undergo daily tests for fever, cough and cold so that they can attend the ongoing session of the Assembly. They have to rest at home on signs of fever, cold or cough. “Don’t share your food and water bottles. Avoid using lifts, touching door handles and railings in the assembly. Wash your hands with soap frequently and use sanitizer wherever required,” said Telangana Assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy. The monsoon session of the Assembly commenced here with nearly a 10-minute speech by the Speaker who spelled out the “Dos and Donts” to the members to stay safe from Covid-19 and follow all the guidelines to prevent spread of coronavirus. The members have to maintain six-feet physical distance and take nutritious food to further strengthen the immune system. However, they should not share food and water bottles. The MLAs were told to maintain distance from those looking visibly ill. “Do not touch your nose, mouth and face frequently. Also, try to avoid frequently adjusting or touching the mask, and if you have to, do it after sanitizing your hands,” the speaker said. The MLAs were told to cough or sneeze by using a handkerchief against their mouth and nose. “Please sanitise your mobile phone, computer, mouse, laptop every four hours,” Srinivas Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/follow-covid-norms-speaker-tells-mlas/articleshow/77986588.cms||Roushan Ali
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s 2nd rank in ‘ease of doing business’ jugglery of figures: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP over the recent ‘Ease of doing business’ rankings giving Uttar Pradesh the second position, former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav described it as jugglery of statistics which was completely in contrast with the ground reality. “Let the government come out with details of investment that has come in across the state, the employment that this investment has generated and people who have got these jobs to clear the air over the confusion about the basis on which UP got the second position in ‘Ease of doing business chart,” the Samajwadi Party national president said. “In 2019 Uttar Pradesh ranked twelfth in the list. This year it has climbed up to second position, which is good. But people are trying to decipher what all has changed around them in one year,” Akhilesh said. Economic activities have gone off track due to random lockdowns and absence of any policy to handle the pandemic. “Over 300 factories have shut down in Gautam Budh Nagar alone. Thousands of manufacturing, construction businesses and hospitality chains including top hotels and restaurants are on the verge of closure. There is very little business taking place in the state,” he said. The SP chief pointed out that lakhs of migrants had returned home to their villages in UP and have not got any proper employment in the state, youths have lost their jobs and have nothing to do which in itself exposes the claims of ‘Ease of doing business’. “From July 17 till date wages under MNREGS to the tune of Rs 3.31 crore remain unpaid in Lucknow alone, what to talk of other districts. People are trying to reason out the grounds on which the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) at the Center gave number two position to UP,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-2nd-rank-in-ease-of-biz-jugglery-of-figures-akhilesh/articleshow/77987499.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
September 8, 2020||Pune||Duo from shelter home held for bike thefts||Pune: Two men residing at a shelter home in Hadapsar were arrested on Monday for their alleged involvement in several two-wheeler thefts, leading to the recovery of 10 motorcycles worth Rs 2.55 lakh from their possession. A team headed by senior police inspector Ramesh Sathe, sub-inspector Saurabh Mane arrested the duo identified as Vishnu Bhaurao Kundgir (21) and Pavan Venkat Patil (20) from Latur, while the police team was patrolling the area and spotted the two men on a motorcycle. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-from-shelter-home-held-for-bike-thefts/articleshow/77987953.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Pranab Mukherjee was a man for all seasons, says Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said former president Pranab Mukherjee was not only a troubleshooter but was also a man for all seasons. KCR said Pranab’s political acumen in running coalition governments was unparallelled. Moving a condolence motion in honour of the former president who died on August 31, the chief minister recalled Pranab had signed the Telangana bill as President. “He understood the demand for a separate state was justified when he headed a committee constituted by the UPA government to look into the demand for a new state,” he said. He also remembered Pranab for his fatherly guidance during and after the formation of Telangana state. Cutting across party lines, members said Pranabda would always remain in the hearts of the people for his contribution in the formation of Telangana. The assembly paid rich tributes to him and later adopted the motion unanimously. Ministers and TRS MLAs recalled how Pranab used to praise KCR as being one of the very few leaders in the world who launched a separate statehood movement, achieved its purpose and went on to become the chief minister. Referring to Pranab’s ‘The Coalition Years’ book, agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said: “Pranabda mentioned in the book that KCR had made it clear to him that he was not interested in any significant portfolio in the Union cabinet and that his main goal was achieving statehood.” TRS had a tie-up with Congress and KCR served as labour minister in the Union cabinet between 2004 and 2006. Ministers — Eatala Rajender, A Indrakaran Reddy and G Jagadish Reddy — and MLAs Balka Suman and D Sudheer Reddy recalled how Pranab used to fondly call KCR as “Chandrasekhar.” Lone BJP member T Raja Singh complained he was not given an opportunity to pay homage to Pranab when the House took up the condolence motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pranab-was-a-man-for-all-seasons-says-kcr/articleshow/77986603.cms||Roushan Ali
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Industries to get land easily in UP for starting units||Lucknow: The industries department is likely to introduce a slew of measures to make it easier for industries to get land in the state for setting up units. An in-principle decision has been taken to reduce land conversion charges from commercial to industrial, while also allowing land to be given on lease to industries. At a meeting presided over by chief secretary R K Tiwari recently, it was decided that land use conversion rates could be brought down by 20-35%, while retaining the telescopic benefit for bigger plots, which means conversion charges for larger plots would be reduced further. Besides, while land is given on lease only for solar power generation projects, a list of other industries is being prepared to which land could be leased, making it more economical for them to set up units. “We are looking at industries where level of construction is low. This could include projects like waste to energy plants, marble storage,” said a senior official. In another decision, ownership of public land in a village, acquired by a large industrial authority for an industrial township, will be vested with the particular industrial authority. “Industrial authorities will, in this sense, function like municipal corporations. When a village is acquired for industrial township, the public land there will be under the industrial authority. Therefore, the industrial authority will be competent to take decisions for change in use or other issues pertaining to it,” he said. He added that the government is focussed on spurring industrial growth in the state, so various steps had been taken to create a large land bank to ensure that investors did not have to wait for appropriate land. “The decisions that have been taken are in-principle. These will be sent to the cabinet for a final approval,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/industries-to-get-land-easily-in-up-for-starting-units/articleshow/77987507.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops foil weavers’ ‘Chalo Assembly’ call||Hyderabad: The police foiled “Chalo Assembly” call given by the National Weavers United Joint Action Committee along with political parties, National BC Welfare Association and civil society associations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-foil-weavers-chalo-assembly-call/articleshow/77986609.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s suicide rate above national average: NCRB||AMBALA: With 4,191 people committing suicide in Haryana in 2019, the state’s rate of 14.5% is 4.1% above the national average of 10.4%. The data is provided in the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report on accidental deaths and suicides in India published last week. According to the report, 1,39,123 people committed suicide in India in 2019, of which 97,613 were males, 41,493 females and 17 transgenders. In 2018, the suicide rate was 10.2%, as 1,34,516 people took the extreme step. The latest report reveals that the main reasons for suicide in India included 32.4% cases of domestic problems (except marital), 5.5% of marital disputes and 17.1% due to diseases. Talking about the Haryana cases, Ambala-based Punjab and Haryana high court lawyer Hemant Kumar said, “In 2019, 4,191 people committed suicide in the state, which included 3,297 males and 894 females. Suicides in Haryana accounted for 3% of the total suicides in the country. However, the suicide rate in the state is 14.5%, which is 4.1% above the national rate. In 2018, 3,547 people had committed suicide in Haryana.” Faridabad, which is among the country’s 53 metropolises with a population of above 10 lakh, recorded 265 suicides, which was 116 more than the 149 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryanas-suicide-rate-above-national-average-ncrb/articleshow/77986610.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||DGBR visits Atal tunnel ahead of Rajnath’s visit||Manali: With defence minister Rajnath Singh scheduled to visit Atal tunnel on Rohtang Pass on Wednesday, director general of border roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh visited the tunnel to take stock of works in the tunnel and other arrangements. According to Himachal Pradesh tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, Prime Minister Narender Modi could visit the tunnel for inauguration on September 29. With his visit to the tunnel cancelled twice, this is the third time the defence minister is scheduled to visit the tunnel. “He will check the status of the tunnel and will check approach road and safety features. He will hold a meeting with Border Roads Organisation (BRO) officials ahead of PM Modi’s visit,” an official said. As tension is increasing between India and China at Ladakh, ministry of defence was looking at early opening of the Atal tunnel to facilitate military movement. Military convoys are using the Manali-Leh highway to supply essentials to border areas. The tunnel will decrease travel time by two-three hours. Rajnath is expected to visit crucial points of the highway. Lt Gen Harpal Singh visited the tunnel to review ongoing finishing works which are at a final stage. He instructed engineers and officials to ensure finishing and cleaning works are complete before inauguration of the tunnel. He took stock of lighting and safety arrangements. He also checked both portals of the tunnel which are being decorated and then checked the newly built bridge on Chandra river. This bridge will connect tunnel with existing Manali-Leh highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dgbr-visits-atal-tunnel-ahead-of-rajnaths-visit/articleshow/77986615.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||MoUs worth Rs 4,000cr in production phase||Lucknow: Out of the 150 MoUs signed during the 2018 Investors’ Summit, which are being mapped by the industrial development department, the signatories of 18 MoUs worth Rs 4,095.96 crore have commenced commercial operations, while another 31 MoUs of Rs 12,858.34 crore are in project implementation stage. Additional chief secretary, industrial development department, Alok Kumar held the second review meeting on Monday and said there has been significant progress in investments since the first meeting held on July 16 this year. “Since then, four new units have started commercial operations and 19 new units with an investment of around Rs 4,500 crore have initiated their project on the ground,” he said. Chief secretary RK Tiwari had issued an order on June 4, 2020, directing all departments under which MoUs had been signed to set up a review mechanism and appoint nodal officers for handholding investors. The industries department has appointed 23 nodal officers for 150 investment proposals. Kumar said, “Due to the efforts of nodal officers, more than 12% MoUs have initiated commercial operations in addition to more than 20% of investment intents are in various active phases of implementation. “There are various instances where nodal officers played a key role in helping investors. For instance, Max Ventures & Industries was facing an issue related to mining, the matter was resolved by the intervention of NOIDA Authority. In the case of Surbhi Satcom Group, issues related to temporary power connection, fire NOC and structural stability certificate were resolved by nodal officer,” he said. The nodal officer from Greater Noida helped 15 investors and now 12 have initiated their projects and construction of three units is over, Kumar said, adding that projects which were on the verge of being dropped by investors due to logistical issues are now back due to the proactive interventions of nodal officers and are moving ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mous-worth-rs-4000cr-in-production-phase/articleshow/77987511.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Monsoon session only for masked, tested members||NEW DELHI: The monsoon session of Delhi Assembly will take place on September 14. Members of the legislative assembly, wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing from other members, will take up legislative business in the one-day session, the second since the outbreak of Covid-19. A proposal of the principal secretary, law department, on the one-day special session of the assembly was considered by the Delhi cabinet on September 5 and approved for September 14 by the council of ministers on Monday. Assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel said arrangements to reduce Covid infection are being made. “Before the session begins, all MLAs and members of the assembly staff will be tested for the coronavirus. The MLAs will be asked to get tested in the state government dispensaries or health facilities near their homes or come to the assembly for tests. They must submit the test report to the assembly. “The arrangements are being worked. Only those testing negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to attend the assembly session,” said Goel. According to sources, there will be thermal screening facilities available at the entry points, and only those who undergo this screening will be allowed to enter the assembly premises on September 14. Everyone, including the MLAs, will have to mandatorily wear face masks and maintain social distancing. The 70-member assembly has 62 MLAs belonging to Aam Aadmi Party and 8 to BJP. There are plans to increase the number of chairs installed in the chamber to allow a two-yard distance between each member. Currently, the legislative chamber has 104 chairs and the assembly authorities estimate they may need to add around 20 additional chairs to ensure the required six-feet distance between MLAs. The health department has been asked to deploy a mobile testing van on the assembly premises to enable the employees to get tested before the beginning of the assembly session. According to sources, the question hour is likely to be suspended because of its being a one-day session. Only important issues and legislative matters are expected to be taken due to the limited time available. The assembly has been convened for the second time after the coronavirus reached the city. The first session was convened on March 23, when Delhi government presented the budget for 2020-21. Under constitutional requirements, it is mandatory not to let six months intervene between the last sitting of the previous session and the first sitting of the next. Watch Delhi: Monsoon session only for masked, tested members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-session-only-for-masked-tested-members/articleshow/77986616.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Man takes poison, dies but not before blaming wife & in-laws in a video||BAREILLY: A 28-year old man allegedly consumed poison and shot a video of his last moments, in which he blamed his wife and in-laws for his death. Munish Sharma also uploaded the video on social media platform as he struggled to catch a breath. In the video that is being circulated widely, Sharma can be seen purportedly consuming poison and saying his wife (Mohini) and in-laws are responsible for his death. Sharma requested his family to ensure that people responsible for his death are punished. He worked as a manager at a hotel in the Civil Lines area of UP’s Moradabad. Sharma was living separately with his wife in Ramganga Vihar, who had left home following a dispute between the two. An FIR has been registered against the accused, police said. SHO of Civil Lines, Moradabad, Nawal Marwah told TOI, “The incident happened on Friday night when one Munish Sharma, a resident of Ramganga Vihar, Civil Lines, allegedly committed suicide. He was living alone at his residence as his wife had gone to her sister’s place in Delhi after a dispute between the couple. On learning about the incident, police rushed to the spot and the body was sent for postmortem in which, cause of death was due to consumption of poison.” SHO added, “Two days after the alleged suicide, his family found the video in the phone where Sharma was consuming poison while recoding it and also blaiming his wife and in-laws. An FIR has now been registered against four accused persons, his wife, father-in law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-takes-poison-dies-but-not-before-blaming-wife-in-laws-in-a-video-all-booked/articleshow/77984393.cms||Maria Khan
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Convicted Beed ex-doctor held for running practice illegally||AURANGABAD: The Beed police on Sunday arrested Sudam Munde, a former medical practitioner convicted and punished earlier in a case of illegal abortions, on the charge of running a private medical practice from a nursing home at Ramnagar in Parli despite his licence to practice medicine having been suspended. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “Based on the complaint lodged by medical officer Dr Balasaheb Medhe, the Parli city police station registered an offence under various sections, including the PC-PNDT Act, Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, Indian Medical Council Act and for cheating and using criminal force to deter a public servant from performing his duty. The accused was arrested on Sunday afternoon.” Citing the spot panchanama records, Poddar said that a radiology machine, an X-ray machine, abortion equipment including a Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) kit and allopathic medicines were found in commercial quantity. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody for five days. The matter came to light following Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar’s recent directive to the district health authorities to conduct a drive against bogus doctors following a series of complaints. Dharmapuri primary health centre medical officer Dr Medhe, district civil surgeon Ashok Thorat, health officials and 20 policemen went to Munde’s facility on Saturday night and found four people being treated as indoor patients. Two of these patients had visible symptoms of Covid-19. All of them were immediately shifted to the civil hospital, while the search of the premises continued till 7am on Sunday. The facility did not display a certificate of the treating doctor and Munde could not produce one when asked for. Munde and his wife, also a former doctor, were convicted and sentenced to 10 years in an illegal abortions’ case that had hit the headlines across the state in 2012. The investigation team had then found 20 female fetuses in their hospital compound as well as at their farm. Last year, he walked out of prison after completing his sentence, police said. Parli city police inspector Hemant Kadam said, “The couple’s licence to practise medicine was cancelled by the Maharashtra Medical Council in 2012.” The officer said that in February 2016, a local court sentenced the Munde couple to 10 years in jail. A sting operation by an NGO in 2011 had caught the caught conducting illegal sex determination tests and female feticide. They were arrested after a 28-year-old sugarcane labourer, Vijaymala Patekar, died on their operating table in 2012. The woman, a mother of four girls, was at the Mundes’ hospital after an illegal sex determination revealed that she was carrying a female fetus. Along with Munde couple, the woman’s husband was also convicted and sent to prison. Munde’s sentence was commuted and he was released in February 2019 for “good behaviour” after completing seven years in jail. “For the past 2-3 months, he was running the hospital by putting up the name of his daughter, a gynecologist, outside the facility. However, our preliminary probe revealed that she was not associated with the setup,” an officer privy to the investigation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/convicted-beed-ex-doc-held-for-running-practice-illegally/articleshow/77978973.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Two suspected Maoists killed in Telangana's Bhadradri after mine blast||HYDERABAD: Hours after a landmine blast triggered by Maoists in Cherla of Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Sunday night, two armed men, suspected to be Maoists, were killed in an exchange of fire with police between Vaddipeta and Pusuguppa in the district on Monday evening. The Bhadradri Kothagudem police have intensified combing operation in villages on Telangana-Chhattisgarh border after the recent killing of Maoist area committee member Shankar. “We received reliable inputs about movement of armed underground formations of Maoist party’s Telangana state committee with an intention to commit some sensational crimes against security personnel and public representatives to enforce bandh call given by them on September 6,” Bhadradri Kothagudem superintendent of police (SP) Sunil Dutt said. Around 3pm, a police team spotted a group of 12 men moving under suspicious circumstances between Vaddipeta and Pusuguppa villages of Cherla mandal and the 22-member special party police team confronted them. “While our special party police were combing the forest between Vaddipeta-Pusuguppa, an exchange of fire took place between them and a group of armed extremists. The exchange of fire lasted for about 20 minutes. Subsequently, when our teams searched the area, bodies of two suspected Maoists were found in the forest area. An SBBL gun and a pistol were found on the person of the two men along with two haversacks,” the SP said. The identity of the men is yet to be established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-suspected-maoists-killed-in-bhadradri-after-mine-blast/articleshow/77986649.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||doneConvicted Beed ex-doc held for running practice illegally||Aurangabad: The Beed police on Sunday arrested Sudam Munde, a former medical practitioner convicted and punished earlier in a case of illegal abortions, on the charge of running a private medical practice from a nursing home at Ramnagar in Parli despite his licence to practice medicine having been suspended.Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “Based on the complaint lodged by medical officer Dr Balasaheb Medhe, the Parli city police station registered an offence under various sections, including the PC-PNDT Act, Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, Indian Medical Council Act and for cheating and using criminal force to deter a public servant from performing his duty. The accused was arrested on Sunday afternoon.”Citing the spot panchanama records, Poddar said that a radiology machine, an X-ray machine, abortion equipment including a Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) kit and allopathic medicines were found in commercial quantity. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody for five days.The matter came to light following Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar’s recent directive to the district health authorities to conduct a drive against bogus doctors following a series of complaints. Dharmapuri primary health centre medical officer Dr Medhe, district civil surgeon Ashok Thorat, health officials and 20 policemen went to Munde’s facility on Saturday night and found four people being treated as indoor patients. Two of these patients had visible symptoms of Covid-19. All of them were immediately shifted to the civil hospital, while the search of the premises continued till 7am on Sunday. The facility did not display a certificate of the treating doctor and Munde could not produce one when asked for.Munde and his wife, also a former doctor, were convicted and sentenced to 10 years in an illegal abortions’ case that had hit the headlines across the state in 2012. The investigation team had then found 20 female fetuses in their hospital compound as well as at their farm. Last year, he walked out of prison after completing his sentence, police said.Parli city police inspector Hemant Kadam said, “The couple’s licence to practise medicine was cancelled by the Maharashtra Medical Council in 2012.”The officer said that in February 2016, a local court sentenced the Munde couple to 10 years in jail. A sting operation by an NGO in 2011 had caught the caught conducting illegal sex determination tests and female feticide. They were arrested after a 28-year-old sugarcane labourer, Vijaymala Patekar, died on their operating table in 2012. The woman, a mother of four girls, was at the Mundes’ hospital after an illegal sex determination revealed that she was carrying a female fetus. Along with Munde couple, the woman’s husband was also convicted and sent to prison.Munde’s sentence was commuted and he was released in February 2019 for “good behaviour” after completing seven years in jail. “For the past 2-3 months, he was running the hospital by putting up the name of his daughter, a gynecologist, outside the facility. However, our preliminary probe revealed that she was not associated with the setup,” an officer privy to the investigation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doneconvicted-beed-ex-doc-held-for-running-practice-illegally/articleshow/77978945.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Bareilly||Man takes poison, dies but not before blaming wife & in-laws in a video||BAEEILLY: A 28-year old man allegedly consumed poison and shot a video of his last moments, in which he blamed his wife and in-laws for his death. Munish Sharma also uploaded the video on social media platform as he struggled to catch a breath. In the video that is being circulated widely, Sharma can be seen purportedly consuming poison and saying his wife (Mohini) and in-laws are responsible for his death. Sharma requested his family to ensure that people responsible for his death are punished. He worked as a manager at a hotel in the Civil Lines area of UP’s Moradabad. Sharma was living separately with his wife in Ramganga Vihar, who had left home following a dispute between the two. An FIR has been registered against the accused, police said. SHO of Civil Lines, Moradabad, Nawal Marwah told TOI, “The incident happened on Friday night when one Munish Sharma, a resident of Ramganga Vihar, Civil Lines, allegedly committed suicide. He was living alone at his residence as his wife had gone to her sister’s place in Delhi after a dispute between the couple. On learning about the incident, police rushed to the spot and the body was sent for postmortem in which, cause of death was due to consumption of poison.” SHO added, “Two days after the alleged suicide, his family found the video in the phone where Sharma was consuming poison while recoding it and also blaiming his wife and in-laws. An FIR has now been registered against four accused persons, his wife, father-in law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-takes-poison-dies-but-not-before-blaming-wife-in-laws-in-a-video-all-booked/articleshow/77984404.cms||Maria Khan
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Better policing helped UP improve ranking: ADG (LO)||LUCKNOW: Sustained crackdown on top 25 criminal gangs and seizure of their properties worth Rs 154 crore, besides the arrest of over 2,500 history-sheeters by the police created a conducive environment for the state to bag second position in the country in ‘ease of doing business’ rankings. According to senior officials, successful organization of Kumbh Mela-2019, Defence Expo and NRI summit in Varanasi helped UP achieve the feat. In the latest annual rankings released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), UP jumped to second spot in ‘ease of doing business’ from 12th position previous year. “Acting on the chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s policy of zero tolerance against crime, the police is striving to create an atmosphere of peace which has not only attracted investment from business houses but also helped UP bag second spot in ‘ease of doing business’ rankings,” additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said. He said UP police carried out operations against mafia and gangsters and gunned down 125 history-sheeters and arrested at least 2,515 others. “In many districts, police seized properties of criminals and exterminated as many as 19,098 criminals, who ran extortion rackets, after booking them under the Goonda Act,” the ADG said. “Slapping of the National Security Act in 121 cases created fear in criminals. Over 14,000 criminals have surrendered in the last three years,” he said. ADG Kumar said as per crime records, kidnapping for extortion went down by 31%, loot by 43% and dacoity by 42% as compared to last year. The officer also cited how intensified patrolling by UP 112 – the emergency operating command centre – has provided security to industrial establishments. “In urban areas, the response time of UP 112 patrol vehicles has reduced to three minutes,” the ADG said, adding that alarm systems of private security companies manning industrial establishments have been integrated with UP 112 for faster response during emergencies. On the lines of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the state is also forming its own UP Special Security Force (UP SSF), to look after the security of important industrial establishments, manufacturing units, religious cities, courts and other vital installations. “Recruitment of 50,000 constables strengthened the force,” the ADG said, adding that 18 cyber cell police stations have been established to tackle cybercrimes like phishing and vishing. “The process to set up hi-tech forensic laboratories in all police ranges is also underway for smooth investigation,” he said. ADG Kumar added that creation of police commissionerates at Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow led to increase in police presence and faster redressal of complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/better-policing-helped-up-improve-ranking-adg-lo/articleshow/77987520.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 8, 2020||Goa||Soon, procurements at MPT along Make in India norms||Panaji: With the Union ministry of shipping directing all major ports to procure or charter tug boats which are made in India, Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will ensure that all procurements are carried out as per the revised Make in India order. MPT officials said that the port would follow the new guidelines which will help promote the Indian shipbuilding industry.MPT chairman E Ramesh Kumar said, “Whatever is the ministry’s guidelines we will follow it.”Goa, which has a sizeable shipbuilding industry, will also draw cheer from Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya’s statements that the ministry wants to revive old shipyards.The Union ministry is already in discussion with some leading countries for Make in India shipbuilding. “The government is taking 360 degree actions to revive old shipyards and promote shipbuilding in India. It is a step towards bolstering the revival of Indian ship building and a big move towards Aatma Nirbhar Shipping in Aatma Nirbhar Bharat,” said Mandaviya.The Centre wants to try to create an ecosystem for shipbuilding, ship repair, ship recycling and flagging in India. Aside from Goa Shipyard Ltd, which is building frontline warships and commercial vessels, there are several private shipyards in the state that are building ships for domestic as well as international clients.In the future, MPT will have to purchase or charter port crafts based on the revised make in India norms. The Centrehas proposed to set up a Standing Specifications Committee to shortlist around five variants of tug boats.Recently, Cochin Shipyard Ltd bagged an order for two automated vessels from the Norwegian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-procurements-at-mpt-along-make-in-india-norms/articleshow/77987553.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||As cases rise, 64% of ICU beds taken in Delhi hospitals||NEW DELHI: Only 36% of the ICU beds for Covid-19 patients are vacant in Delhi’s hospitals. The latest data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app shows of the 928 ICU beds (without ventilator) in 82 hospitals across the city, 591 (64%) are occupied. There are at least 28 hospitals, mostly big private hospitals, which don’t have any vacant ICU bed without ventilator support. ICU beds with ventilator support for Covid-19 patients are available in 93 hospitals, of which data shows only 14 have five or more ventilator beds available. Total 39 hospitals have no ventilator beds while 40 others have less than five ventilator beds. The availability of general Covid beds has also reduced significantly over the past few days due to spike in new cases. Also, many people from neighbouring states are rushing to Delhi to seek treatment, leading to scarcity of beds, doctors said. “There are a total 14,185 Covid beds across the capital. Of this, 5,372 (38%) are occupied and 8,813 (62%) are vacant,” said an official. He added that 11,613 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation. Public health specialists have expressed concern over rapid rise in new cases in the national capital over the past few days. On Monday, 2,077 new cases of Covid-19 were reported taking the tally to over 1.93 lakh. The death toll mounted to 4,599 with 32 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. Officials in the state health department said 7,804 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 15,150 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, which is lower than the number of tests carried out last week which may explain reduction in new cases. The positivity rate – number of positive cases from those tested – continues to be over 9%. The active cases tally in Delhi has crossed 20,000 mark to reach 20,543 – more than double the number of active cases recorded about a month ago. If the trend of increasing cases continues, Delhi may need more ICU beds, doctors said. According to a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital, the demand for general Covid beds has gone down as most persons suffering from mild symptoms are recovering at home itself and rushing to hospital only when the condition worsens necessitating oxygen therapy. “Most patients require ICU care. Influx of patients from other state is another major concern,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-cases-rise-64-of-icu-beds-taken/articleshow/77986663.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KTU rejects call for online supplementary examinations on practical grounds||Thiruvananthapuram: APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has summarily rejected the demands by a section of engineering students that the supplementary examination scheduled to begin on September 9 should be either scrapped or conducted online. The varsity has also published a set of detailed procedures to be followed in the conduct of examinations. A section of BTech students were putting pressure on the university and government demanding a rollback of the examination schedule, which they argued would be harmful to students in these pandemic situation. However, university authorities said a small section of students with huge backlog are trying to find fault with the university for its decision to conduct the supplementary examinations that would stretch over two and a half months. “We don’t say that the examination should be scrapped altogether. We are worried about the prevailing pandemic situation and in these circumstances the university should better give students a chance to write supplementary examinations online,” said a KTU student, currently stationed in Mumbai. Students claim that several of them had gone to their natives outside Kerala and it would be nearly impossible for them to return, braving the pandemic, and stay for a long period with the only purpose to take supplementary examinations. However, KTU authorities refuse to subscribe to such excuses. “First of all, the tiny section of students that oppose the current schedule and demand online examination should understand that KTU or any other major university in the country is at present equipped with enough facilities to conduct a wide range of examinations online. Yes, we carried out final semester examinations online. But for them, the examination was only for four subjects and 12 credits. Their marks for online exams are being normalised against their scores in the previous years. That is not the case with supplementary exams. The schedule was announced at least 45 days in advance and there was enough time for students to plan. In case a few students fail to attend the examination, another chance will be there soon,” said KTU vice chancellor M S Rajasree. “As a special consideration to students with backlogs, odd semester supplementary examinations will also be conducted as a special one-time chance this year. However, this is a consideration only for this academic year and the university will strictly adhere to the regulations concerned from next academic year,” a university circular regarding the conduct of the examinations said on Thursday. Meanwhile, state human rights commission on Friday asked KTU to consider the request for conducting supplementary examinations online. “Many students stay in containment zones. Though they have been given opportunity to choose exam centres near their residence, it won’t be that easy to reach the centres on time for want of enough public transport facilities,” the commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ktu-rejects-call-for-online-supplementary-examinations-on-practical-grounds/articleshow/77985484.cms||B S Anilkumar
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Infrastructure issues ail NMC’s Bytco hosp||Nashik: Bytco Hospital, one of the largest Covid hospitals in the city, has been facing technical problems related to ventilators and the centralised oxygen supply system. Civic officials said 10 of the 15 PM Cares-funded ventilators received by the Nashik Municipal Corporation-managed hospital had developed technical snags and, therefore, could not be put to use. The civic body has written to the manufacturer to immediately repair the ventilators. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has plans to add 200 beds to the Bytco hospital, including 24 with ventilators. The civic body also had plans to install a 20,000-litre oxygen tank on the hospital premises. However, despite floating tenders twice, no firm has shown interest. “We have already set up a centralised system for the 200 oxygen beds and ventilators, but we need a large tank to store the oxygen. We had floated bids twice, but did not receive a response. Now, we have decided to get a 20,000-litre oxygen tank on rent. We have floated a third bid for the purpose. Once we get the tank, we will immediately start all the oxygen beds and ventilators,” said a health official of the civic body. Mayor Satish Kulkarni, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav and chairman of NMC’s standing committee Ganesh Gite conducted a meeting with the health officials. It was decided that they will pursue the oxygen supply issue with the government. Jadhav also held talks with the FDA joint commissioner, who assured to provide an adequate supply of oxygen to patients at Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/infrastructure-issues-ail-nmcs-bytco-hosp/articleshow/77987525.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribals vandalise forest office||Hyderabad: At least 25 persons, belonging to a nomadic tribe of Lingapuram in Nirmal district, on Monday vandalised a forest range office and a government hospital in Khanapur after a villager, who was taken into custody by forest officials on Sunday, was shifted to a government hospital in Nirmal town on Monday. The villagers alleged he was tortured in custody. On Sunday, forest officials took Kishan, 20, into custody after he was caught on camera setting up a trap for poaching a leopard, Nirmal police said. According to district forest officials, Kishan fainted in the morning when he was about to be shifted to court. Later, he was shifted to Khanapur hospital. Kishan’s family members and other villagers then reached the range office and ransacked it. Forest officials immediately alerted local police, who came to the rescue and controlled the mob who attacked both the forest officials and government hospital staff. “We have not done anything to Kishan. The allegation of harassment, levelled against us by those who resorted to vandalism, is false. Kishan was shifted to hospital after he fainted due to low BP,’’ district forest officials said. Police are gearing up to register criminal case against tribals who resorted to violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribals-vandalise-forest-office/articleshow/77986670.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP farmers to get Rs 900 crore subsidy on power use||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to roll out subsidy of Rs 900 crore on power consumption by private agricultural tubewells. This will help raise the income of farmers hit by the Coronavirus pandemic. The agricultural department has released a tranche of Rs 100 crore to the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited for the month of July. Subsidy for the subsequent months would follow soon, sources said. In a letter sent on September 4, the department asked the directorate of agriculture to release the grant at the earliest. The energy department will have to furnish a utilization certificate for the funds released. Last year, Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission had increased fixed charges of rural unmetered private tubewells and pump sets from Rs 150/BHP (brake horse power) per month to Rs 170/ BHP, while in case of metered ones the energy charges have been sought to be increased from Rs 1.75 per unit to Rs 2.25 per unit and fixed charge from Rs 60/BHP to Rs 90/BHP. There has not been any hike in power tariff of tubewells since then. The directive is significant in the wake of upcoming rabi crop season, essentially wheat, which will be grown across the state. According to experts, the farm economy had taken a serious hit after the lockdown halted transportation which, in turn, stagnated the harvest of kharif crops. Further during the peak harvest, the produce could not reach mandis, thus disrupting the supply chain. The pandemic had given rise to several challenges in procurement operations as well. Further, the state government has directed that the funds would be withdrawn from the state exchequer as per the requirements. It will also be ensured that the funds are not allocated from any other scheme or programme. Also, the funds would not be utilized in any other scheme. At the same time, the government said the department would be required to follow a standard of financial propriety. As per the guidelines, the agriculture department would be required to get the financial sanction verified by a designated authority. The department would also have to reveal the names of beneficiaries by posting their details on a designated website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-farmers-to-get-rs-900cr-subsidy-on-power-use/articleshow/77987526.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||T govt-Centre spar, urea in short supply||Hyderabad: In the recent past, BJP and TRS have locked horns over many issues, including funds released to state from Centre to combat Covid-19. The latest flashpoint is the supply of urea where state government said that Centre had under-supplied 2.5 lakh tonnes of the fertiliser so far. This was countered by Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy. While a tiff is going on between both governments, the rates of urea per bag have increased in the black-market. Officials said that there is only about 69,000 tonne of stock available with different sources. Agriculture minister, Singireddy Niranajan Reddy, had a few days ago issued a statement saying that for August and September quotas, the Centre has to release 4.64 lakh tonne, while 2.5 lakh tonne are still pending. He said that from April to August, the Centre estimated that 8.6 lakh tonne has to be supplied. After Reddy’s statement, Union minister G Kishan Reddy said that the Centre needs to supply only 2.5 lakh tonnes. Whether the supply will happen or not as per Telangana’s demand, stock details available shows that 854 tonnes of urea is available with private companies, 29,000 tonnes is available with dealers, another 29,000 with societies, and only 6,000 tonnes with Markfed. This had led to shortage kind of situation where farmers of districts like Khammam, Warangal, Vikarabad, Ranga Reddy are standing in line for the Urea. “Taking advantage of this, traders are selling urea at a high price. The fixed price is Rs 270 per bag, but they are charging any where between Rs 300-350,” said a farmer from Vikarabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-centre-spar-urea-in-short-supply/articleshow/77986679.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 8, 2020||Goa||Soon, procurements at MPT along Make in India norms||Panaji: With the Union ministry of shipping directing all major ports to procure or charter tug boats which are made in India, Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will ensure that all procurements are carried out as per the revised Make in India order. MPT officials said that the port would follow the new guidelines which will help promote the Indian shipbuilding industry. MPT chairman E Ramesh Kumar said, “Whatever is the ministry’s guidelines we will follow it.” Goa, which has a sizeable shipbuilding industry, will also draw cheer from Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya’s statements that the ministry wants to revive old shipyards. The Union ministry is already in discussion with some leading countries for Make in India shipbuilding. “The government is taking 360 degree actions to revive old shipyards and promote shipbuilding in India. It is a step towards bolstering the revival of Indian ship building and a big move towards Aatma Nirbhar Shipping in Aatma Nirbhar Bharat,” said Mandaviya. The Centre wants to try to create an ecosystem for shipbuilding, ship repair, ship recycling and flagging in India. Aside from Goa Shipyard Ltd, which is building frontline warships and commercial vessels, there are several private shipyards in the state that are building ships for domestic as well as international clients. In the future, MPT will have to purchase or charter port crafts based on the revised make in India norms. The Centrehas proposed to set up a Standing Specifications Committee to shortlist around five variants of tug boats. Recently, Cochin Shipyard Ltd bagged an order for two automated vessels from the Norwegian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-procurements-at-mpt-along-make-in-india-norms/articleshow/77987566.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Enact law to make 6% GDP spend on education must: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Stressing on moving away from the “slavery of rote learning and examination-oriented education”, deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Monday said that for National Education Policy (NEP) to be successful, the central government needed to enact laws making 6% of the GDP’s expenditure on education mandatory. The Union ministry of education organised a videoconference on Monday on the role of NEP 2020 in transforming higher education. The participants included President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, governors, lieutenant governors and education ministers of various states. “The new policy lacks the action plan to implement it. Implementation should be carefully planned so that it is not limited to being just a wonderful idea,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister. Highlighting the need to stop blaming Macaulay for the shortcomings in the education system, he stressed on bringing in constructive changes to the system. “A newspaper article published today mentioned that every hour a student in the country commits suicide. We need to think about the lapses in the education policies that cause immense pressure and stress on students. This results in a situation where they take their own lives. We have to get out of the board system as that is not promoting experiential learning,” added Sisodia. With NEP laying stress on vocational education, Sisodia said vocational degrees should be made on a par with others. “At present, about 80% of youths with a degree are not considered employable. This needs our attention. Even after completing 20 years of education, if students are not employable then where does the fault lie? It is inappropriate to treat vocational degrees differently from undergraduate degrees in other subjects. A student with a degree in vocational education cannot appear for the UPSC exams,” the minister added. “Spending 6% of GDP on education has been a rhetoric for the past 52 years. NEP 1968 also mentioned it, but it was never implemented. It should be made into a law so that every government is bound to increase expenditure and make quality education accessible,” Sisodia said. The minister appreciated the inclusion of early childhood education in the policy. “We have to compete with developed countries through education. However, while trained teachers educate children abroad, in our country we assign the same role to Anganwadi workers. In this manner, the foundation remains weak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/enact-law-to-make-6-gdp-spend-on-edu-must-sisodia/articleshow/77986687.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Take back ventilators given to pvt hospitals: MP||Aurangabad: Elected representatives in Aurangabad have demanded that the ventilators given to private hospitals be taken back and used in government facilities. Last week, it came to light that 26 of the 61 ventilators, which the Aurangabad health department had received from the Centre, had been given to leading private hospitals in the city. The issue was raised during the weekly meeting of people’s representatives with the district administration. MP Imtiaz Jaleel and Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad demanded that the ventilators given to private hospitals as well as those lying unused in rural hospitals be taken back. During the meeting, authorities defended themselves saying there was a condition imposed on the private hospitals of not charging patients if they were put on these ventilators. Jaleel demanded that these ventilators be shifted to the super-speciality building constructed with an investment of Rs 150 crore or at the civic body-run Meltron-based covid hospital. Jaleel claimed that Gangapur sub-district hospital had received 10 ventilators. Four of these had been installed, four are yet to be installed and the remaining two have been handed over to a private hospital. Kannad sub-district hospital had received 10 ventilators, none of them have been put to use, while Vaijapur sub-district hospital received 19 ventilators, out of which, only five have been installed. ZP authorities claimed that the technicians, who were supposed to install the ventilators, had not turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/take-back-ventilators-given-to-pvt-hospitals-mp/articleshow/77987548.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Power tariff relief for industrial users in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a decision that will bring relief to nearly 15 lakh power consumers in the capital, Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has slashed fixed charges by 50% on unutilised capacity for April-May 2020 period for industrial and non-domestic users. In an order issued on Monday, the DERC reduced fixed charges from Rs 250/ kVA per month to Rs 125/kVA per month for the unutilised capacity during the complete lockdown period of April 2020 and May 2020 to avoid hardships to non-domestic/commercial and industrial consumers. DERC also considered the demand of industry associations and non-domestic consumers. The total unutilised capacity during this period was 80% out of which 84% pertained to non-domestic consumers and 75% for industrial consumers. Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain said, “This will be a huge relief for the non-domestic and commercial users. The expected impact of the said waiver is around Rs 160 crore. This will benefit around 44,000 industrial consumers and around 10 lakh non-domestic/commercial consumers.” Tweeting the order issued by DERC, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “Delhi govt stands with the people of Delhi in this hour of crisis. This relief in fixed charges will help lakhs of people to face hardships caused by corona.” Kejriwal had met traders and industrial associations last week and had assured them that adequate steps would be taken to provide relief regarding the fixed power charges. Over the last few days, many traders’ associations and industrial associations have met the chief minister and requested him to intervene in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/power-tariff-relief-for-industrial-users/articleshow/77986725.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli gets ventilators from other districts to meet demand||Kolhapur: Sangli district administration has brought 74 ventilators from different parts of the state to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 patients. District collector Abhijit Chaudhari told officials at a meeting on Sunday that 15 ventilators were brought from Wardha in Vidarbha region, while 10 each were brought from Mumbai, Thane and Dhule. As many as 25 ventilators have been made available from the PM Cares fund. The Tata Trust has given three other ventilators and a private hospital from Bengaluru has made one ventilator available.The district authorities said these ventilators will be mainly placed in rural hospitals at Islampur, Miraj, Jat, Aatpadi, Kaveth Mahankal and Shirala. Hospitals in Sangli and Kupwad will also be given ventilators.District administration has been facing serious crisis of ventilators as over 10% of the patients are critical. Till Sunday night, Sangli district had 7,300 active cases. Of them, 784 are critical. While 641 have been put on oxygen, 102 are using non-invasive ventilator. As many as 102 patients are using high-flow oxygen and six are put on invasive ventilators.Chaudhari has also asked the officials to shift asymptomatic patients or patients with minor symptoms out of the dedicated Covid hospitals. They can be shifted to health centre or Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-gets-ventilators-from-other-districts-to-meet-demand/articleshow/77987563.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana village’s young footballer finds place in East Bengal Club||Ludhiana: From playing football in field of a government school ground at Dangon village in Ludhiana district to becoming part of the East Bengal Club (Kolkata) team in Indian Football League matches, the success story of a final year student of Gurusar Sadhar College, Manvir Singh (21), has became a source of inspiration for several youngsters in almost 20 villages located adjoining to his village. After losing his father in early childhood, Manvir was brought up by his mother Nachhatar Kaur, who ran the house and managed the household expenses by giving agriculture land on rent. Hailing from a humble farming background, Manvir dabbled into sports when he was just seven. While studying in the government senior secondary school, Dangon, he was drawn towards football as he watched his seniors playing daily matches with each other on an uneven field. Aspiring to be an international footballer, he started taking professional coaching from different district coaches across the state. He came into spotlight for the first time when he got selected for all India inter-university matches and secured a gold medal for Punjab in the national football championship after performing exceptionally well throughout the matches of the tournament in 2018. Later, he also got an opportunity to take part in Santosh Trophy, which paved the way for the trials of the East Bengal team a few months ago. He got selected for the first time in the forthcoming season of the Indian Football League matches, which will kick off in the next few months as dates are yet to be finalised due to Covid-19 restrictions. Speaking to TOI, Manvir, who is getting himself prepared for this season of the league, said, “After facing financial constraints in the last 10 years, it was a proud moment for me and my family to finally see me securing a position in one of the top teams of I-league matches. It’s a proud moment as I am the only one from my village who excels in football who could get his name registered in professional football league. I have faced several hardships for getting advance training for improving my football skills because there is no advance training at the village level for preparing for the national as well state championships.” After completing his schooling, Manvir went to Sadhar College to get the best training skills for improving his game and started playing professional football tournaments. “The college authorities, along with my coach Mohammad Akbar, have really helped me to become a professional footballer. They have always been a guiding force in providing me and guiding through the hard training sessions”. After getting selected, the club would pay me Rs 25,000 per month for fulfilling basic expenses of my life.” Manvir has played three times in all-India inter-university tournaments and bagged three medals (two silver and one gold) with his continuous and hard working attitude. His coach of Mohammad Akbar said, “We are happy over the performance of Manvir Singh in the past national and state football championships, which became a major reason for his selection in I-league club matches. His inspiring story is promoting football culture in different villages of Ludhiana district as he had to overcome severe financial hardships in life. His success story will inspire more buddying players of villages to fulfil their dreams as sports is the only way to make the country proud on foreign soil these days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-villages-young-footballer-finds-place-in-east-bengal-club/articleshow/77985496.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 8, 2020||Delhi||AAP slams UP government over MP’s detention||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for “stopping and detaining AAP MP Sanjay Singh who had gone on Sunday to meet the family of a former MLA who was beaten to death in Lakhimpur Kheri” over a land dispute. “ASP AN Singh stopped Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and detained him at a guesthouse in Atariya Sitapur. In UP, people are so terrorised that nobody has the courage to pose a question to the BJP-led government,” Bharadwaj said. The Greater Kailash MLA said that despite being from the Thakur community, the same as UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he was questioning the UP government. “The Yogi government has registered 13 FIRs against Sanjay Singh to terrorise him. Yesterday, they detained him. This was done to suppress his voice because he is talking about the rights of Dalits and Brahmins,” Bhardwaj added, saying AAP would not get terrorised. Nirvendra Mishra, who was an MLA for three terms, died on Sunday following an altercation with a group of people over a land dispute. Singh was stopped while returning to Lucknow after interacting with Mishra’s son. He tweeted that he was detained by police. The AAP MP has vowed to continue to speak against the UP government on law and order and other issues of governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-up-govt-over-mps-detention/articleshow/77986690.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patients at Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital report jewellery theft, 2 cases booked||HYDERABAD: Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao has said they have received theft complaints from patients. Chilkalguda police have registered two cases pertaining to jewellery theft, but the accused are yet to be identified. “As most workers are serving patients at their life risk, it is really painful to know that some of them are doing such inhuman things. With the help of patients, we identified some newly-joined workers and handed them over to police,” the superintendent said. To prevent such incidents, hospital is planning to add more CCTV cameras and deploy security personnel in each floor, making them responsible if there are any thefts.  “We are not allowing any valuable items like gold ornaments, money, credit cards and documents while admitting patients. We are handing over the valuables to their relatives at the gate itself and taking their signatures. It’s very unfortunate and inhuman to commit theft of patient belongings, when they are in serious condition with Covid-19,” the superintendent said. Chilkalguda police said after the lockdown, so far two cases have been registered pertaining to theft of valuables from patients at Gandhi Hospital. In both cases, theft of gold chains was reported from patients in the intensive care unit of the hospital. An offence occurred on August 10 and reported on September 4 after the death of the patient. The second offence occurred on August 22 and it was reported the same day as the victim was a relative of a junior doctor. “The offender was a member of the staff and despite having CCTV visuals, it became difficult to identity the accused as all of them wore PPEs,” a Chilkalguda police official said, adding no suspect was in their custody.  Interrogation of staff has not been fruitful so far and we are trying to identify the offender through technical analysis, the inspector said. Police said further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patients-at-gandhi-report-jewellery-theft-2-cases-booked/articleshow/77987564.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Covid body exchange: Sister-in-charge removed for negligence, others warned||Meerut: A day after the bodies of two Covid-19 victims were swapped at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, hospital authorities removed the sister-in-charge on Monday and warned others on duty of strict action if any negligence is reported again. The matter came to the fore after the family of an 84-year-old man who had died of Covid-19 removed the shroud from the packed body and found that it was someone else’s. “The investigating committee, which included the additional district magistrate (city) and chief medical officer, has submitted a report in the matter. It was found that the sister-in-charge had left the ward an hour before her duty was to get over. Due to this negligence, we have removed her from the Covid ward. We have also written to the director general (medical education) to take further action in the matter,” said Dr Gyanendra Kumar, principal, LLRM Medical College. Ward boys, sweepers and other doctors who were on duty at the time have been let off with a strict warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-body-exchange-sister-in-charge-removed-for-negligence-others-warned/articleshow/77984461.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi writes to guv on liberation day||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday wrote to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct the state government to observe September 17 as Telangana liberation day. In a four-page letter, he urged the governor to instruct the commissioner of GHMC to identity a suitable location for construction of martyrs’ memorial. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-writes-to-guv-on-liberation-day/articleshow/77986688.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Gang wars reined in, soldier returns to battle-torn home in UP after 7 yrs, murder of 5 family member||MEERUT: Pravesh Kumar, 36, an army man, raised his children away from his native village in UP’s Baghpat. He left Gangnauli village in 2013, after his world turned topsy-turvy. Within a span of two years preceeding that, he made five visits to the village crematorium and could not afford more. First his brother, Praveen Kumar, was shot dead in 2012. Then the witnesses, both the parents and a cousin, were killed in 2013. A few months later, another cousin fell to bullets. What started with an argument between Pravesh’s elder brother and a member of the dreaded Rathi family, ended in at least five killings in the village. “I only visited my home when a family member was killed. Or for some very important work,” Pravesh said, adding that fear lurked from every corner here. It was not just Pravesh who felt the fear of the Rathi family. The entire region did. Now, with all the male members of the Rathi family either behind the bars and one killed in encounter, Pravesh couldn’t stop himself from visiting the home with his family. On Monday afternoon, his two children, wife and some other family members flocked the home. It comes just days after the arrest of notorious criminal Praveen Rathi in a police encounter in Baghpat’s Doghat region. His younger brother, Pramod Rathi, who had 36 criminal cases, was shot dead during an encounter five years ago. Their other brother is also in jail for the last few years. Their father, Satvir Singh, was also a criminal and a history sheeter, a police officer said, adding that his Singh's wife had become village head due to their influence. “It is a family of criminals. Pramod Rathi, who was killed in an encounter in January 2015, had a bounty of Rs 1lakh. One of his brothers is in jail. He has 15 cases registered against him, while their sibling Praveen, who was arrested on Sunday, has also five criminal cases registered. Their father Satvir Singh is also a criminal,” said additional superintendent of police Manish Mishra. As the Rathis’ influence waned, Pravesh made a call to the police station in-charge of the area asking if he could come back. And he was assured of protection. “After I came to know about the crackdown on the gangster family, I contacted the local police. They assured me protection. So I came back. We were not even allowed to till our 14bigha land. And even couldn’t even give it on rent,” said Pravesh, a jawan posted in Army Service Corps (ASC). When contacted, circle officer of Baraut, Alok Kumar, said, “Pravesh Kumar called us and expressed the desire to come back home. But he was a little apprehensive. We told him that the village is peaceful now. So he returned after over seven years. He is on a 30-day vacation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/an-army-man-who-saw-5-of-his-family-killed-returns-home-after-7-years-as-fear-of-dreaded-rathi-gang-wanes/articleshow/77984458.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 8, 2020||Mangaluru||6 students among 90 drug peddlers paraded||Mangaluru: Of the 90 drug peddlers and suppliers identified in Mangaluru City, and paraded before city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Monday, at least six were students. The police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash, out the six students, "We have identified a medical student, a B.Com student and a fresh graduate. They were arrested in various cases in the last three years including usage and drug peddling," reveealed the commissioner. He requested the youth not to indulge in these activities as their careers could be badly jeopardized. On the sidelines of the parade, the City police commissioner told reporters that in the past one month, they have been conducting station wise rowdy parades to find out those involved in communal incidents and incidents pertaining to Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS). Subsequently, this rowdy parade is for only those engaged in the consumption, peddling and even sourcing of drugs and psychotropic substances in and around the city. "This is an important exercise under current circumstances because there is always a war against drugs that has affected the youth. This is also an opportunity to spread awareness and curb the menace, "he said. SUPPLY CHAIN CLOSELY MONITORED: Supply of drugs to the city is mostly from Kerala, Goa, Andhra Pradesh Odisha and Bengaluru. "Supply from abroad cannot be ruled out. With the presence of a considerable number of educational institutions in the city, the goal is to ensure that students do not fall prey to it. Meanwhile, the police are also in touch with officials from bordering states and central agencies,the top police officer said. 20 NDPS CASES: From January, the city police have booked 20 cases under the NDPS Act of which 10 cases were booked recently. In July, three cases were registered, nine accused were arrested and 2kg 696 gms of ganja worth Rs 85,000 was seized. Last month, four cases were booked, nine were arrested and seized property worth Rs 37.75 lakh included 153 MDM pills, 8.25 grams MDMA pills and 139 kg, 336 grams of ganja. Recently, 132 kgs of ganja concealed in a goods transport vehicle carrying bananas were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/6-students-among-90-drug-peddlers-paraded/articleshow/77987122.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fiancé arrested four days after woman’s suicide||Kollam: Four days after the suicide of a 24-year-old woman here, Kottiyam police on Monday arrested her fiance, 24, a native of Iravipuram with whom her marriage was fixed in July 2019. Ramsi, daughter of Rahim and Nadeera residing at a rented house near Kottumpuram mosque near Kottiyam, was found hanging in the bedroom of the house at 3pm on Thursday. Her engagement and exchange of bangle ceremony with Haaris Muhammed of Kittanthazhikath, Pallimukku, Kolloorvila, was held in July 2019, after a courtship of eight years. According to Ramsi’s parents, Muhammed used to take their daughter out after the engagement. He also received money and jewellery from them for starting a business. However, he and his family kept postponing the marriage citing various reasons. His sister-in-law, a serial actress, also used to visit Ramsi and take her out. Meanwhile, he withdrew from the marriage and expressed his wish to marry another girl. Frustrated over this, Ramsi ended life. Meanwhile, Ramsi’s audio message revealing that Muhammed made her pregnant and forced her to abort the pregnancy was leaked out. This put pressure on the police to arrest Muhammed. Ramsi’s parents want the police to initiate action against the serial actress too. Women, youth commissions intervene Irked over police’s inaction, women’s commission member Shahida Kamal sought a report on the progress of investigation. She visited Ramsi’s residence and recorded the parents’ statements. State youth commission chairperson Chintha Jerome asked the city police commissioner to file a report within two weeks. Meanwhile, Muhammed’s parents and sister-in-law are accused of bringing Ramsi to Ernakulam to terminate the pregnancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fianc-arrested-four-days-after-womans-suicide/articleshow/77985524.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Mysuru||Rangayana takes Kuvempu’s ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’ online||Mysuru: Taking a leaf out of theatre companies in the West, Rangayana, the repertory in Mysuru, has decided to offer patrons of Kannada drama, who have been deprived of their chosen form of entertainment owing to the pandemic, an online performance of poet laureate’s acclaimed play ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’. The play is part of Ranagyana’s legacy, having been performed there for the first time under the direction of the repertory’s founder and Indian theatre doyen BV Karanth, who also composed the music for the adaptation. In its online avatar, the play has been performed in the form of a dramatised reading, and divided into three episodes, the first of which was screened at 6.30pm on YouTube, Facebook and Rangayana’s official website – www.Rangayana.org - on Monday. The two remaining episodes will be uploaded on Tuesday and Wednesday. The duration of each episode is 20 minutes. The play is being performed by the students of Arivu Education Trust, and was formally launched in a virtual ceremony at Bhoomigeetha in Rangayana. This is not the first Kannada text to be performed for the consumption of audiences on online portals. Devanooru Mahadeva’s award-winning novel ‘Kusumabale’ too was subjected to a dramatic reading. Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa said that artistes at the repertory were rehearsing plays that Karanth had directed. “They will perform these plays on September 15,” said Cariappa, adding that noted theatre artiste Prakash Belavadi was directing the dramatisation of SL Bhyrappa’s magnum opus ‘Parva’, which would also be showcased on September 15. Rangayana deputy director VN Mallikarjuna Swamy said that the repertory would commence its Subbaiah Naidu short-term theatre course soon. “We will give admission only to 25 amateur theatre artistes between the ages of 18 and 35 for the three-month course,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rangayana-takes-kuvempus-bommanahalliya-kindarijogi-online/articleshow/77984937.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Crackdown on illegal arms leads to 140 arrests in UP’s Meerut||Meerut: Launching a clampdown on those keeping illegal weapons, police in Meerut district have arrested 140 people and recovered 239 unauthorized firearms from their possession. Personnel of 30 police stations of the NCR district took part in the 24-hour long drive in which scores of raids were conducted on suspected hideouts of criminals and anti-social elements. During the raids, three illegal arms making units were also busted.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Meerut Ajay Sahani said, “These three factories used to supply weapons on demand to residents of various districts of western UP and beyond. So far, 140 people have been arrested, which include manufacturers of these weapons and buyers.” While superintendent of police (SP) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, “People caught running the illegal arms units gave us names of the buyers. It led to the arrest of more people who possessed unauthorized arms. All 140 people have been booked under the Arms Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/crackdown-on-illegal-arms-leads-to-140-arrests-in-ups-meerut/articleshow/77984471.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Printing industry protest Centre order banning diaries, calendars||Ludhiana: Businessmen who are into the printing industry are up in arms against the central government’s decision to shun the practice of getting printed diaries, calenders, festival greeting cards and instead do it digitally. According to businessmen, the move will destroy the already ailing industry as it will finish business opportunity worth crores. Speaking on the issue, Kamal Chopra of the Offset Printers Association (OPA), said, “We have taken serious note on the circular issued by the joint secretary, government of India, in which it has been decided that there will be no further activities related to printing of diaries, calenders, festival greetings cards, etc. The 2,50,000 printers of the country are already facing the crunch due to lockdown and many printers who were not able to afford their livelihood are already facing closures. The printers always look forward to business related to new year and many are dependent only on such work.” He added, “Printers are facing huge problems, due to this forced lockdown. One of their major source of income comes from the educational institutions, which are not allowed to function due to pandemic. Depending on the government work the printers were eagerly waiting for the orders of calendars and dairies, which is an annual feature and another source of income for the 85%t micro and small printers of the country. With these orders, the hope of survival for this key industry is dismal. We request the government to withdraw these orders with immediate effect for the relief of small and micro entrepreneurs who are already suffering very badly.” According to Sartaj Dhillon, another businessman into the business of printing and packaging, “This government order is huge setback to the printing and packaging industry as very large number of businessmen from our sector were dependant on this business. But now with ban on the printing of diaries, calenders, greeting cards in the central government departments we are going to lose business opportunity worth several crores. This will not only impact us but thousands of small workers and their families associated with us. Therefore, it is our humble request to the government to withdraw this order at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/printing-industry-protest-centre-order-banning-diaries-calendars/articleshow/77985500.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Students of prestigious private schools lured into taking drugs: Karnataka minister||MYSURU/BENGALURU: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday claimed the students of high-profile corporate and international schools in cities are being lured by miscreants by selling ice creams and fruits laced with drugs. Those who have been spoiling students will be dealt with an iron hand, Kumar said during his visit to Chamarajanagar on Monday. He said the BJP had raised the issue three years ago. “Now that the party is in power, we’re determined to curb the menace by taking it to a logical end. We’ll send all those who are part of the drug mafia to jail,” he said. Later, Kumar took to Facebook to clarify his statement. “I didn’t make the allegation against any particular school. My statement was based on observations made by some members in the legislative assembly. They had alleged that drug peddlers were active near rich private schools,” he stated. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the government won’t protect anyone involved in the menace. “For the first time in the country, we’ve taken strong steps against the menace,” he said. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said he had directed the director general of police to go for joint operations with neighbouring states. “New evidence is emerging day by day...investigation is on, they (police) have been given free hand in the probe,” he added. Opposition leader in the assembly Siddaramaiah said drug mafia has been active in Karnataka since many years and urged the government to bring in a legislation to uproot the menace. He also urged police to probe the link between accused actor Ragini Dwivedi and the BJP. “BJP leaders are saying Ragini had no relation with the party. But there are pictures and videos of Ragini campaigning for BJP candidates in elections,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-of-prestigious-pvt-schools-lured-into-taking-drugs-min/articleshow/77990498.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Bainguinim waste plant tender document ready: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Waste management minister Michael Lobo on Monday said that the tender document for construction of the 250 tonne per day (TPD) solid waste treatment plant (SWTP) at Bainguinim has been vetted by an internal auditor, and will be shown to chief minister Pramod Sawant and Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate this week for their suggestions before it is put up in the public domain to invite bidders. Lobo was speaking after a review meeting on the progress of the Bainguinim plant. On August 27, after a review meeting with Lobo, Monserrate, Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), mayor, Uday Madkaikar and others, Sawant had said that a tender for the construction of the Bainguinim plant would be floated within 10 days. In June, the government had decided to keep the tender process on hold in view of Covid-19. The project, estimated to cost Rs 200 crore, will be based on a build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) delivery method. “The entire amount will have to be spent by the bidder and they will have to treat the wet waste at the plant. The winning bidder will also have to bale the dry waste and send it outside the state for disposal, till Goa sets up its own waste energy plant,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-waste-plant-tender-docu-ready-lobo/articleshow/77987586.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Elgar Parishad case: Varavara Rao’s sons-in-law get NIA summons||HYDERABAD: As part of investigation into the Elgar Parishad conspiracy case, National Investigation Agency (NIA) has served notices on two sons-in-law of poet and member of Revolutionary Writers’ Association Varavara Rao, who is in judicial remand in Maharashtra. NIA officials in their September 1 notice directed Varavara Rao’s son-in-law and Eflu Professor K Satyanarayana and another son-in-law asking them to appear before the investigation officer at the office of NIA, Mumbai on Wednesday. “It appears that you are acquainted with the circumstances of the case...you are hereby required to attend on September 9, for answering certain questions regarding the case along with supporting documents,’’ NIA officials said in their notices to Varavara Rao’s sons-in-law. Reacting to the notice, prof Satyanarayana, in a statement, said: “I wish to share the distressing news that NIA, Mumbai, summoned me to appear before it as a witness under Section 160 CrPC on 09.09.2020. My co-brother was also summoned to appear at the same time and date’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varavara-raos-sons-in-law-get-nia-summons/articleshow/77987571.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||Defying cerebral palsy, dyslexia, Mumbai boy makes it to IIM-L||Lucknow: He can’t write and needs a scribe to take written examinations. He limps but travels in local trains of Mumbai. His speech is slurred but his emotions convey his thoughts with utmost clarity. Meet 21-year-old Yash Avadhesh Gandhi, who defied odds like cerebral palsy, dyslexia and dysarthria (a condition which weakens muscles used for speech) to crack CAT-2019 with a percentile score of 92.5. A Mumbaikar, Yash has secured a berth at IIM-Lucknow, under the persons with disabilities (PwD) quota, for the academic session 2020-22. “I am delighted to be a part of IIM-L,” Yash told TOI. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, he is attending online classes, which began last month, from his hometown. Unlike other students, cracking CAT was a challenging task for Yash. He started preparations in July 2018 while he was still in the second year of his graduation. “I face problems with numbers. So, I had to put in extra effort, particularly in the quantitative ability section. It was tough but not impossible,” he said. His hard work and perseverance paid and he got interview calls from all top IIMs, except Bangalore. He received offer letters from IIMs at Kozhikode and Indore but chose Lucknow due to its high rank. Yash’s parents have been his support system. “When he was enrolled in school, he faced difficulty in learning and wasn’t able to compete with others. Gradually, he picked up. He has to work harder than normal children,” said Yash’s father Avadhesh Gandhi, who works at a private firm. His mother Jignasha Gandhi works as a supervisor in a kitchen where mid-day meals are cooked. During his preparations, there was a point when Yash cried and cried, and was so depressed that he almost decided to give up. “I told him he has the capability to do anything. After this, Yash started all over again,” said Jignasha. Yash has a special place in his heart for his mentor and spiritual brother Harshit Hindocha. “His (Yash) success is a perfect story of grit and commitment. Always calm and composed, he never let things go easily. Even when I exempted him from taking notes due to his writing issues, he would always jot down points,” said Harshit. Yash joined Mithibai College for his bachelors with specialisation in accounting and finance and was among the top five. “He was determined to study at Mithibai College, despite the distance. He would return from college and then attend coaching for his specialised subjects. After this, he would go for his MBA coaching. It was rigorous for Yash,” Harshit says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/defying-cerebral-palsy-dyslexia-mumbai-boy-makes-it-to-iim-l/articleshow/77987570.cms||Isha Jain
September 8, 2020||Hubballi||Byadagi chilli growers register bumper sales||Haveri: Although the lockdown had a particularly distressing impact on agriculture as well, those who were engaged in the cultivation of the famous Byadagi Menasinakai (chilli) in 2019-20 have a reason to smile. In all, Chilli Market in Haveri collected Rs 19 crore from the sale of Byadagi Chilli in the previous fiscal year, as against Rs 15 crore in 2018-19. In fact, the lower yield of the Byadagi chilli in 2019-20 compared with the corresponding figure in 2018-19 only serves to set in stark relief the profits that the farmers have reaped. In 2019-20, as many as 8,42,230 quintals of Byadagi chilli were sold on the market, in comparison to 8,63,824 – 2.5% more – in 2018-19. An official at the chilli market said, “Farmers got a really good price for the produce this year. Joint secretary of the Chilli Market SB Nyamagouda said that farmers got Rs 33,333 for each quintal of grade ‘A’ Byadagi chilli, which he said was a record high. “In all, the turnover at our market, which is the largest for chillies in Asia, for 2019-20 was Rs 1,260 crore against Rs 1,009 crore in 2018-19. We have recorded encouraging sales despite the decline in quantity,” he added. Shivanand Mallanagoudar, commission agent at the market, attributed the steep spike in the price of Byadagi chilli to the increase in the volume of exports of the crop to China, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. He also pointed to use of Byadagi chilli, the utility of which was originally restricted to the kitchen, for the extraction of oleoresin – a red oil used in the preparation of cosmetics – had pushed its demand up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/byadagi-chilli-growers-register-bumper-sales/articleshow/77986749.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Family from Deolali Camp offers marriage hall for CCC||Nashik: A family has offered the marriage hall it owns in the Deolali Camp area for use as a Covid care centre (CCC) in view of the large number of people getting infected with Covid-19 in and around the area. Vaibhav Palde, a resident of Deolali Camp whose uncle Dinkar Palde was a former vice president of the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD), said that he felt the need for giving up the marriage hall for use as a Covid facility as a number of Covid-19 cases were being reported from the are and the surrounding villages.The dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) set up in the Cantonment Board hospital is filled to capacity for the many days due to which infected patients from Deolali Camp and the surrounding villages have to rush to other CCCs and DCHCs in Nashik city. Many people also have to rush to private hospitals. The Palde family has a wedding hall on the Bhagur-Lehvit Road near Deolali Camp.“If the wedding hall is utilized as CCC, patients from Bhagur, Lehvit, Loha Shingve, Vanjarwadi, Rahuri, Donwade, Sansari, Shevgedarna, Belatgavhan and other villages can be admitted here,” said Palde. A proposal in this regard has been given to the Cantonment Board. The family will also be writing to the district administration in this regard. Deolali Camp is surrounded by a large number of villages. Hence, all the patients in and around Deolali Camp come to the Cantonment Board hospital for treatment as other hospitals, like the Bytco hospital in Nashik Road, is comparatively far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/family-from-deolali-camp-offers-marriage-hall-for-ccc/articleshow/77987569.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 8, 2020||Mysuru||Students of prestigious private schools lured into taking drugs: Karnataka minister||MYSURU/BENGALURU: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday claimed the students of high-profile corporate and international schools in cities are being lured by miscreants by selling ice creams and fruits laced with drugs. Those who have been spoiling students will be dealt with an iron hand, Kumar said during his visit to Chamarajanagar on Monday. He said the BJP had raised the issue three years ago. “Now that the party is in power, we’re determined to curb the menace by taking it to a logical end. We’ll send all those who are part of the drug mafia to jail,” he said. Later, Kumar took to Facebook to clarify his statement. “I didn’t make the allegation against any particular school. My statement was based on observations made by some members in the legislative assembly. They had alleged that drug peddlers were active near rich private schools,” he stated. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the government won’t protect anyone involved in the menace. “For the first time in the country, we’ve taken strong steps against the menace,” he said. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said he had directed the director general of police to go for joint operations with neighbouring states. “New evidence is emerging day by day...investigation is on, they (police) have been given free hand in the probe,” he added. Opposition leader in the assembly Siddaramaiah said drug mafia has been active in Karnataka since many years and urged the government to bring in a legislation to uproot the menace. He also urged police to probe the link between accused actor Ragini Dwivedi and the BJP. “BJP leaders are saying Ragini had no relation with the party. But there are pictures and videos of Ragini campaigning for BJP candidates in elections,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-of-prestigious-pvt-schools-lured-into-taking-drugs-min/articleshow/77987181.cms||---
September 8, 2020||India||Accident deaths: No relief for loss of love & affection||NEW DELHI: In a relief to insurance companies, the Supreme Court on Monday ruled that Motor Accident Claims Tribunals or high courts can’t grant compensation to the kin of deceased for ‘loss of love and affection’ once it has awarded money under the head of ‘loss of consortium’, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. New India Assurance Company, Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company and Oriental Insurance Company had challenged judgments of various HCs in cases arising from awards by MACTs. Various insurance firms had challenged judgments of HCs in cases arising from awards by MACTs with regard to compensation awarded to claimants under two heads — ‘loss of consortium’ and ‘loss of love and affection’. While rejecting the pleas of insurance companies that compensation could not be additionally awarded under ‘loss of consortium’ head, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and RS Reddy said since ‘loss of love and affection’ was included in ‘loss of consortium’, there was no justification to award compensation for ‘loss of love and affection’ under a separate head. “It is, thus, now authoritatively well settled that no compensation can be awarded under the head ‘loss of love and affection’,” it said, adding that ‘loss of consortium’ could be paid to wife, children and parents of the deceased. Quoting an earlier judgment, the bench said, “Consortium is to be taken as a compendious term, which encompasses spousal consortium, parental consortium as well as filial consortium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/accident-deaths-no-relief-for-loss-of-love-affection/articleshow/77988206.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||ICU beds too few to treat critical Covid-19 patients in Pune||PUNE: ICU bed availability for critical Covid-19 patients at hospitals in the PMC and PCMC limits continues to be too few though six months have passed since the first coronavirus case was registered in the city. On Monday morning, only 13 (1.4%) of the 924 in the intensive care units (ICU) beds in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) were available for patients. The situation was slightly better in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, where 84 (23%) of the 353 beds were available. TimesViewPolitical leaders and officials have often said citizens should learn to live with Covid-19. But they must realize that more than the fear of getting infected, people’s biggest apprehension is that may not get critical care. Six months have passed since Pune had its first Covid-19 case. It is high time that the administration addressed the shortfall in ICU beds on a war footing and ensured better coordination between agencies providing critical care.The bed availability in the makeshift Covid jumbo hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) ground continued to be a cause for concern. Only 50 ICU beds were operational at the facility with zero vacancy. The jumbo hospital in Pimpri had 25 ICU beds available with zero vacancy. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that the situation would improve in two weeks. “We have not yet started the jumbo unit in a full-fledged manner. At present, it has 300 beds. By this weekend, the number may rise to 400. The Autocluster facility, which has around 200 beds, has started on a low-key note with around 20 patients. Once these facilities start at full capacity, we will have some cushion,” he said. Hardikar said unavailability of beds at Sassoon General Hospital and the caseload in the PMC limits was putting pressure on hospitals in Pimpri and Chinchwad. Despite repeated attempts, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and district collector Rajesh Deshmukh were not available for comments. Senior PMC official Rajendra Muthe said the civic body was planning to make the remaining infrastructure at the CoEP facility in two days. Health activist Abhijit More said, “The PMC authorities remained complacent after the jumbo unit was inaugurated at CoEP.” (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icu-beds-too-few-to-treat-critical-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77986737.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Issue digital degrees in 7 days to students with urgent need: Delhi HC to DU||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday gave DU seven working days to issue digital degree certificates to students who have already graduated and urgently require the document for taking admission in a foreign university or for employment. “Getting a degree is an event for a student but it has really become a torture,” Justice Prathiba M Singh remarked, after being informed that 30,000 students have applied for digital documents but DU has been unable to comply with the court’s earlier order and was instead demanding physical copy of proofs. The high court noted that there appeared to be a lack of coordination between Delhi University and its lawyers. It asked the university to place before it separately the timeline by when digital degrees will be issued on urgent and non-urgent requests. It said the students, who have already made urgent requests for a digital degree on DU’s website, shall again send an email to the varsity and attach any document stating the urgency, including admission in foreign university or employment purpose. “For such students, digital degree certificates be issued within seven working days. Requirement for physical copy of the documents be removed with immediate effect,” Justice Singh said, pointing out that earlier it was informed by the Dean (Examinations) and Joint Director of Delhi University Computer Centre that all the data of students up till November 2019 was available with DU. However, on Monday, DU submitted it had data of students only till 2017, which can be matched. “This is a completely messed up situation. There is no data of 2018 and 2019,” a surprised HC remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/issue-digital-degrees-in-7-days-to-students-with-urgent-need-hc-to-du/articleshow/77986728.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 4.5 lakh migrant workers promised jobs in MSME sector||LUCKNOW: To provide a fillip to the MSME sector while simultaneously creating employment, the government has signed an MoU with the Indian Industries Association (IIA) for the latter to provide jobs to 3 lakh migrant workers who had returned to the state during the Covid-19 lockdown. A similar MoU was signed with Laghu Udyog Bharati for 1.5 lakh jobs. Currently, where IIA has confirmed employment to about 5,000 workers while another 5,000 or so are in the process of being absorbed by various industries, Laghu Udyog Bharati says it has helped in placing 15,000 workers. “Over 250 companies have put forth a demand for labourers and we are matching their demands with the skill sets as provided to us by the government,” said IIA executive director DS Verma. While many MSME units are still to start production after the lifting of the lockdown, sources say that with the given capacity of production, the employment generation has been satisfactory. It will take longer than a year to generate employment for 3 lakh people but it is an achievable target, they said. “We have created an online data bank using information of 8,28,708 migrant labourers which was provided by the MSME department of UP government. More than 8,000 members of IIA have access to this data and they have been contacting migrant workers directly as per their requirements,” said IIA senior vice-president Manmohan Agarwal, adding that the list had also been uploaded on IIA’s website. A list of about 30 lakh migrant workers prepared when they had returned to UP during the lockdown shows that nearly 20 lakh were unskilled workers. Of the remaining, the range of skills was wide. People have returned with experience in sectors like hospitality, construction, painting, carpentry, tailoring, agriculture and even specialisation in gems and jewellery. IIA has appointed 35 of its office bearers as nodal officers in major districts of the state for interaction with and coordination between local industries, administration and migrant labourers. Meanwhile, Laghu Udyog Bharati’s Awadh president Manoj Verma said that they had helped place 15,000 migrant workers between June and July. He says the organisation is hopeful of meeting their target of 1.5 lakh jobs within a year. “The problem is that a lot of units have not started work after unlock. In the current situation, we have managed 15,000 placements in MSMEs of which about 30% are unskilled and 70% are skilled,” he said, adding that Laghu Udyog Bharati had set up a committee in each district to coordinate with MSMEs to prepare a list of requirements and acquiring lists of persons and employment generation from udyog centres. The organisation is also focusing on the gram shilp yojna where it is helping organise self-help groups in villages. “We are trying to group together people from the same trade and help them start work. This will also help generate employment,” he said. Watch UP promises jobs to 4.5 lakh migrant workers in MSME sector||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-5-lakh-migrant-workers-promised-jobs-in-msme-sector/articleshow/77987588.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 8, 2020||Ludhiana||People at receiving end as taxation officials go on mass leave||Ludhiana: All inspectors, excise and taxation officers (ETO), assistant excise and taxation commissioner (AETC) and deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) of state excise and taxation office here have gone on mass casual leave on Monday and Tuesday, leaving the tax payers and professionals in a fix. The decision to go on mass leave came as a shock for public as a lot of people who had come to the department for various works were caught unawares about the mass leave and had to return without their getting their work done. Speaking to TOI, Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Janta Nagar said, “The GST number of my firm is blocked for the past few days and on Monday I came to the department will all formalities and documents completed to get it unlocked so that I can resume my business activity. But I was surprised to find all officers from the rank of inspectors to AETC missing from their offices. Upon inquiring from a tax professional I came to know that the staff has gone on casual leave and will return on Wednesday. So, till then my number will remain blocked and I will have to defer the dispatch of goods from my factory.” Meanwhile, uncertainty looms over resumption the of work in the department on Wednesday as so far there is no indication from the government on accepting the demands of the steering committee, which includes cancellation of FIRs against the excise and taxation officials and an internal inquiry into the charges of corruption and bribery against the officials. According to Raj Kumar Singla, president of Fasteners Suppliers Association, Ludhiana, “No work took place on Monday at the excise and taxation office, Ludhiana. I had gone with one of our association members in context with a notice sent to him by the department but we came to know about the mass leave of the officials when we reached there.” The plan of liquor traders to meet excise officials to resolve the issue of closing timing of the liquor vends too was jeopardised due to the mass leave of officials. According to Parminder Sharma, a liquor trader, “We had planned to meet excise officials on Monday to demand refund of our licence fees as we are facing huge losses due to the early closing time of vends. But we were unable to meet the officials due to the mass leave call given by the steering committee of the officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/people-at-receiving-end-as-taxation-officials-go-on-mass-leave/articleshow/77985546.cms||Mohit Behl
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Two thieves, already in jail, arrested for burglaries||Hyderabad: Two persons have been arrested for their role in several burglaries and robberies in the city. Cyberabad police have recovered 325 grams of gold, a kg of silver and Rs 7 lakh cash. Cyberabad police said Shaik Saber and Patan Chand Pasha were involved in 15 different cases this year. Shaik Saber had met Chand when they were in judicial remand and decided to work together. In January, Saber obtained bail and came out. Subsequently, he helped Chand also come out of jail on bail. Both of them started committing burglaries. Cases were registered against with Zaheerabad, Kodangal, Pargi, Pedemul, Moinabad, Sadashivpet, Hanwada, Mahabubnagar, Kondurg, Moinabad, Kosgi and Jadcherla police. Patan Chand Pasha was arrested by Jadcherla police in July and Shaik Saber was nabbed by Moinabad police in August. Both were taken into custody two days ago after taking court permission. Based on their confession about their involvement in other cases, they were once again arrested in other cases too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-thieves-already-in-jail-arrested-for-burglaries/articleshow/77987589.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh reduces cess on stamp duty to 1%||BHOPAL: In a significant step to boost realty sector in MP, the state government on Monday reduced the cess on stamp duty on sale/purchase of property in urban areas by 2%. The cess on stamp duty from the existing 3% to 1%. Announcing this, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said in the circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic, it was imperative to give incentives to boost economic activities. He said everyone has a dream to own a house and this step would help people realise their cherished dream. Besides, it will give a much-needed boost to the realty sector in MP, he added. The concession in cess would remain effective till December 31, 2020. While launching development works at Anuppur, Chouhan said that the holy Narmada River originates from Anuppur district, which is a lifeline for the people of Madhya Pradesh and no stone will be left unturned for the development of Anuppur district. He also said that no one will remain starved in Madhya Pradesh. Eligibility slips will be distributed soon to provide ration to new 37 lakh people. He mentioned that rescue operation was conducted in flood-hit districts of Madhya Pradesh and lives of 13,000 people were saved. He assured said that besides relief amount to those farmers, whose crops were damaged due to floods and heavy rains, amount towards crops insurance will also be given to them. Chief minister has said that a working capital of Rs 10,000 is being made available to hand cart operators, fruits and vegetables vendors, labourers and rickshaw drivers, who have lost their jobs because of corona crisis in the state. The interest on this will be borne by the government. With this scheme, the poor class will be able to begin their jobs again to make their both ends meet. He said schemes like Sambal, implemented previously and stopped by the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government have been started again. Eligible beneficiaries are being benefitting under these schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-announces-reduction-in-cess-on-stamp-duty-for-house-purchase-to-1/articleshow/77986710.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt prepares to boost labs as ICMR allows on-demand coronavirus tests||PUNE: The state government has decided to boost testing capacity at all 402 labs after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed on-demand testing, which means one can walk into a lab and get tested for Covid-19 without a prescription. State director of health services, Archana Patil, said the administration will be issuing directives to gear up for the rise in testing demand after ICMR’s new guidelines. Earlier, a Covid test required a medical prescription. There are currently 309 government and 93 private laboratories carrying out Covid tests across the state. Authorities said they are also mulling an increase in the number of labs. Patil said, “Out of the total government labs, 60 use RT-PCR tests. The rest use antigen kits. Also, private labs perform more tests via antigen kits. So we will increase RT-PCR testing at these labs and at the same time, boost the number of labs with RT-PCR tests.” She added that the idea is to carry out a large number of tests to decrease the positivity rate — the fraction of tests that come back positive. The ideal test positivity rate is below 5%, experts said. “Detecting a case early is the key. Now with on-demand testing, it will become much easier,” Patil said. The state is testing about 70,000 samples daily — with at least 40,000 via antigen test kits. The new labs are expected to boost this capacity. “Maharashtra’s positivity rate is nearly 20%. For this to reduce, we need to carry out more tests,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-prepares-to-boost-labs-as-icmr-allows-on-demand-coronavirus-tests/articleshow/77986746.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Cutting O2 supply will not choke Nashik industries||Nashik: Industrial operations in Nashik would not be affected much even if the oxygen supply is reduced following the government decision to give priority to medical requirements. According to industry sources, only 10% of all industrial units in the district require oxygen for manufacturing purposes. On Monday, industry department's principal secretary Venugopal Reddy held a video conference with the senior officials of all the district industry centres (DICs) in the state. “He issued instructions to reduce the oxygen supply to the industries and provide maximum supply to hospitals given the Covid-19 pandemic,” said S Bhamre, the general manager of Nashik DIC. “The government's decision to reduce oxygen supply to the industries would not affect the industrial operations in Nashik significantly as only 10% of 12,500 industrial units in the district need oxygen,” said Shashikant Jadhav, the president of the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (Nima). He added that even the industrial houses felt that priority should be given to hospitals at this time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cutting-o2-supply-will-not-choke-nashik-industries/articleshow/77987587.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 8, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor police catches prisoner who fled from temporary jail||Bijnor: The Bijnor police on late Sunday night caught a prisoner who had been at large after fleeing from a temporary jail a few days ago.At least four prisoners had fled from Indira Baal Bhavan on Thursday. They were being kept at the temporary jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A cash reward of Rs 25,000 was announced on each one of them.However a few days later, three of them were located while the search was on for the fourth one.Bijnor superintendent of police, Dharamveer Singh said, “Two of the absconders, Sanju and Akshay, were arrested on Thursday from Nagina. Four teams were formed to arrest the other two absconders, Farman and Kulveer Singh. Police caught Kulveer from Najibabad area after an encounter on Friday. On Sunday, Furkan was found. A country-made pistol and two cartridges were seized from him.”The SP said 10 jail staff and police personnel deployed at the temporary jail were booked under IPC sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-police-catches-prisoner-who-fled-from-temporary-jail/articleshow/77984518.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 8, 2020||Bhopal||Puja samitis for grand celebrations, but says will wait for govt SOPs||Bhopal: Amidst talks of a simple Durga Utsav this year after the chief minister allowed religious celebrations at public places in view of Unlock-4 guidelines from the Centre, organisers of some prestigious Durga Utsav Samitis insist that there should be grand celebrations to help people overcome the "depression" inflicted by Coronavirus pandemic. "We wished to put up replica of proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya, but there was uncertainty. Now that the CM has allowed the public celebration of Durga Utsav, we want to do it. We can reduce the height from 50 feet (which is the usual height of our tableau) to 25 ft, but why should there be no tableau and no crowd to celebrate the occasion. We want to do it because we want to divert attention of people from Coronavirus. There has been no public celebration since the outbreak of pandemic. We wish people to think of things other than Coronavirus also. Yes, we shall observe all the norms laid down by the administration- thermal screening, sanitisation, social distancing masks- but let celebrations be like celebrations, glorious as usual, said president of Bittan Market Durga Ursav Samiti, Hariom Khatik. The tableau put up at Bittan Market has always been a major attraction during the Durga Puja. On the other hand, organisers of some other major Durga Utsav Samitis said that they would like to wait for the state government and district administration guidelines before deciding what to do. "We wish the celebrations to be grand. But, at the same time we do not want to do anything which spreads Coronavirus infection in the city. I am very sure the district administration in next few days will have a meeting with office-bearers of the samitis on dos and don'ts. It is not Durga Puja alone but Dussehra, Durga idol immersion procession, Dussehra procession. They will have to decide on SOPs for each of these occasions," said Anupam Agrawal, general secretary of Bhopal Kirana Sangh, who is involved with religious activities of Hindus at Bhopal. Pramod Nema of Bhopal Hindu Utsav Samiti, airing similar views said, "Let the guidelines of state government and district administration come. What we want does not mean anything if the administration doesn't agree to it. What would be the size of idol? What would be the height of tableau? Whether the pandal should be 10x10 in size or 20x 20? Nothing is clear. Then, Union government's guidelines are followed by state government guidelines and then comes district administration's guidelines and with each set of guidelines, the confusion increases. Let there be clarity on SOPs, then we shall decide about the celebrations," he said. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said there would be guidelines of the state government because the decision to allow Durga Puja celebrations at public places is for the entire state and based on that, district collector would issue guidelines. Till state government guidelines are received, we can't say anything on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/puja-samitis-for-grand-celebrations-but-says-will-wait-for-govt-sops/articleshow/77986755.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Goa mining front bats for lease renewal of 50 years||Panaji: Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) on Monday once again suggested a change to the Union government in the proposed mineral reforms for resuming mining activities in the state. In response to the ministry of mines’ decision to seek public consultation called, “Note on Proposal for Mining Reforms”, GMPF has suggested to the central government to consider amendments to ‘The Goa Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases Act, 1987’, by making this abolition act prospective from 1987 by amending the current provision of it being retrospective. This suggestion is in line with the state government which has reportedly written to the Union government on multiple occasions, since 2018, for legislative cure/amendment to clarify the period of lease until 2037 by making the abolition act prospective (that is 50 years as mandated under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015). “This proposed reform will bring Goa on-par with other states because the current inequality allows all other states except Goa to extend/ renew the life of lease for a period of 50 years from earlier provision of 20 years,” GMPF said. GMPF president Puti Gaonkar, said, “Goa’s mining industry has been neglected in all policy reforms incorporated by the Centre in the past and this time also there seems to be nothing in Goa’s interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-mining-front-bats-for-lease-renewal-of-50-years/articleshow/77987595.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||SDMC may give RFID work at 10 more places to current firm||NEW DELHI: The standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is scheduled to consider the proposal of giving the additional work of installing RFID system for collecting municipal toll tax and the environment compensation charge (ECC) at 10 additional locations and deploying hand-held devices at 101 locations to the current contractor on Tuesday. Based on the amount quoted by the current concessionaire Tecsidel India Pvt Ltd and GHV India Pvt Ltd (JV), SDMC in its agenda has said the additional cost would be Rs 36 crore and this work can be given under the provision of change of scope of the existing agreement. The current contract is of Rs 80.95 crore and the financial implication of the change of scope would be more than 30%. The joint venture company has completed installation of RFID system at 13 locations, which was awarded in September 2018. Interestingly, the GHV India, one of the two partners in the JV, has informed the SDMC twice that it doesn’t want to take up any new work. Responding to TOI queries, the SDMC spokesperson said, “The specific information being asked by you is covered by our legal contract with the company under this project. We cannot provide it without it being vetted by our law department. It may lead to losses to the public exchequer. Once anything is finalised, it shall be shared with you.” Supporting the proposal for giving the additional work to the existing JV rather than inviting fresh bids, SDMC has said if the additional work is awarded to another system integrator, a new system needs to be developed and the existing system would have to be integrated. If it gives the work to the current contractor, it will just need to enhance the capacity and provide the RFID facility for all the 124 locations without creating another system. It also said the “conflict between two” cannot be ruled out and which may defeat the purpose of providing cashless system. The agenda note says the EPCA has also opined to increase the scope of the work subject to approval of the Supreme Court. Interestingly, while referring to the August 10 order of the Supreme Court, the SDMC agenda mentions that the apex court directed that the RFID system should be implemented across all entry points. There is no reference of giving this work to existing contractor. Subsequent to the SC order, the EPCA held a meeting on August 14 and set the January 31, 2021 deadline for implementing the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-may-give-rfid-work-at-10-more-places-to-current-firm/articleshow/77986756.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Three-storey quarantine house at Belur Math soon||KOLKATA: A three-storey quarantine house is being built inside the Ramakrishna Math and Mission headquarters at Belur Math at a cost of Rs 80 lakh. It will have five rooms per floor and will be used for Covid-affected monks. A position paper has been published by Belur Math on how the virus might have entered and spread within the precincts of the closely guarded campus, the numbers of monks and workers affected and the preventive measures adopted. Belur Math is also installing several devices that can flood spaces with electrons, touted to overpower the virus, the paper says. The paper has been written by Swami Bodhasarananda, assistant secretary, RKM that states that a modern ambulance has also been purchased to ferry Covid affected residents of Belur Math. Out of the 675-strong family of Belur Math, all of whom have been tested, at an expense of Rs 16.5 lakh, 54 monks and 15 non-monastics have been found to be Covid positive. They are at different stages of treatment. Till date, three RKM monks have succumbed to the disease at other RKM centres, but none at Belur Math. The monastic leadership is intrigued that not a single insider was affected by the virus till end July but thereafter the virus started spreading fast inside the campus. Investigation zeroed in on a worker who had come from his village and two monks who had travelled from Mumbai and Kadapa. “This is mostly because of the laxity in following the preventive measures,” the document says. Immediately, Belur Math switched on to a regimented approach and shut the gates to visitors from August 2. “Asymptomatic carriers were the cause for the silent spread. A few, who developed early signs of the infection did not report the matter, may be due to the fear of social stigma and quarantine, might have passed on the infection to others,” the paper clarifies. A new “immunity boosting” diet has been brought in for RKM monks and workers. Two doctor monks, Swami Sevayogananda and Brother Yatishachaitanya, have been given Covid duties on the campus. “The document should give an overall estimation of the situation inside Belur Math,” said general secretary of RKM, Swami Suvirananda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-storey-quarantine-house-at-belur-math-soon/articleshow/77985549.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Collectors take control of VROs’ files, records||HYDERABAD: A few hours before the new Revenue Act was approved by the state cabinet wherein abolition of the village revenue officers’ (VROs) system in the revenue department was one of the proposed reforms, the government had directed the collectors to take over all the files and records from the VROs in their respective districts. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, who is also incharge chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA), sent a message to the collectors on Monday morning asking them to take over the records and keep them under the custody of tahsildars. The CS said tahsildars should obtain a handing over report from the VROs after taking possession of original, printed, handwritten, photocopied or online records, maps, tippons, undistributed pattadar passbooks, pahanis and form 1-B, etc. “If there is more than one village under a VRO’s control, a separate format must be obtained for each village,” he said. Reacting to the developments, Telangana VROs’ Association general secretary H Sudhakar Rao welcomed the reforms in the revenue department and the new Revenue Act. “It is unfortunate that the government is trying to brand VROs as corrupt. VROs should be continued in the revenue department. We will lose self-respect if we are drafted into other departments,” Sudhakar said. The government had been unhappy with the functioning of VROs following a growing number of complaints on their corruption, fudging of records and malpractices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collectors-take-control-of-vros-files-records/articleshow/77986743.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||PIL urges HC to strike down land regularisation scheme||HYDERABAD: Stating that schemes for regularisation are an onslaught on the planned development of cities and towns, a public interest petition was filed in the high court on Monday, challenging the state’s decision to regularise irregular layouts for a price. M Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for good governance filed this PIL urging the court to strike down the GO 131 issued by the state on Aug 31 for this purpose.  Meanwhile, hearing several pleas challenging the state's building regularisation scheme (BRS) of 2015 has been resumed on Monday by a bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The restraint order passed by the high court in 2016 prevented the state and the civic authorities from regularising illegal buildings in the last five years. The bench sought a status report from the state and GHMC on this issue and posted the case to Oct 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-urges-hc-to-strike-down-land-regularisation-scheme/articleshow/77987594.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Snatcher gang hid items in cough syrup bottles to avoid detection||NEW DELHI: A gang of snatchers and robbers has been busted whose members used to snatch mostly gold chains in Delhi and then conceal them in cough syrup bottles to transport them to their village in Uttar Pradesh. Four persons, including a 45-year-old woman, have been arrested. Back in village, the items were put in incense stick packets and hidden in temples. The gang then offered a portion of their bounty to temples and for community services before distributing the rest among themselves. The gang was known as Trinetra after its kingpin, 27-year-old Sanjay alias Trinetra, who alone is involved in at least 18 cases of snatching, robbery, illegal possession of arms and other crimes, mostly reported from south Delhi areas like Saket, Neb Sarai, RK Puram and Sarojini Nagar. His associates have been identified as Manav Singh and Sunny, both 23, and Rano, all residents of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh. Rano’s husband is also a criminal. Deputy commissioner of police (south Delhi) Atul Thakur said the staff of narcotics squad of Delhi Police spotted three suspicious men on a black motorcycle in Pushp Vihar around 4.30pm on Saturday. “As the team tried to intercept the trio, they attempted to flee but fell. Two countrymade pistols, a knife and two metal rods were found on them. The motorcycle was stolen from Narela,” Thakur said. The trio disclosed they used to steal high-end motorcycles from Delhi for snatching, the DCP said. “They said they were involved in many robberies and snatching in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab and sold the stolen gold jewellery to Rano and one Puran in Shamli at half of the market rate after donating one-fifth of the booty to temples and a similar share for social services,” the DCP said. Rano said she had bought at least 50 gold chains from the gang. Another stolen motorcycle with a fake numberplate was seized. At least seven cases of thefts and robberies in Swaroop Nagar, Saket, Burari and Shamli have been solved with the arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/snatcher-gang-hid-items-in-cough-syrup-bottles-to-avoid-detection/articleshow/77986759.cms||---
September 8, 2020||India||Supreme Court returns 20+ names for Patna HC judgeships||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court collegium recently returned all 15 names of advocates recommended by the Patna high court collegium last year for elevation as judges of the HC. These are in addition to half a dozen recommendations from among district judges which, too, have not been accepted, sources said. It has rarely happened that the SC collegium has disagreed with all the names recommended by an HC. According to sources, the SC collegium has not recorded reasons for the decision. The Patna HC has 30 posts of judges vacant against a sanctioned strength of 53. After these recommendations are sent to the Centre and the SC by an HC collegium, the law ministry runs an independent background verification through the Intelligence Bureau. It writes to the state government and the governor for their opinion and carries out detailed checks for eligibility criteria. There have been allegations of caste playing a role in the recommendations and that backward communities were ignored. A writ petition was also filed in Patna HC alleging favouring of certain castes. Though the HC rejected the petition, the Supreme Court, the PMO and law ministry received complaints against the candidates recommended. In 2018, a controversy had erupted in the recommendations made by Patna HC collegium which led to delay in finalising names. Government sources had confirmed that the six names recommended warranted closer scrutiny following complaints of nepotism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-returns-20-names-for-patna-hc-judgeships/articleshow/77988208.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Swabs test pendency delays Covid treatment||Nashik: The increasing pendency of swab tests in the Nashik district has been causing delays in treatment provided to Covid-19 patients here. However, the civic officials have assured that the pendency would be under control in the next couple of days. Recently, there has been a sharp rise in the number of confirmed cases. Every day, roughly 1,000 new patients are added to the overall tally of Nashik district. At such a time, the pendency of swab tests is affecting Covid management efforts. The pendency, which usually is around 300 to 400 per day, had increased to 2,000 per day. According to the civic authorities, the contract with a private laboratory, which conducted the tests on a large scale, had ended and, therefore, the testing of swabs was getting delayed. The officials also pointed out that the swabs were tested at the civil hospital, at the Adgaon Medical College and even laboratories in Mumbai and Pune. “Due to the heavy load, the turnaround time for the samples had increased at every laboratory,” the officer said. However, on the field, the authorities have been closely monitoring the confirmed patients and those awaiting the swab test results. All patients put up in quarantine facilities are monitored for symptoms and x-rays are carried out for the symptomatic patients in order to look for signs of Covid-19 in the lungs. “We have settled the technical issue of assigning the contract of testing samples collected at the civil hospital and the private laboratories. As a result, the pendency will come down the next couple of days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/swabs-test-pendency-delays-covid-treatment/articleshow/77987592.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Eighty NPA staff test positive for Covid-19||Hyderabad: Days after the passing out parade of the 2018 batch probationary IPS officers, 80 staff members of the SVP National Police Academy (SVPNPA) tested positive for Covid-19. All these employees were placed under quarantine. After this incident the senior officials of SVPNPA imposed strict restrictions in the academy. “As part of the safety measures, we have decided to strictly implement access control into the academy, especially for outsiders. We have asked only those staff members, whose presence is mandatory for the functioning of the academy to attend their duties,’’ SVPNPA director Atul Karwal told TOI.  The academy will function as usual, the director assured. Officials said that none of the faculty members got affected by the virus as they tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eighty-npa-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77987598.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||PMR tally nears 2 lakh, over 27,000 Covid-19 cases added in September||PUNE: The 24-hour Covid-19 tally came down to 4,273 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, a day after hitting a record high of 4,447, pushing its caseload above 1.97 lakh. Besides, 76 patients succumbed to the infection on Monday, pushing death toll to 4,651. Among the new cases, as many as 2,053 were recorded in the PMC areas, while 1,259 in the PCMC limits and 961 in the rural as well as Cantonment parts. In the first seven days of September, as many as 27,694 cases and 524 fatalities have been recorded in PMR, its worst for the same period in any month so far. In August, as many as 17,728 cases and 363 deaths were recorded in PMR in the first seven days. In June, as many as 8,549 cases and 156 deaths were recorded in PMR during the same period. And the cases as well as casualties remained far below the June tally during the first seven days of the previous months, district health office data revealed. As many as 3,093 patients were discharged in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the cured count in the region above 1.57 lakh. Besides, a surge in new cases pushed up the region’s active case tally to 35,694 on Monday night, including 23,017 in hospitals. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the region’s tests reached 8.5 lakh-mark on Monday, with the addition of 9,511 tests in the last 24 hours. The PMC has so far conducted over 4.94 lakh tests, while the PCMC and rural parts have conducted 2.34 lakh and 1.20 lakh tests, respectively, so far. As per a PMC report, 912 patients in its limits are critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-nears-2l-over-27k-cases-added-in-sept/articleshow/77986758.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Second wave begins in high-risk wards||Thiruvananthapuram: The city is witnessing a second wave of transmission in areas like Manacaud which was one among the top priority high-risk areas identified within corporation limits. Within the city, Attukal and Manacaud had first reported the local-transmission clusters and the spread was reported across three wards — Attukal, Kalady and Manacaud. Over the past one week, nearly 120 cases have been reported from areas around Manacaud, forcing the district administration to bring the areas under containment. Unrestricted family gatherings during Onam festival are suspected to have triggered the spread in the area. While the first wave in Attukal and Manacaud had not seriously affected slum areas, the second wave is mainly being reported from densely inhabited slum areas like Karimadom colony. Unlike the first wave when there were specific index cases like an auto driver at Attukal, the second wave has triggered simultaneous outbreak in multiple families and sometimes among multiple members within the same family. As per the first cluster report, an auto driver-cum-teleserial actor, who had travelled extensively in Attukal, Manacaud and Konchiravila and Kalady, eventually transmitted the infection to eight others. He had frequent visits from relatives from Kuzhithurai, Tamil Nadu. There was potential history of contact with commuters from Tamil Nadu, the report noted. The cluster also involved two healthcare workers in the private hospital he had visited at Attukal. Around 24 wards were identified to have higher risk of cases due to density of contacts, potential sources and epidemiological linkages and six wards, Attukal, Poonthura, Puthenpally, Manacaud, Palayam and Muttathara, were categorised as top priority-high risk areas. Among these wards, many of the wards had gone through the peak and dip between July and August. Manacaud, however, peaked again from the end of August and a surge is still being expected at Manacaud. The health officials are at a loss identifying exact source or an index case in the second wave. Seven positive cases at MSK Nagar were reported from seven different families whereas out of 12 cases reported from MRA Street, 8 cases were reported from a single family. Kalady, which had also reported a few cases in July, is also witnessing a recurrent wave of infection within the colony. Over 30 cases have been reported from the area in the past one week and over 10 cases were reported from a single family. When the district started showing evidence of local transmission and increase in locally acquired cases, the officials had adopted the strategy to monitor the cases and do mapping daily to identify early warning signs such as stray positive cases in more numbers, not knowing the source of infection, sudden death, sudden increase in fever cases and respiratory illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/second-wave-begins-in-high-risk-wards/articleshow/77985587.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 8, 2020||Goa||Rap power dept for violating MV Rules: Goacan||Panaji: The Goa consumer action network (Goacan) has called for action against the electricity department for using its truck with poles protruding out during transportation in violation of the Motor Vehicle Act and Rules and endangering the lives of its employees and of commuters too. This was despite the fatal accident of August 6 wherein three electricity employees died and three employees were critically injured. “Consumers complain that officials are quick to challan the private owned vehicles violating the rules, while they are slow to challan the vehicles owned by government departments that are found violating the Motor Vehicle Act and Rules,” Goacan coordinator Roland Martins said. The government of India, on March 5, 2014, issued a notification striking down the proviso in Rule 93(8) of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 thereby putting a ban on vehicles carrying protruding rods or protruding load. The need to enforce the implementation of this notification was discussed at earlier meetings of the District Road Safety Council and the District Consumer Protection Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rap-power-dept-for-violating-mv-rules-goacan/articleshow/77987606.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nashik||100-bed Covid care centre to come up at Nashik police HQ||NASHIK: A 100-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC) is being set up at the police headquarters that will only treat personnel of the city police, home guards and their families. The centre is being jointly prepared by the police and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). While 70 beds will be reserved for male police personnel and home guards, 30 will be reserved for women. The relatives of the personnel will also be admitted in the same facility. The decision has been taken on the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases among police personnel. “So far, 150 police personnel have been infected with the contagion. As many as 18 are admitted to the covid facilities while 23 are home quarantined,” said a senior police officer adding that three policemen have also succumbed to the infection. Police are also starting an ambulance service to ferry ailing personnel and their family members to the covid centre. Apart from this, a new Whatsapp group is being created for all police personnel. Any policemen who is feeling unwell can convey the same on the group. Senior police officers will ensure that a medical team reaches his/her residence in two hours for check-up. If need arises, the personnel will be picked up from his residence and shifted to the best medical facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-bed-covid-care-centre-to-come-up-at-nashik-police-hq/articleshow/77987599.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Hotel biz slowly picking up with up to 25% room occupancy, long road to full recovery||Nashik: Hotels and other establishments providing lodging services are seeing a slow revival in business with the room occupancy going up to 25%. Hoteliers said they are on the revival path, but it will take several months for complete recovery. “The hotel/hospitality industry depends on tourists and it will not recover until tourism gets a boost. The hotel occupancy has increased to 25% in the city, but it will take over a year for the business to recover completely,” said Tej Takle, the director of a major hotel and an office-bearer of state hoteliers’ association. Shailesh Kute, who owns a major hotel in the city, said room occupancy is gradually increasing as intradistrict and interstate travel has been allowed. “I have upto 25% occupancy per day on an average. But recovery of 100% business is difficult until there is a vaccine for Covid-19 and the pandemic is under control,” he said.He added that most of his hotel employees are yet to return from other states due to lack of transport. They are managing with the local manpower available. Another hotelier from a leading hotel in the city said that all hotels were following the safety protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “I don’t know when the business will revive completely. People need to travel without fear first,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hotel-biz-slowly-picking-up-with-up-to-25-room-occupancy-long-road-to-full-recovery/articleshow/77987597.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 8, 2020||Bhopal||MP still worst in tests among states with most Covid cases||Bhopal: Among the top 16 states with Covid-19 positive cases in the country, Madhya Pradesh is not only the lowest in terms of having less positive cases, but it is also the lowest in testing for the Corona virus. Though, recently there has been an increase in tests per day but it still is far low compared to other states.As on August 16, only 12,000 tests per million were done in Madhya Pradesh that has now increased by 50% in the past 23 days to approximately 18,000 tests per million.When it comes to tests per million and compared to states like West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh MP is a laggard. While approximately 18,000 tests per million have been conducted by Madhya Pradesh — so far 15.41 lakh tests have been done in the state, nearly three times of MP (approximately 40 lakh tests) have been done by Bihar, which has conducted more than 33,000 tests per million population. In Uttar Pradesh, more than 66 lakh tests have been done — where more than 29,000 people out of every million have been tested for Covid-19 so far. So, besides the factors such as quick identification, proper treatment and appropriate isolation, can doing less tests be one of the factors for having less number of cases in the state?If statistics is to be believed, it suggests that tests are directly related to the number of positive cases. Going by the official figures of the state government, only around 41,000 tests were done till April 30 and only 2,625 people were found positive. By May 31, 1.67 lakh tests were done and 8,089 people were found positive. By June 30, 3.65 lakh tests were done and 13,593 people were found positive. This increased to 7.6 lakh by July 31 — 4 lakh tests were done in July alone and 18,213 people were found positive—and total number of positive cases increased to 31,806. More than 31 lakh tests were done by August 31 and total number of positive cases has crossed 63,000. Moreover, the average positivity rate, i.e., number of people found positive out of every 100 people tested has increased consistently since June. Till June 30, the average positivity rate was around 3.7. It increased to 4.1 by July 31 and has further increased to 4.8 by September 7, thus it is clearly evident that the number of cases saw an increase as and when tests were done, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-still-worst-in-tests-among-states-with-most-covid-cases/articleshow/77986772.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 8, 2020||Pune||Assistant sub-inspector 4th Covid victim of Pune police||Pune: An assistant sub-inspector (56) from the Pune police’s Sinhagad Road traffic division died early in the morning on Monday, nine days after he was discharged from a hospital on completing his Covid-19 treatment.Police said the assistant sub-inspector, a resident of Warje, was advised 14-day home quarantine on his discharge from hospital. Around 3.30am on Monday, he complained about breathlessness. His family members took him to a private hospital in Warje. He passed away within a few minutes there, the police said.The assistant sub-inspector is the fourth Covid-19 casualty among the Pune police personnel. The casualty count of the Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad police put together is five.“Earlier, a constable from the Samarth traffic division, and an assistant sub-inspector each from the Faraskhana police station and the Special Branch have succumbed to Covid-19 since April,” said Pune’s additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale, adding that the number of policemen testing positive had increased in the last one week. So far, a total of 1,104 police personnel from the Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad police have been infected by the contagion. Of them, a total of 843 have recovered and 256 are either under treatment as active cases in hospitals or are in home isolation. Five personnel have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assistant-sub-inspector-4th-covid-victim-of-pune-police/articleshow/77986776.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Allahabad||Want Kashi, Mathura back,ready to move court: ABAP||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of 13 recognised monastic orders in the country, has decided to raise the demand for getting Kashi and Mathura back on the lines of Ayodhya, through an amicable solution or else it would move court. It also called for support of VHP, RSS and other Hindu bodies to their demand. ABAP also said the government should not ban Magh Mela next year though it could be a low-key affair. The representatives of all 13 akharas held an emergency meeting at Shri Math Baghambari Gaddi and passed eight resolutions unanimously after a marathon discussion. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “The akhara parishad appeals for support for liberating Kashi and Mathura from Hindu organisations, including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), and from every common man, including Hindus and Muslims. We want a solution for this long pending demand to be found amicably failing which ABAP would move the court.” It was decided that now as the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya has started, a strategy should be chalked out to free Kashi and Mathura, he added. “The akhara parishad would launch a countrywide movement to marshal support for the demand. ABAP would do everything possible within the framework of the Constitution to liberate the two temples,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/want-kashi-mathura-backready-to-move-court-abap/articleshow/77985600.cms||Rajeev Mani
September 8, 2020||Pune||All district collectors in Maharashtra told to ensure districts have adequate medical oxygen||PUNE: All district collectors in the state have now been asked to ensure supply of medical oxygen within their jurisdictions is at 80%. Some weeks ago, discussions were on between government officials and manufacturers to divert as much as 60% of their supply to medical use. The rest was being sent to industrial units. But with the rising number of cases, the manufacturers have been asked to reserve more for hospitals and care hubs. On Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope asked officials to ensure supply is adequate across all districts. A day later, on Monday, Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh met with oxygen manufacturers in the region and asked them to boost supply to medical units treating Covid-19. “The directive was issued because there has been an increase in Covid-19 cases and demand for oxygen,” the collector said. From June through July, the usage in Pune district was merely 35 metric tonnes. That has since increase to 105 metric tonnes — a 200% rise, which is expected to increase further when makeshift jumbo facilities and new Covid units become operational. A new plant in Chavan — to be set up within this month — is expected to take some burden off existing manufacturing units. Officials said they are confident the new factory will “completely” resolve the oxygen shortage. On Monday, Congress leader Aba Bagul wrote to the chief minister urging a stop on all industrial oxygen supply until the medical demand is met. In his letter, Bagul said patients admitted at hospitals in the city were in dire need of oxygen and a shortage had led to a “difficult situation”. He also called for mobile teams to carry out inspections along supply chains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-collectors-told-to-ensure-dists-have-adequate-medical-oxygen/articleshow/77986778.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Health of policemen will be my top priority: CP Pandey||Nashik: Deepak Pandey, who took charge as police commissioner of Nashik city on Saturday, said his first and foremost concern would be to take steps to prevent police personnel from contracting Covid-19. He also said that criminal elements would be dealt with an iron hand. During his first interaction with the media, the new police commissioner said that while his focus was to ensure no policeman died of Covid-19, for which he would take every possible measure, equal attention would be paid to the law and order situation in the city. “Crime rate has come down after the outbreak of Covid-19. However, sincere efforts will be taken to control petty crimes like chain robbery, bag lifting, etc. The focus will also be on crime detection, keeping tabs on anti-social elements, streamlining vehicular traffic and paying attention to the welfare of the personnel,” he said.Pandey, a 1999 batch IPS officer, who has served as the superintendent of police at Ratnagiri and Akola, was transferred from Mumbai where he was the inspector general (IG) of the prison department. “I have been convened two meetings with the policemen over the past two days to allay their fears about Covid-19. Only when their fears and concerns regarding the viral infection are put to rest will the policemen be able to work more efficiently,” said Pandey. He added that during his previous stint as the IG prisons, approximately 240 inmates had contracted Covid-19. With focused attention on the infected inmates,he ensured that none of the inmates succumbed to the virus. “Similar things will be adopted in Nashik to quell the fear of policemen,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-of-policemen-will-be-my-top-priority-cp-pandey/articleshow/77987604.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 8, 2020||Madurai||NEET case: HC tells Theni JM to return students’ certificates||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday directed the Theni judicial magistrate (JM) to return the original Class X and XII certificates to two students involved in NEET impersonation. The court was hearing the petitions filed by the two students seeking to return their certificates to pursue further studies.Justice R Pongiappan directed the JM to return the certificates after placing photocopies of the same in the case records. The judge also directed the Theni JM to get undertaking affidavits from the students stating that they would produce the original certificates as and when required. With regard to return of Class XII transfer certificates, the judge observed that taking into consideration the facts that the impersonation came to light after the students got admission at the colleges, the certificates would have no value and the competent authority to issue them would be the concerned institutions.The case of the prosecution is that the first accused, a resident of Chennai had obtained a medical seat in Theni Government Medical Ccollege in 2019. He was arrested by the Theni CB-CID officials and subsequently released on bail. The petitioner moved HC Madurai bench seeking to return his marksheets, transfer and community certificates to pursue an undergraduate course in Chennai.Similarly, another student who was involved in NEET impersonation also moved HC seeking to return his certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-case-hc-tells-theni-jm-to-return-students-certificates/articleshow/77986781.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Rajkot||Petrol pump owner attacked, robbed of his car in Tankara||Rajkot: A gang of six robbers attacked a petrol pump owner and fled with his car before looting him Rs 10,000 in cash in Halmatiya village of Tankara taluka in Morbi district on early Saturday morning.Police said the victim, Kishor Barasara (42), was driving to his under construction petrol pump on the outskirts of Halmatiya village, when he spotted a gang of six robbers who were trying to break open the shutter of a shop.“When Barasara asked the robbers as to what they were doing, the robbers left the shop shutter and attacked Barasara with bats. The robbers took away Rs 10,000 in cash from Barasara and his car in which they fled,” said P N Gohel, assistant sub-inspector with Tankara police station. “The robbers abandoned two bikes suspected to have been stolen ones. While one bike is registered with Jamnagar RTO, the other one is registered under Maharashtra RTO,” added Gohel. Barasara told the cops that the robbers appeared to be in their late 20s and appeared to be tribals as per the dialect they had used while communicating with each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/petrol-pump-owner-attacked-robbed-of-his-car-in-tankara/articleshow/77966905.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Pune||Rajesh Deshmukh pitches for videos with recovered patients to dispel fear||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has told all tehsil and Zilla Parishad officials to make audio-video clips featuring patients, who have recovered from Covid-19 infection, narrating their experiences. It is part of an effort to create awareness about Covid-19 virus in rural Pune. The initiative has been planned to assuage the panic among people caused by the rising cases in several villages. The collector has also sought creation of WhatsApp groups and the use of other social media platforms to reach people. Besides, wall paintings, banners and flex campaigns are also on the anvil. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of ZP, told TOI, that there are many misconceptions about Covid-19 among the people in rural Pune, and creating awareness is one way to remove such misconceptions, panic and fear. “It is so especially among senior citizens and those who have health issues. We have told our officials to make videos that specifically address these concerns and circulate the same on social media platforms for people to know that they can overcome the virus,” Prasad added. At times, people also panic if a person from their locality tests positive for the virus and they raise various concerns, he said. “Since many people are on social media, video clips of discharged local patients will create a positive impact and boost their confidence to face the situation,” Prasad added. They are also making videos and audio clips on Covid-19 awareness with local politicians who have followers in villages, another ZP official said. “Since we have kept the duration for not more than one minute, we have got a very positive response from the people. New concepts will also be added while making these videos,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deshmukh-pitches-for-videos-with-recovered-patients-to-dispel-fear/articleshow/77986785.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Custodial deaths: CBI submits second status report in HC||Madurai: The CBI, which is probing the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district submitted a second status report before the Madras high court on Monday, with regard to the progress made in the investigation into the case.The court was hearing the suo motu public interest litigation which was initiated following the custodial deaths of the father-son duo. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the report states that a meeting of multi-institutional medical board of forensic medicine experts constituted by the director general of health services, New Delhi was convened on September 1 to discuss the Sathankulam custodial deaths. As per the report, they would be convening yet another meeting followed by a visit to the place of occurrence, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and interaction with the doctors concerned. The CBI stated that a multidisciplinary team of Central Forensic Science Laboratory, New Delhi, could not visit the scene of occurrence on account of Covid-19 outbreak and also because it was assigned duty relating to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. The judges observed that as per the report, investigation is in progress and further progress is also being made.Pursuant to the earlier order of the court, the CB-CID had also submitted a status report on the progress in the investigation on the alleged torture meted out to S Raja Singh, arrested in another case by the Sathankulam police.The report suggests that 28 witnesses have been examined and 12 documents have been collected. The CB-CID had also mentioned the need for more time to examine other witnesses and collect other documents related to this case. The case was adjourned to September 22 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-deaths-cbi-submits-second-status-report-in-hc/articleshow/77986777.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ganesh mandals to help civic body||PUNE: The civic body has decided to rope in Ganesh mandal representatives and mountaineers for better management of the makeshift 800-bed Covid hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune, (CoEP) grounds. The volunteers would be entrusted with the task of improving communications between the patients admitted to the facility and their patients. Besides, a video calling facility has been made available at the jumbo hospital for such interactions and two groups of trekkers have been contacted for the task. They will work at the communication and command centre of the jumbo hospital. “The volunteers will also counsel the patients and their relatives. The common people and experts are invited to join hands with the civic administration for the management of the Covid-19 facility. NGO, Ganesh mandal and social workers are welcome to join hands with the civic body,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s land and estate department. Muthe, who is one of the civic officials managing the jumbo hospital, said a meeting to include external expertise was held on Monday. As many as 37 mountaineers have confirmed their participation for volunteering. A communication system using tablets and cellphones is being set up at the jumbo hospital’s communication centre. The team of mountaineers is overseeing the set up that will become operational from Tuesday. The PMC and Ganesh mandals had tried to join hands earlier as well for improving the Covid care infrastructure. However, the Covid care Centre at Fergusson College could not take shape, as the plan was dropped before becoming a reality. “The mandals were ready to run the Covid care centre. All efforts were taken, but it remained a non-starter. However, we are committed to working for society during the pandemic,” said Shrikant Shete, president of the Kasba Ganpati Mandal Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ganesh-mandals-to-help-civic-body/articleshow/77986802.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 8, 2020||Madurai||‘Declare habitats of Indan fox as protected areas’||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea which sought to declare the habitats of Indian fox at Trichy and Virudhunagar districts as protected areas under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam passed the order on the public interest litigation filed by N Abdul Rahman Jalal, an environmental enthusiast from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that in a recent incident in Trichy district, 12 people were arrested as a fox died after biting a country-made bomb wrapped in meat, which was kept as a bait for poaching. He sought to transfer the investigation from the state forest department to the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. He also sought to prevent the manufacture and sale of traps and snares to prevent poaching activities. The petitioner also sought for a direction to the forest officials to create periodical awareness programmes to those residing near the habitats in order to make them aware of the importance of conserving the species. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/declare-habitats-of-indan-fox-as-protected-areas/articleshow/77986803.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Khalistani operatives held from north Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of two operatives of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), a banned outfit, from north Delhi on September 5, Special Cell of Delhi Police claims to have foiled several assassination bids. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the two men, Bhupinder Singh alias Dilawar Singh (41) and Kulwant Singh (39), who are from Ludhiana, were planning to kill targets in various north Indian states on the directions of ISI-sponsored Khalistani leaders. Two phones, seven pistols and 45 cartridges were seized from them. Many videos, documents and photographs related to the Khalistani movement and their propagators were also seized from them. A hunt is on for their associates, who are learnt to be hiding in Delhi-NCR. Earlier, Bhupinder had a Red Corner Notice against him. He was lodged at Nabha Jail for six months after being deported from Abu Dhabi in 2019. He was wanted by Punjab Police too. His handlers have been identified as Jagdish Bhoora from Khalistan Zindabad Force, who is based in Belgium, and Dhanna Singh of Khalistan Liberation Force, who is based in the UK. He was to receive arms and ammunition in Delhi from one of Bhoora’s henchmen. Surveillance had been intensified by Special Cell after getting an alert from an intelligence agency in the first week of August about Khalistani groups planning assassination bids. “The arrested men have disclosed their links with BKI and Khalistan Commando Force leaders settled abroad. They also revealed their plans to kill targets on the instructions of Khalistani militants sponsored by ISI,” Yadav said. Bhupinder reportedly visited Dubai in 2005 and returned in 2007. He then went to Muscat in 2009 for two years. In 2016, he allegedly visited Saudi Arabia to find work, but didn’t get one for eight months. He then came in contact with some pro-Khalistani entities and was indoctrinated to join the movement. Through Facebook, he came in contact with a module comprising Harbinder Singh, Amritpal Kaur, Randeep Singh and Jarnail Singh, who were arrested by Punjab Police in 2017 for being BKI members. “During interrogation, Bhupinder said that he was inspired by Dilawar Singh Babbar, who had assassinated Beant Singh, so he adopted that alias. He has inimical feelings towards people speaking against Sikh gurus and the religion,” Yadav said. “He feels strongly against the Satluj-Yamuna link canal and was planning to kill engineers working on the project. Recently, he and Kulwant had hoisted a saffron flag with Khalistani insignia on a water tank at the Raikot tehsil office,” added the DCP. Watch Two terrorists of Babbar Khalsa International arrested in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/khalistani-operatives-held-from-north-delhi/articleshow/77986814.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nashik||Transportation of 965 tonne goods via Vishesh trains helps Railways fetch Rs 34L||Nashik: Farmers from across Bhusawal division shipped 965 tonne of goods, mostly perishable, to various places in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar through the ‘Kisan Vishesh’ trains. The overwhelming response from farmers and the timely departure of these parcel trains have compelled the railway authorities to run this train, which was started as a weekly train on August 7, thrice a week. The Railways has earned Rs 34 lakh by transporting the consignments during the seven trips made by the Kisan Vishesh trains between Devlali station in Nashik district and Muzaffarpur in Bihar.Of the 965 tonne of goods transported, Nashik district accounted for 640 tonne of goods (around 66%). Of the total earning from the transportation of the consignments from Bhusawal division, farmers from Nashik district helped the railways earn Rs 25 lakh. Senior divisional commercial manager of Bhusawal division Yuvaraj Patil said, “The main commodities that were transported included pomegranates, capsicum, cauliflower, cabbage, green chillies etc from Nashik district to Jabalpur, Buxar, Danapur and Muzaffarpur.”“The farmers are upbeat about the transportation system started by the railways as they are now able to send their produce to far-off places in lesser time, thereby ensuring better quality of their goods and earning handsome revenue,” said Sanjay Kande, a farmer from Nandgaon taluka.“Since there was only one train in the beginning, we had to look for road transportation. After the frequency of the train has been increased to three times a week, we will not have to depend on road transportation anymore provided the train continues to run on time,” said Vilas Hinganmire, another farmer from Nashik district. Railway authorities said that they were strictly monitoring the punctuality of the train to ensure farmers that their goods would reach in proper condition to the desired destination on time.“This particular aspect has been given a major thrust to the Vishesh train,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/transportation-of-965-tonne-goods-via-vishesh-trains-helps-railways-fetch-rs-34l/articleshow/77987605.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Two dead, 57 Covid positive in Wardha||Wardha: An 81-year-old and a 55-year-old, both men from Hinganghat, died due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment while 57 tested positive on Monday. Meanwhile, 19 got discharged after recovering. In all, 655 test reports were received and 57 of them tested positive. The total count of Covid-19 cases of the district has reached 1775. After 19 discharged and fresh 57 cases, the number of active positive under treatment are 738. Till date, nearly 1003 patients have defeated coronavirus. The 57 cases included 29 women and 28 women. The highest number was recorded in Wardha (29) followed by Ashti (10), Hinganghat (7), Selu (4), Deoli (3), Arvi (2) and each one from Karanja and Samudrapur. After two deaths on Monday, the district’s toll is now 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-dead-57-covid-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77982561.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dalvi hospital to get more doctors soon||PUNE: The civic administration has decided to appoint a team of additional medical staffers and doctors at its Dalvi hospital in the Shivajinagar area. With this, more oxygen beds are likely to get operational in the facility treating the Covid-19 patients. The hospital is currently operating 29 beds with oxygen facility and all are full. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the orders of appointments have been issued and the staffers would be made available in the next few days. “We are expecting to increase the medical and para-medical staff strength at the hospital by 30, including the doctors. The operation of more beds will depend on the joining of the new staffers. We are, however, expecting to operate at least 50 more beds with oxygen facilities. We are also working on provision of more beds and arrangements of basic infrastructure that would require operate the beds,” an official said. The hospital already has oxygen and ICU bed facilities. However, some beds are not being used because of the shortage of doctors and staff. Last month, the administration enhanced the supply of oxygen at the hospital with commencement of liquid oxygen unit. In addition to the oxygen beds, the hospital has 10 Intensive Care Unit beds. These beds were made operational in July. The officials stated that functioning of some Covid care centres has been put on hold because of the drop in number of patients. “The doctors and nurses from the Covid care centres will be deployed at the facilities such as Dalvi and Khedekar hospitals. We are working on the plans of deployment of manpower,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dalvi-hospital-to-get-more-doctors-soon/articleshow/77986804.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||With too little on their plates, city’s street food vendors stare at empty stalls, await customers||Nagpur: Gratifying taste buds with street food delicacies like bhelpuri, shevpuri, chaat etc from roadside joints will cost you nearly Rs5 per plate more post Covid-19. Most roadside vendors have increased prices to manage additional expenditure on account of maintaining hygiene by using sanitisers, disposable plates, gloves etc. Though, business has gone down drastically. However, almost all street food vendors have kept panipuri rates untouched.“I have already increased rates of bhelpuri, shevpuri, chaat etc by Rs5 per plate,” said Suraj Patel, who owns a roadside stall at Shankar Nagar.Patel said due to coronavirus scare, eating joints have been taking precautionary measures by not only using mask, but also keeping hand sanitisers, gloves and disposable plates etc. “All these have increased our daily expenditure, whereas profit has reduced to almost zero,” he said. Though Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to allow hawkers to do business in city, roadside eating joints in many parts have resumed operations.TOI found that most of the eating joints have already started using face masks, gloves and disposable plates. “Covid-19 pandemic has hit the street food business the hardest,” said another vendor Govid Patel from Shankar Nagar garden. Earlier, there used to be almost 15 street food stalls near Shankar Nagar garden. Now, barely two-three can be seen, he said, pointing out that many of the vendors have gone back to their native places.“As educational institutions are closed, we are missing our huge chunk of business which we do by selling our food to crowds of youngsters,” said Neeraj Gupta, a vendor from Telangkhedi, where he runs a fast food centre. “It’s the Covid fear. People don’t want to come out, no matter if we use sanitisers, wear masks, gloves or have a Covid-free certificate up in front of our stall,” said Kumar Rao, who runs a South Indian food stall in Indora. But there are Nagpurians who would love to see their favourite street food stalls back in action and thriving. TOI spotted rise in number of food stalls in many areas including in front of district court and panchayat samiti office near Akashwani Square. Most of the roadside stalls were crowded.Corporator Gopichand Kumre, who too runs one such stall in Itwari, said street food lovers are coming back in large numbers in this part of the city. He admitted that the cost of running eating joints has increased due to Covid-19 guidelines. Kumre has not increased rates of varieties of sandwiches he serves. Kumre claimed he only caters to takeaway orders.College student Tarun Pal has actually been out to visit his favourite chaat bhandar in Itwari’s Shahid Chowk after the lockdown was eased. According to him the one he missed the most during the lockdown was samosa-kachori wala in Itwari that he has been going to since he was a child.Mayor Sandip Joshi, however, expressed concern over opening of roadside food stalls in many areas across the city and said he would direct the civic administration to look into the matter. He appealed to the citizens to ensure their safety while eating food in such places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-too-little-on-their-plates-citys-street-food-vendors-stare-at-empty-stalls-await-customers/articleshow/77985706.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 8, 2020||Madurai||18 Covid deaths in central TN, 9 in south||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts of the state reported 834 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Monday. The only imported case in the region was in Madurai. Meanwhile, a day after recording 717 cases, the eight central districts registered 625 cases, a dip of 92 cases. On Sunday, the numbers had dropped to 717 from 758. Monday’s tally took the total number of positive cases to 36,755. After three days, the number of deaths saw a sudden jump to 18, as per the state media bulletin. With this, the central region toll has climbed to 557. The nine deaths recorded in south include two teenagers with comorbidities in Madurai and Tenkasi. In Madurai, a 15-year-old girl with tuberculosis, cystic fibrosis and chronic liver disease, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital from August 26, died on Monday morning. In Tenkasi a 17-year-old boy with type I diabetes mellitus hospitalised at the government headquarters hospital on Saturday died on Sunday. The nine deaths on Monday include two each in Sivagangai and Kanyakumari and one each in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi. Dindigul recorded 136 fresh cases, followed by 106 in Madurai. The eight other districts recorded less than 100 cases each. Ramanathapuram (33) and Sivagangai (41) have less than 50 cases. Sivagangai with 4,297 cases is the only district in the region with less than 5,000 total cases, after Ramanathapuram (5,007). Madurai (1,046) recorded more than 1,000 active cases for the first time after 13 days since August 26. The last time Dindigul had more than 1,000 active cases was on August 23. Sivagangai (217), Ramanathapuram (337) and Virudhunagar (429) have less than 500 active cases. At 96,608 cases the southern districts account for 20.6% of the total cases in the state. As many as 87,686 people (90.8%) have recovered, while 7,238 people (7.5%) are undergoing treatment. Death rate in the region is 1.74%. The 1,684 deaths in the region accounted for 21.25% of the total deaths in the state. In the central region, while 17 patients had comorbidities, a 44 year old man from Nagapattinam died at the government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur on September 5 without any comorbidity. Admitted to the hospital on September 2 after testing positive on August 28, he died of Covid-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory disease syndrome. Out of the 18 patients, six patients died at private hospitals and 13 of them died on September 6. Pushing behind Thanjavur and Pudukottai, Tiruvarur came on top with 142 cases followed by Thanjavur with 122 cases. A senior public health department official attributed the spike in cases to the increased testing and inter-district movement of people in Tiruvarur. Trichy recorded 112 cases on Monday. Trichy was on top in terms of most positive cases (8,235) whereas the district discharged 7,204 patients so far. The district has 907 active cases. Perambalur recorded only 13 cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/18-covid-deaths-in-central-tn-9-in-south/articleshow/77986815.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana prepares for kharif crop purchase||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has directed all officers concerned to make necessary preparations for the procurement of kharif crops starting from October 1. The last date for farmers to register their crop online on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Boyra’ portal is September 10 for millet and September 15 for paddy, moong, maize and others. During the meeting, held under deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday, it was informed that 200 additional procurement centres will be set up for procurement of paddy, raising the procurement centres’ tally to 400. These centres will be set up in eight districts which have high paddy production. There will be 120 procurement centres for bajra and 30 up for moong. It was further informed that farmers of those villages which are under consolidation and who could not enter their data in ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal can now provide the details in this portal. This system has been made live since September 2. Interacting with media persons later, Dushyant said a letter will be written on behalf of the state government to the Centre, seeking permission for procurement of paddy for the public distribution system from September 25 instead of October 1. He also directed the officers to keep all sheds in mandis up-to-date and repair roads leading to them so that farmers do not face any trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-prepares-for-kharif-crop-purchase/articleshow/77986819.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||City cop defeats Covid twice in 4 mths, remains top performer||NAGPUR: Head constable Laxman Shende, the only cop from Nagpur police to suffer from Covid reinfection within four months, managed to help his police station gain the top slot in detection and also set a benchmark with his superlative performance in individual capacity. It’s learnt Shende had substantial contribution in Tehsil police having detected 20-22 offences in just four months. Shende (TOI has procured his permission to publish identity), aged 43, was among the first three cops in the city to have tested Covid positive on May 16. Suffering from high blood sugar, the cop was admitted to Mayo Hospital where he recovered in nine days. He had joined duty after a few days of precautionary rest. Immediately after joining duty, detection branch (DB) cop Shende had managed to bust the gang of Amzad Khan from Dobi Nagar. TOI had published how Shende had toiled in rain to nab the gangsters. Shende said he and his team had detected 10 offences, arrested more than a dozen accused and recovered valuables worth Rs25-30 lakh after his Covid recovery. “Five cases related to notorious trickster ‘Dr Mahajan’ were detected by our team and valuables worth Rs16 lakh recovered,” he said. Shende, who had broken his leg while chasing a wanted goon in Mumbai some years ago, said he was going great guns when Covid put a brake on his work for the second time on August 16. “The second time, I contracted Covid infection along with pneumonia and had to be admitted in the ICU. This time, my kidney too got affected,” he said. Shende was discharged after nine days of treatment at SevenStar Hospital. He has been advised rest. The cop extolled the efforts of his senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar to keep the team motivated even during the pandemic. “I had been repeatedly asking Shende to take due precaution and medicines timely, but still it was an unfortunate relapse,” said Bhandarkar. Shende now wants to resume duty at the earliest so as to work under the new city commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar. “I was a constable at MIDC police station when he (the new CP) was in Zone-II and the squad under his leadership had detected several big offences,” he said. Shende said he has now added ‘pranayam’ to his daily routine and is strictly following medication. “I had travelled to Yavatmal and other places, but still have no idea how I got reinfected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-cop-defeats-covid-twice-in-4-mths-remains-top-performer/articleshow/77985717.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 8, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Care for some donkey milk? It’s Rs 7,000 a litre!||VADODARA: Gujarat’s breed of indigenous donkeys will have its own milk dairy! And, to shock you further, this donkey milk — truly liquid gold — fetches the world’s costliest price of Rs 7,000 per litre! Now, isn’t this worth braying about? But before you wrinkle your nose, here’s another prized piece of information: In ancient Egypt, Cleopatra is said to have taken baths in donkey milk to preserve her legendary beauty and youth. Known to contain anti-ageing, antioxidant and regenerating compounds, donkey milk is indeed precious. Thanks to its indigenous Halari breed of donkey, a breed which is mainly found in Gujarat’s Saurashtra region only, Gujarat aims to add the beast of burden to its list of milch animals and literally milk riches. The National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) has embarked upon the an innovative project to start a donkey milk dairy in Haryana’s Hisar. Two years ago the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR), the nodal agency of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for registration of new breeds had granted independent breed status to Halari – the second donkey breed – to be recognized in the country and the first one from Gujarat. “Halari donkeys are shorter than horses but taller than other normally seen donkey breeds. They look almost like a small horse and have snow-white fur,” said Rank, adding that the breed has existed in the Halar region for more than 200 years. National recognition of a breed paves the way for better conservation and preservation of its genes. “Halari donkeys are maintained as nucleus stock at government horse breeding farm at Chanasma in Patan district for the past five years. In fact, it was from there that 11 Halari donkeys were supplied to NRCE,” said Dr D N Rank from Anand Agricultural University’s Department of Animal Genetics and Breeding. For the milk project, the donkeys are currently undergoing breeding at Hisar, he said. College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, AAU, the directorate of animal husbandry of Gujarat government and Bhuj-Kutch-based Sahjeevan Trust had collaborated for NBAGR’s national recognition of the breed. Halari breed has derived its name from Jam Sri Halaji Jadeja, said to be the ninth generation grandfather of Jam Sri Rawalji Lakhaji Jadeja, the founder of the Halar region in Saurashtra. Halar was first established with this name by Jam Shri Rawalji Lakhaji, a Jadeja Rajput, in 1540. In its native tract – Jamnagar and Devbhumi Dwarka districts (earlier known as Halar region) – its distribution is spread over 18,176 sq km. Its population is estimated to be 1,112 in these two districts. In the west, a litre of donkey milk which is known for its nutraceutical and therapeutic properties costs up to Rs 7,000. Globally, many firms sell cosmetic products like soaps, skin gels, face wash – all made from donkey milk as niche products as it is known to contain compounds that keep the skin hydrated and prevent wrinkles. Watch Gujarat: Halari donkey's milk to fetch Rs 7,000 per litre!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/care-for-some-donkey-milk-its-rs7000-a-litre/articleshow/77984643.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Bhakra, Ranjit Sagar dam water levels in Pb dip below normal||Patiala: With the monsoon period coming to an end, the water level in Bhakra and Ranjit Sagar Dam reservoirs in Punjab has gone below normal. The water level in Bhakra reservoir is 1,661 feet against last year’s level of 1,675 feet. As per the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) policy, water in the reservoir can be stored up to 1,680 feet by the end of August. The BBMB filling season ends on September 20. This year BBMB released Bhakra water continuously downstream in the summer months, irrespective of whether there was a demand for irrigation, to create the space, so as to prevent flooding during the monsoons in Punjab. The dam released nearly 25,000-35,000 cusecs (cubic foot per second) water daily before the onset of monsoon despite normal monsoon forecast. The availability of water in dams is 24% below normal in Punjab. This is not only noticeably below last year’s levels, but also less than the average storage of the past 10 years. The BBMB reservoir is holding 75% of the total storage capacity and is less than the average of 83% of the last 10 years. The total storage capacity in Punjab is 2.34 billion cubic meters (BCM), out of which the present storage is 1.36 BCM, revealed the data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) last week. In Pong Dam, the water level is 1,376 feet against last year’s 1,387 feet. At present, it is holding 75% of its total water capacity, as compared to 89% last year and the 10-year average of 83%. Following the unprecedented inflows into the reservoirs last year due to freak weather events, which led to heavy release of excess water, BBMB sources said this year the water levels were being deliberately kept low. Thein Dam, which is located on the Ravi in Punjab, has 515.17 meter water against last year’s level of 524.32 meter. Storage at this dam at present is just 58% compared to 87% last year and the average of 76% over the past 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bhakra-ranjit-sagar-dam-water-levels-in-pb-dip-below-normal/articleshow/77986825.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bhopal||Hosps running out of beds with spurt in Covid cases||Bhopal: Awaiting an increase in bed capacity, many Covid-19 patients are running out of options for choice of hospital. There are about 1751 active cases of the infection in the state capital. However, many of the hospitals are running to capacity. The number suspected is not accounted in the number of active cases. The need for prehospitalisation awaiting for Covid-19 test result is also reaching a new high, said health experts.“Opting for paid private hospital care for Covid-19 is also dependent on availability. Many of the people who can afford treatment are unable to get a choice of hospital,” said Lokendra, a businessman whose wife has been diagnosed with the infection. Public health infrastructure has been stretched to the limit in many of the Covid-19 care hospitals. Hospitalisation apart, manpower shortage has begun to take a toll on medical services. Many of the experienced staff and senior faculty in government run hospitals are down with the infection.“Infection spread in the medical community is rising by the day. Contingencies are in place. We are prepared,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr I D Chaurasia.The number of beds in government and private hospitals of the city has now increased to 2674. However, the facility is dependent on a number of factors which includes ICU, HDU and ventilator attached units.Newly added 60-bed facility in JP hospital has been connected to the oxygen supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hosps-running-out-of-beds-with-spurt-in-covid-cases/articleshow/77986823.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Oxygen scarcity hits Hubballi hosps||Hubballi: A shortage of medical liquefied oxygen is hampering the fight against Covid-19 in Hubballi, especially since many cases are severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients. The situation is so acute that hospitals say they will have to turn away patients with a saturation level below 90 from Tuesday. Oxygen plants are running to capacity, but they simply cannot keep up with demand. A doctor at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital told TOI he had placed an order last Friday, but the hospital is yet to receive a single cylinder. “It is impossible to admit new patients with breathing problem as current stock of oxygen is sufficient to treat only patients who have already been admitted,” the doctor said. Dr Jagdish Tubachi of Hubli Super Speciality Hospital said: “We have been administering oxygen with utmost care. It is a vital component as the virus affects the lungs and most patients need the gas. As of now we have stock, but taking in new patients will be a problem.” Another doctor said supply has been erratic for two weeks now and Hubballi could “become another Italy” if the situation does not improve. Prakash H, sales executive, Southern Gas Hubballi, said: “We are not getting sufficient quantity of the gas. We procure it from Kolhapur in Maharashtra, which has been badly affected by the pandemic. Most of it is being used in Kolhapur district and surrounding areas.” He said the demand for oxygen has gone up from 800 cubic metres to more than 3,000 now. “We have a storage capacity of 13kl but we get just 5kl, that too after two or three days of placing an order. We stopped supply to industries. Whatever we get is being sent to hospitals.” Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said, “A tanker has left Kolhapur. We are working to ensure a steady supply. We assure hospitals that they will not face such challenges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/oxygen-scarcity-hits-hubballi-hosps/articleshow/77985332.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Multi-level car parking to be ready in Oct: Min||Madurai: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Monday said that the multi-level car parking, which is under construction near the Meenakshi Amman temple, will be completed and put for public use by next month. He conducted an inspection at the construction site on Monday and instructed officials to ensure that the project is completed on time. He said that 110 four-wheelers and 1,401 two-wheelers can be parked in the facility constructed at Rs 40.19 crore under the Smart City mission. Apart from parking facility, there will be an information centre for visitors and a store to sell memorabilia. The minister said that the heritage sites’ development project taken up at Rs 38 crore will be completed by December. “All the projects constructed under the Smart City mission are taking shape at a rapid pace. They will be completed one by one and put to public use. The reconstruction of the Periyar bus terminal will be completed by March 2021,” Raju said. The major water project taken up at Rs 1,020 crore to bring drinking water from Mullaperiyar dam through pipes is also taking shape. The project will meet the drinking water demand of the city for the next 60 years, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/multi-level-car-parking-to-be-ready-in-oct-min/articleshow/77986832.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||No salary for Delhi corporation staff yet, parties spar||NEW DELHI: The issue of non-payment of salaries to civic staff snowballed into a political tussle on Monday as AAP and BJP hit the street over it. Although the protesting civic staff refused to align with any party, AAP staged a protest near Civic Centre in their support while BJP marched from Civic Centre to Delhi Secretariat blaming Delhi government for not releasing funds due to the municipal corporations. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak asked BJP, which runs the three corporations, to release the salaries within the next one week or resign and make way for AAP. “BJP should stop misleading people. AAP will run the civic bodies better with the existing budget,” Pathak said, alleging corruption by BJP functionaries. Claiming that the corporations haven’t paid employees for about six months, Pathak said, “All employees are staging a protest outside Civic Centre, the condition of their families is serious.” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said it was sad to see civic employees who had risked their lives while fighting the Covid pandemic to protest for their salary. East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Gupta claimed, has got only Rs 157 crore out of Rs 1,677 crore, the south corporation Rs 232 crore out of Rs 893 crore, and the north Rs 612 crore out of Rs 1,568 crore from Delhi government. “Due to political malice, Delhi government is trying to cripple the municipal corporations. The corporations have no option but to go before Delhi High Court for prompt payment of the outstanding funds as per the recommendations of the third and fourth finance commissions and for the current financial year,” he said, adding the protest would continue if Delhi government didn’t release the funds soon. The protesting AAP functionaries and workers were detained soon, prompting the party to accuse the Centre of trying to suppress the voice of common people. Earlier, AAP claimed it was not allowed by Delhi Police to march from Rajghat to Civic Centre though the BJP protest was allowed. MLA Atishi said while AAP held a peaceful protest, BJP sent its police and beat up party supporters. “How will the civic employees run their houses if they do not get salary? If BJP cannot pay, they must resign from the civic bodies. AAP will run the civic bodies in the same budget, pay the salaries of employees and also make Delhi cleaner,” she said. Raghav Chadha, another AAP legislator, also said BJP had been running the municipal corporations for decades and they should either run them properly without corruption, give salary to all employees or leave the civic bodies. Later, AAP accused the corporations of diverting civic funds meant for salaries. Pathak said the civic bodies had spent Rs 11,000 crore last year, which was meant for salaries. “Where did that money go and who has it?” Pathak asked. He also accused BJP of sending police to stop AAP’s protest before “beating protesters”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-salary-for-corpn-staff-yet-parties-spar/articleshow/77986840.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Alarm system to alert doctors if patient’s health deteriorates||NAGPUR: To deal with the increasing number of serious and critical Covid-19 patients and restricted number of doctors and health care providers available in Covid hospitals, an innovative concept of remote patient monitoring system with alarm will soon be used in three districts of Vidarbha. Covid hospitals in Nagpur, Amravati and Akola will get these systems. The systems have been developed by different start-ups based in India, some of them with collaboration of foreign companies. As far as Nagpur is concerned, the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital (IGGMCH) is already using 25 such devices as part of a pilot project. The district administration has allotted funds for this project. Medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Ravi Chauhan informed that the first 25 devices are being used to monitor critical patients and their results were fine. “The device is kept under the patient’s bed, while its probe is fixed on one of the fingers of the patient. The device keeps real-time record of blood oxygen level, pulse rate, sleep apnoea, and respiratory rate. In case any of these vital parameters enter in serious stage, the device raises an alarm to alert doctors. Immediate medical help can save critical patients,” said Dr Chavan. IGGMCH will get 150 more such systems while GMCH will get 100. The district collector has approved Rs83 lakh for this project. Installation of this system has multiple benefits. It allows health workers to remotely monitor patients on their smartphone, laptop or central monitors. It reduces the frequency of contact with Covid-19 patients. Due to this, doctors remain protected. Both GMCs in Nagpur are already facing shortage of doctors and many of them are testing positive for Covid-19, which is making this shortage even serious. For example, Mayo hospital needs 288 doctors but only 70 are working here at present. Ultimately, as doctors will get remote alerts of vital parameters, their visits in wards will reduce, which will also reduce the requirement for PPEs. In next version, this device will also monitor blood pressure of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alarm-system-to-alert-doctors-if-patients-health-deteriorates/articleshow/77985727.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||CRPF jawan who died in Leh cremated at his native village||Ambala: CRPF constable Kulwinder Singh (41), who died of cardiac arrest while on-duty in Leh on September 5, was cremated with state honours at his native village Andheri in Naraingarh block of Ambala district on Monday. His son Naman (2), performed the last rites as CRPF and Haryana Police personnel gave a guard of honour. Kulwinder is survived by his father Balbir Singh, mother Jaswanti Devi, wife Pooja and four children — three daughters and a son. He had joined CRPF in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/crpf-jawan-who-died-in-leh-cremated-at-his-native-village/articleshow/77986833.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||NMC chief, GMCH deans, collector ‘haazir ho’, says HC||NAGPUR: With Covid cases and deaths touching new records everyday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday directed all the authorities concerned fighting the pandemic to remain present on Thursday and inform on steps taken to contain deadly virus. They included Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner, collector, AIIMS superintendent along with deans of both Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCH and IGGMCH). While hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI report of August 24 exposing shortage of beds in city hospitals, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala clarified that they would hear authorities personally in physical hearing. Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae in the case. Earlier, an affidavit by NMC additional medical officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar informed that 33 private hospitals are converted into dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) having capacity of 1,540 beds, besides GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. Lata Mangeshkar Medical College and Shalinitai Meghe Medical College, having combined strength of 540 beds, have been exclusively catering to Covid patients. The civic body has also started DCHC for moderately affected patients at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya in Gandhi Nagar from August 15. It has capacity of 120 beds, but currently 30 patients are admitted there. On September 4, it had directed 31 more hospitals having 1,707 beds to start treating Covid patients. All of them were told to charge fees as per rates fixed and approved by the government. However, some of them showed unwillingness to treat such patients. Dr Bahirwar said, one of the reasons for shortage of beds in all hospitals is manpower shortage. “Though private one started admitting such patients, they’re not admitting them to full capacity due to lack of medically skilled staff. Unless manpower is increased, the beds there can’t be utilized to full capacity. Another reason is city hospitals are not only catering to local patients, but also from entire Vidarbha region and neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh,” he said Nagpur Nagrik Hosp not usable for Covid patients On HC’s query for exploring Nagpur Nagrik Sahakari Rugnalaya (NNSR) to be used as Covid hospital, the NMC replied that it wouldn’t recommend it, as it would require huge amount to renovate it and bringing skilled manpower would be difficult. The civic body had sought a report from Dr RJ Waghmare to determine NNSR’s usability. “It came to fore that the building is dilapidated and needs structural audit. It also lacked infrastructure, staff and instruments, as it’s closed down since the last five years. In future it can be made available after renovation, instruments and staff availability. NMC needs to spend a huge amount for restarting it, but itself is facing manpower shortage and can’t depute its employees,” Dr Bahirwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-chief-collector-gmch-deans-haazir-ho-says-hc/articleshow/77985739.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer body reports damage to cotton due to pest attack||Rohtak: The office-bearers of Kisan Sabha on Monday visited the cotton fields in different parts of Haryana to assess the damage to crop due to whitefly attack. Kisan Sabha treasurer Krishna Prasad accompanied by joint secretary Vijoo Krishnan went to the fields at Gudhan village and adjoining cotton-growing areas before moving to Bhiwani, Hisar and other districts. Sumit Kumar, Kisan Sabha’s Haryana acting general secretary, said there was massive loss to the crop due to the pest attack in all cotton-growing districts of the state. Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh said the whitefly infestation has ruined the crop at a time when farmers had already made a huge investment in the form of seed, fertilizers, pesticides, labour component etc and the crop was expected to be matured very soon. He expressed deep anguish that the state government has not bothered even to acknowledge the damage to the main Kharif crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-body-reports-damage-to-cotton-due-to-pest-attack/articleshow/77986838.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||VROs to be history, Telangana cabinet okays bills on revenue reforms||HYDERABAD: As expected, Telangana will henceforth not have the village revenue officers (VROs) serving in rural areas. The state cabinet under the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday gave the green signal for abolition of the VRO postings in the revenue department. VROs have been under the weather in the last few months and the state government has been dropping enough hints to do away with them. The CM has been vocal against the alleged corrupt practices of VROs after a series of complaints against them and wanted to bring in radical reforms in the revenue department. With the cabinet okaying the ‘Telangana Abolition of Posts of VROs’ Bill 2020,’ it will now be introduced in the assembly in next two days, sources said. Apart from this Bill, 10 other Bills, including one according administrative sanction for construction of a new secretariat, were also cleared by the cabinet. According to the CMO, the cabinet also okayed the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Bill 2020. With several cases being reported of agriculture land tracts being converted for non-agriculture purposes such as residential and industrial, an amendment has been proposed to Panchayat Raj Act 2018. The land used for non-agricultural purposes is liable for payment of non-agriculture land assessment (NALA) tax and landowners have to pay NALA tax for converting agricultural land into non–agriculture land. Similarly, amendments have been made in Telangana Municipalities Act 2019 and Telangana GST Act 2017. As the government wants to introduce Bills in place of ordinances, the Telangana State Private Universities Act Amendments Ordinance 2020 (for approving five private universities), the Telangana Disaster and Public Health Emergency Ordinance 2020 (for paying 50% salaries to government employees) and the Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill 2020 have also been cleared by the cabinet. The new building approval system (TS-bPASS) and enhancement of retirement age of professors in Ayush medical colleges were approved at Monday’s meeting. Revised estimations for construction of integrated office complexes and amendments to the Telangana Court Fees and Suits Valuation Act 1956 and the Telangana Civil Courts Act 1972 also got consent from the cabinet. The approved Bills and amended Acts will be placed before the assembly for clearance, officials said. 17 more castes set to get BC tag in stateThe state cabinet on Monday approved inclusion of 17 most backward classes in the BCs’ list. Most of the 17 castes belong to the nomadic tribes (castes) who have never availed reservation in the past. The decision for inclusion has been taken after a survey was done earlier and recommended by the BC Commission. Officials said of the 17 castes, 13 would be incorporated in group ‘A’ and the rest four would be included in group ‘D’. With this, these castes will be eligible for quota in employment and education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vros-to-be-history-t-cabinet-okays-bills-on-revenue-reforms/articleshow/77987987.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Get infected, get cured & be free attitude on the rise||NAGPUR: Sandeep Patle works as an accountant in a wholesale grocery dealer’s outlet in Itwari. Every day, he comes into contact with many people like labourers, dealers, consumers and fellow workers. Sandeep had developed Covid symptoms several times in the last two months during ‘Mission Begin Again’ and tested negative on two occasions. “Every time I cough or sneeze, people start doubting if its Covid-19. I wish I test positive once and end this game once and for all. I’m young and fit. I’m sure I will develop immunity and recover. I was able to concentrate on work only after a 14-day isolation followed by recovery,” Sandeep told TOI. There are many like Sandeep who work in crowded places like wholesale grain and vegetable markets, hospitals, shops, as delivery executives and in restaurant kitchens. Doctors have observed that there’s a significant rise in the number of people who have left with no fear about the Covid-19 infection anymore. Rather, these people don’t bother to get infected with the novel coronavirus and get cured either through home isolation or limited period of hospitalization. ‘Once cured, we are immune and protected from the virus’, is the general attitude of these people. “We can say that 25% have this attitude, especially the working class who will die of starvation if the economy stops functioning. The stress of living without earning has taken over the fear of Covid-19. But people like us who work in the medical profession who have seen the effect and outcomes of Covid-19 are still scared about it,” said cardiologist Dr Amar Amale. “There are many who have mild symptoms and ask for medicines on phone. I tell them to go for a test but such people ignore my advice. Once recovered, they are ready to conduct antibody tests just to use it as so called ‘risk-free certificate’,” said physician Dr Anagha Pandit. According to doctors, this attitude may work for some young and healthy people, but may put other vulnerable patients at risk. “Asymptomatic patients are roaming around and putting the vulnerable at risk,” said pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat. In fact, many aspects and long-term manifestations of Covid-19 are still unknown. So, this unnecessary bravery may be dangerous. “Keeping one protected from the disease is the best way to stay safe. Wash your hands, wear masks and follow rules religiously,” added Dr Arbat. According to WHO, at this point in time, there is not enough evidence about the effectiveness of antibody-mediated immunity to guarantee the accuracy of an “immunity passport” or “risk-free certificate.” People who assume that they are immune to a second infection because they have received a positive test result may ignore public health advice. “The use of such certificates may therefore increase the risks of continued transmission,” reads a scientific brief on this topic on WHO’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/get-infected-get-cured-be-free-attitude-on-the-rise/articleshow/77985732.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 8, 2020||Jaipur||Notices to owners of 13 dilapidated houses in Sonar Fort||Jaisalmer: After heavy rain lashed Jaisalmer for the past few days, more than 4,000 residents of Sonar Fort are worried a lot due to collapse of two to three houses.Three days ago, there was six inches of rain, and there is information that many dilapidated houses in the fort have developed cracks and two to three houses have collapsed. The municipal council in last two three days surveyed the fort and served notice to 13 owners whose houses are lying closed and notice has also been pasted outside the house. The residents of the fort are scared as there are around 49 houses and godowns which are lying closed and are in dilapidated condition.The house owners are either outside the state or there are many shareholders of the house and it is not decided who will repair the house and these houses are developing cracks inside and sometimes some part of the house collapses. The rainwater gets collected in these houses and causes damage to the foundation of the house as the water does not come out. The houses nearby these houses are suffering the damages and their walls are getting hollow.District collector Ashish Modi confirming this said that many houses in the fort are in dilapidated condition and they become a danger to the nearby houses during the heavy rains. There is always a possibility of problem because of these dilapidated houses and could prove dangerous to people. When it rained heavily three four days ago, a dedicated team was deployed at the fort that cordoned-off these dilapidated houses. The need of the hour is to make a list of such houses and take the right step and in a time bound manner these should be restored or should be demolished before any casualty takes place, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-to-owners-of-13-dilapidated-houses-in-sonar-fort/articleshow/77979211.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Why our battle against Covid may have just begun||CHENNAI: On Sunday, when Chennai residents rushed outdoors, almost celebrating the end of the lockdown, experts who have been part of the battle against Covid-19 shuddered. “Unbelievable! Dear citizens of @chennaicorp - please help the government by wearing masks and staying home as much as possible! If #COVID19 spreads fast - it strains the health systems, health care workers and all frontline workers who are working day and night to serve you!” tweeted Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director of National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, in response to a TOI photo showing people playing at a ground in T Nagar. That the threat level would go up once businesses resumed was evident when Flower Bazaar assistant commissioner of police Balakrishna Prabhu tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time on Monday. He had got infected in July. Five other policemen in the city have tested positive for a second time. Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has instructed the force to follow the golden rules of the pandemic -- wear a face mask and maintain social distancing when at work, always. A new ordinance empowers police personnel to enforce these among the common public. In the past three days, the Chennai police have registered 930 cases against people for not wearing face masks. But it’s anybody’s guess that violations have been in thousands on Sunday. An inspector TOI spoke to said it seemed that “people were not scared of the virus”. “Most of them pulled their masks below their chin. We keep giving instructions through public addressing systems at market places where people gather, but no one pays attention.” The corporation is creating awareness on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Besides, it will continue to test more people with a focus on workplaces, construction sites, old-age homes and market areas. “There are no shortcuts. Testing, surveillance, awareness and enforcement will continue. This saved the city before and we are hopeful that it will do so in the coming days. We plan to set up more swab collection centres across the city and aim to have at least one in every ward,” said a senior corporation official. Epidemiologists fear that the lifting of restrictions could lead to a resurgence of infection by mid-September or October. While cities that have seen a peak may not be affected much, towns are at a risk, said epidemiologist T Jacob John. John said the middle class could be at a higher risk of getting infected. “So far, most of the people infected were from the poor sections of the society. Now, the middle class that had kept itself indoors during the lockdown is at higher risk of getting infected. This population will seek better healthcare facilities putting pressure on the private sector for more beds,” he said. Jacob said people need to understand that wearing a mask would not only protect them but also the most vulnerable in the society. “One should not venture out for another one-and-a-half months. The government is enforcing rules, but people need to do their part.” Are we doing that at all?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-our-battle-against-covid-may-have-just-begun/articleshow/77986843.cms||Komal Gautham
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal records 1 Covid death, 245 cases; legislator tests +ve after session||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported one Covid-19 death and 245 positive cases, including that of BJP MLA Rita Dhiman, on Monday, while 183 patients recovered. The fatality was reported from Chamba district. Dhiman’s test came positive after she attended the first day of the monsoon session of assembly. The number of cases reported so far in the state has now reached 7,660, of which 2,234 are active, 5,359 have recovered, 54 have died, while 11 have migrated out of state. In the state, 2,29,966 persons had been tested, of which 2,21,885 had been tested negative while results of 421 samples were awaited. Most fresh cases were reported from Solan district (66), followed by Mandi (55), Kangra (51), Una (27), Shimla (17), Lahaul-Spiti (11), Bilaspur (7), Sirmaur (6) and Chamba (5). Patients who have recovered include 103 from Sirmaur district, 43 from Kangra, 32 from Una, three from Chamba and two from Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-records-1-covid-death-245-cases-legislator-tests-ve-after-session/articleshow/77986882.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Civic employees refuse to share any political platform||NEW DELHI: While both BJP and AAP tried to become part of civic employees’ ongoing protest over non-payment of salaries for up to four months on Monday, the protesting unions refused to join any political platform or even share the stage with them. The parties asked the employees to take part in a march from Civic Centre to Delhi Secretariat, but the unions maintained their protest was apolitical and only aimed at getting their salaries regularly, an issue that has remained unresolved for long. A P Khan, convener of Confederation of Municipal Employee Unions, said staffers and pensioners needed money to run their households and that’s why they had been forced to protest. “We were approached by councillors and senior leaders of all parties. While we respect them all, we only want a solution and payment of regular salary,” he emphasised. On Monday, a large number of employees took part in the daily two-hour sit-in that has been going on since September 2. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has not paid salaries for four months, the south for a month and the east corporation for two months, while pensioners haven’t been paid for up to five months. The employees said they would continue to abstain till the issue gets resolved. Vibha Sharma, senior vice-president of Municipal Corporation Teachers’ Association, said, “It is our right to get paid regularly. Without pay, especially during this pandemic, survival is really difficult. Every party expects us to raise voice against others but we won’t support anyone; otherwise our voice and issue will get lost.” The civic deliberative wings have promised a month’s salary but the employees are not ready to give up this time and said they wanted a permanent solution. Mukesh Sharma of MCD Ministerial Staff Association said employees had informed senior officials about their decision to abstain from work. “Leaders from both parties assured to get our salaries released. If it gets resolved, we will immediately get back to work. We have also asked for payment of arrears due for a long time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-employees-refuse-to-share-any-political-platform/articleshow/77986892.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 8, 2020||Madurai||SSI dies of Covid-19 in Madurai||Madurai: Special sub-inspector of police, P Malarsamy, attached with Madurai city police unit died of Covid-19 infection on Monday morning. The 56-year-old was tested positive on August 25 and was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, his health condition worsened and was declared dead at 3.30 am on Monday. Malarsamy, a native of Periya Semmettupatti near Usilampatti joined the Tamil Nadu police department in 1988 as a constable. Although he was attached with traffic police unit of Thiruparankundram police station, he was posted at Meenakshi Amman temple duty. He was survived by his wife Vasanthi, 52, and sons Arun Kumar, 34, and Vignesh Kumar, 29. He is the second police personne; to have died of Covid-19 from Madurai city unit. “Each death among the cops sends us a message to be more careful while moving along with colleagues and dealing with the public and accused. There is no second thought in following the precautionary measures more carefully,” said an SSI from the same batch. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ssi-dies-of-covid-19-in-madurai/articleshow/77986873.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police to tighten vigil in crowded places||Trichy: The Trichy city police have identified crowded locations to intensify the vigil and impose fine on those violating Covid-19 safety norms after many were seen flouting them on the first Sunday after complete lockdown was lifted. “We have identified certain locations in all the police station limits in the city. Our police force will be patrolling and creating awareness through public address system. The violation including not maintaining social distancing, not wearing face mask and others will attract cases against the traders and also the public,” commissioner of police, Trichy, J Loganathan told TOI. On Sunday, social distancing at meat shops went for a toss while many vendors were not wearing masks and posed grave danger. Police booked 67 cases in the city alone on Sunday for several violations. Areas including Karumandapam, Railway Junction, Madurai Main Road, Edamalaipatti Pudhur, Subramaniapuram, KK Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Periyar Arch, Cauvery bridge, Woraiyur areas, Salai Road, Bharathi Nagar in Thillai Nagar and Puthur fish market saw major defaulters. The violation of social distancing in Puthur fish market drew the ire of the officials including the corporation and the police on Sunday. A team went there and booked eight fish vendors for throwing the safety norms to the wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-police-to-tighten-vigil-in-crowded-places/articleshow/77987624.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Masks on, helmets vanish as pandemic fear grows||NAGPUR: While Covid-19 fear has made most motorists start wearing mask, another vital safety gear — helmet — remains the least priority. This is evident from the data of Nagpur city traffic police, which, in August alone, penalized 646 motorists for not wearing mask, while 14,000 two-wheeler riders were caught without helmet. Traffic activists stressed that the administration needs to be strict with people who are wearing only mask and not helmet. Traffic police started penalizing motorists for not wearing mask since July 21. Till September 1, the police have caught around 1,146 motorists without mask and collected Rs5.7 lakh fine from them. In July and August, the traffic police fined 14,806 and 13,988 two-wheeler riders without helmet and collected Rs20.1 lakh and Rs13.5 lakh fine, respectively. TOI spoke to a few two-wheeler riders at some of the city’s busiest squares including Variety Square and Agrasen Square and Indora Chowk. TOI also spotted that most motorists were wearing mask in North and Central Nagpur as they considered it the best way of fighting coronavirus. However, many two-wheeler riders ignored the helmet, which is also a vital safety gear. When asked why they ignored the helmet, motorists presented lame excuses. Wearing both mask and helmet is very suffocating, they said. “As I travel for work from Shanti Nagar to Hingna daily, it is just not possible to wear both,” said Mahesh Thakur, a resident of Shanti Nagar. About the importance of helmet, he said, “I know it is a safety measure, but wearing both is not possible when one has to drive such long distances.” Even the traffic police and NMC’s nuisance detection squad seemed keen on penalizing motorists not wearing mask than two-wheeler riders without helmet. “During Covid times, wearing helmet has taken a backseat, while riders are giving preference to using mask only,” said Shailendra Shukla, a resident of Nara. “As the main focus is on mask because of the Covid situation, most people wear only the faceshield and not the helmet,” admitted a traffic cop deployed on Central Avenue. However, there are people like Sudhir Pohane who strictly wears both helmet and mask ever since the corona scare began. “Wearing both — helmet and mask — is for our own safety. Ignoring any one of them can cost our life. I am doing it for my own safety. Whether the police impose fine or not, I ride only after wearing both helmet and mask,” said Pohane, an insurance company professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/masks-on-helmets-vanish-as-pandemic-fear-grows/articleshow/77985841.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Low footfall on Day 1 of Namma Metro service resumption||Bengaluru: Low passenger footfall marked the resumption of Namma Metro services on the Purple Line (Byappanahalli to Mysuru Road) on Monday. Trains chugged again after a gap of 169 days following the Covid-19 induced lockdown, but most coaches were empty. The first trains from Byappanahalli and Mysuru Road departed simultaneously at 8am. Thereafter, trains operated at a frequency of five minutes. BMRCL officials said a total 3,770 passengers travelled in 91 round trips between 8am-11am and 4.30pm-7.30pm. Of this 1,975 passengers travelled during morning hours. However, a six-car train alone can carry up to 2,002 passengers. BMRCL earned passenger revenue of Rs 1.2 lakh. With most office-goers working from home – the Purple Line is in the IT corridor – and educational institutions shut, major stations including Byappanahalli, MG Road, Kempegowda Interchange and Mysuru Road saw thin crowds. While fear of catching the virus has been a turn off, another reason for the poor patronage was allowing only smartcard users and online recharge. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited decided not to issue tokens for passengers and only those with Metro cards are allowed. State health minister B Sriramulu travelled in the Metro between Vidhana Soudha and Majestic and he urged passengers not to be scared to travel by Metro, while insisting, "All passengers should follow the rules to ensure safety.” He interacted with passengers and also evaluated the safety preparedness. Donning face shields, gloves, masks and PPE, security personnel at stations were tasked with the additional job of making announcements in Kannada encouraging passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Face masks are mandatory to enter stations. Only a limited number of entry/exit gates were kept open. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited has installed hands-free thermal scanners at several stations. There was no frisking, but baggage was screened. Smartcards could be flashed near the gate reader from a distance of about 3cm. Reflective tape was stuck on the floor and inside trains to mark social distancing. Only alternate seats on trains were occupied. BMRCL plans to limit the number of passengers to 400 per train, but most trains on Monday ran largely empty. Meanwhile, operations on the Green Line will resume on Wednesday. BMRCL is currently running train services between 8am-11am and 4.30pm-7.30pm. However, trains will function from 7am to 9pm on both lines from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/low-footfall-on-day-1-of-namma-metro-service-resumption/articleshow/77985037.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Villages account for nearly 25% of Karnataka’s Covid cases||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s hinterland now accounts for a quarter of the state’s Covid-19 burden, say officials. “There are approximately 1 lakh coronavirus cases in rural areas of the state,” said Shalini Rajneesh, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing and additional chief secretary. However, no districtwise break-up is available. The number stood at nearly 1 lakh as on September 4, when the state’s cumulative cases were around 4 lakh. Though the state bulletin doesn’t provide urban and rural break-up of the caseload, experts see a sharp increase in numbers in rural areas, thanks to constant movement of people. Instances of villagers declining to undergo tests and not following isolation protocols only make pandemic management more difficult. “Many people have returned to their villages in Karnataka from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, other northern states and Bengaluru. This was bound to happen. However, the medical infrastructure in rural areas is not on par with facilities in urban centres, which is a concern,” said Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, Covid-19 expert committee. Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, and an expert member on the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee, however, feels the surge in rural areas won’t be similar to that in cities. “Challenges in rural areas pertain to testing, ensuring treatment and saving lives of elderly people who develop respiratory distress. Now, oxygen supply is being made available in taluk hospitals as well. But there’s a shortage of trained personnel and specialists, especially pulmonologists and anesthetists,” he pointed out. Congregation spots in rural areas are not air-conditioned like in urban areas, Babu said, adding the existence of a network of Asha workers (one for 1000 people) will also benefit villages. Doctors working in rural areas have several anecdotes to share about contact-tracing hurdles. According to them, many villagers lie because of home isolation norms and don’t want their schedule to be changed even after testing positive. “A 78-year-old man who visited a taluk hospital near Belagavi lied saying he had no children. He had fever and was diabetic, and his wife had also tested positive. We tracked down their family members through local health workers. It turned out that the couple lived in a joint family with four sons, and a total of 12 members tested positive,” said a medical officer from Belagavi district. Typically, a person who tests negative has to isolate himself/herself for at least seven days to ensure that in case s/he develops symptoms, the virus doesn’t spread. “It’s challenging to convince anyone testing negative to stay in home isolation for seven days. They move from one village to another. We’ve seen cases where such people have tested positive later. They could have passed on the infection to others too,” said a doctor from Sagar in Shivamogga district. In a majority of districts, village panchayats are vigilant about cases in their jurisdiction and support the health deprtment with surveillance. Lack of awareness a concernJawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said lack of awareness is a major concern in rural areas. “We have to ramp up efforts to educate people on measures to take to limit the spread,” he said, adding that district-level expert committees are also looking into these aspects. Setting up of gram panchayat-level taskforces across the state has helped contain the spread in villages, according to LK Atheeq, principal secretary, rural development and panchayat raj department. “There is door-to-door surveillance in all 6,018 GPs to identify people with comorbidities. Helpdesks have been set up in all panchayats. Monitoring is better in villages but contact tracing and testing are tough because of the stigma attached,” said Atheeq. However, Atheeq did not accept the 1 lakh infections figure in rural areas and said it needs to be checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/villages-account-for-nearly-25-of-karnatakas-covid-cases/articleshow/77985361.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Kallikudi market to open from tomorrow||Trichy: A portion of the Kallikudi integrated vegetable allotted for the farmer producers organisation (FPO) will open to the public on Wednesday. The agricultural business and agriculture marketing department here has found takers to occupy 87% of the shops in the complex and have encouraged interested farmers to occupy the facility. Of the 830 shops, 726 have been occupied. The district administration had received requests from 61 FPOs to occupy shops in Kallikudi market for selling vegetable, fruits and value-added products. After scrutiny, each of the FPOs were allotted two shops. This apart, 136 wholesale and retail vegetable traders including from Gandhi market were identified in a tender floated recently, and were allotted 408 shops. In 2018, 216 shops were allotted to the traders who were paying monthly rents till July. “Wholesale of vegetables should kickstart along with FPOs, only then the patronage from the public will improve. The district administration should complete the maintenance work before opening the market,” former agriculture minister Ku Pa Krishnan said. Since the Madras high court has told the district administration to shift the congested Gandhi market to Kallikudi on the outskirts, officials are under compulsion to open the market before the next hearing on September 14. Taking note of the previous attempts to open the market that failed to sustain because of poor patronage, officials said they would spread the news on its opening through the public address system. “We are also in talks with Gandhi market traders to occupy the Kallikudi market alongside FPOs on Wednesday. Bus connectivity will be ensured from Chathiram and Central bus stands to make the market operational,” a senior official with agriculture business department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kallikudi-market-to-open-from-tomorrow/articleshow/77987625.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Demand for antibody tests goes up in Chennai||CHENNAI: City hospitals are reporting a high demand for antibody tests from people eager to find out if they have been infected with Covid-19 or have high chances of contracting it. Doctors say they keep getting repeated requests for these blood-based tests, but they do not encourage them as they do not guarantee protection from future infection. “An antibody test should not be done unless it is ordered by a when the symptoms warrant,” said Dr Ram Gopal Krishnan, Consultant Apollo Hospitals. It’s a diagnostic tool and not a public health measure and studies have shown the antibodies level drop below detectable after 3-4 months, he said. “This means even if you have the antibodies now, it doesn’t mean you will be protected 3-4 months later. There are documented cases of re-infection. From a practical standpoint, you might have antibodies today, but you will be vulnerable again,” he said. Dr Nataraj Palaniappan, paediatric intensivist at Rainbow Children’s Hospital said he had been receiving requests from parents keen on getting their children tested for antibodies. “Unless children are undergoing surgical treatment, or have multisystem inflammatory syndrome, we do not recommend it. For acute infection we ask them to take RT PCR,” he said. Doctors say many such requests come from working professionals whose employers demand that the results be made available before they resume work. While the state stipulates that antibody tests cannot be done without a prescription, experts say several private labs continue to promote them, assuring people that they can become immune to the virus if they have the antibodies and charging between ₹800 and ₹1,500 per test. A WHO report says having antibodies to Covid-19 does not mean the person has an ‘immunity passport’ or ‘risk-free certificate’. “The use of such certificates may therefore increase the risks of continued transmission.” “We do these tests mainly for nurses, healthcare professionals, and frontline workers only when there are symptoms. We usually recommend RT PCR tests,” said Dr Vijayalakshmi B, senior consultant (infectious diseases) Kauvery Hospital. The Centre had recently advised all states to make RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests available on demand. Doctors instead asked people to follow preventive guidelines such as social distancing, wearing a mask, and washing hands. “Till such time a vaccine becomes available, there is no shortcut other than taking this preventive measures,” said Dr Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-for-antibody-tests-goes-up/articleshow/77986916.cms||Aditi R
September 8, 2020||Kanpur||Woman accuses retired TSI of rape, probe launched||Kanpur:A woman has accused a retired traffic sub-inspector of raping her. The woman on Monday reached the office of SP Traffic and lodged the complaint against retired traffic sub-inspector. The complainant has alleged that the accused established a physical relationship with her on the pretext of marriage but later refused to marry her. The victim said that she had met the TSI for the first time while she had gone to pursue a case of her uncle at Barra police station in December last year. On the night of December 11, the TSI visited her house and offered her soft drink laced with sedatives. It was when she was knocked out of her senses, the TSI allegedly raped her. She claimed that the TSI thereafter physically exploited her several times. The TSI later promised the woman that he will marry her. But when the TSI refused to marry her, the woman finally approached the DM and SP Traffic. Circle Officer (Traffic) Tripurari Pandey told reporters, “The TSI in question got retired in July this year. We have received a complaint and investigations to corroborate charges levelled by woman against TSI are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-accuses-retired-tsi-of-rape-probe-launched/articleshow/77985815.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Delhi||EDMC hires private contractor for handling waste||NEW DELHI: Facing difficulties in timely collection of municipal solid waste, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has hired a private contractor for door-to-door collection of segregated waste, removal of waste and silt from roadsides, and transportation of processed waste to landfills or waste-to-energy plants. Unlike other municipalities in the city, EDMC had tried to manage the process on its own but repeated lapses have led to a dip in its Swachh Survekshan ranking. This year, it ranked 46 out of the 47 municipalities above 10 lakh population. The problem was especially acute in unauthorised colonies. The project will cost Rs 200 crore and the concessionaire will start ward-wise work from mid-September. The concessionaire had worked in the west zone before the trifurcation of the unified corporation, an official said. “The agency will engage GPS-fitted vehicles for collection and transportation of waste while their movements will be monitored from the command and control centre,” the official said. A third party will monitor and submit a report in addition to departmental supervision, he added. A Safai Nigrani Samiti will also be formed at the ward level under the supervision of the councillor concerned. EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur clarified that the project won’t lead to retrenchment of sanitation workers and aimed only at improving services. After meeting representatives of Delhi Municipal Corporation Safai Karamchari Union who protested on Monday morning, the commissioner said, “Their fear is baseless; the outsourcing is not related to sanitation workers in any way.” Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said the contractor would collect segregated waste from every household and commercial/institutional complex, engage unorganised sectors i.e, wastepickers, and follow solid waste management (SWM) bylaws. Waste will be transported only in covered vehicles. So far the corporation’s tippers were going to an area and making announcements asking residents to dump waste, but weren’t visiting individual houses, Jain said. The concessionaire will also educate people about the SWM rules and cover all 64 wards in three months. “We expect residents’ complaints of community bins becoming eyesores will be resolved as these sites will be cleared and used for processing waste by using machines,” the mayor said. No decision has been taken yet about how to collect waste disposal fees from individuals, said an official. There are penalty provisions for both waste generators and contractors for flouting SWM rules. “We are already working on issuing notices to bulk generators for not processing waste and soon residents will also be penalised for the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-hires-pvt-contractor-for-handling-waste/articleshow/77986921.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite over 1,000 coronavirus cases, all beds vacant in 4 district hospitals in Telangana||HYDERABAD: At a time when the Telangana government is scaling up healthcare facilities to control the spread of novel coronavirus, four hospitals in the districts do not have a single bed occupied in their Covid-19 wards. While most hospitals across the state do not have vacant beds for over 15 days now, the district hospital Utnoor, Adilabad; district hospital Alampur in Jogulamba Gadwal; district hospital in Jayshankar Bhupalpally; and area hospital Domakonda in Kamareddy district, haven’t had a single patient for months. These hospitals have 143 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients but are lying unused. These four districts have seen over 1000 new Covid-19 cases in the last seven days. Senior health department officials who stumbled upon this data during a routine survey said there could be many reasons including poor awareness about Covid-19, especially in deep pockets of Telangana and stigma regarding the disease. “Districts have a problem of manpower. In the current pandemic it has become even more severe as most of our staff are anyway stressed. We will address this issue soon,” said a senior official from the state health department. Healthcare experts say that the district health infrastructure in the state was better when compared to other states but bed utilisation requires not just infrastructure. “The fact that there are zero utilisation in some places while other facilities in same district show utilisation indicate they are not preferred,” said professor Subodh Kandamuthan, director Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) For instance, in Adilabad, Utnoor has no bed utilization, but RIMS medical college has 20 percent utilisation and a private hospital is also showing hospitalisation which means patients may be preferring either the medical college or the private facilities, he said. “Since all these places are either tribal belts or remote areas, there is a need for focused health communication and district-wise manpower to be ready for an increase in the requirement,” Kandamuthan added. While district facilities already have a challenge of manpower, the stigma of Covid-19 has ensured that many healthcare workers remain absent from work, adding to the problem. “We are getting calls from districts for Covid relief work and funerals regularly as we believe the fear and stigma among health care workers is very high in districts. One out of three funeral request are for dropping the deceased to districts not only in Telangana but also in AP, including Kurnool, Nandyal, Kadapa and in Nalgonda,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari from Helping Hand Foundation. Turns out, some hospitals in districts also have minimum bed occupancy and are largely vacant. District hospital Kamaredy, which has 40 Covid-19 beds, has less than five utilised, while District hospital Medak, which has 46 beds, also have less than five occupied at any given point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-over-1000-virus-cases-all-beds-vacant-in-4-dist-hosps-in-t/articleshow/77987989.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 8, 2020||Business||RBI accepts Kamath panel report on relief to 26 sectors||NEW DELHI: Companies in sectors such as retail and wholesale trade, textiles and engineering, which were repaying loans before the Covid crisis, can look forward to easier terms of repayment while NBFCs, power, steel and real estate businesses that were struggling even before the crisis may have to face the pain of recovery action. The RBI said on Monday it has broadly accepted the recommendations of the five-member expert committee headed by K V Kamath. The panel has identified 26 sectors impacted by the crisis and has prescribed six key ratios within which the resolution plan has to be finalised. For sectors not mentioned, the ratios can be decided by the individual bank. These ratios essentially determine how much debt a company can build up in relation to its capital and income. TNN Checklist of 26 sectors has both pros & cons for banksTime is of essence at the present juncture. Considering the large volume and the fact that only standard assets are eligible under the proposed scheme, a segmented approach of bucketing these accounts under mild, moderate and severe stress may ensure a quick turnaround. To complete this task, simplified restructuring for mild and moderate stress may be prescribed. Severe stress cases would require comprehensive restructuring,” the panel said. For instance, all sectors must have a debt service coverage ratio equal to or more than 1. What this means is that the company has to generate operating income to cover its annual debt and interest payments after restructuring. Also, all banks are required to have a current ratio of at least 1. This means that the company’s debt due in a year or less are on a par with their assets. The only exception is aviation, where a ratio of 0.4 has been allowed, because airlines follow the cash and-carry model for revenue purpose, thereby creating almost nil debtors and higher current liabilities in form of advance received from customers. Also, airlines enjoy 6-9 months of credit from vendors. The 26 sectors specified by the RBI include automobiles, power, tourism, cement, chemicals, logistic, mining, real estate, and shipping. The advantage of this checklist is that banks restructure loans of all companies that fulfill the conditions without fear of subsequent action by enforcement authorities if loans go bad. The flip side is that these fixed parameters could reduce the headroom for banks to restructure loans for some sectors using their judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-accepts-kamath-panel-report-on-relief-to-26-sectors/articleshow/77988214.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Civic body to lock, seal commercial establishments flouting safety norms||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has planned to follow a ‘lock and seal’ approach to make commercial establishments follow the Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOP) following incidents of overcrowding on Sundays. With fresh infections steadily declining, erring shops will be penalised a minimum of Rs 5,000, the civic body said. The civic body has planned to focus more on social distancing aspects as city police have also joined them in enforcing the rules. “Covid-19 situation in Trichy city is under control, but we cannot take risks by allowing social distancing violations to jeopardise the safety. Penalisation will continue, shops will be locked and sealed for 14 days if the gravity of the violation was huge,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said. On Sunday, the first day after Sunday lockdown was eased, fish markets and meat stalls were seen overcrowded. As complaints poured in, corporation officials visited the Puthur fish market on Sunday night when there was less crowd. A total of eight shops were fined Rs 5,000 each. Although officials visited the market along with police with an intention to seal the wholesale fish stalls, shopkeepers requested the civic body to stop the penalization drive. As the social distancing boxes have faded, the civic body will be sensitising grocery shops to mark boxes or circles to follow a safe distance. “We repeatedly insist on customers to maintain a distance, but they fail to listen,” a shopkeeper from Chathiram bus stand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-to-lock-seal-commercial-establishments-flouting-safety-norms/articleshow/77987626.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Non-essential shops to open till 9pm in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced some relaxations in the lockdown in urban areas, including opening of non-essential shops on Saturdays and extending their timing from Monday to Saturday till 9pm. Night curfew will be in place in all cities/ towns from 9.30pm to 5am, according to the latest decision. According to the revised decision, which came following suggestions from Congress MLAs, hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9pm, after which home delivery of food will be allowed. The revised guidelines also allow aligning the opening of non-essential shops in Mohali with the rest of Tricity, Chandigarh and Panchkula. The decisions were announced by Amarinder during his second round of virtual meeting with the Punjab Congress MLAs to discuss the Covid situation. He told the meeting that Dr K K Talwar, who heads the state government’s expert group on Covid, had advised relaxing the curbs with due precautions. Responding to the complaints of shopkeepers getting inflated bills even though their shops had remained closed for a long duration, Amarinder directed the electricity department to not charge bills on the average of the previous year, but to send actual bills. Amarinder also announced cash compensation of Rs 1,500 for construction workers, who test positive or whose immediate family has tested positive and they have to be quarantined. He asked the MLAs to take the lead in distribution of free food packets to poor patients, who have tested positive to enable them to have enough ration at least for 7-10 days during home isolation. Amarinder also directed the MLAs and ministers to aggressively counter the negative propaganda being spread by certain anti-social elements and AAP on Covid-19 testing and organ harvesting. He urged them to reach out to people in their constituencies through workers, sarpanches etc, and in fact, rope in the sarpanches to lead by example and persuade people to follow all health protocols strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/non-essential-shops-to-open-till-9pm-in-punjab/articleshow/77986920.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Faridabad||Another spike in Haryana, 2,224 test +ve, 23 succumb||Chandigarh: Haryana reported another big spike of 2,224 new cases of Covid-19 and 23 deaths due to it, pushing the infection count in the state to 78,773 and casualty figure to 829. The latest spike has further brought down the doubling rate to 31 days. The recovery rate also fell to 78.02%, even as 1,560 patients were discharged during the day. The total number of recovered patients in the state is now 61,611. Three fatalities were reported in Kurukshetra, two each in Gurgaon, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Kaithal, and one each in Jind, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Hisar, Panipat, Rohtak and Faridabad. Faridabad district reported a biggest spike of cases (270), followed by Karnal (206), Ambala (188), Jind (176), Gurugram (147), Sonipat (128), Panipat (120), Kurukshetra (115), Rewari (110), Sirsa (106), Yamunanagar (106), Rohtak (79), Hisar (74), Panchkula (68), Kaithal (68), Mahendragarh (62), Fatehabad (54), Jhajjar (52), Bhiwani (52), Palwal (30), Nuh (12) and Charkhi Dadri (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/another-spike-in-haryana-2224-test-ve-23-succumb/articleshow/77995010.cms||Manvir Saini
September 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: ICU beds in Covid hospitals full for last two days||NAGPUR: A doctor-cum-social activist, who has been working for Covid-19 positive patients and cremation of deceased for last six months, failed to get an ICU bed for his mother-in-law in private hospitals across the city on Monday. The city has started to face severe shortage of ICU beds for critical Covid patients over the last two days. The doctor told TOI on the condition of anonymity his mother-in-law was detected with infection in lungs in CAT scan a day ago. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “She needs treatment in ICU. I contacted over five private hospitals and did not get an ICU bed. I had no option but to admit her in a private hospital at Kamptee which does not have ICU bed. At least she is getting oxygen there while I am try for a bed in ICU,” he said. Asked about GMCH and IGGMCH, the doctor said, “I did not consult these two government-run hospitals as I already knew they are facing shortage of beds in ICU.” Family members of a 60-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Vishwakarma Nagar took the patient to GMCH and IGGMCH on Sunday but could not get a bed. They also contacted NGO Together We Can but could not find a bed as the patient requires treatment in ICU. The family members reportedly took the patient back home, purchased an oxygen cylinder and other required equipment on rent, and are taking care of the patient. Parents of a 4-month-old kid from Saoner and a 2.5-year-old child from Washim too waited for beds in GMCH for four hours on Monday and could not get admission. They were referred to IGGMCH, where too they were yet to get a bed till the filing of this report. Citing problems in oxygen supply, GMCH has not been admitting critical Covid-19 patients for last two days. With rise in patients, GMCH requires high pressure in oxygen supply. Pipeline laid from oxygen tank to wards is of 40mm diameter while it requires 28mm diameter pipeline. Work of laying the pipeline has been completed. But it requires shut down of at least 30 minutes to shift system from old pipeline to new. The NMC Control Room said, “Private hospitals and two trust-run hospitals at Hingna are not accepting critical patients and senior citizens citing ‘no vacancy’ in ICU for last two days.” Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar confirmed severe shortage of ICU beds. “Even patients already admitted in private hospitals and on oxygen supply are not able to get bed in ICU,” he said. Denying this, NMC additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma said there are total 450 beds in ICU. “So, there should not be any problem. ICU beds are needed for only critical patients. There would be no problem if patients get admitted and take treatment from onset of symptoms,” he said. Dr Marar added critical care health infrastructure in private as well as government hospitals will not be able to withstand the projected tsunami of cases in coming weeks. “Communities and NGOs under supervision of respective zonal medical officers should arrange for beds with oxygen in community places to provide timely oxygen therapy for needy colony residents. Volunteers are also required for bedside care of needy patients. People should come forward to volunteer and assist health care service providers,” he said. Dr Marar also said, “Time and again, public have been sensitized to the need to be careful and responsible. People should note the frustration and agony of relatives unable to get a hospital bed for their breathless patient today. Still, people are roaming around coolly. The health infrastructure is stretched to maximum and health care workers are struggling.” Dr Marar favours immediate complete lockdown for two weeks at least to stall community spread. “Please note that the safest place now is inside a Covid ward, since one is wearing complete PPE kit while you are totally exposed to infection outside. All should now consider every other person as Covid positive and maintain distance, wear mask and follow hand sanitization guidelines strictly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icu-beds-in-covid-hospitals-full-for-last-two-days/articleshow/77985836.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Another spike in Haryana, 2,224 test +ve, 23 succumb||Chandigarh: Haryana reported another big spike of 2,224 new cases of Covid-19 and 23 deaths due to it, pushing the infection count in the state to 78,773 and casualty figure to 829. The latest spike has further brought down the doubling rate to 31 days. The recovery rate also fell to 78.02%, even as 1,560 patients were discharged during the day. The total number of recovered patients in the state is now 61,611. Three fatalities were reported in Kurukshetra, two each in Gurgaon, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Kaithal, and one each in Jind, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Hisar, Panipat, Rohtak and Faridabad. Faridabad district reported a biggest spike of cases (270), followed by Karnal (206), Ambala (188), Jind (176), Gurugram (147), Sonipat (128), Panipat (120), Kurukshetra (115), Rewari (110), Sirsa (106), Yamunanagar (106), Rohtak (79), Hisar (74), Panchkula (68), Kaithal (68), Mahendragarh (62), Fatehabad (54), Jhajjar (52), Bhiwani (52), Palwal (30), Nuh (12) and Charkhi Dadri (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-spike-in-haryana-2224-test-ve-23-succumb/articleshow/77986917.cms||Manvir Saini
September 8, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Six months on, Tamil Nadu has third highest cases||CHENNAI: In the six months since its first case of Covid-19 was detected, Tamil Nadu has the third highest case tally in the country of 4,69,256 cases and the second highest toll of 7,925 deaths, which includes the 5,776 new cases and 89 deaths on Monday. The silver lining is that active cases number 51,215, lower than in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. On March 7, a Kancheepuram-based man from Muscat tested positive for the viral infection. On September 7, only Maharashtra (9.1 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (50.6 lakh) had seen more cases than TN. The state recorded its first Covid death on March 25, a 54-year-old businessman in Madurai. By Monday, only Maharashtra (26,604) had recorded more deaths. “Pandemic isn’t just math. The science here is different,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Cases increase and decrease at different times in different places. But as cases increased, the state strengthened the healthcare infrastructure. In the last six months, TN has got approvals for 161 RT-PCR testing centres, including 64 labs in the government sector. “We have been aggressively screening and testing all patients across the state,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. TN has done nearly 52 lakh tests – about 30.74 lakh patients and their 22.24 lakh contacts. The state has more than 27,000 oxygen beds and an equal number of non-oxygen beds and more than 5000 ICU beds for Covid patients. “The infrastructure and human resources are equally distributed. Treatment and tests are free across all GHs. This is why we have been able to increase recovery rate to 87% and bring down deaths to less than 2%,” the health secretary said. The state reported more than 6,000 cases a day between July 23 and 29. The daily number is now around 5,800. In early April, when Chennai started showing an increase with the Koyambedu cluster, districts in the south and west had few cases. In July, cases in the south increased. On July 27, Madurai became the first district in the state outside the northern region to cross 10,000 cases. Soon, Virudhunagar, Theni, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari followed. But now, the southern region has less than 1,000 new cases a day. Now, the west is peaking. The region saw its first case from Erode, which within days emerged as the first cluster after a group of Thai nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive. On Monday, the western region reported 1,280 cases and the south and central had 834 and 625 cases. Chennai topped the table with 949 cases and 16 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/six-months-on-tn-has-third-highest-cases/articleshow/77986959.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Six months on, Tamil Nadu has third highest cases||CHENNAI: In the six months since its first case of Covid-19 was detected, Tamil Nadu has the third highest case tally in the country of 4,69,256 cases and the second highest toll of 7,925 deaths, which includes the 5,776 new cases and 89 deaths on Monday. The silver lining is that active cases number 51,215, lower than in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. On March 7, a Kancheepuram-based man from Muscat tested positive for the viral infection. On September 7, only Maharashtra (9.1 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (50.6 lakh) had seen more cases than TN. The state recorded its first Covid death on March 25, a 54-year-old businessman in Madurai. By Monday, only Maharashtra (26,604) had recorded more deaths. “Pandemic isn’t just math. The science here is different,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Cases increase and decrease at different times in different places. But as cases increased, the state strengthened the healthcare infrastructure. In the last six months, TN has got approvals for 161 RT-PCR testing centres, including 64 labs in the government sector. “We have been aggressively screening and testing all patients across the state,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. TN has done nearly 52 lakh tests – about 30.74 lakh patients and their 22.24 lakh contacts. The state has more than 27,000 oxygen beds and an equal number of non-oxygen beds and more than 5000 ICU beds for Covid patients. “The infrastructure and human resources are equally distributed. Treatment and tests are free across all GHs. This is why we have been able to increase recovery rate to 87% and bring down deaths to less than 2%,” the health secretary said. The state reported more than 6,000 cases a day between July 23 and 29. The daily number is now around 5,800. In early April, when Chennai started showing an increase with the Koyambedu cluster, districts in the south and west had few cases. In July, cases in the south increased. On July 27, Madurai became the first district in the state outside the northern region to cross 10,000 cases. Soon, Virudhunagar, Theni, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari followed. But now, the southern region has less than 1,000 new cases a day. Now, the west is peaking. The region saw its first case from Erode, which within days emerged as the first cluster after a group of Thai nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive. On Monday, the western region reported 1,280 cases and the south and central had 834 and 625 cases. Chennai topped the table with 949 cases and 16 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-months-on-tn-has-third-highest-cases/articleshow/77988626.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||CB-CID probe into PM-Kisan scheme scam: Agri min||Trichy: Action will be taken against all those who are involved in irregularities in PM-Kisan scheme, agriculture minister R Doraikannu has said. Speaking to reporters in Thanjavur on Monday, the minister assured that the money credited to fake beneficiaries would be recovered and handed over to eligible farmers. “The chief minister has ordered for a CB-CID inquiry into the alleged irregularities in the PM-Kisan scheme in the state. Appropriate action will be taken against whoever is involved in the scam. Steps will also be taken to recover the money credited to the accounts and handed over to the eligible farmers", the minister said. While replying to a query whether the Sarabanga lift irrigation project launched by the chief minister would affect delta farmers, he said that the project was implemented only after consulting with the farming community in the state. When asked about the union government’s nod to conduct trial on BT Brinjal in various states including Tamil Nadu, the minister said, “Tamil Nadu government will not grant permission for production of BT brinjal. Crop loans will be provided to all the eligible farmers. By the grace of nature, farmers are engaging in cultivation, without any worry,” he added. Meanwhile, BJP functionaries submitted memorandums to collectors across the state demanding a probe and subsequent action against erring officials on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cb-cid-probe-into-pm-kisan-scheme-scam-agri-min/articleshow/77987632.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Trichy||Pvt bus operators want to use full seating capacity||Trichy: While Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) resumed their inter-district bus services, private bus operators have decided to wait for a while. With about 4,600 buses operating across the state, private bus operators have demanded the state government to allow them to utilise the complete seating capacity to meet the operational cost.The Federation of Bus Operators Associations of Tamil Nadu (FOBTN) said that restricting seating occupancy to 60% will lead to tussles between passengers and crew members of buses on rural routes. “Practical difficulties exist in operating the buses with a cap on the occupancy rate. Besides, the load factor is also too low now, we have not decided about resuming our operations,” D R Dharmaraj, state secretary, FOBTN told TOI.Stating that they have paid the road tax for the quarter from April to June 2020 even though they did not operate the fleet, the owners sought the government to consider waiving off the road tax in the ensuing quarters. “We are willing to operate buses without standees. Permitting us to utilise the entire the seating capacity will help us to an extent in operating the buses to meet the peak hour needs at least,” Dharmaraj added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-bus-operators-want-to-use-full-seating-capacity/articleshow/77987628.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: Six months on, Tamil Nadu has third highest cases||CHENNAI: In the six months since its first case of Covid-19 was detected, Tamil Nadu has the third highest case tally in the country of 4,69,256 cases and the second highest toll of 7,925 deaths, which includes the 5,776 new cases and 89 deaths on Monday. The silver lining is that active cases number 51,215, lower than in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. On March 7, a Kancheepuram-based man from Muscat tested positive for the viral infection. On September 7, only Maharashtra (9.1 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (50.6 lakh) had seen more cases than TN. The state recorded its first Covid death on March 25, a 54-year-old businessman in Madurai. By Monday, only Maharashtra (26,604) had recorded more deaths. “Pandemic isn’t just math. The science here is different,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. Cases increase and decrease at different times in different places. But as cases increased, the state strengthened the healthcare infrastructure. In the last six months, TN has got approvals for 161 RT-PCR testing centres, including 64 labs in the government sector. “We have been aggressively screening and testing all patients across the state,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. TN has done nearly 52 lakh tests – about 30.74 lakh patients and their 22.24 lakh contacts. The state has more than 27,000 oxygen beds and an equal number of non-oxygen beds and more than 5000 ICU beds for Covid patients. “The infrastructure and human resources are equally distributed. Treatment and tests are free across all GHs. This is why we have been able to increase recovery rate to 87% and bring down deaths to less than 2%,” the health secretary said. The state reported more than 6,000 cases a day between July 23 and 29. The daily number is now around 5,800. In early April, when Chennai started showing an increase with the Koyambedu cluster, districts in the south and west had few cases. In July, cases in the south increased. On July 27, Madurai became the first district in the state outside the northern region to cross 10,000 cases. Soon, Virudhunagar, Theni, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari followed. But now, the southern region has less than 1,000 new cases a day. Now, the west is peaking. The region saw its first case from Erode, which within days emerged as the first cluster after a group of Thai nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive. On Monday, the western region reported 1,280 cases and the south and central had 834 and 625 cases. Chennai topped the table with 949 cases and 16 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-months-on-tn-has-third-highest-cases/articleshow/77988623.cms||---
September 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Migrants to seamen, illegal arms just a contact away||MARGAO: When matka king Guru Poojari was shot dead by hired gunmen at Khareband, Margao, on November 23, 1999, it was Goa’s earliest epiphany about arms and the underworld. Nine months later, on August 18, 2000, Poojari’s close friend and an eyewitness to his murder, Mohammed Pandiyal, was gunned down. A year after Pandiyal’s killing, Goa police arrested a history-sheeter and claimed to have recovered country-made guns, hi-tech pen pistols, a telescopic gun, revolvers and a rifle. But two decades later, the illegal gun ownership in the state has undergone a metamorphosis—from being a symbol of violent underworld gangs to becoming a status symbol. The illegal gun trade in Goa is one of the worst kept secrets. It operates mainly through middlemen, who place orders to the (illegal) dealers, who in turn supply the arms to them for delivering the consignment to the clients. “The dealers, most of the times, do not even know who their clients are. Everything lies with the middlemen, and they are the ones who bear the loss or face the consequences in case of a botched-up transaction,” a police officer said. Sources said deals can easily be struck with any neighbourhood labour-class migrant hailing from places like northeastern states, Rajasthan, Bihar and West Bengal, who will be ever too willing to procure a gun from their native states—and make a quick buck. “If the middleman is able to sense your urgency, he will sell you the katta he bought for Rs 10,000 for upwards of Rs 1 lakh. But if you have some knowledge of arms, you can bargain hard and get it for Rs 10,000 too,” said a senior police officer. “There could be many among the migrant workforce who may have a criminal background and could have found Goa to be a safe escape route. To defend themselves from their enemies back home, there’s every possibility that they possess a gun, and of course, an unlicenced one. Most of this migrant workforce is engaged in the industrial estates,” the police officer said. The porous India-Nepal border also facilitates smuggling of arms, some of which invariably land in Goa, said Sujit Ali (name changed to protect identity), who once possessed several illegal guns. He should know, for he had flown to Nepal while on the run before he was arrested. Ali also revealed some of the ways by which arms are sourced illegally in Goa, as well as some of the tricks employed in the trade. “Befriend a migrant worker from north or northeastern states and win his trust. If you are on a shoe-string budget, this is the route to try,” Ali said. The second route, Ali said, is sourcing the arms from the grey market. “If a seaman has adequate knowledge of guns, he can easily procure it from the grey market overseas and find resourceful ways to send it across to you. I know of many who have procured guns in this manner,” he said. The third is for those, Ali said, who are affluent. “As it is difficult and time-consuming to get a licence for guns, I will approach my friend who has an arms licence, and ask him to buy me a gun. An arms licence allows one to keep up to three weapons.” Ali said women are also used as a trade-in to buy illegal arms, thereby suggesting that gun trafficking also facilitates flesh trade. Goa’s tryst with shootouts and illegal guns has been there for over two decades now. Looks like, not much has changed since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-to-seamen-illegal-arms-just-a-contact-away/articleshow/77987630.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
