September 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt begins work on Kayamkulam adventure tourism project||ALAPPUZHA: People, who like adventure tourism can now enjoy five different varieties of adventure activities in Kayamkulam. The state government has started the work of Kayamkulam adventure tourism project on Tuesday. People of any age can enjoy sky climbing, jumaring, zip line, free fall, climbing wall at Krishnapuram in Kayakulam after the completion of the project. The tourism department has sanctioned Rs 93.91 lakh this project. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) is the implementing agency of this project. DTPC secretary M Malin said that Kayamkulam is the gate of Alappuzha. “Krishnapuram Palace and Shankar Memorial National Cartoon Museum and Art Gallery are main attractions of Kayamkulam. Once this adventure tourism centre adjacent to NH 66 is opened for the people, Kayamkulam will become a major tourism hub of the state,” he said. The state government decided to start an adventurous tourism centre in Kayamkulam based on the request of Kayamkulam MLA U Prathibha. Prathibha said this project will attract mainly youths, who like adventurous tourism activities and it will also help Kayamkulam to find a special place in the tourism map of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-govt-begins-work-on-kayamkulam-adventure-tourism-project/articleshow/78004684.cms||Sajimon P S
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body starts ‘suspended bread' to feed the needy||ALAPPUZHA: The Arookutty grama panchayat, with the help of Thyckattussery block panchayat, on Sunday started ‘suspended bread' drive to feed the needy. As part of this project, free food coupons will be given on a daily basis to poor people. They can have free meals from the Janakeeya Hotel, that was opened by the panchayat on Sunday near Panackathara Junction. “We have come to know about the suspended bread programme being executed in foreign countries through media. So, we have also decided to execute this project in our panchayat to feed the needy,” said B Vinod, ward member of Arookutty panchayat. “Anybody apart from Arookutty villagers can have free lunch from our hotel under this programme. If a person needs to sponsor free coupons to the poor, he or she can also pay its bills at the hotel. If a person pays Rs 100 in the hotel for free coupons, five poor people can have free lunch. Sponsors can also hand over the coupons of the hotel to needy directly after purchasing from it from the hotel,” said Vinod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-local-body-starts-suspended-bread-to-feed-the-needy/articleshow/78005690.cms||Sajimon P S
September 9, 2020||India||LAC on razor's edge, both India and China register protest||NEW DELHI: After the latest flare-up in the Pangong southern bank area, India Tuesday lodged a strong protest with China, both through diplomatic and military channels, asking Beijing to rein in Chinese troops who had carried out "provocative activities" yet again on Monday night. In its protest, India strongly denied that any Indian soldier fired "warning shots" or crossed the LAC as alleged by China. The government said that while it remained committed to talks for disengagement and de-escalation along the border, it will do all it can to protect India's sovereignty. It also said that the PLA had on Monday, by seeking to intimidate Indian troops by firing in air, violated all agreements and understandings reached in the military and diplomatic meetings. Read AlsoIndia says PLA acted aggressively, shots fired 1st time on LAC in 45 yearsIndia on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops at a forward location called Mukhpari Top. Top govt sources said Indian troops responded by firing a couple of warning shots. “Around 40 PLA soldiers are still there, within shouting distance of ourChina had sought to seize the narrative by claiming first in a PLA statement, issued close to 2 am (Beijing time) that Indian troops fired shots at LAC. While the Indian army strongly denied this in a statement Tuesday morning, and accused the Chinese of opening fire, the Chinese foreign ministry said in response Indian troops had fired first. Spokesperson Zhao Lijian didn't deny that Chinese troops had fired a few rounds in air as stated by the Indian army. Beijing said it had lodged “solemn representations” with India asking it to withdraw troops who, it alleged, had crossed LAC. "I also want to emphasize that in this incident, the Indian side first shot threats (fired shots) at the patrol personnel of the Chinese border guards. This was the first time since 1975 that the peace on the border between the two countries was interrupted by gunfire. China has repeatedly emphasized that the two sides should resolve their differences through peaceful means and through consultation and dialogue. Confrontation is not good for both parties," said spokesperson Zhao Lijian. Read AlsoLAC stand-off: India now holds some solid bargaining chipsAs foreign minister S Jaishankar prepares to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow, the clashes on the LAC on Monday where Indian troops held their positions on the heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso have given India some solid bargaining chips to defuse the standoff. The signal toThe Chinese government mouthpiece Global Times too accused India of "crossing the line" by opening fire. In another development, India Tuesday slammed the Chinese state media for quoting NSA Ajit Doval as saying that Indian army was ready for a long-drawn standoff with China. "We have seen reports in Chinese state media, including in China Daily and Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times), which had attributed some comments to NSA Ajit Doval. These reports are completely false and are not based in facts. We urge the media to refrain from such speculative reporting," said the government in a statement. Read AlsoRussia lays groundwork for India-China meetWhile denying that it could mediate on its own in the India-China border standoff, Russia on Tuesday laid the groundwork for a meeting between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow as it said the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation could provide a platform for building mutual trust. SThe Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson repeated the PLA's claim that India's actions were "serious military provocations and of very bad nature". "We request the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous actions, immediately withdraw cross-line personnel, strictly restrain front-line troops, and strictly investigate and punish personnel who fired shots to ensure that similar incidents do not occur again. Theater troops will resolutely perform their duties and missions and resolutely defend national territorial sovereignty," said the official. Watch LAC row: Both India and China register protest after latest flare-up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-on-razor-edge-both-india-and-china-register-protest/articleshow/78006201.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 9, 2020||Delhi||86-year-old woman raped in south west Delhi's Chhawla area; accused, 37, arrested; 'extremely disturbing,' says DCW||NEW DELHI: An 86-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in a secluded area in south west Delhi's Chhawla area, police said on Tuesday. The accused Sonu (37), a plumber, is a resident of Rewla Khanpur. He has been arrested in connection with the incident, they said. The incident took place on Monday evening when the elderly woman was on her way to a nearby village. On the way, she happened to meet the accused who offered her lift on his two-wheeler, a senior police officer said. On the pretext of dropping her safely at her destination, he took her to an isolated field and raped her, he said. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said, "A case under section 376 (rape) of IPC was registered at Chhawla Police Station and the accused was arrested." The medical examination of the victim was conducted and her statement has been recorded, he said. The woman is stated to be stable now, police said, adding she was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) called it an "extremely disturbing" case. According to the woman, she was waiting for milkman at around 5pm on Monday when the perpetrator came and told her that the milkman would not come that day and that he will take her to the place where she could get milk, the DCW said. He took the woman to a farm instead and then brutally raped her, it said. "The woman kept crying and pleading that she was of his grandmother's age. The perpetrator assaulted her brutally when she tried to resist him and raped her," the women rights panel said. Local villagers rushed to the spot after hearing the woman's cries. They caught hold of the perpetrator and called the police, it said. The woman was bleeding and in extreme trauma. The locals called her son and the police later took her for medical examination, the DCW said. Her medical examination report reveals several injuries and bruises on her body, it said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal and panel member Vandana Singh met the survivor at her house in Chhawla on Tuesday. "From a six-month-old girl to a 90-year-old woman, no one is safe in Delhi. The kind of trauma this woman had to face clearly indicates that the perpetrators of these crimes are not humans. दिल्ली की 90 वर्षीय महिला को घर से दरिंदा ज़बर्दस्ती उठाके ले गया और बुरी तरह रेप किया। अम्मा को बहुत चोटें आयी हैं… https://t.co/bfITeA4G0k— Swati Maliwal (@SwatiJaiHind) 1599571010000“I met the woman today, she is an extremely courageous woman. We will ensure she gets justice. This case needs to be fast tracked and justice should be served within six months,” Maliwal said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/86-year-old-woman-raped-in-south-west-delhis-chhawla-area-accused-37-arrested-extremely-disturbing-says-dcw/articleshow/78006780.cms||---
September 9, 2020||India||India says PLA acted aggressively, shots fired 1st time on LAC in 45 years||NEW DELHI: The already tense military confrontation in eastern Ladakh has taken yet another turn for the worse, with bullets being fired along the Line of Actual Control for the first time in 45 years. India on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops at a forward lo cation called Mukhpari Top in Chushul sector of eastern Ladakh on Monday evening. Top government sources said Indian troops responded in a similar vein, firing a couple of warning shots. The incident, however, was well short of an “exchange of fire” and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) did not further press the confrontation. The aggressive attempt by PLA soldiers, armed with assault rifles as well as medieval weapons like spears and machetes, in their bid to dislodge Indian soldiers from the Mukhpari height at an altitude of over 18,000 feet on the ridgeline north of Rezang La, has led to yet another faceoff situation in the area. “Around 40 PLA soldiers are still there, within shouting distance of our position at the top. Our well-entrenched troops are standing their ground,” an official said. “At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” an Army statement said. The Chinese decision to issue a late-night statement on Monday suggesting that things had taken a serious turn was intended to whip up a sense of urgency, said Indian sources, who added that it was most unlike the PLA to issue a hurried response. The PLA has fully realised that Indian troops are there to stay at the heights they proactively occupied on the ridgeline stretching from the southern bank of Pangong Tso at Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La on August 29-30. PM Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh were briefed by officials about the latest escalation in the over-four-month-old military confrontation, which has seen both India and China deploy over 35,000 troops each as well as scores of tanks, howitzers, surface-to-air missiles and other weapon systems along the frontier in eastern Ladakh. Firearms were not used even during the violent clashes in the Galwan Valley on June 15, which left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead though the PLA troops were armed with rods and stones. The face-off near Mukhpari, the highest feature among the multiple tactical heights occupied by Indian troops in the pre-emptive military manoeuvre in the Chushul sector, began when the PLA troops “attempted to close in” to the Indian position at 6.15pm on Monday. It was detected by the Indian soldiers positioned on Mukhpari Top, who then used megaphones and floodlights to “dissuade” them. “When dissuaded by our troops, PLA personnel fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate our troops. However, despite the grave provocation, our troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner,” an Army statement said. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagements at military, diplomatic and political level are in progress,” it said. The Army also said that the statement issued by China’s Western Theatre Command late on Monday was “an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience”. The WTC had accused Indian troops of “illegally crossing the line” to enter the south bank of Pangong Tso and the Shenpao mountain area and “outrageously firing shots” in a “serious military provocation” of “a very bad nature”. The PLA is incensed that over 3,000 Indian troops, heavily armed with rocket launchers, anti-tank guided missiles and other weapons, are now well-entrenched on the tactical heights at altitudes over 15,000 feet. From there, Indian soldiers have a clear line of sight of the crucial PLA Moldo garrison, roads and the ingress route for tanks through the Spanggur Gap, as was earlier reported byTOI. The heights were left largely unoccupied since the 1962 war due to a mutual understanding. But in the backdrop of the PLA refusing to vacate the 8km stretch from “Finger-4 to 8” on the north bank of Pangong Tso, India had no option but to prevent it from doing the same on the southern side of Pangong Tso, said officials. One of the battles during the 1962 war, incidentally, was fought at Rezang La, where Indian troops were outnumbered by Chinese soldiers who had also secured the Mukhpari Top. “This time we have taken Mukhpari and other heights in the region,” an official said. Watch Eastern Ladakh standoff: India says PLA acted aggressively, shots fired 1st time on LAC in 45 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-says-pla-acted-aggressively-shots-fired-1st-time-on-lac-in-45-years/articleshow/78007019.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 9, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: India now holds some solid bargaining chips||NEW DELHI: As foreign minister S Jaishankar prepares to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow, the clashes on the LAC on Monday where Indian troops held their positions on the heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso have given India some solid bargaining chips in the difficult negotiations to defuse the standoff. Though the clashes lend credence to India’s stand that “deep conversations” are necessary to resolve the situation and the discussions may not deliver immediate results, changes on the ground, where Indian troops have surprised PLA in actions that played out over the August 29-30 week end, have subtly altered the dynamics ahead of the meeting. Read AlsoLAC on razor's edge, both India and China register protestAfter the latest flare-up in the Pangong southern bank area, India Tuesday lodged a strong protest with China, both through diplomatic and military channels, asking Beijing to rein in troops who had carried out "provocative activities" yet again on Monday night. In its protest, India strongly deniedOfficial sources here pointed to the unusual speed with which the Chinese side issued a statement past 3am Beijing time accusing India of a “serious violation”. The statement followed a resolute Indian response to the Chinese advance which made it plain that the occupation of the heights was not a passing matter. The signal to China was that either use of force would be needed to evict the Indian troops or negotiations were an option to find a way out and de-escalate tensions. For the moment, it has sharpened the need for a political understanding on the growing boundary crisis. The Indian side feels the meeting may not throw up a re solution to the border crisis. Read AlsoRussia lays groundwork for India-China meetWhile denying that it could mediate on its own in the India-China border standoff, Russia on Tuesday laid the groundwork for a meeting between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow as it said the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation could provide a platform for building mutual trust. SIn the past few days, both sides have been mirroring their public statements, indicating how difficult it would be to achieve common ground. There is also an assessment on the Indian side that China has a definite goal of pushing the LAC westwards and will not be willing to concede recent advantages gained by the Indians. This is also tied to national honour — which means the two sides may be digging in through the winter. Here, India may have a slight advantage given its experience, but China has deeper pockets. On Tuesday, the MEA pushed back against the Chinese propaganda system, by denying their attribution to NSA Ajit Doval. In a statement, an MEA spokesperson said: “We have seen reports in Chinese state media, including in China Daily and Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times), which had attributed some comments to NSA Ajit Doval. Read AlsoIndia says PLA acted aggressively, shots fired 1st time on LAC in 45 yearsIndia on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired in the air in an attempt to intimidate Indian troops at a forward location called Mukhpari Top. Top govt sources said Indian troops responded by firing a couple of warning shots. “Around 40 PLA soldiers are still there, within shouting distance of ourThese reports are completely false and are not based on facts.” Sources said the Chinese would have preferred a situation where they were in a more advantageous position tactically. But India has strengthened its positions at the LAC, which has contributed to China’s anger. That may make it easier during the political negotiations, but could just as easily harden Chinese positions. Watch LAC row: India now holds some solid bargaining chips||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-india-now-holds-some-solid-bargaining-chips/articleshow/78007223.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 9, 2020||Business||Silver Lake, DST lead $500m in Byju’s, valuation hits $11bn||BENGALURU: Top global technology investment firms Silver Lake Partners and DST Global are leading a $500-million round in education technology startup Byju’s, pushing the company’s valuation close to $11 billion. The move comes as the sector continues to get consumer transaction and strong investor interest amid the pandemic. The new round — which will also see participation of existing investors like General Atlantic, Tiger Global and Owl Ventures — is expected to take the total capital mopped up by the company to about $1 billion this year. While the Bengaluru-based startup announced the Silver Lake investment on Tuesday, it didn’t comment on the one by DST. Silver Lake, known for backing companies like Airbnb, Skype and Dell, was in the news earlier this year for backing Reliance Jio and is also reportedly in talks to back Reliance Retail. “Some other new investors are also expected to participate in the new round of funding. Some formalities regarding DST Global are still being finalised as they are expected to bring in co-investors as well,” said one of the sources briefed on the matter. Byju’s is raising capital broadly as a mix of a fresh issue of shares and a secondary sale by existing investors as well. The new set of backers join the list of other top-tier ones of Byju’s, which include venture firms like Sequoia and Lightspeed, sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority, pension funds like Canada’s CPPIB and strategics like Tencent and Prosus Ventures. The capital is likely to be used by the company to push its global expansion and to finance acquisitions. Earlier this year, it acquired online coding classes startup WhiteHat Jr for $300 million in one of the rare all-cash deals in the startup ecosystem. WhiteHat claimed an annualised revenue run rate of $150 million when the deal was announced. Byju’s is also reportedly in talks to acquire doubt-solving startup Doubtnut for over $100 million to further fuel its growth. The 39-year-old Byju Raveendran had started the company as an offline coaching class for Common Admission Test (CAT) to enter IIMs back in 2007. Then several of his students joined him in 2009, and he registered his company as Think & Learn in 2011. The company tried out a tablet-based format, but tasted major success after launching an app in 2015. This has been driven by the financial metrics of the company. Byju’s claimed that it has doubled its revenues from $189 million (Rs 1,430 crore) in FY19, when it was also profitable, to Rs 2,800 crore in FY20. Last month, the company hit an annualised revenue run rate of $800 million. Byju’s also says that it has 64 million registered students and 4.2 million paid subscribers. Over the years the company has also signed a partnership with Walt Disney to use its characters to teach kids besides also becoming the lead sponsor for the Indian cricket team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/silver-lake-dst-lead-500m-in-byjus-valuation-hits-11bn/articleshow/78005334.cms||Madhav Chanchani
September 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Key LJP meet on September 15 as party’s rift with JD(U) widens||PATNA: The ruling NDA is headed for trouble as the rift between its two allies — JD(U) and LJP — is widening fast ahead of the state assembly elections. A day after senior JD(U) functionary K C Tyagi said in New Delhi that his party was in alliance with BJP and not LJP in the state, LJP spokesperson Ali Asaraf Ansari on Tuesday said, “We welcome Tyagiji’s statement. He has made it clear that JD(U) is not having an alliance with LJP.” Tyagi’s reaction came in the wake of media reports that LJP was contemplating to field candidates on 143 seats, including the seats to be contested by JD(U) in the upcoming assembly polls. Tyagi had said JD(U) had an alliance with BJP, which has already announced to contest the coming polls under CM Nitish Kumar’s leadership. LJP parliamentary board chairman and Govindganj MLA Raju Tiwari, however, said any decision about the forthcoming election would be taken at the meeting of the party MPs with its national president Chirag Paswan on September 15. The issue related to the relationship with JD(U) will be discussed at the meeting. The parliamentary board, at its meeting held in New Delhi on Monday, authorised the national president to take a final call on the matter. Sources said a senior BJP leader, who is in the know of the matter, talked to Chirag and tried to persuade him not to break ties with JD(U). The rift between JD(U) and LJP widened following the induction of HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram in the NDA fold. Chirag got irked after Manjhi’s unconditional support to Nitish, who is also the national president of JD(U). A section of LJP workers felt that Manjhi had been inducted in the NDA at the insistence of Nitish, but without consulting the alliance partners. “The September 15 meeting is crucial not only for our party, but also the NDA. We have been asked to be prepared for any eventuality,” a senior LJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. BJP MLC and spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh, on the other hand, said NDA is intact. “We will fight the elections together,” he said. Political experts feel that the conflict between JD(U) and LJP is mainly because of the Dalit vote bank. LJP founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and HAM(S) chief Manjhi are considered to be two prominent Dalit leaders in the state. Dalits make up for around 16% of the total population in the state. Political observers are of the view that Manjhi has a major stake in the Musahar community, a sub-caste among the Dalits in Bihar. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “Till date there is no indication from LJP leaders to join hands with Grand Alliance, but Chirag is not feeling comfortable in the NDA. It’s is up to him to decide whether he wants to contest the election with the NDA or the GA.” Tiwari, however, added the RJD would welcome LJP if it snaps ties with the NDA. “First the party (LJP) has to step out of the NDA fold,” he added. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha also expressed similar views on the issue. “I am not aware of any indication from LJP to change sides ahead of the elections,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/key-ljp-meet-on-sept-15-as-partys-rift-with-jdu-widens/articleshow/78004833.cms||Ramashankar
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wednesdays deadliest on Ahmedabad roads||AHMEDABAD: While Amdavadis beat Delhiites in their disregard for traffic rules, we pay heavily with lives lost to speeding and red lights being jumped. An IIIT-Delhi and IIIT-Hyderabad study shows how five junctions in Ahmedabad city — Shyamal Crossroads, Sardar Patel bust, Girish Cold Drinks on CG Road, Shastrinagar and NID — account for 32% of the 26.28 lakh traffic violations in the city between 2018 and 2020. In Delhi, the five worst junctions accounted for 13% of the 12 lakh offences. An analysis of 1,375 accidents in 2019 by the Road Accident Sampling System, India (RASSI), revealed that the highest number of accidents occurred between 9am and noon, making up 19% of total accidents. The most fatal accidents occurred from between 9pm and midnight, accounting for 20% of total fatal accidents in the city. “It is observed that the most accidents and fatalities in 2019 took place on Wednesdays. Nearly 16% of accidents and 18% of fataltities occurred on Wednesdays,” the RAASI study says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wednesdays-deadliest-on-city-roads/articleshow/78004759.cms||Paul John
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||IIM-Calcutta to start on-campus executive course this month||KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta (IIM-C) will be the first education institute in Bengal that has asked students of the one-year full-time MBA Executive course to report on campus from September. IIM-C authorities said that following the recent central and state advisories and regulatory guidelines regarding the pandemic, the students will arrive on campus in small batches to undertake quarantine in the hostel, while still attending classes online. However, there will be no in-classroom interactions nor will there be any physical presence required in classes. The decision to throw open the hostel and resume on-campus experience in a central institute has left the state surprised. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “I hope the IIM-C authorities are abiding by the health guidelines. But how prudent is the decision?” IIM-C director Anju Seth explained the reason behind bringing the students back. Seth said, “What makes such programmes unique is the networking and bonding amongst batchmates. This year’s batch of 62 students has already been deprived of this opportunity for the first four months of their one-year programme. The option of classes on campus has already been extended to students of IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Bangalore and IIM Lucknow. We are making all the necessary arrangements and establishing the prescribed protocols for our classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-to-start-on-campus-exec-course-this-month/articleshow/78004843.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Business||We may not need more stimulus, says Kamath||MUMBAI: Veteran banker K V Kamath has drawn up a framework to allow banks to give relief to corporates hit by Covid-19. According to him, unlike the West where corporates can only downsize to improve finances, Indian companies have the opportunity for both efficiency gains and medium-term growth. In the West, there has been a lot of downsizing by companies to improve finances. Will that happen here?The West cannot do growth because they are growing at around 2%. In India, the new normal provides you the opportunity to do productivity increase as well as growth. Although growth drivers are muted now, there is definitely an opportunity to grow for the next 25 years. Has the size of problematic corporate loans been quantified?What we first looked at is loans that meet the test of qualifying — not being overdue for more than 30 days as on March 1. This number is around Rs 48 lakh crore. Of the 26 sectors that we identified, the loan amount comes to Rs 29 lakh crore. We then did a deep dive, speaking to banks and rating agencies to obtain sector-wise numbers for the last two quarters. Interestingly, they correspond to the percentage drop in GDP, and across sectors we are seeing a 10-25% drop in top line. That’s how we arrived at the Covid-impact number. How much will be the size of the loans that will come up for restructuring?At this stage, we do not have a call on that. The borrower and lender need to talk on this. Most companies are back to 80-90% capacity utilisation, and the supply chains and distribution systems are working. My assessment is not as dire as it was earlier. The ratios are more compared to what banks ask. Does this pose a risk for the future?Debt to equity ratio for corporates used to be 3.8:1 historically, which improved to 1.8:1 around 2010. Corporates have found the benefit of using equity. Even within the relaxed ratios, there are checks and balances. Is there a need for more stimulus? When I first saw what was happening after the first lockdown, the question was: Is the stimulus enough? If I step back and look, the stimulus seems to have worked. Now comes the RBI’s helping hand. If the trajectory continues, we may not need any more stimulus. The RBI has said that all lenders need to come on board for this to work. How do you get entities not regulated by the RBI?For the scheme to work, you need the approval of 75% of lenders by value. If a company requires a helping hand and you do not have a majority, the company will move, at best, to a plan under the June 7 circular, which would be much more damaging to all lenders. I would be intrigued why any lender would not come in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/we-may-not-need-more-stimulus-says-kamath/articleshow/78005249.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 9, 2020||Business||Govt asks cos to reduce royalty payouts||Chennai: Pressure mounts on Indian companies to lower royalty payments as the government has asked them to conserve cash during the pandemic.Late last week union commerce minister Piyush Goyal exhorted auto companies to reduce their payouts, setting off an alarm in the country’s autobahn. Automakers on their part say that these payments help them to get access to the latest technologies.At present a company does not need shareholders’ to pay up to 5% of net sales as royalty payments. “Royalty payments must be viewed as economic facilitators towards transformative technologies, as long as they are within a reasonable range and globally competitive. In this regard, we must be ready to benchmark comparable royalty payments with leading economies,” said a Toyota Kirloskar Motor spokesman.A study by proxy advisory firm Institutional Investor Advisory Services (IiAS) earlier this year shows that of the 31 companies it covered in the report, royalty payout doubled between 2012 and 2019 to Rs 8300 crore. The top five royalty payers are Maruti Suzuki, Hindustan Unilever, ABB, Nestle and Bosch comprising 70% of all royalty payouts between 2012-2019 and 77% in 2019 alone. Take Maruti — royalty payment as a percentage of sales has come down from 6.1% in FY16 to 5.4% in FY19 and 5.2% in FY20. But the company paid just 3.6% in FY10.Maruti did not want to comment on the issue of royalty.So is there scope for the 5% cutoff to be lowered? “Yes, said Amit Tandon, founder-MD, IiAS. “Royalty is a legitimate expense and investors struggle with arriving at what this number should be,” he explained. “This can be established by asking two questions – are sales growing faster than the category average and is the company able to enjoy higher margins than the category average.” The answer to these two questions will establish the range within which royalty should be paid. Auto consultants say royalty payments in percentage terms have gone up in recent years due to technology leaps and regulatory norms.“Automobile OEMs have to regularly invest towards product upgrades to comply with regulations as well as rapidly evolving technological trends. Generally, global automobile OEMs invest over 6% of their sales towards R&D which is significantly higher than R&D investments by OEMs in Indian market. Indian automobile OEMs pay royalty to their parent entity to provide necessary technology knowhow, and this royalty payment typically ranges from 2.5%-5% of sales,” said Ashish Modani, VP, Corporate Ratings, ICRA. Auto companies say royalty is critical for new technology and global competitiveness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-asks-cos-to-reduce-royalty-payouts/articleshow/78004652.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 9, 2020||Patna||Digvijay asks Ram Vilas to join UPA||PATNA: Congress general secretary Digvijay Singh on Tuesday invited LJP patron and union minister Ram Vilas Paswan to join UPA and ‘be with old friends’. Addressing his party’s virtual rally christened ‘Bihar Kranti Mahasabha for Sitamarhi district, Digvijay said: “I especially ask Ram Vilas Ji to come back to his old friend — Lalu Ji and Congress. Together we will teach them (read NDA) a lesson.” He also recalled the 2002 event when Paswan, then union coal and mines minister in the NDA government, had resigned from the government over handling of Gujarat issue. Digvijay’s invitation came at a time when rift has widened between NDA allies JD(U) headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar and LJP headed by Ram Vilas’s son Chirag Paswan ahead of assembly election in Bihar. Chirag has been frequently questioning Nitish over development, law and order and various other issues in the state. JD(U) has made it clear it had nothing to do with LJP as it was in alliance with BJP. Party’s secretary general KC Tyagi on Monday categorically said LJP was free to walk out of the NDA, if it wished so. Before Digvijay, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap had also said the doors were open for Chirag. However, his younger brother and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, has remained tight-lipped on this issue. Apart from inviting LJP, Digvijay also hit out at Nitish and PM Narendra Modi in his speech. “Migrant labourers of Bihar all across the country were left in painful condition during the lockdown. The NDA government did not arrange for their transportation, or pay for their train fare. Farmers and small businessmen are also suffering. Now, together we all will teach them a lesson in the upcoming election,” he said. BSP functionary joins Congress Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Bihar incharge Manoj Kumar on Tuesday joined Congress in the presence of its state president Madan Mohan Jha. Kumar was accompanied by his supporters at Sadaquat Ashram. As per a press statement issued by state Congress, Kumar had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Sasaram on a BSP ticket and finished third. “He is a young leader with grip in Sasaram district. His joining will help the Congress party,” said Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/digvijay-asks-ram-vilas-to-join-upa/articleshow/78004879.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Fire at SSG’s Covid hospital ICU, none hurt||Vadodara: State-run SSG Hospital in Vadodara witnessed major chaos and panic after fire broke out inside the Covid hospital on Tuesday evening. According to preliminary reports, a short circuit caused the fire resulting in lot of smoke sending patients and their relatives panicking. The ICU located on the first floor of the casualty/ trauma centre building which has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital at the central Gujarat’s biggest government hospital caught fire. Fortunately, no casualties were reported as all the patients were evacuated in nick of time. Officials said that there were 38 patients admitted inside the ICU unit. Resident doctors and nursing staff started evacuating patients as fire tenders of Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services (VFES) and 108 GVK-EMRI emergency services were also pressed into service. “Fire started from a ventilator unit but thanks to the training imparted to the hospital staff that they themselves extinguished the fire and started evacuating the patients,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. “Since the room was closed, smoke got accumulated there,” he said. The power connection of the entire building was cut off to prevent spread of the short circuit through wires. There was chaos outside the building as relatives of the patients had reached the spot and started inquiring about the whereabouts of their kin admitted inside the ICU. The patients who were moved out of the building on stretchers and beds with oxygen cylinders were being given treatment in the parking area opposite the building. Huge crowd gathered in the vicinity. All ambulances of VFES and GVK-EMRI were kept on standby at the hospital. “We have brought the fire under control and have also restored electricity of the building,” he said. Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal said that the Covid patients will either be internally transferred or shifted to GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty for Covid-19 had entered the building wearing PPE kit while political leaders too rushed to the government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-at-ssgs-covid-hospital-icu-none-hurt/articleshow/78003443.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Malls in Patna lift shutters||PATNA: Though few malls in the city lifted their shutters on Tuesday, some others will take a day or two to clean and sanitise the premises before welcoming visitors. Asharam Singh, the security head of a mall on Patliputra-Kurji road, said it was opened on Tuesday only for the staff to carry out sanitation procedures. “We want to give a premium experience to visitors. We are also installing sanitiser dispensing machines and thermal scanners at entry points to prevent the Covid-19 spread. All showrooms inside the malls will open on Wednesday for the public. The news of reopening of malls spread like wildfire among shopping enthusiasts in the city. Kadamkuan resident Rohan Jayswal felt surreal after entering a mall near Dak Bungalow crossing on Tuesday. “I had forgotten the ambience in malls and shopping complexes. I am very happy that life is getting back to normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/malls-in-patna-lift-shutters/articleshow/78002325.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Use solar energy for street lights: Nitish||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked the departments concerned to complete the renovation of all public wells and handpumps in the state by March end next year. He also asked them to get constructed the water conservation ponds at the base of the hills in all the districts in the plateau region, modelling them on that constructed on the ordnance factory campus at Rajgir. Insisting on the conservation of energy and environment, the CM also instructed the officials to see that solar energy is used for street lights. The CM also asked the departments to identify the aahar, pynes, ponds, water bodies, public wells and handpumps and create district wise detailed data base on them. Nitish said the water conservation pond constructed at Rajgir is “very beautiful and also useful” and, accordingly, it should be replicated in all the districts concerned. The CM issued the directions after reviewing the progress made in the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Hariyali (JJH) Mission in the state. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries of departments concerned, as well as divisional commissioners, DMs and other officials also participated in the meeting through videoconferencing. Rural development department principal secretary Arvind Kumar Choudhary and JJH Mission director Rajiv Roshan made separate presentations on the work done and progress made with regard to the various components of the JJH programme. The DMs of Gaya, Gopalganj, Samastipur, Saharsa, Jehanabad, Khagaria and Aurangabad also presented details of the progress made in the JJH schemes. He said the ‘sokhta’ (used for soaking water) should be necessarily constructed near the public wells and handpumps, while the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) was asked to ensure that the handpumps remained functional. Nitish said the families removed from their settlements on and around the embankments of the ponds should be provided land for their rehabilitation. He asked the departments to implement schemes related to all the components of the JJH Mission, including plantation, as they created work opportunities for people. He said people should be asked not to waste safe drinking water and stop open defecation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/use-solar-energy-for-street-lights-nitish/articleshow/78005050.cms||Abhay Singh
September 9, 2020||Patna||Medical aspirant hangs self in Patna||PATNA: A 22-year-old medical aspirant hanged himself inside his rented accommodation at Kazipur under Kadamkuan police station area in Patna on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Amit Kumar. He was a native of Khutaha in Bhagalpur. Sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar said a suicide note was recovered from the room in which Amit had sought an apology from his father, mother and his elder brother, who is a doctor at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). “No one is responsible for the extreme step I am taking,” the SI quoted from the suicide note. The SI said Amit also wrote that either he was not mature enough or the world had failed to understand him. Addressing his parents, Amit wrote that they must live with their other two sons now. The SI said Amit had been preparing for medical entrance examinations and living alone in the rented room for the last four years. It was yet not clear that if Amit was under depression or he took the extreme step over any failed love affair. “It will become clear only after further investigation,” he said. “He used a nylon rope to hang himself from the ceiling fan. The matter came to light at around 11am,” he said. Amit’s brother had reached the spot after getting information about the incident. Those living in the building were first to see Amit hanging after and informed the police, he said. Kumar said the body was sent to PMCH for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medical-aspirant-hangs-self-in-patna/articleshow/78004935.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Patna civil court lawyer shot dead||PATNA: A Patna civil court lawyer, Harendra Rai (55), was shot dead by motorcycle-borne criminals near Sarari village under the Naubatpur police station area in western Patna around 10.30am on Tuesday. Rai was on way to court when the incident occurred. Police said the criminals started trailing Rai after he left his village for the court and intercepted him at a secluded place near Sarari. “They forced Rai to stop his bike and shot him in chest from a close range. The lawyer died on the spot,” a senior police officer said. City SP (west) Ashok Mishra later visited Rai’s residence for investigation. Mishra said the lawyer’s family members told police that they had an old enmity with a neighbouring family. SHO of Naubatpur police station Samrat Deepak Kumar said Rai used to practise in Danapur sub-divisional court earlier. “However, he started practising in Patna civil court recently and used to handle excise cases there,” he said. The SHO added Rai’s mother was also murdered in 2001. “In that case too, the same neighbouring family was made an accused,” he said. Meanwhile, another senior police officer said trial in the case pertaining to Rai’s murder was at the final stage and sentence would be pronounced by the court soon. “Rai had an old enmity with his neighbour. In addition, police have also come to know that Rai was representing co-villagers in the court in several cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-civil-court-lawyer-shot-dead/articleshow/78004928.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Religious shrines open gates for devotees||PATNA: Months after being shut in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, most of the religious places in the state capital reopened for public on Tuesday following the state home department’s order under Unlock 4.0 on Monday. The Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction and Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara also opened their doors for devotees with precautionary measures. “Only some of the autonomous temples have opened their gates on Tuesday. Others will reopen from September 21 with all safety precautions,” Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts chairman Akhilesh Jain told this newspaper. The Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary, Acharya Kishore Kunal, said the devotees of Lord Hanuman were thrilled at the reopening of the temple. “Around 1,000 people have visited the temple today. We are taking strict precautions to avoid the spread of the virus. Security guards have been deployed on the temple premises to monitor overcrowding,” he said. The decision brought relief to many temples as donation reserves were on the verge of drying up. “We were also facing financial crunch because of drop in donations during the lockdown. Seeing today’s response, I hope our financial condition will improve in the coming weeks,” said Kunal. “I have been offering ‘prasad’ to Lord Hanuman at Mahavir Mandir on every Tuesday and Saturday since the last 20 years. I am very happy to come back here after five months. It’s a divine feeling. I cannot explain in words,” said Sonal Sinha from the Police Colony after visiting the Mahavir Mandir. Mahinder Pal Dhillion, general secretary of Patna Sahib Gurdwara, said a few local devotees visited the gurdwara on Tuesday. “As more and more people will get to know about the reopening of gurdwara, the count of visitors will increase. Once trains from Punjab start operating, the count will further shoot up. We are taking all necessary precautions to avoid the spread of coronavirus,” he said. Gurjeet Singh, owner of a turban shop in Harmandir Gali, was elated. “My business had been negligible for the last five months. With the reopening of gurdwara from today, I am expecting good business again,” he said. Fraser Road resident Priyanaka Bagga, who visited the Patna Sahib gurdwara, said, “I couldn’t control my happiness. It had been months since I last visited the gurdwara or helped with ‘langar’ preparation. My children are also very excited.” While temples and gurdwaras opened for the public, mosques and churches still remained closed for public visits. Alam Quasmi, convener of the Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masjid, an association of imams in Patna, told this newspaper, “Mosques in the city are not open to the public yet. We are waiting for the state government to issue the standard operating procedures for conducting day-to-day functions at the mosque. At present, ‘azan’ and ‘namaz’ recitation is being done by internal staff and imams at present,” he said. Similarly, Patna Archbishop William D’Souza said keeping in view the Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the state government, churches in the city would open for one hour in the morning for adoration prayer till September 20. “However, from September 21, congregation with a ceiling of 100 persons will be allowed at all the churches with mandatory wearing of face masks and social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/religious-shrines-open-gates-for-devotees/articleshow/78002372.cms||Arunima Lal
September 9, 2020||Patna||Too much screen time puts a strain on eyes amid pandemic||PATNA: Hospitals and private clinics in the city have witnessed 40-45% rise in number of ‘computer vision syndrome’ or ‘digital eye strain’ cases in the recent months as people are spending more time in front of computers, laptops, cellphones and television screens. As office meetings, classes, work, functions, entertainment and even socialising have become virtual due to Covid-19 pandemic, it has resulted in more people complaining of eye-related problems such as blurred vision, eye strain, irritation and dryness. Longer screen time is taking a toll on the eyes of people from all age groups. Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, secretary of Bihar Ophthalmological Society, said digital eye strain has become common in children and adults these days due to increase in screen time. “People working with private firms, especially IT sector employees, are spending 12-14 hours in front computer or laptop screens. School and college students are also taking virtual classes apart from playing games and watching movies on digital platforms,” he added. “In case of more use of digital devices, the eye blinking rate alters to 5-6 per minute from the normal rate of 16-18 per minute. Blinking provides moisture to the eye. It also protects the eye from irritants. Because of low blinking rate, the eye becomes dry, leading to redness and irritation. The number of such eye patients has increased by up to 45%,” Dr Sunil added. He said people should take a small break from screen time in every one hour and wash the eyes with water properly. “If they still witness dryness in eyes, lubricant eye drops should be used in consultation with the doctors. People should avoid reading on digital screens if they can print copies of the reading materials,” he said. Another city-based eye specialist, Dr Sharat Kumar, said several working professionals and school and college students are facing eye-related problems. “Spending more time in front of digital screen could be detrimental to eye sight in the long run. People should take precautionary measures like washing eyes at regular intervals, keeping the device at an arm’s length and adjusting the brightness of the screen,” he said. Dr Pranav Ranjan, an eye specialist at Kurji Hospital, said, “The number of eye patients has increased thrice when compared to the period before lockdown. Some people consult me online or over phone. The patients are generally in the group of eight to 25 years, especially school and college students.” Namita Shanker, a resident of Arya Kumar Road, said her husband and 15-year-old son have developed eye pain and headache due to continuous work on digital screen. “We are in touch with doctors. My son has been advised to wear glasses as he develops myopia,” she said. Kshitij Gupta, who works in an IT company, said after one month of work-from-home, he started getting headache. WHAT TO DO · Take frequent breaks while using digital devices · Wash eyes at regular intervals · Remember to blink often · Use lubricant eye drops to relieve symptoms of dryness · Reduce overhead lighting to minimise screen glare · Keep your eyes at an arm’s distance from the screen · Increase the text size on devices to see screen content more easily||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/too-much-screen-time-puts-a-strain-on-eyes-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78002293.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 9, 2020||Patna||Another low as state third from bottom in literacy rate||PATNA: Bihar stands third from the bottom among the states with low literacy rate, as per the National Statistical Office (NSO) of India report released recently. With 70.9% overall literacy rate, Bihar was 6.8% lower than the national average of 77.7%. Andhra Pradesh was at the bottom with 66.4% literacy rate, followed by Rajasthan with 69.7%. The report on ‘Household Social Consumption: Education in India as part of 75th round of National Sample Survey — from July 2017 to June 2018’ of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation provides statewise detail of literacy rate among the persons aged seven years and above. As per the report, the female literacy rate in rural Bihar stood at 58.7% while it was 75.9% in urban areas. However, the male literacy rate in both rural and urban areas was higher than female with 78.6% and 89.3%, respectively. The overall rural literacy rate in Bihar was 69.5% whereas urban literacy stood at 83.1% among those of 7 years and above age. Around 36.4% people are illiterate in Bihar while 19.2% are literate up to primary school level, 14.3% up to middle, 16.5% secondary, 7.7% higher secondary and 6% up to graduation and above level. The female illiteracy rate is almost 21% higher than males, which is 47.7%. There was only 3.2% female education up to graduate and above level against the corresponding 6% among males. The dropout percentage in Bihar was 30.5% while 23% never enrolled and 46.4% were attending classes in 2017-18, as per the report. Education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma told this newspaper on Tuesday that the dropout ratio in Bihar had reduced to 0.2- 0.5% and only 1% kids were out of schools, as per a recent survey of the department. “The main reason behind the decline in dropout is better quality of education system, teaching and several state government schemes like providing bicycle, textbooks, midday meal and scholarships,” he said. “Around 60,000 children of migrant labourers were admitted from lower primary school to secondary level in less than two months. The number of enrolments has been increasing every day,” he said. The minister said since higher secondary schools have opened in all the blocks the government was focusing more on girl’s education. Verma said the state government provides Rs54,100 to a girl from her birth till graduation. Around 94.5% schools have primary classes (I to V), 72% have upper primary classes and only 30.2% schools have secondary level classes in less than 1km distance in rural areas. In urban areas, there are 94% schools having primary classes in less than 1km distance, while 81.6% and 61.8%, schools have upper primary and secondary classes respectively in that category. Verma said, “Once the schools reopen, the officials will again conduct a fresh survey of the enrolments, dropouts and literacy rate among other parameters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/another-low-as-state-third-from-bottom-in-literacy-rate/articleshow/78003640.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 9, 2020||Surat||Polyester saris buck trend, trade nears pre-Covid levels||Surat: While most of the sectors in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub in Surat have taken a hit due to coronavirus pandemic, the famed low-cost Surti polyester saris have bucked the trend. The textile traders dealing in low-cost saris having a price tag of Rs 150-250 are all laughing to the banks. Thanks to the women folks in rural areas and small towns across the country, this MMF sari trade has almost gained the pre-Covid sales levels. Industry sources said the daily turnover of MMF wholesale market was pegged at Rs 110 crore before lockdown, which consisted of 60% saris and 40% dress material, kurtis, lenghas etc. The low-cost saris had a daily turnover of Rs 22-25 crore. At present, the daily turnover of these saris has touched Rs 20 crore while that the traders of high-end saris are struggling to even sell Rs 2 crore worth of product per day. Manoj Agarwal, who deals in the low-cost saris and is also the president of the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) told TOI, “Only low-cost saris are selling from Surat. Out of 70,000 traders, about 7,000 are dealing exclusively in the low-cost saris. Post-lockdown, the orders have jumped in the printed sari category ranging between Rs 150 and Rs 300.” Agarwal added, “These printed and lace border saris are the daily wear item for the women folks in rural areas and in small towns. During the lockdown, women could not move out to purchase, but post-lockdown we started receiving huge orders from the wholesalers from across the country.” The profit margins for the textile traders on a single piece of sari is in the range of 5-7% after calculating the manufacturing cost and packaging. A textile trader in Jash market, who deals in low-cost saris, Rajnish Lilah said, “In the last two months alone, we have received orders worth Rs 1 crore from Bihar, Chattisgarh and Kolkata. We had not expected such a huge jump in sales.” Ashok Jirawala, president of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) said, “At present, only 15% of the powerloom units are operational due to the shortage of migrant workers. About 30 lakh metres of fabric is manufactured per day and the majority goes into the manufacturing of low-cost saris and rest in kurtis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polyester-saris-buck-trend-trade-nears-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/78004585.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Gyms reopen after 5 months||PATNA: Gyms and fitness centres in the city reopened after five months on Tuesday. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the permission was given under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines. Since the gym owners have to follow strict safety norms in view of Covid-19, they have taken several measures like repositioning of machines to maintain social distancing, limiting workout time, sanitisation after every session and capping the number of people in each session. Sunny Singh, owner of a gym at Rajendra Nagar, said working out at a gym has many health benefits and so are the risks. “Gym could be an ideal place for virus spread. There are lots of people moving around indoors, sharing equipment and air, breathing heavily and precipitating. Keeping all these things in mind, we are sanitising our gym thoroughly after every two hours,” he said. Some gyms have also overhauled locker room facilities and group sessions. Pawan Kumar, manager of a gym in Kadamkuan, said, “Our clients have been calling us to give advice on how to reduce the spread of virus inside the gym. Hence, we have shut down almost all additional services like spa rooms, locker rooms and cafeteria for the time being,” he said. The new measures have increased the running cost of gyms and fitness centres. Additional staff members are required for frequent cleaning of equipment and to ensure that customers wear masks and follow the rules. “We have spaced out equipment and begun intensive cleaning. Our cost has increased. I am counting on new enrolments in the coming weeks,” said Abhinay Kumar, owner of a fitness centre at Patliputra Colony. Smaller gyms are finding it more difficult to manage things in small space. “Spacing out the equipment to maintain social distancing has put a cap on our operating capacity. My gym can accommodate only 20 people at a time. This will reduce my revenue whereas the cost of maintenance has increased,” rued Chandan Raj, owner of a mid-sized gym in Phulwarisharif. But, there’s no longer the usual morning ‘rush’ for workout. “I have been working from home since March. Unlike pre-Covid times, I have opted for a late evening workout session at my gym,” said Nikesh Singh from Patel Nagar. Trainers are excited, too. “I was conducting online sessions but physically going to the gym is a different feeling. I saw my clients after five months today. A few of them have gained weight,” said Pankaj Kumar. Fitness buff Piyush Shankar from Rajendra Nagar said the contents of his gym bag have changed now. “Other than my usual protein shake, my gym bag now has sanitiser, gloves, masks and face shields,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gyms-reopen-after-5-months/articleshow/78002347.cms||Arunima Lal
September 9, 2020||Patna||Parties hail Rhea’s arrest||PATNA: Most political parties in the state have hailed Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drug case linked to the probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The parties exuded confidence that her arrest would help the CBI unravel the truth behind Sushant’s death. LJP national president and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan turned to Twitter to hail the Rhea’s arrest. “Rhea’s arrest will silence all those who had sided with her on the issue,” he tweeted. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Rhea’s arrest was imminent in the case. “She was arrested on the basis of evidence,” he said, adding the family of Sushant would now get justice. “The political bosses of Maharashtra government tried their best to shield Rhea, but in vain. Rhea’s sustained interrogation will throw light on the factors responsible for Sushant’s death,” he added. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the arrest of Rhea has made it evident that the investigation was proceeding in the right direction. “Her arrest has also exposed drug smugglers’ links with Bollywood,” he added. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari also thanked the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB ) for Rhea’s arrest.  “It was the RJD and our popular leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav who had first demanded a CBI probe into Sushant’s death. The issue was raised in the House and outside as well,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-hail-rheas-arrest/articleshow/78003653.cms||Ramashankar
September 9, 2020||Business||Covid wake-up call for cos to prioritise people risk mgmt||By Prabir JhaCompanies are all battling risks and challenges that Covid-19 seems to have thrown at them. They are reworking their strategies, even tweaking their aspirations. Enterprise risk mitigation (ERM) documents are being updated to ensure better business continuity. Alas, it again remains tactical and operational in most cases. The inability to fully understand and prioritise people or human resources (HR) risks has for too long been a weakness with companies and their boards. Beyond looking at statutory compliances, and a notional review of succession plans for key management roles, not much has really happened with most firms. This is a huge gap. As I explain to my clients, they must start with a better appreciation of people risks to their future growth or even survival. Let me share just a few dimensions here… * Define HR risks more comprehensively: Beyond legal compliances, HR risks permeate the entire organisation. Does your business strategy factor in your culture? Could that derail your nice plans? Are you willing to change your culture to align with the strategy choice? Is your organisation design and decision process a risk to your future? Does it promote agility enough? Does your firm have the right mix of perspectives on its board as it looks forward? Likewise with your top leadership? Even as a promoter, could you be your biggest risk? Is your talent bench relevant to your future? How de-risked is it? How engaged is your workforce? Is your rewards design doomed to torpedo your strategy? Is your employer brand your lurking ‘derailer’? Is the political context of your operations building up an incipient HR risk? The list can go on. As you can see, almost everything is an HR risk. Unless you solve the puzzle fully, band-aids will stay cosmetic and inadequate. * Building the people risk heat map: This is again an area that needs thinking, and which is missing in many companies. What is the probability of occurrence and the potential impact? This will help prioritise. Some risks can impair the enterprise, others can be more limited to a unit or an operation. Because an evaluation of people risks is more grey, it is tougher, not easier. The left-brain bias inherent in most places struggles with this. I have seen complex mathematical algorithms being attempted. However, the answers don’t lie there. They belong to honest conversations. And such discussions can hurt, and are often hedged. No wonder these heat maps are sub-optimal, if not totally deceiving. * Who owns the enterprise people risks? There is manifest ignorance with both HR practitioners and business leaders about HR, the agenda and HR, the function. The arena is complex where CHROs must surely steer the agenda. But a lot of the actioning of the agenda is beyond a function. This is the tough nature of the beast. Unfortunately, it gets dropped between the various people who need to tango more closely. CHROs and CEOs must be able to give the agenda the positioning it deserves. They must coach, enable and hold accountable all leaders to delivering the mitigation. The boards and the risk committees need to deliver better too in understanding and reviewing HR risks beyond the ritual. Most corporations have a long way to go and need plenty of handholding. * Create an independent enterprise risk function: For too long, enterprise risk was understood in terms of the obvious regulatory, operational and financial risks. It was conveniently left to CFOs to integrate a placeholder role. The CFO may have neither the time, the appreciation nor the interest to understand the not-so-obvious dimensions of risk. In addition, like audit, the enterprise risk function must be owned by the CEO, if not the board. It must be independent, teethed and competent to see the derived business risks of benign HR aspects. The risk of employee turnover to customer loyalty, or the risk of having incompetent staff to run a complex machine has to be seen as securely as data safety and quarterly financial reporting. * Hold people accountable for HR risks: While I do not think everything one is responsible for can be trivialised to a mention on one’s annual scorecard, there must be due reward and reprimand for (mis)managing people risks. Educating the line and HR managers, setting clear expectations and holding people responsible must happen. While safety has earned this status in certain industries, people risk management must get there. Some things may not get the attention in a quarter or two, but if eyes are off the ball, it could lead to realising the big miss only when it’s too late, as Motorola realised when Apple gave it a knock-out. But the focused drain of talent was always on, except no one cared to notice, or were happy to explain it away. Many companies are today sitting on a ticking time bomb. Either they are ignorant or dismissive. They see people risk mitigation a cost saved, not an insurance against their future. However, one thing is certain. If organisations don’t get their thinking and doing right on their HR risks, the tombstones of tomorrow will remind us of their obfuscation, not sagacity. (The writer is the founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-wake-up-call-for-cos-to-prioritise-people-risk-mgmt/articleshow/78005343.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||‘More may have been exposed to virus than what sero-positivity data reveal’||Kolkata: The number of people who had been unknowingly exposed to Covid in the city could be much higher than the data revealed by a private laboratory, say healthcare experts. According to the data from Thyrocare, out of 26% of the little more than 14,000 people in Kolkata who came for antibody tests were found positive. “The data is encouraging. But we also need to keep in mind that not everyone who may have been exposed to the infection are going to the laboratory for testing. Therefore, the percentage of people who have been infected unknowingly could be much higher,” said Debkishore Gupta, infectious diseases control specialist at CMRI. “Another important thing is to know if this antibody is protective and, if so, how long does the protection last,” he added. In June, ICMR had conducted a sero-positivity survey in five wards under KMC, where 14% were found to have developed the antibodies. “Many asymptomatic patients or those with very mild symptoms are not even going for test and getting cured in home isolation. No wonder that more than 25% people in the city have been found to have Covid antibodies. But the sample size is still small. It would be good if the government takes up a sero-positivity survey on a larger scale. This would help frame future policies,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. According to Chaudhury, if 10% and above are found to have developed antibodies, it indicates community transmission. Doctors said that though Thyrocare is known for quality testing, the Covid-antibody survey was done for a commercial purpose and was aimed at a specific target. “The majority of those who tested for antibodies could be healthcare workers and people who must have been in the high-risk category. Therefore, this data may not be a true reflection of the prevalence in the community,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, associate professor at Institute of Child Health. According to the latest data maintained by the private lab chain, 40,109 people in Bengal had sought Covid-antibody tests. While the state’s sero-positivity was found to be around 23%, in districts like Darjeeling it was found as high as 41%. “But people found with the antibodies should not do away with standard protective measures,” said Giri. “The need of the hour is a mass antibody screening by the government to gauge if we are anywhere close to herd immunity, which is if 60% of the population and above have been infected,” said a virologist with a government institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-may-have-been-exposed-to-virus-than-what-sero-positivity-data-reveal/articleshow/78004814.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Rlys restart reservation counter in Nashik city||Nashik: The railways has decided to reopen the reservation counter near Palika Bazaar, Canada Corner in Nashik city from September 10 to help passengers book tickets for travelling to Mumbai and back by the Panchavati ‘Special’ operating from September 12. The reservation counter was closed ever since lockdown was announced on March 24. The ticket counter is being reopened to facilitate the reservation process for people willing to travel by ‘Special’ Panchavati Express between Manmad and Mumbai in which only reserved ticket holders will be allowed to board. There are two reservation counters in Nashik — one at Nashik Road Railway station and the other at Palika Bazar. During the initial phase of lockdown, railways had opened up counters at Nashik Road railway station for issuing refunds against cancelled tickets to passengers after train services were halted. The counter at Palika Bazar was kept closed due to the lack of activity as trains were cancelled and railways wanted to operate with lesser staff during initial phase of lockdown. At the same time, the Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) had also revised its rate for renting out property, making it difficult for railways to sustain. According to railway officials, the ‘rental’ issue is being sorted out with the corporation, but at this point of time, the railways has decided to reopen the counter at Canada Corner for convenience of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rlys-restart-reservation-counter-in-nashik-city/articleshow/78006502.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||South waterlogged, north & central Kol get little rain||Kolkata: Large parts of south Kolkata experienced waterlogging after heavy showers lashed the southern parts of the city on Tuesday. The north, however, was spared the inundation. According to the Met office, the thunderstorm activity in some pockets of Kolkata and suburbs was due to cloud formation from the monsoon trough from Bangladesh reaching Bengal. There is no major weather system that would cause uniform rain throughout the city, the weathermen added. “What happened on Tuesday was localized thunderstorm activity, where some pockets received intense showers while other areas got little or no rain. We expect this type of rain on Wednesday also,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. Sources in the KMC sewerage and drainage department said several south Kolkata neighbourhoods, including Kalighat, Jodhpur Park, Mominpur, Behala, Garia and Jadavpur, received the maximum rain. Going by the KMC records, Kalighat received over 90mm rain between 3pm and 5pm while Jodhpur Park and Kamdahari (Garia) received more than 80mm. “Some other neighbourhoods, like Behala, Mominpur, Kidderpore and Jadavpur, and adjacent areas, were also lashed by a sharp shower in the afternoon. Some of these areas were heavily waterlogged. However, central and north Kolkata localities received very little rain compared to them,” said a KMC drainage department official. “At present, there is no big weather system, like a low-pressure area, that would trigger uniform rain. The maximum temperature will hover around 34°C-35°C and the weather will remain humid and uncomfortable,” added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-waterlogged-north-central-kol-get-little-rain/articleshow/78004821.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||2nd phase of Covaxin trial to start at AIIMS-Patna today||PATNA: After the successful completion of the first phase of human trial of Covaxin, a proposed Covid vaccine, on 44 volunteers, AIIMS-Patna is now set to start the second phase of the trial from Wednesday (September 9). The human trial of the first indigenous BBV152 vaccine in the country, jointly developed by the National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited in collaboration with ICMR, had commenced at AIIMS-Patna on July 15. AIIMS-P officials said all necessary preparations have been made to carry out the second phase of trial from Wednesday. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr C M Singh said 31 volunteers approached the hospital on Monday for the second phase of trial. “The medical examination and screening of all 31 volunteers were done on September 7,” he added. Dr Singh said clinical trial on healthy and physically fit volunteers would start from Wednesday. “Two doses of the vaccine would be administered to each volunteer after they are selected through a screening process and medical examination. The first dose will be given on zero day and the second on day 28. The trial protocol requires follow-ups on days 28, 42, 104 and 194,” he said. Dr Singh added, “We are only selecting healthy people (never infected with Covid-19) between 12 and 65 years of age for the second phase of trial. In the first phase, people in the age group of 18 to 50 years had been invited. Those keen to participate in the trial can contact on 9471408832. The enrolment process will continue for a week.” Altogether 750 volunteers will participate in the phase II of the vaccine trial at 12 selected health facilities in the country, including 50 at AIIMS-Patna. Dr Singh said while the first phase of trial focused on safety, the second phase would take into account efficacy in terms of level of antibodies developed and immune response in the body. “The results of the first phase of trial were encouraging and no volunteer complained of side effects. Altogether 44 people had received two shots of vaccine in the first phase and 15 of them have completed 42 days of trial,” Dr Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2nd-phase-of-covaxin-trial-to-start-at-aiims-patna-today/articleshow/78002401.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Total Unlock: UP govt lifts all Sunday curbs||LUCKNOW: The weekend restrictions are set to be fully lifted from the state with chief minister Yogi Adityanath directing officials to allow shops and commercial establishments to operate on Sundays. The state was having weekend curbs on Saturdays and Sundays for the past two months to check the spread of coronavirus. However, last week the curbs on Saturdays were lifted. On Tuesday, it was announced that there would be no Sunday curbs as well from the next week and the markets will be closed as per pre-Covid weekly arrangements. Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that the CM has focussed on revival of economic activity and therefore, all commercial establishments can now close on days that they were following before the lockdown. The CM also directed officials to ensure that hotels, restaurants and bars outside containment areas are allowed to function. However, in view of rising Covid-19 cases, the government will stress on Covid-19 prevention guidelines, including social distancing, wearing of masks, sanitation, etc, strictly, he said. To deal with the increasing number of cases, the chief minister has asked SGPGI, KGMU and RML to prepare 1,000 more ICU beds. He has said that all the people living in over 19,000 containment zones in the state at present should be tested for Covid-19 infection. The CM has said that in line of the ease of doing business rankings in which UP stood second, the state should now focus on ease of living. For this purpose, he has said, officials should start preparing parameters and ensure that these are implemented at the earliest. During a meeting with Team 11 on Tuesday, the chief minister said that Tehsil Diwas and Thana Diwas should be observed with Covid-19 protocols. Police officials and tehsil officers should meet public and resolve their issues. He added that for the success of these days, it is imperative that they resolve issues in a time-bound manner. CM Yogi said more and more traders should be made to register under GST to increase the state’s collection. Under the Smart City programme, 10 cities identified by the Centre and seven by the state are being developed as smart cities. The CM has said that the development works being undertaken in these 17 cities should be completed at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/total-unlock-up-govt-lifts-all-sunday-curbs/articleshow/78006504.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Stay on appointments of 94,000 teachers to continue||PATNA: The stay on the appointment of teachers for student of Class I to VIII in government schools will continue. The Patna high court on Tuesday refused to vacate the stay, but allowed the government to continue with the selection process as was decided while hearing the matter on July 1. The matter is related to recruitment of around 94,000 teachers in state government schools for which the candidates who had passed the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) in December 2019 were eligible to apply as per the advertisement, but were later barred through the state government order dated June 15 this year. A bench of Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay, while hearing a writ petition of Neeraj Kumar and 70 others challenging the government’s order for changing criteria, had stayed the appointment but allowed the government to continue with the selection process. On Tuesday, the high court fixed September 21 as the next date of hearing. Till then, the state government would have to file its reply that whether it can change the selection and eligibility criteria for recruitment even after publication of advertisement or not. Ritika Rani, counsel for the petitioners, said the state government was granted six weeks’ time to file a reply, but it could not. She appeared in the matter before the bench with counsel Dinu Kumar. “Three intervener petitioners are also in the case now. It was urged from their side to vacate the stay on appointments, but the high court denied granting it after being strongly opposed by us,” she said. The petitioners had earlier submitted that during the pendency of selection process, state government cannot change the criteria. If they wish to do so, a fresh selection process requires to be undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stay-on-appointments-of-94k-teachers-to-continue/articleshow/78003582.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Illegal tree-cutting: Delhi HC seeks explanation from authorities||NEW DELHI: The next time you want to get a tree pruned or branches cut in your area, reach out to the city’s forest or horticulture department. The Delhi high court has taken a tough stand against cutting of trees illegally and sought an explanation from the forest department, police and the south corporation on a petition filed by a local resident of Janakpuri area who complained against cutting of two Amaltash trees in her area. The court also sought the stand of the person who claimed some of the branches of an Amaltash tree fell on his vehicle and damaged it, which is why the other dangerous branches were removed. After justice Navin Chawla sought an explanation on the petition filed by one Geetha, the forest department informed the court it has issued a show-cause notice to the person who cut the tree branches without permission. The department, through counsel Devesh Singh, also assured the judge that no pruning or felling of any tree shall be carried out in the area illegally. In her petition filed by advocates D Bhattacharya and Piyush Sharma, Geetha informed the court that the forest department took no action to prevent the cutting of the trees despite a complaint being lodged by her. Her plea said in absence of a quick reaction team, there is no way to prevent damage to a tree and a fine imposed after the offence is no deterrent. Appearing for the south corporation, standing counsel Gaurang Kanth informed the high court the horticulture department received a call on July 5 from a resident that branches of the tree in front of his house fell due to storm and rain and were hanging on electric wires. After inspection, the workmen removed the branches. Later, however, it was found that heavy pruning of the tree was carried out by Manish Lamba, who had first called the department. However, Lamba maintained that pruning was done by the horticulture department and not by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/illegal-tree-cutting-hc-seeks-explanation-from-authorities/articleshow/78005854.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||BJP’s Satish Sikarwar joins Congress ahead of Madhya Pradesh assembly bypolls||BHOPAL: The bypolls in Gwalior-Chambal region may have a strange line-up — BJP candidates defeated in 2018 by Congress leaders may go head to head again, but fighting under different colours. On Tuesday, BJP leader Satish Sikarwar, whose family has been traditionally influential in Gwalior-Chambal region, joined Congress with scores of supporters, including four councillors. PCC chief and former CM Kamal Nath, welcomed him and said many BJP leaders are switching to Congress because they are unhappy with the saffron party. Sikarwar had lost to Congress’s Munnalal Goyal in Gwalior East assembly seat in 2018 and the two may go head-to-head again in the bypolls, this time after switching sides. Goyal has joined BJP along with Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia and is eyeing re-election. Sikarwar, who lost by 17,819 votes is looking to avenge his defeat. Sikarwar is the third former BJP candidate, who had lost in 2018, to join Congress ahead of byelections. Sixteen of the 27 bypoll-bound seats are in Gwalior-Chambal region, where BJP long-timers are suddenly faced with campaigning for the very people they had fought against, politically, for decades. The influx of the Scindia camp, along with hundreds of supporters and ministers, to what was once the rival camp has sparked discontent among saffron long-timers, who feel the ground slipping beneath their feet. Congress leaders say more BJP leaders are in touch with them to switch over. Speaking to reporters after welcoming Sikarwar, Nath said, “BJP’s leaders and workers are joining Congress in large numbers every day. Yesterday, too, many joined our party, but we do not organise huge events for publicity of such developments. That is BJP’s strategy.” “Today, not only people of the state but even BJP workers are unhappy. That is the situation in Madhya Pradesh,” Nath said, adding that Congress has conducted surveys for the bypolls and the reports are “very encouraging”. “We have no concern and will win all the seats. Voters of the state are very sensible. I have full faith in the people and voters of the 27 seats going for bypoll. They may not vote for me or even Congress party, but will vote for truth,” he added.  BJP claimed all is well even with Sikharwar leaving party. “Sikarwar joining Congress will not alter anything. It doesn’t make any difference to BJP,” home minister Narottam Mishra said. Sikarwar is the third losing BJP candidate to join Congress. On June 18, Ajab Singh Kushwah, who had lost to Congress’ Aidal Singh Kansana in 2018 joined Congress. Former minister Kanhaiya Lal Agarwal, had joined Congress with his supporters on July 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjps-sikarwar-joins-cong-ahead-of-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/78005851.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Do not believe fake posts on Durga Puja night curfew: West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday directed the police to find out who were spreading fake news saying there will be no Durga Puja this year and there will be night curfew during the Pujas. The CM said she would take all responsibility and if it is proved that the government has issued any such order, she will apologize to the public. “There is time. We will meet and discuss and make a decision. A meeting with the Puja organizers has not taken place yet, but it will be done at an appropriate time and situation,” she said. “Fake WhatsApp messages are doing the rounds since morning, spread by an IT cell of a party, saying people will not be allowed to step out during the Puja. The pandemic is on and all celebrations have been cancelled or observed in a restricted manner. But there has been no meeting regarding Durga Puja so far so how can people say things like this?” the CM asked. She then asked cops to trace the culprits. “I do not want to name them. But none will be allowed to carry on this nuisance. They are trying to malign and disrespect to our Durga Puja,” Banerjee said. “Who gave them the right to abuse Bengal? An uncivilized party full of uncultured and uneducated people are involved in terrifying people. They keep doing it through their IT cell. Either prove the government has issued such an order or you have to do 100 squats holding your ears. Eksho bar kan dhore uth bosh korano uchit. I am not afraid of apologizing in public if proved that we are at fault,” she added. Cautioning people against conducting politics with Durga Puja, the CM said she will not tolerate spreading such vulgar news. “It is a pandemic and all festivals, including Poila Baisakh, Eid and Muharram, were celebrated with restrictions. Moreover, there is a gap of a month between Mahalaya — which is on September 17 — and Durga Puja. So there is still time. We are keeping a watch on the situation,” Banerjee said. Recalling an incident from 2016, when a similar fake campaign was launched before the assembly polls saying if elected, Banerjee would drive away all Hindus from Bengal, the chief minister said, “There must be a limit to everything. If you are brave enough, then come forward and say it openly. Why are you spreading fake messages through WhatsApp?” Alleging that some politicians were threatening police and their families, the chief minister said, “It is only for the police that you are able to move around peacefully. The police are guarding you, your car and even when you are going to tea stalls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/do-not-believe-fake-posts-on-durga-puja-night-curfew-cm/articleshow/78004770.cms||Saibal Gupta
September 9, 2020||Patna||RJD hits out at CM Nitish Kumar for attacking Lalu Yadav’s family||PATNA: The RJD has taken exception to CM Nitish Kumar’s remarks on the incarcerated RJD chief and former CM Lalu Prasad’s family at his virtual rally to kick-start JD(U)’s election campaign on Monday. “By raising the issue of Aishwarya Rai (Lalu’s daughter-in-law) at the public platform, Nitish has degraded his dignity and the moral values in public life,” former Rajya Sabha member and national vice-president of RJD Shivanand Tiwari said on Tuesday Tiwari, who had got the opportunity to work both with Lalu and Nitish, said he was shocked to know about Nitish attacking Lalu’s family in such a manner. “He has violated the standards set up by him in public life,” the RJD vice-president told this newspaper. Rajya Sabha member and party’s chief spokesperson Manoj Jha has also expressed his displeasure over Nitish’s remarks targeting Lalu’s family. Nitish. without taking the name of Lalu, had said that a man sitting in jail has hired somebody who is very much active on Twitter and posting comments on political activities in the state. Jha told this newspaper over the phone from New Delhi, “In fact, when I heard Nitish ji, I was surprised. We are political opponents, not enemies,” he said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Rajan Prasad, however, said Nitish has been raising issues related to women empowerment and atrocities against women at the right forum from time to time. “There was nothing personal in his speech and it should not be construed as a personal attack on the family of any individual,” Prasad added. “Be it liquor prohibition or campaign against child marriage, Nitish has always been working for emancipation of women. Moreover, Aishwarya Rai is ‘Bihar ki beti’ and there is nothing wrong in raising the issue of ill-treatment meted out to her by Lalu’s family members,” the JD(U) spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-hits-out-at-cm-for-attacking-lalus-family/articleshow/78003615.cms||Ramashankar
September 9, 2020||Patna||Gun factories busted in Khagaria, Patna||PATNA: In two separate operations, teams of Special Task Force (STF) busted two gun factories in Khagaria and Patna on Tuesday. In the first, STF unearthed a gun factory running under the Mufassil police station area in Khagaria from where 28 sets of semi-finished pistols, two milling machine, one lathe machine, one drilling machine and a large quantity of raw materials were seized. They said six arms smugglers—Santosh Kumar Sharma, Mohammad Arman, Mona Kumar, Mohammad Miraz, Mohammad Salim, and Anil Kumar—were arrested from the spot. They said Santosh is a native Mohanpur village under the Haveli Kharagpur police station area in Munger while rest are natives of Hazratganj Bara village under the Kasim Bazaar police station area in Munger. Sources said the second raid took place at Hardasbigha Halgolia under Khusrupur police station area where firearms were being made inside a hand-pump manufacturing factory. STF sources said 21 semi-finished pistols, one lathe machine, three milling machine, one drill machine and other raw machine were seized from the spot. The four arms smugglers were identified as Muhammad Manauwar, Mohammad Imran, Mohammad Sonu and Mohammad Shakil. STF sources said all arrested persons were natives of Hazratganj Bara of Munger district. Excise inspector thrashes SI: An excise inspector was released on personal bond from Dumra police station in Sitamarhi on Monday night after being detained for almost six hours for alleged thrashing and slamming a police sub-inspector (SI) at Disha Chowk. Dumra SHO Rakesh Ranjan said the government SUV of excise inspector Abhinav Kumar (32) was on the main road at the chowk which had resulted in a traffic jam. Ranjan said SI Kedarnath Prasad (55) was sent to spot for clearing the jam. He said Prasad asked Kumar’s driver to move his vehicle when the inspector thrashed and slammed the SI on road after picking him up resulting grievous head had back injuries. SHO said Prasad received multiple stitches on head and an FIR was registered against Kumar on the basis his statement. Ranjan said the incident took place at around 3pm and inspector was set free after 10pm with condition that he would appear before police or court as per need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gun-factories-busted-in-khagaria-patna/articleshow/78003670.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 cases cross 1.5 lakh-mark in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 cases in state crossed 1.5 lakh-mark on Tuesday with 1,667 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours. The tally so far stands at 1,50,964. A senior RJD MLA was admitted at AIIMS-Patna. With four more deaths officially, the Covid toll in state reached 765. Total 1,34,089 patients have recovered from the infection and 15,838 were still undergoing treatment. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,944 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate stood at 88.98%. He said 1,52,671 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far 43,28,593 samples have been tested in Bihar. The health department reported two more deaths from East Champaran. Patna and Arwal reported one death each. Patna again reported the highest number of 208 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the corresponding district tally to 22,986. However, with 20,786 recoveries, there were only 2022 active cases in Patna. Purnia reported 129 new cases, followed by Araria (119), Bhagalpur (96), East Champaran (68), Muzaffarpur (65), West Champaran (62), Gopalganj (57) and Madhepura (53). AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths on Tuesday. They were from Barachakiya in East Champaran, Imamganj, Samastipur and Chausa in Buxar. AIIMS-P Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said seven patients were discharged and 13 admitted on Tuesday. The new Covid patients admitted at AIIMS-Patna included people from Mukherjee Enclave Road, Sarvodya Nagar, Jalalpur, Agamkuan and Didarganj areas of Patna. No death was reported at NMCH, its nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said. One person was admitted and five were discharged. There were 27 patients admitted in the hospital as on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-cases-cross-1-5-lakh-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/78002836.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Nullah encroachments rock civic body’s standing committee meet||Nashik: The standing committee meeting of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday witnessed a ruckus over encroachments on nullahs in the city. The standing committee members accused the civic officials of not removing the encroachments despite their continuous demand over the past one-and-a-half years. The NMC officials clarified that they had conducted the survey of 22 nullahs and the report is submitted to the special committee led by the additional municipal commissioner. The special committee will take a call on the issue in its meeting next week. Chairman of the NMC standing committee Ganesh Gite directed the civic officials to look into the issue and remove the encroachments on city nullahs immediately. The issue came up during the video conference meeting of the standing committee on Tuesday. Kalpana Pande, a standing committee member, accused the civic administration of ignoring the encroachments on some nullahs which has led to flood-like situations in several places. “Rainwater had entered houses in my ward in Cidco areas. The encroachments have mushroomed along the nullahs and this is causing flooding in residential areas. But the civic officials are not taking any call on the issue,” said Pande. The civic officials had assured that the encroachments will be removed at the standing committee meeting two months ago following directives of the standing committee chairman. However, any action is yet to be taken, added Pande. Sudhakar Badgujar and other members also raised the issue. They said illegal constructions on some of the nullahs may pose a serious danger. An official from the town planning department said they have identified 22 nullahs and conducted the survey. The reports of the survey are to be submitted to the special committee led by the additional municipal commissioner Pravin Ashtikar. Ashtikar said he will conduct a meeting next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nullah-encroachments-rock-civic-bodys-standing-committee-meet/articleshow/78006499.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 9, 2020||Patna||Three kids hurt in celebratory firing, one held||PATNA: Police on Tuesday arrested one Nitish Kumar (32) after three minor children received gunshot injuries in a celebratory firing during a cake-cutting ceremony at his house as part of the birthday celebrations of his six-year-old son. Police said the incident occurred at Shakkarpura village under the Dhanarua police station area in Masaurhi sub-division around 10pm on Monday. SHO of Dhanarua police station Raju Kumar said Raees Kumar (14) and Satish Kumar (15) received gunshot injuries in shoulders while a bullet passed through temple of Himanshu Kumar (17). The SHO said Raees and Satish were admitted to a private hospital in Patna while Himanshu was sent home after treatment at a Dhanarua hospital. “Nitish is a property dealer,” the SHO said, adding it is still not clear who opened the fire during celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-kids-hurt-in-celebratory-firing-one-held/articleshow/78004932.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Business||For India Inc HQ, it’s still home office||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government may have relaxed office attendance rules further to 30% of employee strength from 10%. But leading corporates, which have their HQs in India’s financial capital Mumbai, are in no hurry to bring employees back to offices. At some organisations, while a section of top executives is working out of their office premises, the bulk of employees is still working from home. At JSW Centre, the headquarters of the $12-billion JSW Group, about 30% people are now operating from the office premises. At Motilal Oswal Financial Services, 20-30% of employees have started attending the workplace. JSW Group chairman Sajjan Jindal has been functioning from the conglomerate’s HQ in Bandra Kurla Complex since June 8 when the Maharashtra government first allowed private offices to operate with 10% staff strength. A few directors also returned to work, but the rest of the employees continued to work remotely and from their homes. Some more members have returned to JSW Centre from September 2 when the government raised the office attendance limit to 30%. Those that have started to attend office are vice-presidents. A JSW executive said 30% people are now coming to the JSW Centre, where the total strength before the government implemented the lockdown on March 25 to control the virus, was about 1,000. At the Tata Group’s headquarters ‘Bombay House’ in south Mumbai, the entire staff of about 400 people, including chairman N Chandrasekaran, will continue to work remotely till September-end. The return-to-work plan will involve bringing staff in phases and gradually ramping it up. Chandrasekaran and key members of his team, however, visited Bombay House on certain days amid the pandemic to conduct annual shareholder meetings of various Tata entities. At Motilal Oswal Financial Services, the attendance is 20-30%. Motilal Oswal Financial Services executive director & HR head Sudhir Dhar said, “We continue to tell our employees to avoid public transport if they are coming to the office. Those who are attending office are the ones who have their own vehicle.” With Covid cases still rising, most companies as well as employees are apprehensive about attending office. A KPMG India spokesperson said the firm’s offices are open in case there’s a need for people to come in, based on their client commitments. The rest, said the spokesperson, can continue to work from home. KPMG India partner and head (people, performance & culture) Unmesh Pawar said the number of employees visiting the office is way below the level (30%) and people come to office only if needed. “Most still work from home,” said Pawar. “Everyone needs to book their seats online before they come to the office and a QR code is required to enter. If the designated number of seats are exceeded, then they can either go to another office or WFH. In Mumbai, we have three offices, so employees can find seats in any of these three offices,” said the KPMG spokesperson. MZM Legal managing partner Zulfiquar Memon said, “There is both eagerness and concern in the corporate world with this new Unlock 4 notification. The local transport in Mumbai is not yet normalised and that is a huge deterrent for the staff to travel. Law firms and audit companies are increasing the staff and regulating the attendance roll carefully. But I must say that the fear in the minds of the people in general is still high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/for-india-inc-hq-its-still-home-office/articleshow/78005157.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 9, 2020||Patna||Light a diya at 9pm today, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday asked people to come on their terrace, balcony or outside their houses and light a candle, diya or lantern at 9pm for nine minutes on Wednesday demanding employment and against privatization of government establishments. Tejashwi, who is specifically targeting youths ahead of state assembly election in Bihar, went live on his Facebook page and said, “Self-help groups have decided to switch off the lights of their houses at 9pm and light a candle, earthen lamp or lantern instead to express their anger against unemployment. Our party will support their demand. Even I will be lighting a lantern with my mother. This light for sure will burn the present government, which is full of arrogance.” He further said the time had come to do away with caste politics and focus on employment generation. “We are young and have to do away with caste politics. Remember that unemployment is our biggest enemy. If given a chance, we will work for all. Our party belongs to A to Z,” said Tejashwi. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad said Bihar was facing the problems of unemployment, poverty, migration and hunger and these issues needed to be addressed immediately. A couple of days back, Tejashwi had launched a web portal and a toll-free number asking unemployed youth to give their details. He said his part was preparing a road map to generate employment and will soon come up with a blueprint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/light-a-diya-at-9pm-today-says-tejashwi/articleshow/78004904.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Unnao rape case: CBI for action against an IAS, three IPS||LUCKNOW: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which probed the 2017 Unnao rape case in which the then BJP MLA from Bangarmau, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, has been convicted, has recommended appropriate action against an IAS and three IPS officers then posted in the district. The officers include 2009 batch IAS officer Aditi Singh, who was Unnao DM from January 24 2017, to October 26, 2017. She is at present posted as Hapur DM. Besides, action has also been recommended against 2006 batch Manipur cadre IPS officer Pushpanjali Devi, who served as Unnao SP from October 27 to April 30, 2018. She is now posted as DIG-GRP, Lucknow. The CBI has also recommended action against 2009 batch IPS officer Neha Pandey, who was Unnao SP from February 2, 2016 to October 26, 2017. Pandey is now on deputation in the Intelligence Bureau (IB). The third police officer is Ashtabhuja Singh, who was posted in Unnao as Additional Superintendent of police then and is commandant PAC 12th battalion in Ambedkarnagar now. He was given IPS rank last year. A senior home department official told TOI that the recommendation sent by the CBI is under consideration and the government will take suitable action in time. The DGP headquarters, too, has a similar view. The CBI has stated that these top officers failed to do the needful when the matter was reported to them by the rape survivor. The agency had sent names of these officers to the Uttar Pradesh government in the last week of February, but as per officials in the home department, specific charges were not mentioned, following which it has sent the list again. According to the central agency, the girl was raped in June 2017 by the then MLA Sengar, his brother and their henchmen, but intitally FIR for kidnapping was lodged. The survivor and her family kept approaching the senior officials of Unnao but her compliant was not entertained. CBI said that the case had come up to all the above named officers but they had failed to lodge a complaint or taken action. CBI on the basis of the victim’s family allegations had also questioned these four officers for not entertaining her complaint of rape against the then MLA. Pandey was the district police chief in 2017 at the time of crime. The victim’s family had also alleged that on April 3, 2018, Devi had not entertained their complaint when the victim’s father was assaulted by Sengar’s brother at the Maakhi police station. Ashtabhuja Singh had also served as the ASP in the same period. The case came to light when the survivor tried to immolate self near the CM residence, seeking justice, on April 8, 2018 and her father succumbed to his injuries a day later. After the ‘Unnao rape case’ grabbed countrywide attention, the UP government transferred the case to the CBI. The agency registered five cases and arrested Sengar and his brother. The BJP expelled Sengar and after the survivor and her family members met with a mysterious accident in Rae Bareli, the Supreme Court, on August 1, 2019, transferred all the cases from Lucknow CBI court to a court in Delhi. Sengar was convicted in the case on December 16, 2020, and is serving life-term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-rape-case-cbi-for-action-against-an-ias-3-ips/articleshow/78006525.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kadi bootlegging: HC refuses to quash FIRs||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday refused to quash two FIRs filed against nine cops of Kadi police station, who were in May booked for bootlegging and cheating, after they were caught dumping a stock of liquor in a canal. The issue came to the fore after an NDRF team found out 132 sealed bottles of IMFL from the Narmada canal after local residents complained that police had been dumping liquor there after bringing it in a private vehicle. The police officials’ claim of innocence and demand for quashing two FIRs against them got the biggest blow from CCTV footage of Kadi police station and the statement of the driver of the private vehicle. While rejecting the request to junk the FIR, Justice Gita Gopi refused to buy the argument of the policemen that they were acting on orders issued by their superior officer. The judge observed that the argument was devoid of any merits since police officials “are required to perform acts, which are legal”. The court elaborated on this and said, “The applicants are governed by the provisions of the Gujarat Police Manual and they cannot take shelter under the umbrella of orders/instructions by the superior officer if their act itself is illegal. The applicants had the option to keep themselves away from the activity of unloading the muddamal prohibited liquor from Room No.62 and of destroying the stock by dumping it into the canal. However, by participating in the aforesaid illegal act, the applicants equally stand liable for the illegal acts even if the same may have been performed under the instructions of the superior police officer.” The court opined that the alleged involvement of cops in bootlegging must be investigated thoroughly in order to go into the root of the matter. The two FIRs came to be filed because of a a deficit of about 5,974 bottles of liquor, with a total value of Rs 12.15 lakh, and an excess of 1,159 bottles, with a total value of Rs 3.10 lakh. The FIRs said that cops used House No. 62 at Police Lines in Kadi to store the seized IMFL stock. They filled seven vehicles with the liquor bottles, and sold the liquor stocked on one vehicle. The bottles in the six other vehicles were allegedly dumped in the canal. A total of nine persons, including seven policemen, have been booked under laws dealing with liquor prohibition besides criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by public servants and destruction of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kadi-bootlegging-hc-refuses-to-quash-firs/articleshow/78004763.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Meerut||Covid positive illegal arms makers escapes quarantine, nabbed||BIJNOR: An illegal arms manufacturer, who was arrested five days ago and placed in a Covid centre at Swahedi village when he later tested Covid-19 positive, escaped from the centre around 11.30 am on Tuesday, but was rearrested from Noorpur sometime later. Later on, the Bijnor superintendent of police suspended a sub-inspector and two constables for dereliction of duty. The accused, Mohd Wajid (22), was lodged in Bijnor prison after he was arrested under the Arms Act on September 3. But when he tested positive in jail, he was moved to the Covid centre. When Wajid’s escape was discovered, it threw the cops on duty at the centre in disarray. But the police soon swung into action. According to SP Bijnor Dharamveer Singh, “Three people had been arrested on September 3 for manufacturing illegal arms and sent to jail, where Wajid tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the quarantine centre at Swahedi village, where 50 patients were already being treated. On Tuesday morning, when Wajid escaped, I immediately announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for his arrest, and set up three teams to arrest him. He was later nabbed from Noorpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-arms-manufacturer-who-tested-covid-ve-after-arrest-escapes-quarantine-recaptured/articleshow/78003323.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 9, 2020||Meerut||Delhi policeman shot dead in UP’s Baghpat||MEERUT: A 35-year-old constable of Delhi Police was shot dead in UP’s Baghpat district as he was heading home on a motorcycle. Manish Kumar, who has also served in the security of several VIPs, died on Tuesday morning at a hospital in Meerut. Currently deployed in the traffic police department, Kumar often travelled back home in Meerut’s Jani area after his tiring schedule. On Monday afternoon, on his way back home, he was intercepted by four men riding two bikes in Singhawali Ahir area of Baghpat. After a brief argument, they shot him in the stomach, and left him bleeding by the road. Kumar was rushed to a hospital in Meerut where he succumbed to the bullet wound the next day. Inspector general (Meerut range) Praveen Kumar Tripathi said, “Four bike-borne assailants waylaid him (the constable) when he was returning home from work. According to a witness, they spoke to him, a scuffle followed and he was shot at by one of them.” Kumar had joined Delhi Police in 2011. According to his family, he was also deployed in VIP duties before being moved to the traffic police department recently. IG Tripathi said, “It looks like the attackers were known to Kumar. Eyewitnesses saw Kumar comfortably talking to the assailants.” Another police officer said, “He was seen arguing with the assailants, and was later shot at. From there, he was rushed to the district hospital in Baghpat, and later to a hospital in Meerut after his condition deteriorated.” “Prima facie, the incident does not point towards loot. But, still, we are looking into all the angles,” the IG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-cop-shot-dead-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/78003314.cms||Piyush Rai
September 9, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan HC orders status quo on Adani solar project in Jaisalmer dist||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday ordered status quo on the solar power project by Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Limited being developed on 6,115-bigha land in Nedan village of Pokhran tehsil in Jaisalmer district. Allowing the appeal by aggrieved villagers, who had been cultivating this land since ages, the division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas issued notices to the state government and Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Ltd., listing the matter for hearing on September 29 after the AAG sought two weeks’ time to file the reply. The order comes after aggrieved villagers had moved the division bench challenging the order of the single bench, which had dismissed their petition in November last year. Counsel for the petitioners, advocate Moti Singh Rajpurohit said the land had been allotted to the company in violation of many rules in January 2018 for the establishment of a solar energy park at Nedan village in Pokhran. “We argued that as per the Rajasthan Land Revenue Rules 2007, the land could be allotted to only Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation or Rajasthan Solar Park Development Corporation and not direct to any private player or investor”, Rajpurohit said. Besides this, the land in question was also specified as barani or cultivable in the revenue records but the revenue department changed the nature of the land to barren through an order dated 30/5/2017 giving sanction for allotment of the land for the establishment of the park. “We objected to this alteration in the specification as illegal. As per the allotment rules, a land reserved for some purpose and that to cultivable, could not be allotted for any other purpose,” said Rajpurohit stating that this entire land of 6115 bighas was neither a waste land nor barren and the petitioners had been cultivating this land since ages. Inspite of this, the RREC sent a recommendation for allotment of the land for setting up of a solar plant in violation of the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Allotment of Land for Agriculture Purposes) Rules 1970, in 2015. Another point, which the petitioners’ counsel raised, was the impact of the project on the conservation of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), the state bird of Rajasthan. “Since the land in question was adjacent to village Rasla known as Rasla Park, reserved for conservation of the GIB, the project would have an adverse impact on the efforts for conservation of the bird,” Rajpurohit said. The AAG Rekha Borana sought two weeks’ time for filing her reply stating that the project was already in progress, after which the court deferred the hearing till September 29 ordering status quo as it existed at the time or order, thereby staying the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-orders-status-quo-on-adani-solar-project-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/78010128.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||SWR resumes service of 7 pairs of trains||Hubballi: South Western Railway (SWR) is resuming the services of seven pairs of trains, all of which are fully reserved. Stoppages shall be restricted in view of suggestions by the state government. Train No. 06539 KSR Bengaluru–Mysuru Special Express will depart KSR Bengaluru at 10:30 hrs and arrive at Mysuru at 13:30 hrs daily (except Sunday) from September 12 till further advise. In the return direction, train No. 06540 Mysuru–KSR Bengaluru Special Express will depart Mysuru at 14:30 hrs and arrive at KSR Bengaluru at 17:10 hrs daily (except Sunday) from September 12 till further advice. Train No. 06587 Yeshwantpur–Bikaner Bi-Weekly Special Express will depart Yeshwantpur at 05:00 hrs on every Sunday and Friday from September 13 till further advise, and it arrives at Bikaner at 06:50 hrs on Tuesday and Sunday. In the return direction, train No. 06588 Bikaner–Yeshwantpur Bi-Weekly Special Express will depart Bikaner at 22:15 hrs on every Tuesday and Sunday from September 15 till further advise, and arrive at Yeshwantpur at 03:15 hrs on Friday and Wednesday. Train No. 06535 Mysuru–Solapur Daily Special Express will depart Mysuru at 15:45 hrs daily from September 12 till further advise and arrive at Solapur at 12:40 hrs on the next day. In the return direction, train No. 06536 Solapur–Mysuru Daily Special Express will depart Solapur at 14:10 hrs daily from September 13 till further advise and arrive at Mysuru at 11:00 hrs the next day. Train No. 06527 KSR Bengaluru–New Delhi Daily Special Express will depart KSR Bengaluru at 19:00 hrs daily from September 12 till further advise and arrive at New Delhi at 10:30 hrs two days later. In the return direction, train No. 06528 New Delhi–KSR Bengaluru Daily Special Express will depart New Delhi at 21:15 hrs daily from September 14 till further advise and arrive at KSR Bengaluru at 14:00 hrs two days later. Train No. 02591 Gorakhpur–Yeshwantpur Bi–Weekly Superfast Special Express will depart Gorakhpur at 06:35 hrs on every Saturday and Monday from September 12 till further advise and arrive at Yeshwantpur at 04:45 hrs Monday and Wednesday. In the return direction, train No. 02592 Yeshwantpur–Gorakhpur Bi–Weekly Superfast Special Express will depart Yeshwantpur at 17:20 hrs on every Monday and Thursday from September 14 till further advise and arrive at Gorakhpur at 15:05 hrs. Train No. 02975 Mysuru–Jaipur Bi–Weekly Superfast Special Express will depart Mysuru at 10:40 hrs on every Thursday and Saturday from September 17 till further advise and arrive at Jaipur at 06:15 hrs on Saturday and Wednesday. In the return direction, train No.02976 Jaipur–Mysuru Bi–Weekly Superfast Special Express will depart Jaipur at 19:35 hrs on Monday and Wednesday from September 14 till further advise and arrive at Mysuru at 15:30 hrs on Wednesday and Friday. Train No. 02509 Bengaluru Cantonment–Guwahati Tri–Weekly Special Express will depart Bengaluru Cantonment at 23:40 hrs on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from September 16 till further advise and arrive at Guwahati at 06:00 hrs on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. In the return direction, train No.02510 Guwahati–Bengaluru Cantonment Tri–Weekly Special Express will depart Guwahati at 06:20 hrs on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday from September 13 till further advise and arrive at Bengaluru Cantonment at 11:40 hrs on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/swr-resumes-service-of-7-pairs-of-trains/articleshow/77998342.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC orders status quo on Adani solar project in Jaisalmer dist||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday ordered status quo on the solar power project by Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Limited being developed on 6,115-bigha land in Nedan village of Pokhran tehsil in Jaisalmer district. Allowing the appeal by aggrieved villagers, who had been cultivating this land since ages, the division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas issued notices to the state government and Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Ltd., listing the matter for hearing on September 29 after the AAG sought two weeks’ time to file the reply. The order comes after aggrieved villagers had moved the division bench challenging the order of the single bench, which had dismissed their petition in November last year. Counsel for the petitioners, advocate Moti Singh Rajpurohit said the land had been allotted to the company in violation of many rules in January 2018 for the establishment of a solar energy park at Nedan village in Pokhran. “We argued that as per the Rajasthan Land Revenue Rules 2007, the land could be allotted to only Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation or Rajasthan Solar Park Development Corporation and not direct to any private player or investor”, Rajpurohit said. Besides this, the land in question was also specified as barani or cultivable in the revenue records but the revenue department changed the nature of the land to barren through an order dated 30/5/2017 giving sanction for allotment of the land for the establishment of the park. “We objected to this alteration in the specification as illegal. As per the allotment rules, a land reserved for some purpose and that to cultivable, could not be allotted for any other purpose,” said Rajpurohit stating that this entire land of 6115 bighas was neither a waste land nor barren and the petitioners had been cultivating this land since ages. Inspite of this, the RREC sent a recommendation for allotment of the land for setting up of a solar plant in violation of the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Allotment of Land for Agriculture Purposes) Rules 1970, in 2015. Another point, which the petitioners’ counsel raised, was the impact of the project on the conservation of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), the state bird of Rajasthan. “Since the land in question was adjacent to village Rasla known as Rasla Park, reserved for conservation of the GIB, the project would have an adverse impact on the efforts for conservation of the bird,” Rajpurohit said. The AAG Rekha Borana sought two weeks’ time for filing her reply stating that the project was already in progress, after which the court deferred the hearing till September 29 ordering status quo as it existed at the time or order, thereby staying the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-orders-status-quo-on-adani-solar-project-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/78010126.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan HC orders status quo on Adani solar project in Jaisalmer dist||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday ordered status quo on the solar power project by Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Limited being developed on 6,115-bigha land in Nedan village of Pokhran tehsil in Jaisalmer district. Allowing the appeal by aggrieved villagers, who had been cultivating this land since ages, the division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas issued notices to the state government and Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Ltd., listing the matter for hearing on September 29 after the AAG sought two weeks’ time to file the reply. The order comes after aggrieved villagers had moved the division bench challenging the order of the single bench, which had dismissed their petition in November last year. Counsel for the petitioners, advocate Moti Singh Rajpurohit said the land had been allotted to the company in violation of many rules in January 2018 for the establishment of a solar energy park at Nedan village in Pokhran. “We argued that as per the Rajasthan Land Revenue Rules 2007, the land could be allotted to only Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation or Rajasthan Solar Park Development Corporation and not direct to any private player or investor”, Rajpurohit said. Besides this, the land in question was also specified as barani or cultivable in the revenue records but the revenue department changed the nature of the land to barren through an order dated 30/5/2017 giving sanction for allotment of the land for the establishment of the park. “We objected to this alteration in the specification as illegal. As per the allotment rules, a land reserved for some purpose and that to cultivable, could not be allotted for any other purpose,” said Rajpurohit stating that this entire land of 6115 bighas was neither a waste land nor barren and the petitioners had been cultivating this land since ages. Inspite of this, the RREC sent a recommendation for allotment of the land for setting up of a solar plant in violation of the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Allotment of Land for Agriculture Purposes) Rules 1970, in 2015. Another point, which the petitioners’ counsel raised, was the impact of the project on the conservation of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), the state bird of Rajasthan. “Since the land in question was adjacent to village Rasla known as Rasla Park, reserved for conservation of the GIB, the project would have an adverse impact on the efforts for conservation of the bird,” Rajpurohit said. The AAG Rekha Borana sought two weeks’ time for filing her reply stating that the project was already in progress, after which the court deferred the hearing till September 29 ordering status quo as it existed at the time or order, thereby staying the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hc-orders-status-quo-on-adani-solar-project-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/78010129.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC orders status quo on Adani solar project in Jaisalmer dist||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday ordered status quo on the solar power project by Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Limited being developed on 6,115-bigha land in Nedan village of Pokhran tehsil in Jaisalmer district. Allowing the appeal by aggrieved villagers, who had been cultivating this land since ages, the division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas issued notices to the state government and Adani Renewable Energy Park Rajasthan Ltd., listing the matter for hearing on September 29 after the AAG sought two weeks’ time to file the reply. The order comes after aggrieved villagers had moved the division bench challenging the order of the single bench, which had dismissed their petition in November last year. Counsel for the petitioners, advocate Moti Singh Rajpurohit said the land had been allotted to the company in violation of many rules in January 2018 for the establishment of a solar energy park at Nedan village in Pokhran. “We argued that as per the Rajasthan Land Revenue Rules 2007, the land could be allotted to only Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation or Rajasthan Solar Park Development Corporation and not direct to any private player or investor”, Rajpurohit said. Besides this, the land in question was also specified as barani or cultivable in the revenue records but the revenue department changed the nature of the land to barren through an order dated 30/5/2017 giving sanction for allotment of the land for the establishment of the park. “We objected to this alteration in the specification as illegal. As per the allotment rules, a land reserved for some purpose and that to cultivable, could not be allotted for any other purpose,” said Rajpurohit stating that this entire land of 6115 bighas was neither a waste land nor barren and the petitioners had been cultivating this land since ages. Inspite of this, the RREC sent a recommendation for allotment of the land for setting up of a solar plant in violation of the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Allotment of Land for Agriculture Purposes) Rules 1970, in 2015. Another point, which the petitioners’ counsel raised, was the impact of the project on the conservation of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), the state bird of Rajasthan. “Since the land in question was adjacent to village Rasla known as Rasla Park, reserved for conservation of the GIB, the project would have an adverse impact on the efforts for conservation of the bird,” Rajpurohit said. The AAG Rekha Borana sought two weeks’ time for filing her reply stating that the project was already in progress, after which the court deferred the hearing till September 29 ordering status quo as it existed at the time or order, thereby staying the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-orders-status-quo-on-adani-solar-project-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/78005945.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer cops bust gang that duped bachelors||Ajmer: Police on Tuesday busted a gang that duped unmarried men on the lines of movie ‘Dolly ki Doli’. The six accused have been arrested, four of whom are from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, Neeraj Sharma (33) of Purani Mandi gave a complaint that he was worried about the marriage of his brother-in-law Lavlesh Sharma (38) residing in Nagara. Recently, he saw an advertisement of Nrimal Kumar residing in Khajana Gali of Ajmer who arranged marriages. Neeraj contacted Nirmal Kumar and saw photo of a 25-year-old girl. He decided to see the girl and her family. The same day they went to a guest house where the girl’s family was said to be staying. Neeraj and his family went and saw Kiran who was accompanied by her father, brother and relatives. Neeraj and his family decided to fix Lavlesh’s marriage to Kiran but Nirmal Kumar asked Rs 2.50 lakh as the girl’s family had to arrange things for rituals. Nirmal also showed the Aadhar card of the girl as proof of her age and address. The next day, when Neeraj went to the guest house to confirm some rituals he came to know that the family had left. Mediator Nirmal Kumar was also missing. When he failed to contact them, Neeraj filed a complaint. City police constituted a team and caught Avnish Duby alias Lala (25, girl’s brother), Gyanchand (55, who posed as girl’s father), Parasnath (girl’s uncle), Ramanand (another uncle), all residents of UP, along with Kiran (25), a resident of Kuchaman City in Nagaur, who posed as the bride and mediator Nirmal Kumar (48). Police arrested all six of them and produced in them in the court which sent them to jail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-cops-bust-gang-that-duped-bachelors/articleshow/78005957.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court rejects petition to suspend life term of rape convict Falahari Baba||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court has dismissed the petition seeking suspension of sentence of Kaushlendra Prapannacharya, alias Falahari Baba, who was convicted for sexual assault on a devotee from Jabalpur. A lower court in Alwar had sentenced the self-styled godman to life term in September 2018. The division bench of Justice Gordhan Bardar and Justice Manoj Vyas dismissed the application for suspension of sentence on Tuesday. Pankaj Gupta, counsel for Falahari Baba, argued that the allegations were false and fabricated pointing to the delay in lodging an FIR. Madhav Mitra, counsel for the survivor, opposed the application for suspension of sentence saying the appellant was a godman and the family were devotees of Baba. He said the Baba had not only broken the trust of the family, but has indulged in the most heinous crime by outraging the modesty of a woman. He said law gives no exclusion for godman from the clutches of law and no relaxation be given. He cited the cases of Baba Ram Rahim and Asharam Bapu languishing in jails for similar charges. A sessions court in Alwar on September 29, 2018 convicted the self-styled godman for raping a 21-year-old law intern at his ashram and awarded him life imprisonment. The court had also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the 61-year-old. The woman went to the Alwar ashram of Baba from Jaipur where she was studying in a law college to hand over a cheque received for internship in reverence to Baba. She was called to Baba’s room on the evening of August 7, 2017 and was subjected to sexual assault according to the complaint registered at Aravalli Vihar Police station in Alwar on July 20, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-rejects-petition-to-suspend-life-term-of-rape-convict-baba/articleshow/78005969.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Meerut||Delhi-Meerut rapid corridor: India inks $500 mn loan pact||MEERUT: India on Tuesday inked a loan pact of $500 million with Asian Development Bank (ADB) to fund the ambitious high speed Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor. It is the first tranche of a $1 billion loan approved by ADB for the 82-km railway network. The signatories to the loan agreement were Sameer Kumar Khare, additional secretary (Fund Bank and ADB) at the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Kenichi Yokoyama, country director of ADB’s India Resident Mission. The RRTS which will reduce travel time between Delhi and Meerut to mere 50-minute is set to be operational by 2025. The corridor has 24 stations including two depots at Duhai and Modipuram. The corridor will originate from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi, and Modipuram in Meerut will be the last stop. In the first phase, the Meerut-Ghaziabad-Delhi corridor will be completed with a cost of Rs 30,274 crore by 2025. NCRTC, the implementing agency of RRTS, is a joint venture of the Centre (50%) and state governments of Haryana (12.5%), NCT Delhi (12.5%), Uttar Pradesh (12.5%) and Rajasthan (12.5%). Spokesperson of NCRTC, Sudhir Sharma, said, “The proceeds of this tranche of US $500 million (Rs 3,750 crore) loan will be used for financing civil works, tracks, station buildings, multi-modal hubs, maintenance depots, and traction and power supply of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor.” The RRTS is first of the three prioritized corridors planned for implementation in the country. The other two are Delhi-Gurugram-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/india-inks-500-million-loan-pact-with-adb-for-delhi-meerut-rrts-corridor/articleshow/78003353.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Contractors escape strict action even as road samples fail||Ludhiana: Even as the samples collected from various roads in the city are failing regularly, the MC authorities are silent about action against contractors as except stopping payment not even a single contractor has been blacklisted from participating in future road work tendering process of the MC. Till date, no action has been taken against officials who are responsible for taking care of the ongoing road construction work. Since last year, the practice to get the samples of roads is going on and civic body officials are taking the help from Guru Nanak Engineering College in taking samples and testing these. Some of the areas from samples have been taken are Haibowal, Circular Road, Chander Nagar, Ashok Nagar, etc. Recently seven road samples failed and those were collected from Balbir Enclave in Haibowal. The officials claimed that seven roads were constructed in the locality without informing the department and sampling was also done after receiving the complaint from the officials that the contractor constructed the roads without their knowledge. When contacted, additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said, “We have taken samples from various roads and where samples have failed the contractor did not get payment unless they rectified the issue and the road was constructed again.” When asked about the officials concerned, he said he had recommended the action against a few officials but action had to be taken at senior level. Meanwhile, some residents opined that stopping payment was not a punishment. A resident of Haibowal, Harish Sharma, said the issue of inferior material being used in the construction of roads would not be resolved unless exemplary actions was taken against the contractors as well as the officials concerned. He said roads get damage time and again which is clear wastage of public money. Road work may start from Sept 15 Mayor Balkar Sandhu has claimed that if weather conditions get supportive, then they would start road works from September 15. He claimed that he had issued the instructions to the roads and bridges branch to be prepared and make the hotmix plant functional for repair of roads in city. Earlier due to lockdown and then the rainy season the repair of roads could not be undertaken properly. The situation in many areas as far as roads are concerned is getting worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/contractors-escape-strict-action-even-as-road-samples-fail/articleshow/78004776.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Meerut||After 94% line loss at Muzaffarnagar village, check shows 83 households stealing power||Muzaffarnagar: After receiving a report from Lucknow that Bhokaredi village, that gets electricity from Bhopa feeder line, accounts for 94% line loss in the district, a massive checking operation was conducted there on Tuesday by power department officials. It was found that 83 households were pilfering power. Cases of power theft were registered against all the erring households. According to sources, a power department team accompanied by heavy police force went checking house-to-house at Bhokaredi village. Officials found 65 households were stealing electricity directly from the power line while 18 households were found using power after their connection was disconnected for for not paying electricity bills.Yatender Kumar, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Bhopa power station, said, "Bhokaredi village is listed as most line loss area. As many as 83 households were booked for stealing electricity from the main power line. Further action is being taken."The power department is also facing 40% line loss in city areas like Rampuram, Khalapar, Shamli stand, Numaish camp and Minakshi Chowk, said IP Singh, city SDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-94-line-loss-at-muzaffarnagar-village-check-shows-83-households-stealing-power/articleshow/78003341.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||MDS V-C, aides in ACB remand||Ajmer: A lower court on Tuesday handed over MDS University vice-chancellor R P Singh and his two accomplices — driver-cum-secretary Ranjeet Singh and owner of a private college of Merta City Mahipal Singh — to ACB remand for 10 days. The ACB on Tuesday had found a diary from Ranjeet Singh in which transactions of lakhs of rupees from 20 private colleges were mentioned. These colleges are from Ajmer, Nagaur, Tonk and Bhilwara. ACB also recovered Rs 1.07 lakh in cash from the bedroom of Singh. The ACB claimed that they had enough evidence to prove that a racket was operating under the flagship of Singh and lakhs of rupees were collected as bribe from private colleges. The bureau had on Monday evening trapped Ranjeet Singh, driver-cum-secretary of the V-C from university premises while taking bribe of Rs 2.20 lakh from Mahipal, representative of a private college of Merta city. ACB IG Dinesh NM also reached Ajmer on Tuesday and the team investigated the office and residence of Singh and collected documents that disclosed corruption at large. The team claimed that they got enough evidence to prove a racket was operating led by Singh. The complaint was made in June by a private college of Bhilwara which stated that it had applied for the affiliation of the college and submitted all documents as well as prescribed fees. But he got a call from Ranjeet Singh and he asked to come to university where the college was asked to pay Rs 2 lakh if it wanted an affiliation. From that day, ACB put the number of Ranjeet Singh on surveillance. The agency found that Kanha College of Merta City of Nagaur demanded to make Rahul Mirdha Memorial College of Nagaur as an examination centre. On the application, Ranjeet Singh demanded Rs 5 lakh as bribe but the matter was settled at Rs 3 lakh. When Mahipal came to hand over the bribe to Ranjeet Singh on Monday, both were trapped. Later at night, ACB arrested R P Singh. This is the second time in the history of MDS University where ACB laid a trap. In 2018, a team of ACB arrested Satish Agarwal, head of department of management department, while taking bribe of Rs 50,000 from a scholar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mds-v-c-aides-in-acb-remand/articleshow/78005968.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Meerut||Jeweller shot dead in busy Meerut showroom||MEERUT: Four armed men barged into a showroom in a busy Meerut market, shot dead a jeweller and left with cash and silver ornaments worth lakhs on Tuesday afternoon. The jeweler, Aman Jain, 32, was shot in the head and breathed his last in a hospital a few hours later. The shocked trader community held a protest against police and the administration. The daylight murder of the bullion trader also unsettled police brass which is under pressure to improve law and order and to come down heavily on the criminals. Just a day before, the local police, in a massive clampdown, had arrested 140 people with over 240 illegal arms. The murder took place in city’s busy Jagrati Vihar market when unsuspecting traders and curious shoppers were busy bargaining with each other, while a mass of labourers toiled outside under the hot sun. No one dared to challenge the four assailants as they walked away after shooting Aman, who had courageously attacked and pinned down one of the attackers. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Sahani said, “According to eyewitnesses, four robbers had entered the showroom of jeweller Satish Jain and demanded cash and jewellery at gunpoint. It was then that Satish’s son Aman entered and overpowered one of the attackers. But he was shot in the head by one of the assailants. The entire area has been cordoned off and CCTV footage is being scanned for clues.” Superintendent of police (SP) Akhilesh Narayan said that several teams have been formed to nab the accused. “We are investigating all angles, including enmity.” Soon after the incident, shutters were pulled down and slogans raised against police. Anger was palpable among the trader community of the city. Akash Manglik, vice president of Meerut Bullion Traders Association, said, “Our business is at all-time low because of the slowdown in the economy, coupled with Covid1-9. And now this. Where do we go now? Despite all the claims of the police department, criminals barge into a showroom and kill a jeweller. This is a reflection of police inefficiency. We will launch agitation now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jeweller-shot-dead-in-busy-meerut-showroom-traders-up-in-arms/articleshow/78003361.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur man gets Rs 3.71-cr power bill, villagers shocked||Udaipur: Pemaram Mana Dangi, a farmer in Gingla village of Salumber block in Udaipur district, became an overnight sensation. His cellphone hasn’t stopped ringing for two days now after a copy of his electricity bill happened to float on social media. The Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd as well as the state government are being trolled for sending him a bill of over Rs 3cr for just two months. The state power department charged a whooping Rs 3,71,61,507 for the months of June and July that was billed in August and had to be paid by September 3. The bill mentioned a late payment fee of Rs 7.16 lakh if the amount was not paid by the stipulated date. When the shocked peasant contacted the power supply office, the officials told him that it was a misprint and a new bill of around Rs 6K has been generated after corrections. The peasant breathed some relief. He ultimately paid the revised bill without late fee. "It was a real shock. I lost my senses for some seconds. There had been no agricultural work in the fields so the pumps were off. I had rented out a shop which repairs and washes bikes. So there is no question of excess usage,” said Pemaram. However, it was not just Pemaram. Another villager Shankarlal Pandey too received a bill demanding Rs 1.71 lakh against power consumption for two months. Assistant revenue officer of Salumber circle, Mahendra Kumar said there had been some billing errors and misprints due to technical fault which were being rectified. Pemaram’s bill was generated by default which was not meant to be served to the customer, however, by mistake, it reached him, said Kumar. BJP leaders are vehemently protesting the inflated electricity bills which are being widely reported from many villages. “The Congress government is making power bill a tool to loot the poor public. The electricity department is working with eyes shut and sending bills that have become an eyesore for the people. If they don’t mend their ways, we will resort to mass agitation,” said Chandra Shekhar Joshi, BJP district president (rural).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-man-gets-rs-3-71-cr-power-bill-villagers-shocked/articleshow/78005971.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Maderna allowed med check-up in Jaipur||Jodhpur: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday gave permission to the main accused in the sensational Bhanwari Devi abduction and murder case Mahipal Maderna for a medical examination in Jaipur. The single bench of Justice Dinesh Mehta gave the order while hearing an application by Maderna seeking interim bail for proper treatment at higher medical centre indicating that the petitioner is suffering from stage-IV cancer of oral cavity. His counsel Pradeep Choudhary said that Maderna has been diagnosed with some malignancy during a check-up recently at AIIMS, Jodhpur. “This report by AIIMS has advised PET CT scan to ascertain the stage of malignancy and decide future course of action/treatment,” said Choudhary. Since the facility of PET CT scan was not available in Jodhpur but in Jaipur, the court granted him permission to go to Jaipur for the said test directing the superintendent of police (Jodhpur Rural) for arranging the test for the petitioner in Jaipur. The court directed Maderna to be sent to Jaipur preferably by Wednesday evening along with two constables and stated that an officer could also be sent, if considered necessary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maderna-allowed-med-check-up-in-jaipur/articleshow/78005970.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||2 LIT employees test positive, office closed for Wednesday||Ludhiana: After a few employees reported about fever and cough in Ludhiana Improvement Trust office, the officials had asked for testing of the employees. The LIT authorities requested the civil surgeon office for testing of employees so that they could be sure that they all were fine. On Tuesday, samples were collected of the employees. The LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium shared that office of LIT will remain close on Wednesday as two employees were tested positive so they have to sanitise the office premises precautionary. The health officials checked samples of 76 employees, out of which reports of 28 would come in the next two-three days and rest of 48 samples were taken through rapid test. The health officials claimed that two employees tested positive in rapid test. Swinging into immediate action the department sent those employees home for quarantine. The executive engineer of LIT, Boota Ram, said, "We got the tests done as a precaution because some of the employees were complaining about bad health. We requested the civil surgeon office for the tests. A team came on Tuesday and samples were collected.” He said two employees had tested positive and they were sent home for quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-lit-employees-test-positive-office-closed-for-wednesday/articleshow/78004798.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lobbying on for Rajya Sabha berths as 10 MPs to retire in Nov||Lucknow: Hectic lobbying is on in the BJP for the Rajya Sabha berth as 10 members of the Upper House are set to retire in November. Among those retiring in November are three from the BJP -- Union minister for civil aviation and urban development Hardip Singh Puri, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and a new entrant in the party Neeraj Shekhar, the son of former PM Chandra Shekhar. Besides, the terms of three Samajwadi Party members -- Ram Gopal Yadav, Chandrapal Singh Yadav and Ravi Verma, three from the BSP -- Javed Ali Khan, Raja Ram and Bir Singh and Congress's PL Punia are also coming to an end. Given the strength of MLAs of different political parties, the BJP will be the biggest gainer as it will easily manage to send nine of its candidates to the RS and the Samajwadi Party one. The BJP would see a little challenge only if the Opposition combines for one more candidate. Out of nine likely wins for the BJP, the candidature of Hardip Singh Puri is seen as a forgone conclusion as not only he is a Union minister, but also close to the BJP high command and is handling the Modi government’s key projects. After Puri, the three Thakurs who are lobbying hard are Arun Singh, Neeraj Shekhar and BJP vice-president and senior leader Daya Shankar Singh. While Arun Singh and Neeraj Shekhar in all probability would retain their seats, Daya Shankar Singh, who had been fielded by the party twice in the Council elections but failed to win, might get full sympathy of the party this time. Even after his 30-year-long political struggle, Daya Shankar Singh has failed to enter any of the august Houses, while his non-political wife Swati Singh has become minister in the Yogi government. At the same time it might be a difficult call for the BJP to send three Rajputs to the RS as the party is already facing a charge of showing a pro-Rajput tilt. Thus, the possibility of one of them going out of the RS race cannot be ruled out. Though the BJP also faces the dilemma of sending Brahmins and Dalits to the RS, but then it would have a limited choice as they are getting restless. Among the Brahmin aspirants is a party veteran Laxmi Kant Bajpai, who is waiting desperately for some decent position. Among others who are lobbying with the party high command for the RS berth are spokesman Sambit Patra, Bihar’s Muslim face Shahnawaz Hussain and Sunil Shastri, son of late Lal Bahadur Shastri. Moreover, two corporate chiefs – both from Gujarat – are also seeking entry in the RS for being on the right side of the ruling establishment in Delhi. The BJP has already surprised many in the political circles by sending two of its leaders Jai Prakash Nishad and Syed Zafar Islam to the RS on the seats which were fell vacant following the death of SP leader Beni Prasad Verma and Amar Singh. The biggest losers this time will be the BSP and the Congress which will lose three and one seats respectively. Both the parties are not in a position to get even a single seat. The Samajwadi Party, too, is set to lose two of out of the three seats it is holding right now. In all likelihood, national president of the party Akhilesh Yadav will repeat his uncle and party’s national general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav to avoid differences within the family, though the party leadership is unhappy the way names of Ram Gopal Yadav’s family members figured in the infamous Yadav Singh case. Not only this, Ram Gopal, who is also in charge of party’s national affairs in Delhi, has failed to play a proactive role and the Samajwadi Party has lost its impact at the national level too. Even then he is all set to be retained in the RS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lobbying-on-for-rajya-sabha-berths-as-10-mps-to-retire-in-nov/articleshow/78006555.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 9, 2020||Pune||Experts seek proper use of underutilized health hubs||Pune: Experts and health activists want the civic body to strengthen its underutilized network of hospitals, maternity homes and dispensaries for the treatment of Covid-19 patients rather than only looking at improving services at the CoEP jumbo healthcare facility.“The huge resources at the PMC-run Kamala Nehru hospital in Mangalwar Peth, Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada and its network of 18 maternity homes across the city are vastly unutilized. If there is a collective will, PMC authorities can easily provide 800 oxygen beds at their healthcare facilities for the Covid-19 patients,” medical practitioner and health activist Sanjay Dabhade said.Rajiv Gandhi hospital is a four-storey building, but only its ground floor and to some extent first floor are being utilized. Kamla Nehru hospital is a 450-bed facility with bedside piped oxygen supply. Similarly, the three-storey Balasaheb Thakeray hospital at Swargate and five-storey Bindu Madhav Thakeray hospital in Kothrud are lying idle.The PMC authorities argued that Kamla Nehru hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital were non-Covid hospitals.“But the distinction between Covid and non-Covid hospitals has been completely blurred by now,” health activist Abhijeet More said. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India, shared the same view. “Such a distinction is impractical and does not carry meaning as so many of the infected patients are the asymptomatic carriers of the infection.”When contacted, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “More emphasis has to be given for the argumentation of the civic health infrastructure. The PMC is working towards that and help is being sought under the corporate social responsibility initiatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-seek-proper-use-of-underutilized-health-hubs/articleshow/78005981.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Former AAP member fired upon||Vadodara: A former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member was fired upon in broad daylight by two unidentified persons at her home in crowded Yakutpura area on Tuesday noon. The victim, Ameena Sheikh, was attacked by two unidentified persons at the doorsteps of her house behind soda factory in Chhipwad locality in Yakutpura allegedly over a property dispute within the family. According to police, the two assailants, one of whom was a woman, called Sheikh near the gate of her house under the pretext of giving an invitation card for the wedding. After going through the CCTV camera footages, police said that the man gave the invitation card to Sheikh and immediately the woman, whose face was covered with a dupatta, fired one round from the gun. The bullet hit Sheikh on right side of her chest. The two accused then fled on a scooter. Sheikh’s husband, Naeem, a known face in the locality, told police that her wife was attacked over a long-pending property dispute within the family. The dispute has been going on for several years over the house in which Sheikh lives and other ancestral property. In fact, Naeem has even put a notice outside the house that the property is owned and possessed by him and nobody should trespass. “The dispute is between the victim’s husband and his brother. We have suspicion on three persons and teams have been formed to nab them,” said Lakhdheersinh Zala, deputy commissioner of police. On Tuesday, when the cops reached the homes of the suspects they were not found there. After the attack, Sheikh was taken to a private hospital from where she was referred to SSG Hospital. A surgery was performed on her and the bullet was successfully removed from her body. Locals said that Sheikh is a social activist and has in the past mobilized citizens over civic and political issues. In the past she was also a member of AAP, but had resigned later. The attack attracted huge crowd outside Sheikh’s house due to which cops had to cordon the road and restrict movement of vehicles. An offence of attempt to murder and under Arms Act was registered against unidentified persons at the city police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-aap-member-fired-upon/articleshow/78003472.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown eased, chain snatchers back on streets in Nashik||NASHIK: Chain-snatching cases are again being reported from across the city after a brief drop in such incidents during the lockdown. In the latest case, a woman was robbed of her gold chain in the Ambad area on Monday evening. The Ambad police have registered a case against two unidentified persons. The woman was waiting at the Praney bus stop, along the Kamatwade road at 6 pm, when she was targetted. She was heading back home from work. While she was waiting for her colleague at the bus stop, two unidentified bike-borne persons came close to her and the one riding pillion snatched her gold chain worth Rs 27,000. The due then sped away. In another case, a 53-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain when she and her husband were returning home from a medical store on August 23 in the Mumbai Naka area. According to the police, there were 41 chain robberies by July end. Of them, 30 cases were reported in the first two months of this year. After the lockdown was annonced in March and police checkposts were set up, there was a significant drop in such cases. However, since the unlock process began, chain robbers have again become active, said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-eased-chain-snatchers-back-on-streets/articleshow/78006536.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Farmers demand spl train for Guwahati, Gorakhpur||Nashik: Farmers in Nashik district have demanded another special train to transport their produce for Gorakhpur and Guwahati stations following the success of Kisan Vishesh train from Devlali railway station in Nashik district to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. The Kisan Vishesh train has come as a big boon for farmers in the district because it picked up and delivered goods from Nashik to the respective destinations at reasonable prices. It also ensured that the quality of the farm produce did not deteriorate. The farmers who produce capsicum, cabbage, cauliflower and carrots usually find market in Muzaffarpur, Gorakhpur, Guwahati and other areas in the north and north-eastern parts of the country. According to farmers, road transportation takes 36-40 hours considering the delivery of goods to Kolkata, Bihar or Uttar Pradesh. It takes even longer for the goods to reach Guwahati. Rail transport comparatively takes less time to reach the destinations, ensuring better quality of produce. “The train schedules are stricter. We know our produce will reach the market at a particular time. This is the biggest benefit of the Kisan Vishesh train. Hence, we want it for Guwahati as well,” said Kamlesh Mogal, a trader. Sandesh Patil, a small farmer who began transporting goods by train directly to destinations, said, “Small farmers and traders also can use the rail service to earn their living. Kisan Vishesh is surely a boon for them.” The railway authorities said the farmers’ demand has been forwarded to seniors and that it is likely that a train from Mumbai may start for the same and Nashik will get good space in that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-demand-spl-train-for-guwahati-gorakhpur/articleshow/78006590.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP counters claims of Cong on ration kits found in school||Ludhiana: The leaders and supporters of the BJP have once again raised the questions on the claims of Congress leaders as well as the officials of food and civil supplies about those ration kits which were found from a private school of a Congress leader last month. On Tuesday, the BJP workers handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, Varinder Sharma, for getting a proper probe conducted in this case. BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal in the complaint mentioned that they had visited a private school in Sandhu Nagar, Civil City in ward number 91 on August 27. He said they had checked three rooms where they found 4,000 ration kits stocked inside and when they asked the Congress leader, he claimed that it was from here that ration kits were being distributed in the entire constituency but he refused to confirm that there were 4,000 kits and rather said that there were only 450. Bansal claimed that Congress district president Ashwani Sharma also conducted a press conference and stated that for north constituency around 31,000 ration kits had been released and out of those only 700 kits were remaining. However, contrary to this when they asked from food and civil supplies officials, they said for North constituency they had sent 20,000 ration kits and when they checked the school premises there were only 700 kits in the rooms. Bansal claimed that there was a clear difference in the figures, so there was a need to conduct a thorough probe in this matter. Bansal claimed that there is no logic for keeping the ration kits in a private school. Nobody in the constituency knows how to get ration from there and what kind of documents were required to be completed in case any person required the ration kit. He claimed that something was fishy in ration distribution, so it should be checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-counters-claims-of-cong-on-ration-kits-found-in-school/articleshow/78004819.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ceramics industry to gain as govt reduces gas prices||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced an additional reduction of Rs 2.50 per standard cubic metre (SCM) in natural gas prices for ceramics industries. The government had earlier reduced prices by Rs 2 per SCM. Gas will now cost Rs 24.91 per SCM for such units. The move will reduce the gas bill by 16% compared to May 2020, according to the state government, and some 1,160 ceramics manufacturing units in Morbi, Surendranagar and Sabarkantha will benefit from the reduction.According to state government officials, the move will help ceramics industry players of Gujarat compete in the world market and will boost exports. The industry is passing through a rough phase, with the current Covid-19 situation.Morbi is the country’s largest ceramics manufacturing cluster with at least 850 units. The move will be a relief to industry players, as their production cost will fall.“This will reduce the cost of production by 5% and help industries become more competitive. It will also help bring in more investment in the sector,” said Nilesh Jetparia, president, Morbi Ceramics Association (MCA).Prafulla Gattani, executive director, Asian Granito India Ltd, said, “The government decision will greatly benefit exports, especially when new opportunities are opening up in the global market for players of the ceramic industry. Being more competitive will help bring in new orders.”According to industry players, ceramic tile makers have received export orders from the US, the UK, Indonesia, Mexico and European and Middle Eastern countries. Jetparia also said that an anti-China sentiment in several countries has also helped Morbi’s ceramic industry secure more orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ceramics-industry-to-gain-as-govt-reduces-gas-prices/articleshow/78004874.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Mystery shrouds mass suicide by Pak refugees||Jodhpur: A month since the mysterious deaths of 11 Pak refugees in Dechu village of Jodhpur, it is confirmed that it was a mass suicide, but the investigation of the police has not come to any conclusion with regard to the allegations, which led this refugee family to take such an extreme step. The lone survivor Kewlaram had given a complaint to the police against about a dozen persons and the video and suicide note, recovered by the police from the suicide spot, had also accused the relatives and agents, but police have not yet been able to take any decisive step. A senior police officer said that all of them have been interrogated but substantiation of the allegations against them would require more investigation as far as the suicide note and video narration was concerned. Serious allegations against Mandore and Dechu police had also been leveled in the note and video by one of the sisters Laxmi stating that police harassed and threatened them in connivance of some agents. “We have gathered all the documents related to the cases with police and have been probing every aspect, every angle of the allegations,” said the officer. On the other hand, president of Seematn Lok Sangthan, Hindu Singh Sodha is adamant on judicial investigation of the entire incident stating that how a fair investigation by police could be expected where the police itself was accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mystery-shrouds-mass-suicide-by-pak-refugees/articleshow/78006003.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 snuffs out 15 lives, infects 304||Times News Network Ludhiana: Fifteen residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, when 304 from the district and 33 outsiders tested positive.Besides, eight outsiders succumbed to the virus here, including two each from Jalandhar and Jammu & Kashmir, and one each from Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Faridkot and Moga.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the 15 Ludhiana casualties included a 85-year-old man of Rishi Nagar; a 57-year-old diabetic patient from Sahnewal; a 55-year-old patient with diabetes and hypertension; a 78-year-old man from Dugri, Phase-II, who was suffering from intestinal obstruction; a 48-year-old woman from Cheema Chowk with kidney problem and hypertension; and a 64-year-old man from Manakwal, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, kidney and heart disease. The other fatalities were of a 85-year-old diabetic man from Haibowal Kalan; a 58-year-old diabetic man from BRS Nagar; a 86-year-old man from Tagore Nagar with diabetes, heart and hypertension issues; a 82-year-old man from Jagraon who has suffering from heart diseases; a 67-year-old man from Khanna; a 68-year-old man from Gaushala Road who had diabetes, TB and hypertension; a 70-year-old woman from Guru Nanak Colony who had hypertension; a 49-year-old cancer patient of Jamalpur; and a 50-year-old woman of Ludhiana.With this, the toll tally of Ludhiana has reached 522 and that of outsiders stands at 137.The health official said of the 337 positive cases reported on Tuesday, 304 were from Ludhiana. They included 94 from the flu corner, 82 from OPD, 40 contacts of positive patients, one cop, five health-care workers, three domestic / international travellers, two undertrials, six with severe acute respiratory infections and 71 others. The case count of Ludhiana is 12,302 and that of outsiders is 1,332. The CMO said so far, samples of 1,69,608 suspected patients have been taken. To date, 9,894 people have recovered from Covid-19, which is 80.43%. As many as 1,260 samples were taken for testing on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-snuffs-out-15-lives-infects-304/articleshow/78003378.cms||---
September 9, 2020||India||Russia lays groundwork for India-China meet||NEW DELHI: While denying that it could mediate on its own in the India-China border standoff, Russia on Tuesday laid the groundwork for a meeting between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow as it said the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation could provide a platform for building mutual trust between member states. Ahead of the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10, Russia’s deputy chief of mission here, Roman Babushkin, said Russia will encourage every opportunity and effort for a dialogue between India and China to sort out their differences. Foreign minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi will have bilateral talks on the margins of SCO in what will be their first physical meeting since news broke out in early May of fresh bor der strife in Ladakh. The two will meet at a time talks for troop disengagement in eastern Ladakh and LAC de-escalation are teetering on the brink. “The SCO charter doesn’t allow any bilateral dispute to be involved but it provides a comfortable platform for building mutual trust, expanding cooperation, finding common ground and eventually, creating conditions for dialogue between countries. We are witnessing a lot of opportunities on the SCO sidelines for bilateral dialogue and are pleased to see that Russian and Chinese defence ministers met recently and that foreign ministers too will be meeting,” Babushkin said in an interaction with journalists. “We would encourage an outcome which provides an impetus to talks for deescalation and disengagement,” he said, adding that Russia was confident that the two sides will find a mutually acceptable solution via talks. Significantly, he also expressed hope India will find “common ground” with Pakistan within the “framework of consensus for SCO cooperation”. Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will also participate in the SCO meet. According to official sources here, there’s no bilateral meeting scheduled with Qureshi for now. When asked about possible supply of arms to Pakistan, Babushkin said Russia will remain sensitive to India’s concerns. The meeting on the SCO sidelines will provide Jaishankar and Wang an opportunity to look at the border situation afresh. Their phone con versation in June helped establish the broad principles for disengagement but the situation seems to have changed in the past few weeks with Indian troops taking control of strategic peaks on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. According to sources, the Chinese side hasn’t been able to come to terms with the “readjustment” in deployment of troops that India made on the southern bank. Babushkin, though, ruled out any chance of Moscow mediating in the dispute unless specifically asked to do so by both countries. India has also ruled out mediation by any foreign power. Nevertheless, India has sought to keep Moscow informed about the LAC developments, not least because of its close ties with Beijing. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev was the first foreign envoy to be briefed about the situation in June by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/russia-lays-groundwork-for-india-china-meet/articleshow/78007283.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Foreigner arrested in Jaipur for possessing intoxicants||JAIPUR: The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) arrested a foreign national for living illegally in Jaipur on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the ATS team raided a residential compound in Devi Nagar under Shyam Nagar police station. “A foreign national identified as Dmytor Borkovets (31), resident of Ukraine, was found with no valid passport and visa. During the raid, we recovered intoxicants—25gm Charas, 95gm Ganja along with 34 Ganja plants grown by her in another part of the building,” said an ATS official. “We are investigating her purpose of staying in Jaipur and finding out her local connects,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/foreigner-arrested-for-possessing-intoxicants/articleshow/78006000.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||NIA arrests another KKM Pune member in Elgar Parishad case||Mumbai: The NIA on Tuesday arrested another Pune-based member of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) in the Elgar Parishad case. Jyoti Jagtap (33) is the third woman and 15th accused to be arrested in the case. The two other KKM members, Sagar Gorkhe (32) and Ramesh Gaichor (36), also Pune residents who were arrested on Monday, were produced before the special NIA court and remanded to police custody until Friday. The NIA’s case states that the Elgar Parishad that took place in Pune on December 31, 2017, was funded by the banned CPI (Maoist) as part of a larger conspiracy to create social unrest and overthrow the government. It said that inflammatory speeches at the event contributed to the 2018 Koregaon Bhima clashes. “It has also come on record that the accused were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also it is established that during their visits of KKM in jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement,” the NIA said. Advocate Nihalsing Rathod opposed the investigating agency’s plea seeking remand and said that Gorkhe and Gaichor were forced to give statements and arrested when they refused to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nia-arrests-another-kkm-pune-member-in-elgar-parishad-case/articleshow/78005993.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Big boost for self-help groups:Take-home-ration MoU with UN||Lucknow: In a big push to women self-help groups (SHGs), the state rural livelihood mission (SRLM) on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with UN World Food Programme for manufacture and supply of Take Home Ration (THR) through SHGs. Around 200 women SHG enterprises are expected to gain business with Rs 1,200 crore annual turnover through this collaboration. This will be almost double the loans received by SHGs in 20 years, said UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who presided over the function. Yogi said, the plan is to initiate local production of take-home-ration at the block level with back-up of the extensive SHG network of the rural livelihood mission covering 18 districts, 204 blocks and 42,228 anganwadi centres. Eighteen districts which would be covered under the project include Aligarh, Ambedkarnagar, Auraiya, Baghpat, Banda, Bijnor, Chandauli, Etawah, Fatehpur, Gorakhpur, Kannauj, Kheri, Lucknow, Mainpuri, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Sultanpur and Unnao. Later, all 75 districts straddling 825 blocks are proposed to be covered under the programme. The CM said, it’s estimated the SHG network will help reach at least 33.78 lakh beneficiaries to provide 240 days of livelihood to each woman. Under the Start-up Village Entrepreneurship Project (SVEP) as many as 20,689 women have been linked to small industries. “The idea is to enable a woman from a poor family to get associated with an SHG and raise capacity and financial capabilities which would help them move out of poverty,” said Yogi, who also interacted with SHG members through video-conferencing and stressed on training for efficient execution of the programme. The CM said, the programme would make women independent and stop harassment. Under the programme, UPSRLM would attain technological know-how from UN world food programme and a nutrition plant would be established in Bighapur developmental block of Unnao and Malawan development block of Fatehpur. Besides, food technologists at the state level and regional coordinator in three to four districts would be appointed. The UN world food programme has helped women SHGs in Kerala, Rajasthan and Odisha. The CM said, the objective of the programme is also to fulfil food requirement under Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). “Under SRLM, selected women SHGs have been turned into micro-enterprises which have a bank account. The scheme would allow 3,000 women SHGs to become enterprises and would get self-employment with a monthly income between Rs 5000 and Rs 6000,” he said. The chief minister said, SHGs came in handy in the battle against the pandemic. Women SHGs made 94.26 lakh masks, over 50,000 PPE kits, 25.9 lakh school dress and around 14,000 litres of sanitizers. Bishow Parajuli, country director, United Nations World Food Programme, said while the primary objective of the mission is to ensure sustainable livelihood opportunities for SHG women through micro-enterprises, this initiative holds enormous significance and relevance for Uttar Pradesh from the point of maternal and child health indicators as well. THR will be produced in accordance with recipe plan, calorie and protein amounts prescribed for beneficiaries of the supplementary nutrition program of ICDS and scheme for adolescent girls, in the National Food Security Act (2013).BOXSupreme Court in its February 26, 2019 verdict had come down heavily on fixing the district as a unit area because of which “several players” had been effectively ousted. The division bench of Justice Arun Misra and Justice Deepak Gupta, while hearing Vaishnorani Mahila Bachhat Gat versus State of Maharashtra had observed it would be appropriate to form groups of smaller areas such as panchayat or groups of panchayats within the district so that supply could be decentralized. A senior official in UP government said, application of the order and roping in SHGs in distribution of nutritious food among women and children has displayed political will to break the otherwise influential syndicates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/big-boost-for-self-help-groupstake-home-ration-mou-with-un/articleshow/78006596.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kids comprise 1% of city’s Covid cases||Bhubaneswar: Children constitute just one per cent of the Covid positive cases in the city. So far, 141 children between 0-5 years of age have been infected. Of them, 85 have recovered. The state figures also showed around 7,000 patients between the ages of 0-14, which is about 8 per cent of the total cases in the state. Officials of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) said there were very few cases of children getting the virus because of a strict lockdown that focused on children and the elderly. “From Day One of the lockdown in March, we brought out circulars saying the elderly and the children shouldn’t expose themselves to the virus. They should, as far as possible, stay indoors. When people were seen moving about with children, they were asked to return by police and enforcement teams,” said a BMC officer. The few children who have been affected are those who contracted the virus from their parents and near and dear ones, or asymptomatic positive persons. In some homes, isolation of patients was inadequate, leading to spread of infection among children. Manoj Sahu, a noted city-based doctor, said 95 per cent of children affected won’t show symptoms as their ACE2 receptor level is low. “The ACE2 receptor allows the virus to enter and reside in the body. The few children who have been detected with Covid were tested on the basis of suspicion. There may be some more who are asymptomatic now, and as a result haven’t been tested. However, the government’s policy of not allowing children below 10 to come out during the pandemic helped reduce infection in kids,” he explained to TOI. Data up to August 9 revealed that youths between the ages of 19-45 constituted 57 per cent of the total cases in the city. The city is yet to report any death of patients in this age group. Experts, however, said the city may report some more cases of Covid in children as the restrictions on people’s movement have almost all been lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kids-comprise-1-of-citys-covid-cases/articleshow/78003413.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Sale, refilling of small cylinders goes on unabated in city||tnnLudhiana: A cylinder blast in a migrant quarter near Basti Jodhewal on Monday night has once again brought to the fore easy availability of small cylinders in the market. At some places, illegal refilling of cylinders has also been going on unabated. The small cylinders are sold at shops near areas where migrant labourers live. The refilling of cylinders takes place in Basti Jodhewal, Laxmi Nagar, Shivpuri, Dhandhari and Giaspura. Earlier, cylinders were also sold openly, but now due to fear of law these are dealt in on the sly. The blast left five members of a family injured. The condition of a woman and her son is critical and they were first referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and then to PGI, Chandigarh. BJP councillor from ward number 8 Yashpal Chaudhary said, “I had visited the spot and met people there. I had visited the area earlier too, but never heard about illegal refilling of cylinders. Yes, small dhabas are being run in these quarters. Perhaps the incident also took place when family members were cooking.” A migrant labourer in Giaspura said, “Workers living alone in these areas use these small cylinders because getting big ones requires a legal gas connection, which is not possible for many in the absence of documents. Shopkeepers sell these small cylinders and refilling also takes place, but secretly. Shopkeepers do not refill in front of the customers and ask them to come after an hour or so.” District food and civil supplies officer Harveen Kaur could not be contacted for comments. On April 26, 2018, a cylinder blast and flash fire in a house in Samrat Colony, Giaspura, had resulted in the death of 14 persons and 20 were seriously injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sale-refilling-of-small-cylinders-goes-on-unabated-in-city/articleshow/78003391.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Make sure we don’t have to carry oxygen everywhere, 12-yr-old writes toPM||Nagpur: Concerned about the serious health implications of children breathing toxic air in the country, 12-year-old Haridwar-based gloal climate activist Ridhima Pandey has written an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on behalf of all kids, seeking immediate steps against rising air pollution. Highlighting the plight of people living in densely populated cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and others that report high levels of air pollution, Ridhima has requested the PM to order strict implementation of all rules and regulations, which will safeguard the health of every citizen, especially children who are the most vulnerable. The young activist shared copy of her letter on September 7, the first International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. She highlighted that every year many cities like Delhi witnessed severe air pollution that made breathing difficult post-October. “I worry that if a 12-year-old like me finds it hard to breathe, what it must be like for babies or children younger to me living in highly polluted cities like Delhi and others,” she stated. The young activist was among 16 children including global climate activist Greta Thunberg who filed a complaint at the United Nations Climate Action Summit against the lack of government action on climate change. Through her letter, she has urged the PM to give strict instructions to all the concerned authorities and officers-in-charge of managing pollution across the country to strictly implement all the rules and regulations so that citizens can breathe clean air. “Kindly help us by making sure an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the future,” she stated. Sharing an anecdote with the PM, she said once at school her teacher asked all the students about their worst nightmares. “I told the teacher that mine was coming to school with an oxygen cylinder because the air was becoming so polluted. This nightmare is still my biggest worry because polluted air is one of the biggest problems in our country today,” she wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/make-sure-we-dont-have-to-carry-oxygen-everywhere-12-yr-old-writes-topm/articleshow/78019520.cms||Manka Behl
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Beware of cyber frauds, think before giving access to apps||Ludhiana: Downloading mobile applications from random links and allowing access to your mobile data can put you in trouble. Cyber experts say allowing access to the mobile applications for contacts, images, among others, can leak your data, which fraudsters can use for sending spam or fraud messages, causing loss of money. These days, several people are receiving fraud WhatsApp messages about winning Rs 25-lakh lottery through Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC). In these messages, fraudsters ask people to make a call to the provided WhatsApp number or click on a link to claim the cash reward. Cyber security expert Rakshit Tandon says, “Fraudsters also give reference of Covid-19 outbreak, stating that the company wants to help people as everyone is facing losses. So people assume it to be an authentic offer.”On asking how the fraudsters get mobile numbers of targets, he said, “In a recent case, they hacked WhatsApp of a person and then sent messages to the contacts. Besides, the cases of data breach of different companies have been reported, which can also result in such frauds.” He says besides hacking or data breach, there are three mistakes that help the cyber scamsters. “First is giving access to your contacts and other information to the mobile applications while downloading them. For example, if we download a mobile application in which we don’t need to use our contacts, we should never give the access. Second, never download an application from the links shared by people. Always download from the Playstore or Apple store. Third is to keep privacy and security high.” Be cautiousDon’ts Don’t click on random links Don’t download a mobile application from any link Don’t given access of your contacts and other information to every application Don’t fall prey to any luring prize or cash reward Do’s Download a mobile application from app store Keep your information private and e-wallets secure with passwords||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/beware-of-cyber-frauds-think-before-giving-access-to-apps/articleshow/78003398.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We maintained social distancing’||Ludhiana: Many eyebrows were raised over a meeting of newly formed district office-bearers of the BJP on Tuesday evening. A formal complaint was also made by former Congress councillor Parminder Mehta to the police commissioner, who said the state government had not allowed political gatherings or meetings then how this was taking place. The BJP leaders on the other hand attacked Congress government by saying that when restaurants could serve food even after 9pm then why there is an uproar on a small meeting organised by their party. In the complaint Mehta mentioned that on one hand the BJP leaders were raising a hue and cry over increasing Covid cases in the state and now they were ignoring all guidelines issued by the Centre and the state. He alleged that there were more than 50 persons in one meeting hall and there was no social distancing. He said police and administration should take action against the BJP leadership. He also alleged that two-three leaders involved in the meeting were also present in a meeting that was held in Chandigarh. After that meeting organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar had tested positive and the question was whether these leaders would get their tests done, he asked. After the complaint cops also reached the spot and they checked how many people were inside the meeting. They clicked the pictures of the ongoing meeting as well. Commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal clarified that political gatherings were not allowed and he had sent a team to investigate the matter. District BJP president Pushpinder Singal said, “We had permission to conduct this meeting through Circuit House officials and we had maintained social distance in the meeting.” He said the government has allowed shops and restaurants to remain open by 9pm and there are restaurants where all social distancing norms are being ignored. He said administration was not taking action against these restaurants or hotels but if they conducted a meeting a hue and cry was being raised. Singal claimed that earlier they were doing virtual meetings but it was essential to do it on Tuesday as new team had been formed and one gathering was must. Meanwhile, DC Varinder Sharma could not be contacted for the comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-maintained-social-distancing/articleshow/78004828.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Hotel industry jubilant after ministers recommend bar fee waiver||Ludhiana: Hotel, restaurant and bar owners having bar licences are jubilant after a group of Punjab ministers while taking action on the demand of the businessmen have recommended to chief minister Amarinder Singh to waive the annual license fee of the bars for 2020-21, proportionately from April to September, 2020, in view of the losses suffered due to the pandemic. Ludhiana businessmen belonging to hospitality industry have been meeting several ministers since Monday on this issue and their hard work seems to have paid off as it is likely that on Wednesday the cabinet will approve the recommendation of the ministers regarding waiving bar license fee. The hotel industry representatives are also sure that the ceiling of allowing only 30 persons per function will also be hiked by the cabinet in Wednesday’s meeting. Speaking to TOI on the issue, Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “We are grateful to the ministers of Punjab government, especially finance minister Manpreet Badal, housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria and forests and printing and stationery minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for listening to our problems patiently and giving a positive response to us. Based upon our inputs they have recommended proportionate waiving of the bar licence fee for the first two quarters April-June and July-September, 2020. This move will prove to be a big step in cutting down the quantum of our losses which we have suffered on account of months of closure and restrictions on us. In addition to this they also agreed to take more corrective measures in coming days to give more relief to our industry, which is the worst sufferer of Covid-19 lockdown.” According to Amarjeet Singh Green, another office-bearer of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, “Monday’s meeting with the ministers was very fruitful and every issue was discussed in detail. In addition to accepting our demand for waiving the bar licence fee, the ministers have also assured us that the current ceiling of allowing only 30 persons to attend marriage and other social functions in hotels, banquet halls , marriage palaces will be increased from Wednesday. Though we have demanded that the central government’s recommendation of allowing up to 100 persons per function should be followed, the ministers have assured us that the final decision will be taken in accordance with the central government’s guidelines only.” Rakesh Sharma, general manager of a city-based hotel, “The waiver of six months in bar licence fee is a very big breather for the hospitality industry and it will reduce the financial burden of fixed expenses on the hospitality industry units, which have bar licences. Though this alone is not enough and the government should instead announce some special package for the hospitality industry, which is already under huge burden of expenses and increasing loans. I think the state government should also launch a scheme of mortgage-free loan with repayment period after at least three years. If it is introduced it will help in the revival of the hotels, restaurants and all other units immensely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hotel-industry-jubilant-after-ministers-recommend-bar-fee-waiver/articleshow/78004850.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||DPI asks schools to wrap up admissions by Sept 30||Jaideep.Shenoy Mangaluru: Department of public instruction has directed government, aided and recognised unaided schools in the state to complete the admission process for the academic year 2020-21 by September 30. The department in its order dated September 5 has also permitted private unaided schools to officially collect the first instalment of fees from parents, which under no circumstances can be hiked compared to fees collected the previous year. K G Jagadeesha, commissioner, DPI in the order, copy of which is available with TOI said in backdrop of the pandemic and economic crisis, educational institutions were however free to pare the fees from what it collected the previous academic year. The fees so collected should be compulsorily used to pay the salaries of both teaching and non-teaching staff and there should be no cause for complaints. Noting that the pandemic still continues to pose question marks on when physical instructions can be started in schools and given the disruptive influence this prolonged period away from educational activities can have on students, Jagadeesha said this could lead to a situation of students losing interest in education. This could also lead to increase in school dropouts and children could also become victims of child labour and child marriages, he said. This makes it all the more imperative for educational institutions to keep students engaged virtually if not physically till such time that schools can start functioning normally, he said. Teachers need to raise the confidence levels of students in the interim and involve them in continuous learning and reading activities. It is in this backdrop that the need to formalise the admissions of students before September 30 becomes important, he noted. The state government has initiated the Vidyagama scheme specifically to address this issue of continuity in education, he said. Department is also continuing the Samvedhana programme on Doordarshan Chandana. Private unaided institutions are free to piggyback on these two government programmes or come up with their own alternatives. But in doing so, they cannot collect any additional fees from the parents, Jagadeesha noted. Schools are required to follow the timetable announced by the department without fail, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dpi-asks-schools-to-wrap-up-admissions-by-sept-30/articleshow/78003404.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Rough desert ride in store for CSK||Chennai: When M S Dhoni, in a cryptic message on Instagram, announced his retirement from international cricket on Independence Day evening, it seemed he was looking to take all the pressure away from himself ahead of the Indian Premier League.The speculation about the longevity of his international career had been one of the talking points of Indian cricket since July 2019, when India bowed out of the ODI World Cup in England. Dhoni, too, added fuel to the fire, and had the IPL started in March, he would probably have made a bid for a comeback into the Indian T20 team for one last time.But Covid-19 hit the last nail on Dhoni’s international cricket coffin and by the time a rescheduled IPL in Dubai was announced, the Jharkhand man knew that the fire had died down. But that didn’t mean Dhoni was done with his cricket --- doing well for CSK meant a lot to him and he knew it was important for him to keep the focus on the team performance, and not an individual, if CSK had to have any chance in the post-Covid world. But since the team landed in Dubai after a hastily-arranged five-day camp in Chennai, things have gone in a direction which Dhoni would never have envisaged.With 13 of the CSK contingent including players Deepak Chahar and Ruturaj Gaikwad testing positive for Covid, questions were raised about the logic of having a practice camp in Chennai and the team’s apparent lack of awareness with regard to use of masks while travelling. The second wave of bad news came in the form of Dhoni’s trusted lieutenant Suresh Raina’s sudden pull-out from IPL citing "personal reasons". Strong suggestions of a bio-bubble breach by Raina — a serious offence in this context — and a consequent face-off with Dhoni was suggested by sources. Raina’s departure meant the composition of the team was compromised. CSK’s No. 3 batsman since its inception was suddenly out and the team management is still in the process of figuring out a replacement for the crucial slot. The fact that young Ruturaj, who was impressive in Chennai, tested positive didn’t help the team’s cause either.The third blow for the team came in the form of star offie Harbhajan Singh’s pull-out from the tournament. The slow wickets of Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi --- the three venues of the tournament --- were supposed to be paradise for the crafty Harbhajan, but the Punjab star chose family’s health concerns ahead of IPL.The team, which has played three of the best offies in the modern game — Muttiah Muralitharan, R Ashwin and Bhajji — over the past 13 years, now suddenly don’t have an offie of pedigree in their line-up on tracks conducive to spin. Add to that the number of players in the line-up who have retired from international cricket. Shane Watson, Ambati Rayudu, Dwayne Bravo, Imran Tahir and Dhoni --- the list looks long and it’s quite a job for the coaches to get them into game mode before September 19.The fact that all these players are staying away from their families for so long isn’t helping the cause. Watson told on Sunday how big a challenge it is for him to keep his mind focused, over a period of 80 days with a hotel to ground routine. But the one positive vibe that is coming out from the CSK camp is that it is not getting rattled by the difficulties. When the Covid scare and Raina incident happened, one expected them to ask for a postponement of their first game against the mighty Mumbai Indians on September 19. But Dhoni insisted CSK won’t allow Mumbai and the other teams the psychological edge.The team had a few practice sessions and another problem they faced was the lack of good pace bowlers at the nets. While their foreign bowlers either hadn’t arrived or were still in quarantine, Deepak Chahar and two other Indian practice bowlers were in isolation after testing positive. But Dhoni & Co used that time to hone their skills against slow bowling and as per reports from the camp, things have started falling into place. Footage of Dhoni’s huge six in training is already breaking the internet and the CSK faithfuls believe that once the ball rolls, the yellow wave will take over the desert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rough-desert-ride-in-store-for-csk/articleshow/78004855.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt asks police HQ to introduce lane driving on nat’l highways||Bhubaneswar: The state government has asked the police headquarters to introduce lane driving on the national highways to reduce road accidents. Transport secretary Madhusudan Padhi has written to director general of police (DGP) Abhay to explore the feasibility of launching the lane driving system first under the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissionerate police jurisdiction. The transport department said the Supreme Court had on November 30, 2017, issued a number of directions, related to road safety measures to all states. In one of the directives, the Supreme Court had categorically asked the states to strictly implement motor vehicles (driving) regulations-2017 that mandates lane driving and also provides the protocol for overtaking. But the apex court’s order has not been implemented in the state yet. In 2019, at least 1,040 road accidents occurred due to wrong-side driving and faulty overtaking, and killed 445 persons in the state, said an official source. “Therefore, strict implementation of the lane driving regulations is of paramount importance. For reduction of accidents and compliance with the Supreme Court’s order, steps may be taken for implementation of the lane driving system in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack commissionerate police areas in the first phase. Subsequently, the lane driving guidelines should be implemented in other cities and highways,” Padhi wrote to Abhay. While the DGP was immediately unavailable for comment, the police headquarters said they would soon initiate steps to introduce the lane driving concept in the state. The commissionerate police had in July this year sent a proposal to the state home department and sought approval for launching a lane driving project on the National Highway-16, connecting the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. “We had drawn up a detailed plan and sent it to the government for approval. The government’s approval is awaited,” a senior police officer said. According to the plan, roads on the both sides of the NH will be demarcated with lanes or tracks for movement of specific type of vehicles. It was proposed that the vehicles with up to 40-50-kmph speed would be allowed to move on the extreme left of the road, vehicles with up to 60-70-kmph speed in the middle and vehicles with speed up to 80-kmph will ply on the extreme right side (close to the road divider) of the road. “We proposed to install retractable cone bars on the road at some places for physical segregation of the vehicles into the concerned lanes according to their speed limits. Funds and other infrastructure are required for successful launch of the lane driving project,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-asks-police-hq-to-introduce-lane-driving-on-natl-highways/articleshow/78003456.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Govt mum on demands, state taxmen go on indefinite strike||Ludhiana: After the steering committee of the state excise and taxation officials did not receive any response to their demand for getting a departmental inquiry instead of vigilance bureau (VB) investigation against their colleagues, the Punjab officials have proceeded on an indefinite strike from Wednesday. Due to the absence of the officers of all ranks from inspector to additional commissioners since Monday and no clarity on when they would resume work, members of gangs involved in illegal movement of goods by evading tax will make hay. Illicit liquor traders too may have a free run. Besides, various works of tax payers and professionals have also been held up as no official was available in the department to resolve their issues. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who holds the portfolio of excise and taxation, has not responded to their demands. A senior officer of the department told the TOI, “The government is facing a huge revenue loss. Every hour tax is being lost and all the anti-tax evasion and anti-liquor mafia operations have been jeopardised because of our absence. But we have been forced to take the extreme step because of the ongoing situation. We work day and night at odd hours for government revenue and this is how we are being treated. Officers are being threatened and even arrested. We are not against action on dishonest officers. In the past as well action was taken against corrupt officers and no one stood with them as there was ample proof. In the present case, several officials have been named in cases without proof and therefore a departmental inquiry should be held and VB FIRs be cancelled.”Another officer said, “The CM and other senior officers have been apprised of the actions taken against our officers by the VB, which include registration of FIRs on flimsy ground, arrests of officers, and raids at their houses. But as no action has been taken on our demands, we are left with no other option than going on indefinite strike.”A senior official of the department said, “Everyone in the department is feeling unsafe. Our struggle will continue till the issue is addressed.”THE DEMANDS The steering committee has following major demands: Rather than VB action and FIRs, the entire matter should be investigated by a special committee No officer should be called and subsequently arrested and their houses should also not be raidedState excise and taxation department should be allowed to hold a departmental inquiry on the allegations levelled by the VB THE LOSSGangs involved in illegal movement of goods by evading tax will make good use of the absence of the officers of all ranksIllicit liquor traders may have a free runTax payers and professionals will have to face delays in their works||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-mum-on-demands-state-taxmen-go-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/78003454.cms||Mohit Behl
September 9, 2020||Allahabad||Man threatens encounter ofminister Moti Singh, booked||Prayagraj: A man claiming to be a nephew of a history-sheeter on the run has been booked for threatening an encounter of state cabinet minister Moti Singh after a video of a gathering went viral on social media. In the video, the accused Chandan Yadav alias Baggad, a resident of Karaudi Kala in Sultanpur district, is seen with a gathering of around 50 people. He is heard saying, “Sabhapati Yadav mere mama lagte hain. Agar unko kuchh hua to mai seedhe Moti Singh ka encounter karoonga (Sabhapati Yadav is my maternal uncle. If anything untoward happens to him, I will do encounter of Moti Singh).” The supporters of Sabhapati Yadav are seen cheering and raising slogans in his favour soon afterwards. Minister Rajendra Pratap Singh, popularly known as Moti Singh, is MLA from Patti constituency in Pratapgarh. Taking cognizance of the video clip, police lodged a case against Chandan Yadav alias Baggad, a resident of Sultanpur, under Sections 147, 504, 506, 507, 188 and 269 of IPC, Section 66 of IT Act, and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act at Aspur Devsara police station of Pratapgarh district late Monday night. IG Prayagraj range K P Singh told TOI on Tuesday, “We have constituted two police teams to arrest the accused. The teams are also identifying the others visible in the video along with the accused.” Police officials said Sabhapati Yadav is a history-sheeter of Aspur Devsara police station and around 50 criminal cases are pending against him. Last month, police had attached his properties worth Rs 1.6 crore under the Gangster Act. SP Pratapgarh Anurag Arya said, “After registering an FIR under appropriate sections against Chandan Yadav and others, two police teams are carrying out raids to nab all the accused. We are identifying the people standing around Chandan Yadav in the video.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-threatens-encounter-ofminister-moti-singh-booked/articleshow/78002453.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Database to help police keep tab on snatchers||Ludhiana: In the wake of snatching and loot incidents in the city, the Ludhiana Police has started making a database of all the snatchers and habitual offenders involved in such crimes, who are out on bail.This information is helping police crack theft and snatching cases executed lately.Joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur has taken this initiative in the zones II and IV of Ludhiana commissionerate.Kaur said, “As there are several snatching and loot cases in the two zones, the drive has been started there to keep a tab on snatchers. We have identified 225 snatchers that came out of jail on bail over the past one year. Their dossiers have been made. Of them, 18 have been arrested under Section 110 of the CrPC and sent to judicial custody.” “Besides, all these snatchers will have to visit the respective police stations every week to mark their attendance. This will help in keeping a check on their activities too,” she added. In one such case reported on September 1, three unidentified masked miscreants on a bike had snatched Rs 2.80 lakh from an elderly man outside a bank in Miller Ganj, Gill Road. The accused pushed Kuljit Singh, 75, an employee of a bearing and oil store, Dholewal, and snatched the cash bag. When the bank security guard tried to nab the snatchers, they brandished a pistol and escaped. While tracing the snatchers, the police have been able to solve some recent cases of snatchings and thefts. Recently, the police had recovered eight bikes from vehicle-lifters, who were traced under this drive, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/database-to-help-police-keep-tab-on-snatchers/articleshow/78003445.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Tests for DLs, LLs to resume soon||Bhubaneswar: The transport department has decided to resume tests for getting a learner’s licence (LL) and driving licence (DL) soon. The government has asked the transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda to finalise the date for resumption of the services only after issuing safety protocols in view of the Covid pandemic. The mandatory computerized test for LL and driving skill test for DL was suspended on March 20 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The government has been pleased to allow resumption of the LL and DL tests. The safety protocols, social distance norms, face masks and other guidelines should be followed while conducting the tests. You are authorized to issue operational guidelines for conduct of such tests and cap the number of persons to be called for the tests to avoid rush,” an official letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tests-for-dls-lls-to-resume-soon/articleshow/78003436.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Bouncing back: Spirit unbroken, leg mended||KOLKATA: Nilanajana Chatterjee, the 47-year-old braveheart whose right leg was crushed under the wheels of a car when she was trying to save a woman on Saturday night, will soon undergo physiotherapy and rehabilitation at Ruby General Hospital where she was operated upon on Monday. A ‘post-operative check X-ray’ conducted to screen the state of the repaired bones done on Tuesday revealed that the recovery was on course. While the surgery has repaired her fractured fibula and tibia (shin bone) that had penetrated her skin, she will now need assistance to get up on her feet, according to doctors treating her. Her physiotherapy could begin on Thursday if Chatterjee remains stable. While there is still a fear of infection, doctors believe she is recovering well. “So far, things have moved according to the plan. While it will take time for the broken bones to heal completely, we will attempt to put her back on her feet before she is released. So, we plan to start physiotherapy by Thursday,” said a hospital official. Immediately after her surgery, Chatterjee had told doctors that she wants to be up on her feet soon. She met her husband and relatives and spoke to police officials over phone on Tuesday, according to hospital sources. “All through the day, she was in good spirits and didn’t seem to be in discomfort. If she remains fine, we may start her rehabilitation even earlier on Wednesday,” added the official. Chatterjee’s surgery was conducted by orthopaedic surgeon Kunal Sengupta and plastic surgeon Dipanjan De. While the former repaired the fractured bones, the latter fixed the injury caused by the broken bones on her skin. “We will continue to screen the state of the bones and the injury. If they start healing as we expect, we may start her physiotherapy in a day,” said De.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bouncing-back-spirit-unbroken-leg-mended/articleshow/78004864.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Cine reps hope to reopen halls, cash in on festive season||Kolkata: The concern of theatre owners, who have always looked forward to doing business during Durga Puja, was highlighted at the meeting of cine representatives with the Union home secretary on Tuesday. Two members of the cine industry from Kolkata were invited to join this meeting via video conference. Firdausul Hasan, the president of the Film Federation of India who attended the meeting, highlighted the concerns of the Bengal market. “Durga Puja is one of the most important times for theatre owners in the Bengal market. If the government gives permission to reopen theatres before the Pujas, halls that were thinking of shutting down will get a chance to make money. We are expecting a positive outcome from this meeting,” Hasan said. Distributor Satadeep Saha, who attended the meeting on behalf of father Ratan Saha, said: “We only have 30% of the festive dates left in this year to do business. We hope the government will reopen the theatres and help the film industry to capitalize on the remaining festive season. As many as 40 big and small Bengali films are in various stages of production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cine-reps-hope-to-reopen-halls-cash-in-on-festive-season/articleshow/78004868.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata-origin prof in tech push for vaccine in India||London: Indian-origin Oxford University professor who hails from Kolkata is part of a team that has provided the technology behind a new Covid-19 vaccine candidate, which is set to be produced by the Serum Institute in Pune. Last week, the first patients in Australia were dosed with the novel virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine in phase 1/2 clinical trials. Results showing whether it is safe and immunogenic are expected in October and then it is expected to move to phase 2/3 trials in India with a view to going to the regulators in the first half of next year. The Serum Institute is leading the clinical development. Sumi Biswas, 37, who was born and bred in the Lake Town area of Kolkata and who majored in microbiology from Bengaluru University, is co-founder and CEO of SpyBiotech, a spin-off company from Oxford University, which has signed an exclusive global licensing agreement with the Serum Institute for the development of the vaccine using its SpyCatcher/SpyTag protein ‘superglue’ technology. “We were interested in developing and using our technology in the context of Covid and we realised that that could really get accelerated with a partner like the Serum Institute which has the capacity to scale this up, manufacture it and provide the billions of doses that are required,” said Biswas who did her PhD in malaria vaccines at Oxford University's Jenner Institute in 2006. Whilst there she came across the technology developed by Mark Howarth in the department of biochemistry and that led to foundation of SpyBiotech in 2017. “For a Covid indication, we need more than one vaccine because we are talking about lots and lots of different doses. That is evident in the fact somewhere like Serum is working on multiple candidates,” she said. “One of the attractive features of this vaccine is that the Serum Institute makes the largest number of doses of the Hepatitis B vaccine which is actually the carrier for this. They are very well versed in this technology in terms of scale up and commercialisation,” she said. The vaccine candidate displays the coronavirus spike protein on the surface of the Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) VLPs. “It is like a plug and display system we have already developed. The core of it is the Hepatitis B surface antigen VLP. We know that Hepatitis B vaccine is very immunogenic and safe. VLPs are known to induce a very strong antibody response which is what we are trying to induce to stop the virus. The virus can mutate and we don’t know if need to change antigen and if it does happen one of the advantages of our technology is that the VLP carrier remains the same.” Biswas, 37, who lives in Oxford with her German husband and child, where she is an associate professor in the Jenner Institute, went to Auxilium Convent School in Dum Dum and read a masters in medical microbiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical medicine in London in 2005. “My parents in Kolkata keep asking me if I know more than what is in the media. I keep saying ‘No’, we have to wait and go through the stages of vaccine development to figure it out,” she said. “I got exposed to the burden of infectious disease growing up in India and that is what resulted in me working on something which helps this cause. I used to go to some hospitals in India and I could see the wards with people with lots of different infectious diseases like malaria and TB . Then coming to the UK I was exposed to research in London and Oxford and that has have given me the tools in order to do something about it. Being in a position where you can make a difference is a buzz. But at the same time you have a big responsibility and all of us working on the Covid vaccine have very less time to do anything else. It is great to see with Covid like never before everyone is trying to generate a vaccine and collaborating on vaccine approaches. The rival here is really the virus.” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute, added: “We are very excited about the collaboration with SpyBiotech to work on this novel vaccine for COVID-19. This new technology has the potential to be a powerful new approach to tackling the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-origin-prof-in-tech-push-for-vaccine-in-india/articleshow/77995214.cms||NAOMI CANTON
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ex-director of real estate firm held for Rs 5.16-cr fraud||Bhubaneswar: The economic offences wing (EOW) of the state Crime Branch on Tuesday arrested a former director of Keshari Estates Private Limited, a real estate company, on charges of cheating home-buyers of nearly Rs 5.16 crore between 2008 and 2019. The accused was identified as Akshaya Kumar Chaudhury. Although the alleged fraud occurred years ago, the duped investors approached the EOW only last month. The EOW registered a case against the company on August 26. During investigation, the EOW found that the company had in 2008 announced the launch of 30 duplex housing units in Pokhariput here and started accepting money in advance from prospective home-buyers. However, it did not start any construction till 2012. When depositors enquired about the delay, the company avoided their queries and later clarified that the project had been scrapped due to unavailability of approach road and other basic infrastructure, an EOW source said. While the investors demanded refunds, the company sought time and promised to provide flats in Jadupur on the outskirts of city. In 2013, the company announced plans to construct duplex units in Jadupur. But this too did not take off, said the source. “Our inquiry revealed that the company did not obtain any permission from the Bhubaneswar Development Authority for its Pokhariput project. The company’s intention was to cheat the buyers. At least 18 persons have been cheated of nearly Rs 5.16 crore by the company,” EOW’s superintendent of police Awinash Kumar said. An EOW source said the company’s managing director and other officer-bearers are on the run. Separate teams have been formed to arrest those involved in the case. The probe officials raided the company’s office near Keshari Talkies in Kharavel Nagar and seized some documents. The investors said they waited for years to get back their money. “We were reluctant to lodge complaint with the EOW. We apprehended that our move would lead to a prolonged legal battle in the court. When all else failed, we sought the EOW’s help,” said a victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ex-director-of-real-estate-firm-held-for-rs-5-16-cr-fraud/articleshow/78003478.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||‘Dada’ Mahurkar passes away||Vadodara: One of the doyens of the Indian trade union movement in the railways, J G Mahurkar, fondly referred as ‘Dada’ passed away on Tuesday due to cardiac arrest. Mahurkar, 86, was rushed to hospital on Monday midnight by Sharif Khan, a senior railway trade union leader and his close confident. A trade unionist of national eminence and vice-president of the National Federation of Indian Railways and general secretary of the Western Railway Mazdoor Sangh, Mahurkar belonged to an old Maratha family and a junior branch of the Sardar Mahurkar clan of Gwalior. His ancestor Bhikajirao had fought in the 1761 3rd battle of Panipat against Tipu Sultan in the battle of Badami Fort in Karnataka. In the trade union movement, Mahurkar had deep understanding of problems of working class in railways and management pressures of the Indian Railways. Mahurkar was at one time also the vice-president of the Vadodara Congress unit. He was very close to senior political leaders including late Madhavrao Scindia , Jyotiraditya Scindia , former Gujarat chief minister Madhavsinh Solanki, Congress leader Ahmed Patel and Shaktisinh Gohil. He celebrated his last birthday in March. A number of eminent personalities paid tribute to Mahurkar ‘Dada’ on his departure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dada-mahurkar-passes-away/articleshow/78003505.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||No cellphones in ICU beds at Pimpri giant care centre||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body has decided to not allow patients to keep cellphone in the ICU beds in the Pimpri-based jumbo Covid-19 hospital and the Autocluster facility. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) officials said if needed, they would provide the patients with the audio-video calling facility by using tabs.Elaborating on the decision, PCMC Santosh Patil told TOI that they have observed that patients with cellphones turned a blind eye to their safety, such as removing the oxygen mask and talking on the gadget. “Such behaviours can have an adverse effect on their oxygen level. Besides, if such a situation arises, our medical staffers will be blamed,” he said.“We have requested the relatives of the patients in the ICU beds to keep the cellphones away. An audio-video calling facility is being made available. We have collected the contact numbers of the patient’s relatives while admitting them. The patients can be contacted as per their health status,” he said.Patil added that if the relatives wanted to know the status of their relatives’ health, especially those under critical care and cannot talk, separate phone numbers have been provided where their kin could contact and get to know the real-time health status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-cellphones-in-icu-beds-at-pimpri-giant-care-centre/articleshow/78006054.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Status quo on 9am to 7pm business hours at least till September 15||PUNE: The civic body on Tuesday ruled out any further relaxation in business hours for shops at least till September 15. The shops will continue to operate from 9am to 7pm in non-containment zones till the next review of containment zones in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. “The number of positive cases in the PMC areas is high. So, there is no plan to increase the shops’ timing up to 9pm. The current timing will continue as it is at least till September 15,” said Vikram Kumar, the Pune municipal commissioner, at the press conference on Tuesday. The decision on whether to increase the shops’ business hours or not would be taken in consultation with the police department, he said. Their suggestions and guidelines would be considered before taking any steps. The shopping malls were reopened on August 5, over four months after they were closed. According to the PMC officials, many people ventured out for shopping after the markets reopened before the festive season. They claimed that it triggered a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/status-quo-on-9am-to-7pm-biz-hours-at-least-till-sept-15/articleshow/78006055.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Four held for robbing 600 chickens||NASHIK: The Nashik Rural police have arrested four people in connection with a robbery that took place on the Nandurshingote-Sinnar bypass road on September 4. The suspects have been identified as Pravin Kandalkar alias Bhaiyya (21), Chaitanya Shinde (19), both residents of Sinnar, Amar Kapse (18) and Vivek Khalkar (18), both residents of Bhendali in Niphad taluka. Police said that the suspects had beaten up two people — a pick-up driver and a cleaner — and robbed 600 chickens which they were transporting from Sinnar to Mumbai. According to police, Firoz Safi Khan had loaded 800 chicken in his pick-up truck from Wavi near Sinnar. Khan was on his way back to Mumbai when his vehicle was intercepted by five unidentified people on the Nandurshingote-Sinnar road at around 11 pm. The suspects beat up Firoz and the cleaner with him, snatched their cellphones along with Rs 4,000 cash. The suspects then forced them to unload 600 chickens and put them in a tin shade along the roadside. Later, they broke the GPS installed in the pick-up truck, drove it till Sinnar by-pass road and left it there. After the incident, Khan immediately left for Mumbai and informed his employer about the same. On the instructions of his employer, Khan returned to Wavi the next day and filed a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-held-for-robbing-600-chickens/articleshow/78006636.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid side-effect: Plastic ban rule thrown to the wind||Mangaluru: Has the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases weakened the drive against plastic in the city? Officials say they were not able to implement the ban strictly, especially in restaurants and hospital canteens, where people prefer to have food and beverages only in disposable plates and cups. With a large number of Coronavirus cases being reported in the city, eateries, especially hospital canteens, have started offering food and beverages in disposable plastic plates and cups. Most of the restaurants and canteens continue to use plastic disposable plates and cups to avoid possibilities of spread of virus through reuse of washed plates. Eatery owners, especially those who own canteens in private hospitals, say that they do not want to take the risk of serving food on reusable plates. Even most of the customers prefer to use disposable plates and cups, the owner of a canteen in the city said. “It is true that using disposable plates and cups are safe considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. However, they should go for other eco-friendly and biodegradable plates and cups instead of using plastic utensils,” said Shashidhar Shetty, environmentalist. Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) authorities said the issue has already been brought to the notice of the local body and they have plans to resume the drive against plastic. When contacted, Akshy Sridhar, MCC commissioner, told TOI that the city corporation is planning to act tough against plastic use and promote eco-friendly options. “The city corporation is having discussions on similar lines,” he said, adding that directions will be issued for restaurants and canteens to stop the use of plastic and go for other biodegradable options. MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar said that the city corporation will commence a drive to implement plastic ban soon. “Very soon, we will relaunch the drive to minimise the use of plastic. The city corporation has conducted many raids in the past before the lockdown. The issue of increase in plastic use has already been discussed. We will commence the drive again to penalise those who violate the rules,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-side-effect-plastic-ban-rule-thrown-to-the-wind/articleshow/78003463.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj SSP suspended for graft, no crime control||Lucknow: Taking strong note of the complaints of corrupt practices and failure to control law and order, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday suspended Prayagraj police chief Abhishek Dixit. Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP) West, Sarvashresth Tripathi, has been appointed the new superintendent of police of Prayagraj. Both Dixit and Tripathi are IPS officers of 2006 batch and are on deputation in UP. Dixit is from Tamil Nadu cadre and Tripathi from Andhra Pradesh. So far, the government has suspended five IPS officers this year. Last year, another SSP of Prayagraj, Atul Sharma, had been suspended after a spate of killings in the city. The home department said in a press release on Tuesday that the decision to suspend Dixit was taken after multiple complaints against the officer of indulging in corrupt practices for transfers and postings. It was also reported to the government that Dixit was not following instructions from the police headquarters, said a senior home department official. The officer was also not undertaking any checking drive of banks and financial institutions and patrolling in the district while there was also no reduction on pendency of cases, the official added. Dixit has also been accused of not implementing social distancing in the district. In 2012 also, while serving in Tamil Nadu, Dixit was under Vigilance scanner for having amassed more wealth than his known sources of income. In July 2019, Dixit came on deputation to UP and made commandant in the PAC 35th battalion. He was made SSP Prayagraj on June 16, replacing Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, who is still on the waiting list. Dixit would now be attached to the DGP headquarters in Lucknow. Tripathi is the fourth police chief of Prayagraj in the past one year. So far, five IPS officers have been suspended in the state, of which three have been accused of corruption. The two others have been found guilty of misconduct. On August 24, DIG PAC, Agra, Arvind Sen and DIG (Rules and Manuals) Dinesh Dubey were suspended for corrupt practices. In January, after leak of inappropriate video involving the then SSP GB Nagar, Vaibhav Krishna, he was suspended. Another IPS officer posted as ASP in Kanpur Nagar, Aparna Gupta, was suspended for laxity in murder case of lab technician Sanjit Yadav in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prayagraj-ssp-suspended-for-graft-no-crime-control/articleshow/78006641.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Allahabad||Ensure fogging, sanitizationto check Covid spread: HC||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the nagar swasthya adhikari of Prayagraj to ensure proper fogging and santization in the city to check the spread of Covid-19. The court further expected that proper fogging, sanitization, cleaning of drains and the repair of roads shall be done. Hearing a PIL seeking better facilities at quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “Foremost task that has to be done by the Nagar Nigam is to see to the health of the city.” While fixing September 14 as the next date of hearing, the court directed that by the next date, the Nagar Nigam should definitely come up with proposals of at least one clinic per two wards in the municipal city of Prayagraj. “After the clinics are established, the state shall provide regular staff/doctors for the clinics,” the court added. As per direction of the court, the State Legal Services Authority submitted a list of 24 advocates who will work as advocate commissioner in different wards of the city. The court directed that after taking their consent, they may be assigned the wards and will submit their report whether the residents in the ward in which the advocate commissioners have been appointed as commissioners are maintaining social distancing and are wearing their masks. Secondly, if any social distancing norm is violated or if it is found that any individual in a particular ward is not wearing mask, then the advocate commissioner may submit a report in this regard to the zonal officers of the ward who in their turn shall communicate to the municipal commissioner and the municipal commissioner in turn shall submit a report to the senior superintendent of police and thereafter the said report shall also be placed before this court. “These reports, needless to say, should be supported by evidence,” the court added. “The advocate commissioners shall, with the help of their corporators, go around their wards and also submit a report with regard to the bad drainage, if it is found. If the corporators do not cooperate, a report to that effect may also be submitted,” the court added. Further, if the surface of any road in the ward is found to be bad, then the advocate commissioners shall report about the same to the municipal commissioner and also to this court, the court further directed. The advocate commissioners shall also see that the Nagar Nigam chalks out plans for opening public clinics in every ward for the purposes of initial first-aid, checking of blood sugar and checking of blood-pressure, etc., the court directed. “In the present times, these clinics may also be used as sample collection centres for Covid-19. Further, the state counsel agreed that as and when clinics are opened, doctors from the Provincial Medical Services shall be appointed. The court passed this order on September 7, which came to limelight on September 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ensure-fogging-sanitizationto-check-covid-spread-hc/articleshow/78002475.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Quick visas, multiple air links bring world, Kolkata closer||KOLKATA: The direct Air India flight between Kolkata and London that is poised to start next week is not just a revival of a connection between the two cities. The travel trade industry views it as an important step towards reconnecting Kolkata with the rest of the world as it gradually opens up over the next few months. Apart from the UK, the flight will allow travellers access to the rest of Europe as well as the US, ending months of isolation following the pandemic. Two other airlines — Emirates and SpiceJet — will also play a crucial role as they connect the city with Dubai, a global airline hub with connections to the rest of the world. Speaking to TOI, Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi said the AI flight had been announced at a crucial time when countries were just beginning to open up. “The UK has begun issuing visas across categories, including tourists. There are several other countries in Europe that have started issuing visas for students. Also, several countries in the European Union are now allowing those who have long-term visas to enter the country. The AI flight will come in handy for travellers to all these countries,” he said. While a UK student visa required four to six weeks to get processed, it is now being issued within 12-15 working days. Tourist visa is also being issued within a fortnight. “At present, mostly students and families keen on visiting their relatives residing in the UK who are travelling,” said travel agent Manoj Saraf. Apart from the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Ukraine have opened their borders to students. Many of them have also opened up long-stay category visas for those residing and working there. The US has opened its doors for existing holders of B1/B2 visas that are applicable for both business and tourism, but has not yet started issuing fresh ones. The Emirates and SpiceJet flights connecting Kolkata and Dubai are also significant as the United Arab Emirates has begun issuing visas across categories including tourism. While this will enable those desperate for a break to travel to Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah during the festive season, it will also facilitate students travelling to several countries through Dubai, one of the biggest airline hubs. Many were also keen to travel to UAE to watch the IPL. But with matches set to be played at closed stadiums, that interest has ebbed. Two places that are opening up for tourism are island nations Maldives and Sri Lanka. While Maldives has already opened up, Sri Lankan resorts will be operational from September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/quick-visas-multiple-air-links-bring-world-kol-closer/articleshow/78004880.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Five die while rescuing calf from well in UP's Gonda||LUCKNOW: Five people, including four members of a family, died when they jumped into a well for saving a calf in Kotwali area of Gonda on Tuesday evening. The calf was rescued but those who had entered the well to save it inhaled poisonous methane gas and lost their lives, police said. The calf didn't belong to any of the deceased. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the deaths and announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the bereaved family members. The incident took place in Raja Mohallah under Maharajganj police outpost of Kotwali police station area. The deceased were identified as Vaibhav (18), Dinesh aka Chotu (30), Ravishankar aka Rinku (36) and Vishnu Dayal (35) of Maharajganj area and Mannu Saini (35) of Bhadua Tarhar area of the district. Dinesh and Ravishankar were brothers and the sole breadwinners of the family. Vishnu was a cousin of Dinesh and Ravi, while Vaibhav was their distant relative. Mannu hailed from another village and died while trying to rescue them. SP Gonda Raj Karan Nayyar, who also rushed to the spot to supervise the investigation, said the deceased eked out their living by selling fruits and vegetables. The officer said their post-mortem examination was underway, while prima facie it appears all the five died after inhaling methane gas. Gonda district magistrate Nitin Bansal said the calf fell in the well that was lying defunct. “Around 3pm on Tuesday, Vishnu heard a calf’s bawling from the well. He went down to rescue the calf. When he failed, he raised an alarm. Later, Vaibhav also scaled down to assist Vishnu,” said Alok Rao, SHO Kotwali. Vaibhav also got trapped and cried for help, following which Dinesh and Ravishankar joined them, said Rao. Later, the calf was rescued but the men remained trapped inside the well. Hearing their shrieks, Saini, a passer-by, went inside the well but didn’t come out. The villagers finally reached the spot after hearing their screams and informed the police. The firemen and police were able to retrieve the bodies after a two-hour operation. Watch Tragedy in UP's Gonda, five die while rescuing calf from well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/five-die-while-rescuing-calf-from-well-in-gonda/articleshow/78006684.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||PMR tally shoots past 2L-mark in six months||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added more than 4,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday, taking its tally to above 2 lakh-mark, a milestone achieved in six months after the first case emerged in a Pune couple on March 9. The PMR recorded 4,119 cases in the last 24 hours, including 1,880 from the PMC limits, 1,014 from the PCMC limits and 1,225 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. Interestingly, the region took just about a month to add 1 lakh cases after breaching the 1 lakh tally mark on August 6, a milestone which was attained in almost five months. While the case count has increased beyond 2 lakh, the region’s recoveries reached 1.59 lakh, with 2,957 patients being discharged on Tuesday. The region recorded 74 fatalities on Tuesday, pushing its death count up to 4,725. As many as 36,776 active patients were under treatment in the region till Tuesday night, including 23,140 in various hospitals and 13,636 in home isolation. A report released by district health officer Bhagawan Pawar said among 2.01 lakh cases, highest caseload of 1.09 lakh was from the PMC limits, followed by the PCMC areas at 57,507 and the rural as well as Cantonment areas at 34,060. The report further stated that as many as 13,100 tests were conducted in the region on Tuesday, which pushed the total test tally to above 8.59 lakh. A PMC report said as many as 912 patients were in critical stage in the municipal limits, including 480 on ventilator support. Besides, as many as 3,306 patients were on oxygen support, the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-shoots-past-2l-mark-in-six-months/articleshow/78006079.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Replies of social worker’s wife, friends were honest: CB||Bhubaneswar: The replies by social worker Aditya Dash’s widow and three of his friends in a recent polygraph test were found to be ‘honest’, the state Crime Branch said after receiving the test report from the State Forensic Science Laboratory (SFSL) on Tuesday. “We matched the polygraph test report with the statements of the four persons recorded earlier. Both reports matched,” a Crime Branch officer said. The lie-detection test was conducted on August 27. Although Bidyashree and Aditya’s three friends are neither accused nor suspects in the case, the probe agency subjected them to the polygraph test to determine whether he had any differences of opinion with them that may account for his mysterious death. An aggrieved Aditya was reported to have left his home in Sundarpada here on the night of July 6 after an argument with his wife. His body was found along the railway tracks near Lingaraj station on July 7. The probe agency also received the psychological autopsy report from a noted psychologist who was assigned to examine Aditya’s purported suicide note. In his report, the psychologist said Aditya seemed to have slipped into deep depression and had most likely died by suicide. The report also said Aditya had not written the note under duress or pressure. “Our probe, and postmortem, forensic, polygraph and psychological autopsy reports indicate Aditya died by suicide. We have not come across any abetment angle so far. We are trying to ascertain the cause of his possible suicide,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/replies-of-social-workers-wife-friends-were-honest-cb/articleshow/78003507.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||22-yr-old rape accused held||Dehradun: A 22-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday on the charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl in Raipur police station area of Dehradun. The accused has been identified as Tony, a resident of Rishikesh. According to the complaint filed by the victim's father, Tony enticed his daughter on August 20 and took her to a hotel where he raped her. He also threatened her of dire consequence if she told anyone about the crime. However, the girl narrated her ordeal to her parents on September 4, after which they filed a complaint with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-yr-old-rape-accused-held/articleshow/78002488.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seats empty, engineering registration extended again||Ahmedabad: After extending the deadline for online registration for degree engineering courses thrice, the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) has decided to extend it again, till September 11. The registration process has seen the participation from 28,000 students so far. The admission committee is to fill some 50,000 seats. This leaves at least 22,000 seats empty in engineering courses in Gujarat. The deadline for admissions ended on September 5 after which the committee decided to extend it till September 11, said sources in ACPC. There are currently 66,128 seats available in degree engineering courses. Of these, 9,010 are at 16 government colleges, 1,076 are at four grant-in aid colleges and 55,838 at 114 self-financed institutions. The remaining 204 seats are of an autonomous college. The task of filling 50% of seats at self-financed colleges has been entrusted to their respective managements. The mock round of admissions is likely to begin once the results of GujCET is announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seats-empty-engineering-registration-extended-again/articleshow/78004883.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Valuables worth Rs 55,000 stolen||Nashik: Nashik Road police have registered a case of house break-in against an unidentified person for stealing cash and jewellery worth Rs 55,000 from a closed house in the Shramik Nagar area of Nashik Road sometime between September 5 and 6. The complainant told police that an unidentified person broke into her house by breaking the rear door and decamped with jewellery worth Rs 30,000 along with Rs 25,000 cash. According to police, the complainant said that the stolen articles included a gold chain worth Rs 12,500 and other worth Rs 7,500, gold earrings worth Rs 7,500, a nose ring worth Rs 2,500 along with cash. Police said that they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/valuables-worth-rs-55000-stolen/articleshow/78006658.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Starting Sunday, commuters to get 24-hour window to book e-passes for Kolkata Metro ride||KOLKATA: When Metro resumes services next Monday, you may start booking your e-pass from 8pm on Sunday. But the booking will be valid only for Monday. Throughout Monday, anybody who opens the link any time before 8pm, e-passes can be booked only for that day. Post 8pm, the link starts displaying the next day’s slots. Once inside, they can buy smart cards from the ticket counters. No tokens will be available. “Any commuter willing to travel on a Metro will be able to book an e-pass 12 hours prior to his journey. The prolonged booking window will give an opportunity to commuters to easily book their e-passes,” a state official explained. The state government has appointed Sanjoy Chatterjee, director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the transport department, to develop this ‘Pathadisha Metro e-pass’. It can be generated from https//pathadisha.com/metro. The authorities will start testing the link from Wednesday. On Tuesday, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi visited half the stations dotting the north-south corridor. “We shall conduct another round of inspection on Wednesday to take stock of the preparations in rest of the stations,” Joshi said, disembarking at Park Street Metro station in the afternoon. At 10.30am, he rode to the Noapara station from here, taking stock of each of the 12 stations northwards of Park Street to check the arrangements. With him were principal chief operations manager Satyaki Nath and other officials. The GM checked if the SOPs were in place, checking the automatic sanitizer dispenser machines installed at the entry points. He also noted the social distancing markings at stations and inside trains. He also enquired if adequate face shields, goggles and face masks were available for Metro personnel who will be dealing directly with passengers. Dum Dum, Esplanade are the busiest stations north of Park Street and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar in the south. Except for these three, only one gate for entry and exit will be allowed in stations as part of the pandemic SOP. Only the north-south line will be operational, for now. East-West Metro’s services will continue to remain suspended. Train services, from 8am to 8pm, will commence with new frequencies and time-table. Due to longer halts at stations, there will be a minor increase in travel time. Kolkata Police personnel will be deployed at station entries to manage crowds and check the e-passes before allowing people access. Only the asymptomatic will be allowed to travel after thermal screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-start-issuing-e-passes-from-sunday/articleshow/78004878.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Drunk drivers may get 7 yrs jail in accident||Vadodara: Next time you drive under the influence of alcohol and cause an accident injuring somebody grievously, chances are high that you may get a jail term of up to seven years instead of two years.Vadodara rural police have now started booking drivers for an attempt to culpable homicide for causing a grievous injury accident and for culpable homicide for causing a fatal accident under the influence of alcohol. On Sunday, a car driver was booked for attempt to culpable homicide as he knocked down a motorcyclist in Savli. The motorcyclist suffered serious injuries and had to be shifted to Vadodara for treatment. Police said that the car driver Gangdas Patel’s vehicle, too, suffered damages as it rammed into a tree. Patel had consumed alcohol and was not even in a condition to stand properly, cops said.“If any person consumes alcohol and drives vehicle during which an accident occurs, we are booking them either under attempt to culpable homicide or culpable homicide not amounting to murder because they know that their act will cause death,” said superintendent of police Dr Sudhir Desai. He added that in the recent past they have registered such cases at Karjan police stations as well.Earlier, the accused used to be booked under Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code in case of a grievous injury accident or Section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) in case of a fatal accident. The maximum punishment under both sections are up to two years or fine or both and is triable by a judicial magistrate. While in case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and attempt to culpable homicide, the punishments are up to 10 years and seven years respectively along with a fine. The trial is conducted by a sessions court in such cases.“Consumption of alcohol is illegal in Gujarat, yet if somebody drives under the influence of alcohol, the person is not in a capacity to judge the circumstances around him or her. So the person, despite being aware of that fact that driving under the influence of alcohol can lead to accident, still drinks and drives and causes accident can be booked under Section 308 or 304 of the IPC,” said Vadodara district government pleader Anil Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/drunk-drivers-may-get-7-yrs-jail-in-accident/articleshow/77984986.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Rishikesh man arrested for selling minor daughter in 2017||HARIDWAR: Muni-ki-Reti police on Tuesday arrested a 56-year-old father for selling his minor daughter in 2017, when she was 14 years old. This was a week after a 37-year-old truck driver was arrested from Uttar Pradesh for buying the girl, ostensibly for marriage. The case had been registered in 2019 under Section 370 (trafficking of person) after the girl’s mother filed a complaint. Police though are yet to trace the girl, who had apparently run away from the truck driver’s house in 2019, after which the latter had filed a missing person’s report at the local police station, said investigating officer Neeraj Rawat. The accused, a resident of Tapovan area falling under Muni-ki-Reti police station, is the father of four children, including two daughters. Suffering from financial distress for a while, when his wife left him and the children some years ago, he sold his minor daughter to truck driver Naveen, resident of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, for Rs 45,000. But when after a while, his wife returned and found her youngest daughter missing, she filed a missing person’s complaint. During the investigation, it was found that the minor girl had actually been trafficked for marriage. Neeraj Rawat told TOI, “We arrested Naveen last week and Rajpal today. Primary investigation has revealed that there are some more accused, who we expect to arrest soon. Further investigation is on.” One of the accused is a relative of Naveen from the Tapovan area. She knew the victim’s family, and may have acted as liaison when Naveen decided to buy a girl for marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rishikesh-man-arrested-for-trafficking-minor-daughter-in-2017/articleshow/78002482.cms||MS Nawaz
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid cases in Silk City down to single digit for 1st time in 2 mnths||Berhampur: For the first time in over two months, the number of new Covid-19 cases in the city fell to a single digit on Tuesday. Out of the four cases found in Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) area, two persons were infected due to active contact with positive persons, while two others are Covid warriors, sources said. On Monday, 16 Covid positive cases were detected in the city. The Silk City was identified as the Covid hotspot. It reported three-digit figures in mid-July. The highest number of 181 positive cases were detected on July 22. “The number of cases in Berhampur have fallen due to combined efforts of the officers and cooperation of the people,” said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. He said aggressive health screening, testing of samples, contact tracing and isolation strategy are some of the steps taken by the administration to arrest the spread of the virus. The civic authorities had also implemented the micro-containment strategy for contact tracing and sealed the city’s border to check spread of the virus. According to doctors, the virus spread in Berhampur because of its thick population (around 5 lakh), crowded bazaar areas, is regularly visited by rural folks and housing patterns. “Since Berhampur is a wholesale hub and main health centre of southern Odisha, people from different areas visit it daily. Besides people from Andhra Pradesh visit the city. These factors have contributed to the spread of the virus,” said Sunil Kota, a private practitioner. The commissioner said to make Berhampur free of Covid-19 people have to follow social distancing norms, wear masks, avoid crowds and follow the five strategies as directed by the district administration. On Tuesday, altogether 69 positive cases were detected in Ganjam taking the tally to 18,812. With a total of 17,818 recoveries, the rate of recovery in the district increased to 94.7%. At the same time, the number of deaths touching 209 with two persons, both above 50 years of age, succumbing to the disease, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-cases-in-silk-city-down-to-single-digit-for-1st-time-in-2-mnths/articleshow/78003532.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress raises issue of BEd admissions||Ahmedabad: The authorities of grant-in aid and government-run BEd colleges have expressed displeasure as half their seats are likely to remain vacant this year. These colleges, affiliated to different universities, were recently put under the Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE). With the admission process being carried out by IITE, only 50% of seats are likely to be filled this year. The Gujarat Congress has written to the chief minister seeking his intervention. According to the rules laid down by the National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE), only students with 50% marks in their graduation are eligible for BEd admission. But IITE conducted an entrance test for the candidates, which was against the rules, said a Congress office-bearer. Congress spokesman Manish Doshi said the process adopted by IITE for admissions was flawed and bound to fail. He said that the Congress had drawn the attention of the government to this in the past, but it turned a blind eye to the issue. There are no admissions at some colleges for BEd courses in Gujarati, Hindi and Sanskrit, he added. The state education department recently implemented its plans to bring all BEd colleges under the umbrella of IITE. This has been done to bring uniformity to such colleges in a time-bound manner. The admission process is under way for 2,950 seats at 39 colleges and is expected to end on September 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-raises-issue-of-bed-admissions/articleshow/78004893.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Allahabad||AU to conduct admission test from Sept 26 to Oct 5||Prayagraj: After closing the process for inviting applications for various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses, the authorities of Allahabad University have declared the detailed schedule for the entrance test to be conducted for admission in these courses. The entrance test would be held between September 26 and October 5. Other than Prayagraj, it would be held at 10 different cities across the country. After the final date of applying in different courses, a total of 1,29,333 aspirants have finally submitted their fee and completed the registration process. Of these, 68,235 aspirants had registered for UG courses including BA/BSc/BCom. According to director admission, Prof Prashant Agarwal, there will be 104 test centres in 11 cities of the country including Prayagraj and the entrance test would be held in three phases. The entrance tests would be held through offline mode at 58 test centres and at 46 through online mode. Among these, 53 test centres have been set up in Prayagraj, of which 37 are for offline and 16 for online mode. “We would try our best to declare the result in the second week of October after which the admission process will commence,” said Prof Agarwal. Member of the admission cell, Shailendra Rai, said that in the first phase, the test for BSC (Math and Bio) would be held on September 26, in the first shift from 9:30 am to 11:30 am. In the second shift, the entrance test for BCom and BSc (Home Science) would be held from 2 pm to 4 pm. On September 27, there will be entrance test for BA, BFA and BPA in the first shift and for BALLB, in the second shift. On September 29, the entrance test for three-year LLB exam will be held in the second shift. On September 30, PGAT (phase one) will be conducted in the first shift and for admission in LLM and MCom, the same would be conducted in the second shift. On October 1, the entrance examination will be conducted for admission in various courses in both the shifts. After this, in the third phase, there will be test for PGAT (phase two) and for courses run under institute of professional studies (IPS) to held on October 3, 4 and 5. However, the varsity authorities have not released the test schedule for combined research entrance test (CRET) program.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-conduct-admission-test-from-sept-26-to-oct-5/articleshow/78002499.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||PPE, masks, sanitizers and isolation rooms get NEET centres fighting fit for ‘Cov test’||Kolkata: Bringing in candidates to the venue over a staggered period of two-and-a-half hours to making sure that each examinee is writing the paper wearing not only masks but also gloves — these are among the slew of preventive measures that the National Testing Agency (NTA) has asked NEET exam centres to follow. Each candidate will receive a “reporting time” window on his/her admit card, between 11am and 1:30pm. This has been deliberately done to reduce crowding at any single point. Since NTA has received reports from many centres across the country that during JEE (Mains) that candidates wore masks but took off their gloves, all exam centres are being told to remain extra cautious and ensure that candidates wear gloves through the length of the exam, especially because it is a pen-and-paper test in which the contact points will be high. The SOP list says that each centre has to make provisions to keep fresh masks and gloves ready for at least 20% of the total strength of candidates. The entire route from the gate to the exam hall will have to be roped to segregate queues of girls and boys and funnel them in a way that not more than 20 girls and 15 boys are in a queue at any given point in time. Frisking and verification SOPs have also been given to minimize contact. At no given point in time should there be more than five candidates inside the registration room. There will be just 12 students and two invigilators per exam hall.Despite checking body temperatures twice, if a candidate’s temperature remains higher than 99.4°, schools will have to make them write the test in isolation rooms and the invigilator will be in PPE gear. “We are preparing such isolation rooms just in case such candidates turn up. We are also identifying teachers who will be on standby for invigilating such candidates,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. Among other schools where NEET preparations are already under way are Birla High School for Boys, Apeejay School, Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, Asian International School and Indira Gandhi Memorial School. There are 66 centres in the city and two local co-ordinators who have to ensure that all safety measures are in place. “Masks and gloves are mandatory for invigilators too. Instructions for disposal of all masks and gloves have also been provided,” said Loveleen Saigal, principal of Birla High School for Boys.“Loud hailers are being installed at vantage points to call out names so that there is no ambiguity anywhere,” said Vijaylakshmi Kumar, principal of Asian International School. Hands-free sanitizer dispensers, soap-water handwash at vantage locations, use of staircase/lifts have all been mapped in the SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ppe-masks-sanitizers-and-isolation-rooms-get-neet-centres-fighting-fit-for-cov-test/articleshow/78004889.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Trigger-happy’ trend worries senior cops||MARGAO: Apart from the proliferation of illegal gun culture in Goa, sources well-versed with the arms trade have raised questions over the growing trend of possessing licensed arms for reasons other than self-defence, and worse, just for flaunting them in public. Police sources said that close to 50 new licenses are issued in North Goa itself on average every year, and an equal number renewed. “Around 80% of the applicants are those who seek an arms license just for kicks. This is a disturbing trend and needs to be arrested,” a senior police official dealing with processing of such applications told TOI, referring to his analysis of the applicants’ profiles over the past few years. As per the system in place, once an application for an arms licence is received, the district collector refers it to the district superintendent of police for verifying the applicant’s criminal antecedents. Based on the police report, a decision recommending or objecting to the grant of the license is sent back to the collector. Taking cognizance of this “disturbing trend,” dy SP (headquarters), North Goa, Edwin Colaco, wrote to all in-charges of police stations in the district advising them against recommending arms licenses “mechanically without application of mind”, and without checking the veracity of the applicant’s threat perception. “On going through the report submitted by the PIs concerned, it is now certain that such reports are prepared mechanically without application of mind, license to hold an arm is recommended to all and sundry without advancing due justification into such recommendation,” Colaco wrote in an official note to all police station in-charges in August 2019. The note records that “even a lay person who faces no threat of any degree” is also routinely recommended for grant of arms license. “All this certainly gives an impression that we are inclined towards creating a “trigger-happy” society by affording blanket recommendation to every applicant,” the note says. Sources pointed out that seamen and small-time traders who don’t perceive any degree of threat to their lives are sizeable among those who apply for arms licenses. “There has been no case in Goa so far where an arm holder was attacked and had to use his licensed arm to defend himself. So this belies any threat perception most applicants cite in their applications,” a senior police official said. Police sources said that due diligence is now being exercised before recommending the arms licence. “The firearm has become like a status symbol,” a source associated with the gun trade concurred. “When one sees his neighbor flaunting a gun, he will also try to possess one to ensure that he stays in the same league as that of his ‘armed’ neighbor.” However, possessing a licence allows one to procure a firearm only from a licensed arms dealer or from the ordnance factory. “Sourcing a firearm from a licensed dealer gives one multiple varieties to choose from, however, the ordnance factory sells only pistols and revolvers, though of a premium quality and at affordable rates.” In order to keep a check on the misuse of firearms, authorities concerned in issuance of firearm licenses are now insisting that applicants produce proof of one’s arms handling skills. A certificate from a recognised shooting academy — two sports shooting academies have been set up in Goa — is now a much sought after document for firearm aficionados.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trigger-happy-trend-worries-senior-cops/articleshow/78006084.cms||Govind Maad
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Illegal e-ticketing software busted & blocked by RPF||Lucknow: The Railway Protection Force has detected the use of an illegal software called ‘Real Mango’ aka ‘Rare Mango’, which was used to book confirmed tickets during the coronavirus pandemic and arrested 40 people from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar and Gujarat. In a nearly month-long coordinated efforts by RPF units of North Central Railway (NCR), Eastern Railway (ER) and Western Railway (WR), confirmed tickets worth more than Rs 5 lakh were blocked with the help of CRIS/IRCTC. The arrested include the kingpin (system developer) and key managers involved in the development and use of the illegal software. “Operation of an illegal software called ‘Rare Mango’, which was later rechristened as ‘Real Mango’, came to light on August 9 during an ongoing drive against touts. RPF units of NCR, ER and WR arrested a few suspects and began the process of unravelling its operation. The investigation found that the illegal software bypasses the captcha, synchronizes bank OTP with the help of a mobile app and feeds it to the requisite form to book tickets. It also auto-fills the passenger and payment details in the forms,” said RPF director general Arun Kumar. “The ‘Real Mango’ used to log in to IRCTC website through multiple IDs. The illegal software is sold through a five-tiered structure with the system admin receiving the payment in bitcoins. RPF has been able to apprehend almost everyone involved in the scam, including the system developer from West Bengal identified as Chandra Gupta who was the kingpin. Key managers such as Rahul Roy, Rehan Khan, Subhandu Biswas and Subir Biswas, who were involved in the operation of the illegal software, have also been arrested,” he added. Earlier, a nationwide action by RPF between December 2019 and March 2020 led to the arrest of 104 criminals, who were involved in the development of illegal softwares like ANMS/ Red Mirchi/Black TS, TikTok, I-Ball, Red Bull, MAC, N-GET, Cycle, Star-V2 to book confirm tickets. Information of such illegal softwares came to light after developers used Youtube to advertise their products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/illegal-e-ticketing-software-busted-blocked-by-rpf/articleshow/78006725.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||20 arrested, 150kg cannabis seized in Belagavi in 10 days||Belagavi: Against the backdrop of an explosive drug scandal at the centre of which are stars of the Kannada film industry, police in the border district have been on their toes in the past 10 days to crack down on the menace, arresting 20 individuals suspected to be involved in the trade of narcotic substances, and seizing 150kg of cannabis in the process.  Belagavi superintendent of police Laxman Nimbaragi said that, in the aftermath of the restrictions being eased, sale of ganja had soared in the district, particularly during that phase when the government had not allowed liquor outlets from functioning. Affirming that the government was committed to weeding out the menace, Nimbaragi said that cops were working determinedly to crack down on those involved in the cultivation of cannabis, and peddlers too. He said that, in the span of one week, police have seized ganja worth over Rs 2 lakh. He said since the crackdown began over 150kg of marijuana has been seized and 10 cases have been registered at Nippani, Kudachi, Bailhongal, Khanapur and Chikkodi police stations .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/20-arrested-150kg-cannabis-seized-in-belagavi-in-10-days/articleshow/78003537.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani RDC, two others land in ACB trap||Aurangabad: The Nanded unit of anti-corruption bureau on Tuesday arrested Parbhani’s woman resident deputy collector along with a senior clerk and an engineer on the charges of demanding and accepting Rs 4.50 lakh bribe. The trap laid at Parbhani collector’s office has stunned the revenue authorities across the state. The suspects had allegedly demanded 1.5% of the total amount for which the complainant sought administrative approval for some works. Superintendent of police (ACB) Kalpana Barawkar told TOI, “The woman RDC was already facing an inquiry from the ACB when the latest complainant turned up and lodged a complaint.” The verification revealed alleged connivance amongst the arrested suspects who were seeking money for granting the approval. During verification, it came to fore that the clerk and civil engineer demanded 1.5% of the total amount for which the administrative approval for a work in Gangakhed municipal council was being sought. This was followed by the complainant being taken to resident deputy collector who, too, confirmed with the demanded amount and agreed to accept it. Upon confirmation of the demand for bribe, ACB team led by deputy SP Bharat Humbe laid the trap at Parbhani district collector’s office. “On the instructions of the clerk, civil engineer accepted the bribe amount that allegedly had the consent of the RDC,” read the official statement of ACB. Soon after the acceptance of the bribe amount, the trio was arrested by the ACB and taken to Nava Mondha police station where an offence has been registered against them. In yet another trap by Nanded unit of ACB, a 50-year old village development officer associated with Rahti Grampanchayat of Nanded district allegedly sought and accepted Rs 1.50 lakh from a person for approving his claim over a neighbouring plot. Soon after, an associate of the officer accepted the bribe amount on his behalf, leading to the arrest of the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-rdc-two-others-land-in-acb-trap/articleshow/78006705.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schools to confirm RTE intake by Sept 18||Ahmedabad: The admissions of students registered under the Right To Education (RTE) Act quota will be carried out on September 11. The education department issued guidelines according to which the students will be informed through text messages. All schools have to confirm admission of such students by September 18, said sources. According to guidelines issued by the department of primary education, parents must get their application number, birth certificate of the child and confirm admission within the deadline by getting a print of the admit card from the website, said sources. More than 2.04 lakh application forms have been filed against 96,000 RTE seats in the state. Last year, 1.89 lakh candidates registered for RTE admissions. The number of seats, as many as 1.20 lakh, were also higher. The process for admission to RTE seats started very late this year. Every year, the process begins in April. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, parents were given time till August 29 to fill forms online. Private schools across the state have to reserve 25% of their seats in Class I for students in the RTE category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-to-confirm-rte-intake-by-sept-18/articleshow/78004901.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to bear Bypass braveheart’s hospital cost||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday expressed her appreciation for Nilanjana Chatterjee, the 47-year-old braveheart who had risked her life to save a 31-year-old woman in distress at Anandapur late on Saturday. In a message to Chatterjee — delivered through police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Tuesday — the CM announced that the government will bear the cost of her treatment. In a call to Chatterjee, who is recuperating at Ruby Hospital after undergoing a surgery on Monday, the police chief lauded her “exemplary valour”, assured her of all support from Kolkata Police and wished her a speedy recovery. “I wanted to meet you personally, but you have undergone an operation and you need rest,” he said and extended an invitation for a cup of tea after her recovery. The gestures from the top administrator left both Chatterjee and her husband, Deep Satpati, overwhelmed. “I thank police commissioner Anuj Sharma for the help his force extended me from the time of the incident. I will be grateful to them all my life. I heard from the commissioner that the CM has decided to bear the cost of my treatment. I am grateful to her. I am overwhelmed by the support and praise that people of this city and beyond have showered on me. I feel humbled. I want my city to be safe for its women,” Chatterjee said in a video message. She added that she would not hesitate to help a stranger again. “I have done it before, and I will do it again.” Sharma also spoke to Chatterjee’s husband, who appreciated the quick response from the cops. “I have said this before and I repeat it now. I was literally crying that night when I could not convince an ambulance to come down. When I dialled 100, the cops calmed me down and said they will send an ambulance within five minutes. They kept their word,” he said. Sources at Lalbazar said even Garfa police, under whose jurisdiction the couple resides, has been asked to keep in touch with them. Lalbazar later announced that the commissioner has also rewarded the team of Dial 100 for their prompt response. Chatterjee herself seemed confident of bouncing back at the earliest despite the post-surgery nausea and niggles. “My mother is vomiting a bit. The doctors believe it is due to the anaesthesia, but they will nonetheless carry out a CT scan,” said her daughter. Unperturbed, the braveheart said it was her daughter who was her inspiration. “I saw a girl in distress seeking help. I have a daughter who is younger to her. I wasn’t thinking of anything else. Hence I had no fear. I dragged the girl away and was waving for him (the Honda City driver) to stop the car but he hit me and fled,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-bear-bypass-bravehearts-hosp-cost/articleshow/78004902.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||New guidelines for lease, transfer of govt land in city||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Tuesday issued a new set of rules for the settlement of government land within the purview of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area for various purposes in public interest. The new rules framed under the Odisha Government Land Settlement Rules, 2020, will be applied for leasing out and transfer of government land in the city, which is under the state general administration department. “Earlier, settlement of government land in and around Bhubaneswar was done in accordance with the Government Grants Act, 1895, which was a central act. The 1895 Act was among many other obsolete Acts which were repealed by the Centre in 2017. The state government has decided to come out with a new set of rules for settlement of government land in the city,” said Abhay Kumar Nayak, additional secretary, state revenue and disaster management department. Nayak said though land settlement in the city was done as per executive orders, the rules will now give statute power for land settlement in the city. “The rules will be applicable to transfer or leasing out of government land in the city for various activities to be taken up by government departments, local authorities, Union government agencies and public sector undertakings,” said an official source. Allotment of land for housing scheme by Bhubaneswar Development Authority, Odisha State Housing Board or other similar bodies and cooperative societies and settlement of land as per general administration department policies will also be done in accordance with the rules. According to the new rules, a committee headed by the chief secretary will be constituted to consider and recommend allotment of land to the state government. Secretaries of departments like revenue, general administration, housing and urban development, finance, law, vice-chairman of Bhubaneswar Development Authority and director of estates will be members of the committee. All applications seeking government land in Bhubaneswar will be submitted to the director of estates in a specified format. The director of estates will scrutinize the application and verify the land use plan as per the city comprehensive development plan. “The director of estates will examine whether the land applied for is free from encroachment and also the eligibility criteria of the applicant and the purpose of application. The director of estates will recommend the applications for approval of the land allotment committee,” the rules stipulate. After the allotment of land, the applicant will pay the premium amount of the land as decided by the state government. State revenue secretary Bishnupada Sethi said the new set of rules will help in smooth distribution of government land in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/new-guidelines-for-lease-transfer-of-govt-land-in-city/articleshow/78003549.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 9, 2020||Goa||Now, Goa cops find robbery motive in Swapnil Walke killing||MARGAO: Police investigations in the Swapnil Walke murder case have taken a rather unusual turn. After obtaining various leads thrown up during the course of interrogation, crime branch officials have now veered around to the view that the motive behind the killing was pure robbery “and nothing more”. Investigating officer C L Patil told TOI on Tuesday that the robbers zeroed in on Walke’s jewellery shop as it matched precisely their search profile — an isolated location in Margao, Panaji or Mapusa. “They found this place somewhere in August, and were waiting for the right time to strike. The plan was to kill the owner and rob the shop,” Patil said. Patil said that Walke’s killers first attempted entering a couple of other jewellery shops in Margao. However, they abandoned their plans on finding more people inside those stores. On finding Walke alone in his shop, they carried out their heinous plan. Walke, however, foiled their robbery plans by putting up a brave fight with his assailant. “They even had an SUV parked right outside the shop, to flee with the booty,” Patil said, adding that the investigation was still underway and other leads were also being investigated. However, the robbery angle has few takers even within police circles, as most leads thrown up during police interrogations hadn’t supported the theft theory as a probable motive behind the murder, as reported by TOI earlier — particularly when the stolen gold angle was the dominant lead that investigators were pursuing. Social commenters feel police should be more forthcoming over the issue. “As many conspiracy theories came out in the public domain during the course of the investigation, the questions have remained unanswered,” one said. “There appear to be many loose ends if robbery is believed to be the motive,” said another. “The conduct of a suspect in the case, before or after committing a crime, is crucial to the investigation. An audio clip showing a conversation purportedly between a suspect and some reporters had gone viral, which suggested a motive other than robbery. Have the police investigated that angle too?” Legal experts TOI spoke to said that the police may have found strong reasons during the interrogations of the suspects for following the robbery line of investigation. “The motive behind the murder may be suspect,” a noted criminal lawyer told TOI, “but it won’t make any difference to the case per se. The police will try to get the accused the strongest punishment, as attempted robbery leading to murder is a worse thing to do and attracts severe punishment under Section 302 of the IPC. It’s not a case of, say, sudden and grave provocation that led to the killing, that could attract lesser degree of punishment. The motive won’t matter in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-cops-find-robbery-motive-in-walke-killing/articleshow/78006088.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 9, 2020||Pune||Exposure to high baseline levels of PM 2.5 pollution ups Covid death risk: Study||PUNE: A six-city study by experts from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has indicated that people exposed to higher baseline levels of particulate pollution (PM 2.5) run a higher risk of Covid-19 mortality. The findings essentially suggest that the baseline levels of PM 2.5 (the minimum or permanent level of the pollutant when external, manmade pollution sources are absent) could play a major role in Covid-19 mortality. Track the pollution level in your cityThe study analysed air quality levels and Covid mortality rates across Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. Scientists said environmental pollution mainly triggers respiratory mucosa damage and obstructive pulmonary disease because the respiratory tract is the first part affected by pollutants. The respiratory tract is also the part which is highly vulnerable to Covid-19, the researchers said. The study was recently accepted into the international journal, Environmental Research, published by Elsevier. A scientist from IITM told TOI, “The highest Covid-19 mortality counts were found in Mumbai, where baseline PM 2.5 was highest. Our study also revealed that Delhi had relatively fewer deaths when compared to many Indian cities where ambient pollution levels were much lower. This was because although the ‘normal ambient pollution level’ was found to be the highest in Delhi, its ‘baseline levels’ of PM 2.5 were much lower when compared to Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad.” Ambient pollution levels (or the prevailing pollution level contributed by man-made pollution sources) is different from the baseline pollution level, which represents the lowest levels of ambient pollution that is not produced locally from man-made sources. Essentially, the baseline level is that value which would have been naturally present in the air in the absence of pollution from man-made sources. The study found that the Covid-19 death count was highest (909 as on May 22) in Mumbai as the city's PM 2.5 baseline level was found to be high (33 microgram per cubic meter of air or µg/m3). Around the same time, it was relatively very low (22 µg/m3) in Delhi, where death count too was less, at 231. The IITM researcher said, “The mortality count of Delhi was even lower than that of relatively less polluted cities such as Pune or Ahmedabad because the baseline levels of the two cities were found to be higher than that of Delhi's. The baseline PM 2.5 pollutant level for Pune was at 29 µg/m3 with total mortality count, until May 22, recorded at 243. Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Pune (in that order) had the highest baseline levels of the pollutant as well as the highest mortality count (in the same order) among the six surveyed cities.” The experts added this trend was found to be true until the end of May and that the correlation may change with time. “More research will have to be conducted,” they said. In May, a nationwide study from the United States, by the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, had made similar observations. The study showed that people with Covid-19, who lived in US regions with high levels of air pollution, were more likely to die from the disease than people who lived in less polluted areas or regions. The IITM pollution study also found that higher the maximum temperature, lower is the probability of infection due to Covid-19. But researchers found that this correlation was not significant, even at 90% confidence level. “However, no correlation was found between Covid-19 and some other environmental or weather parameters such as average temperature, ambient pollution levels, annual pollution levels etc.,” the IITM researcher added. The study was jointly conducted by IITM, Pune; Utkal university, Bhubaneswar, and the India Meteorological Department, New Delhi. The researchers sourced the Covid mortality data from the ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/exposure-to-high-baseline-levels-of-pm-2-5-pollution-ups-covid-death-risk-study/articleshow/78006091.cms||Neha Madaan
September 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: NIA arrests third KKM member in Elgar case in less than 24 hours||PUNE: Jyoti Jagtap (33), a member of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM), was arrested on Tuesday from her Kondhwa residence on the charge of “propagating Naxalite activities and Maoist ideology” and “conspiring with the other arrested accused” in the Elgar Parishad case. The state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) officials arrested Jagtap and later handed over her custody to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Elgar Parishad case. She is the third member of the KKM — a Left-leaning cultural outfit described by the NIA as a frontal organisation of the banned CPI (Maoist) — arrested since Monday night, when the NIA had arrested Sagar Gorkhe (32) from Wakad and Ramesh Gaichor (36) from Yerawada on the same charges. A special NIA court in Mumbai on Tuesday ordered the custodial remand of the three KKM members for four days after the probe agency produced them in the court. Gorkhe, Gaichor and Jagtap are among those named in the FIR related to the Elgar Parishad case, but they were not arrested earlier. The Pune police initially investigated the case before the NIA took over the probe on January 24 this year. In a press release, the NIA cited further investigation as the reason for the trio’s arrest. It stated, “Gorkhe, Gaichor and Jagtap were propagating Naxalite activities and Maoist ideology, and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused. It has also come on record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about urban network of the CPI (Maoist). Also, it is established that during their visits (of Kabir Kala Manch members) in jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training, and awareness programme on various topics related to the Maoist movement.” The release further stated, “As per the evidence on record, absconding accused Teltumbde discussed in June 2018 about the Elgar Parishad programme, which was organised in Pune, and the subsequent inroads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Manch and other frontal organisations.” The Elgar Parishad was organised in the city on December 31, 2017, on the eve of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Koregaon Bhima. The Pune police earlier claimed that the speeches at the Parishad contributed to the January 1, 2018, caste clashes at Koregaon Bhima, near the city on Ahmednagar highway. City realtor Tushar Damgude registered an FIR with the Vishrambaug police on January 8, 2018, alleging provocative statements and inflammatory speeches at the Elgar Parishad. The KKM was one of the organisers of the Parishad, which, the police claimed, was funded and supported by the banned CPI (Maoist) as a part of a larger conspiracy to create social unrest and overthrow democratically elected government. By the time the NIA took over the Elgar Parishad investigation, the Pune police had arrested nine activists — Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, P Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferreira and Vernon Gonsalves — for their alleged links with the CPI (Maoist) and an alleged plot to execute a “Rajiv Gandhi type incident to end the Modi-raj”. The police also filed two chargesheets against these arrested activists on November 15, 2018, and February 21, 2019. The arrested activists were charged under IPC sections 153(A), 505(1)[b], 117, 120(B), 121, 121(A), 124(A) and 34, besides the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18 (B), 20, 38, 39 and 40 (all related to terrorism). The NIA arrested activists Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha on April 14 this year. On July 28, the NIA arrested Hanybabu Musaliyavirtil Tarayil in connection with the case. The arrest of the three KKM members took the total number of arrests in the Elgar Parishad case to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nia-arrests-third-kkm-member-in-elgar-case-in-less-than-24-hours/articleshow/78007076.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 9, 2020||Allahabad||Compartment exams for class X & Xll soon||Prayagraj: UP Board has started preparations for holding the much-awaited high school and intermediate improvement/compartment examinations. Although the time table of the exams has not been announced yet, the board has sought proposal of exam centres from all districts. The board had accepted online applications for these exams between August 5 and 20. Total of 33,344 students, including 15,839 for improvement/compartment exams of high school and 17,505 for intermediate compartment exams, had applied. UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla has directed all district inspectors of schools (DIOSs) to ensure that all social distancing norms and other related guidelines laid down by the state government are strictly followed at the exam centres proposed by them. In his letter sent to the DIOSs on September 4, Shukla had instructed them that if they foresee any problems in the centres already proposed by them, they could send a revised proposal to the board headquarters in this regard by September 6. The missive also made it clear that if the DIOSs were convinced that the exam centres shortlisted by them are suitable for conducting improvement/compartment exams in accordance with laid down norms, a certificate to this effect would have to be sent by them to the secretary of UP Board latest by September 6. This is the first time that students of intermediate have been given the option to appear in compartment exams. UP Board had announced high school and intermediate exams, 2020 results on June 27. Around 35,017 intermediate students had failed in one subject across the state and were eligible to appear in the compartment exams of the board. In high school, 3,27,663 students had failed in one subject, but they were issued pass certificates as per norms. However, they were eligible to appear in an improvement exam of the subject which they had failed. Around 771 high school students had failed in two subjects this time and were eligible to appear in the compartment exam of any one of the two subjects that they had failed and bag the pass certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/compartment-exams-for-class-x-xll-soon/articleshow/78002543.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||Patil calls for tough action against culprits||Mysuru: Agriculture minister B C Patil on Tuesday said government will act tough on all the accused involved in Sandalwood drug scandal irrespective of their social status. “Fans always follow actors and mimic their lifestyle and so they must be cautious about involving such activities. It is unfortunate the drugs have crept into Sandalwood, which I had never witnessed while working in the industry,” said the actor-turned politician said. Vijayendra downplays Ragini’s links with BJP BJP state unit vice-president BY Vijayendra on Tuesday downplayed arrested actress Ragini Dwivedi’s connection with BJP . “I have respect for the film industry. Actors identify themselves in various parties. They support candidates of various parties in a single election.So, it is not possible to say an actor belongs to any one party. There is no question of protecting any leader in the ongoing drug related investigations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/patil-calls-for-tough-action-against-culprits/articleshow/78003587.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||Police stop action against ‘unmasked’ solo car drivers in Pune||PUNE: The city police on Tuesday directed all personnel to stop taking action against solo occupants of cars seen driving without masks. Following a review meeting on Saturday with Union minister Prakash Javadekar and other elected representatives and officials, the police had initiated a crackdown on those not wearing masks. However, this caused a public outcry, with several citizens complaining that police were fining even those driving alone in a car with the windows rolled up. During a briefing held on September 3, a senior official from the Union health ministry had clarified that the ministry had not issued any guidelines mandating the use of masks by solo car drivers or cyclists. Many citizens complained that, despite this clarification, police personnel cotninued to fine solo drivers. One motorist said he had to pay Rs500 for not wearing a mask while driving alone in his vehicle. “Is it necessary to wear a mask the entire time while driving, even when the windows are completely rolled up and with no stops on the way?” the motorist said. “I had pulled the mask below my chin as I was alone in the car, when I was stopped. The police refused to listen my clarification and I had to pay the fine. Why don’t they act against the several people who can be seen standing by the roadside consuming food and beverages without masks?” the motorist added. One Jayesh Agarwal took to Twitter to air his grievance.  “If a person is alone inside a car with all windows closed, why is a mask required?” Agarwal tweeted on the micro-blogging platform. Issuing a clarification, joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “It is true that the Union health ministry clarified that it is not necessary for solo drivers to wear a mask while driving a car. We have directed our police personnel and staff on the ground to not take action against solo drivers.” Shisve added, “If police have taken action against the solo car occupants without masks, in last few days, they can approach police with their grievances,” he said. The authorities had made wearing masks in public mandatory in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-stop-action-against-unmasked-solo-car-drivers/articleshow/78006094.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 9, 2020||Goa||In highest daily toll yet, 11 succumb to Covid in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 death count shot up to 256 on Tuesday as the state recorded its biggest single-day fatalities with 11 people — eight men and three women — succumbing to the virus. Four of them died within 24 hours of admission to hospital whereas a 45-year-old woman from Navelim was brought dead to the hospital on Sunday. Her autopsy report stated that Covid-19 was the cause of death. Of the 11 fatalities reported during the past 24 hours, six were reported from the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, three from the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, and one from the South Goa district hospital. Two men — a 67-year-old from Pernem and a 53-year-old from Margao — who developed acute respiratory distress symptoms (ARDS) immediately after their admission, had no history of any comorbid conditions. The 67-year-old man remained hospitalised for 20 days whereas the man from Margao died a little after an hour of being brought to the GMC. Other deaths reported from the GMC are that of two women — a 56-year-old from Ponda and a 47-year-old from Bicholim — and of two men — a 70-year-old from Zuarinagar and a 60-year-old from Chimbel. All of them had one or more comorbidities. On Tuesday, the state’s tally of active cases dropped slightly to 4,499 as 457 new infections were detected and 448 recoveries were reported. The state capital of Panaji reported 28 new infections, taking its active cases to 217. The places that have continued to witness a spike in cases are Sakhali, Pernem, Mapusa, Porvorim, Margao and Ponda. In North Goa, Porvorim reported the highest number of active cases at 278, and in South Goa, the count of active cases in Ponda stood at 297.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-highest-daily-toll-yet-11-succumb-to-covid-in-goa/articleshow/78006096.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||History and heritage museum to come up in the city soon||Lucknow: There’s great news for enthusiasts of Awadh’s history. Over the next two years, Lucknow will have a one-of-a-kind history and heritage museum located in Husainabad, amid the city’s pristine monuments. The museum, which has got a no-objection certificate from the Union ministry of culture, will not only help one revisit the history of Lucknow, but also give people a chance to indulge in the best of Awadhi cuisine with food kiosks and a fully air-conditioned food court. In fact, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, en route from Russia to Delhi, had a brief halt in Tehran on Saturday night. There, he shared the news of the museum on the history and heritage of the city of nawabs with an Iranian delegation. Iran is a predominantly Shia Muslim country. It has a significant link with Lucknow, which has a substantial Shia population. The Archaeological Survey of India has given its nod to the museum, which will be spread across nearly 50,000 square feet. The complex will be a three-storey structure overlooking the Clock Tower. The ground floor will house a model of Husainabad. There will be facility of toilets, souvenir shops, and a control room in the complex. The lower first floor will house a display gallery where visitors will be able to get deep insights into the story of Husainabad, the history of Lucknow, its nawabs, the story of Karbala, and the city after the nawabi era. Audio guides, images, information panels, digital screens and interactive kiosks will be available for visitors. “Artefacts and archival documents related to Indian freedom fighters from Awadh like Begum Hazrat Mahal will also be on display in this state-of-the-art museum. It will be a very different experience for the locals as well as tourists to become a part of the rich history and heritage of Awadh, all under one roof. The project had been pending for a few years. As soon as we get a go-ahead of the authorities, we will begin its construction,” said Ali Zaidi, director of a real estate company commissioned for the museum project. The highlight of the complex will be the upper first floor with four galleries: Rumi Gallery, Masjid Gallery, Ghat View Gallery, and Satkhanda Gallery. These will depict the anecdotal histories of these monuments, along with names of Nawabs. Rumi Gallery will exhibit the history of Rumi Darwaza, its architecture and design, and a replica of the original structure. Masjid Gallery will showcase history of Teel Wali Masjid, its interior details, and what it was before 1857. The Ghat View Gallery will give a peek into history and stories of ghats and river Gomti, and description of activities around it. Satkhanda Gallery will showcase history of Satkhanda and how it is the ‘Leaning Tower of Lucknow’. Taking street food vendors off the main road for ease of traffic and beautification, food kiosks will be allowed to set up towards Durga Devi Marg, which will be walking distance from the museum. Besides, an air-conditioned food court at the museum will be built in an area of 10,000 sq metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/history-and-heritage-museum-to-come-up-in-the-city-soon/articleshow/78006740.cms||Aditi Singh
September 9, 2020||Pune||Negative marking uniform for MCQs in MPSC exams||Pune: Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) has made the negative marking pattern uniform for all its exams. A notification was released on Tuesday, a day after revised dates for its examinations, pending due to the Covid-19 pandemic, were declared.“After due diligence, we have decided to change the negative marking pattern for all multiple-choice questions and keep it uniform. From now on, for every wrong answer, 25% or 1/4th of the answer’s marks will be deducted from the total marks scored by the student. If the student chooses multiple answers for a question, that too would be considered as a wrong answer and 1/4th of the marks will be deducted. If the final marks, after deductions remain with decimal numbers, they would remain so for all purposes further,” the notification said.The notification added that all examinations, including pending ones, will be evaluated based on the revised negative marking pattern. If a student leaves a question unanswered, no negative marking will be implemented.The commission conducts more than a dozen types of exams. The negative marking pattern of deducting the marks of one right answer for every wrong answer started in 2009. But for the Rajya Seva examination to recruit Group A and Group B officers in the administrative branches, negative marking was implemented with changes. Kiran Nimbhore from the MPSC Students’ Rights Organisation said the uniformity in the negative marking scheme was a good decision. “Students preparing for multiple examinations in the MPSC will find it easier to prepare for the answer writing aspect,”he said.Many aspirants, who were apprehensive about the exams being put off till the next year, were happy about the new dates. Those who had returned to their home towns during the lockdown are getting ready to come back to Pune.Anup Deshmukh, an aspirant, said, “Had the government postponed it any further, there were chances of them skipping the examinations next year. This would have meant that many students, who would turn 35 or 38 years old next year, would have missed the opportunity to appear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/negative-marking-uniform-for-mcqs-in-mpsc-exams/articleshow/78006097.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Man killed in brawl over cutting a tree||Vadodara: Brawl over cutting of branches of a tree cost a dance teacher his life in the city on Monday evening. Rakesh Parmar, a resident of Gorwa, was stabbed to death by a man identified as Shahbaz Raj in Khatrinagar in full public view. The crime branch nabbed Shahbaz within hours of the murder and handed him over to the Gorwa police. According to the police, the incident occurred when Shahid Rana and Shahbaz were cutting branches of a tree next to Arjun Rajput’s house in Gorwa. Rajput’s wife objected to it but after the duo didn’t pay heed to her, she called her husband who came to the spot with his friend Shaqeel. They got into an argument with Shahid and Shahbaz. Soon it turned in to a brawl and Shahid began assaulting Rajput. Rakesh Parmar, who was Rajput’s friend and present at the spot, tried to intervene. “It was then that Shahbaz attacked Parmar with a sharp weapon. Parmar suffered grievous injuries on his chest and was rushed to the hospital,” the police said. But Parmar, who was in his late twenties, succumbed to the injuries. An offence of murder was registered against Shahbaz at Gorwa police station following which the crime branch too swung into action. They got information that Shahbaz was in Sankarda village on the outskirts of the city following which they nabbed him early on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-killed-in-brawl-over-cutting-a-tree/articleshow/78003523.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Only 30 villages in Goa’s Western Ghats eco-sensitive: CM to Centre||PANAJI: In a major decision, chief minister Pramod Sawant has written to the Centre requesting for the inclusion of only 30 villages, as against the earlier proposed 99, in the final notification on the ecologically sensitive area (ESAs) of the Western Ghats. Sawant in a letter to the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said that the draft Western Ghats ESA notification sought to cover 99 villages — now 96 because 2 villages do not exist any longer and one is repeated — but that on closer study it was found that most did not meet the criteria laid under the Kasturirangan report “The state government has found that only 30 villages broadly meet the criteria, which is that their maximum height should be 600m above mean sea level (MSL) with 20% of village area above MSL, and that they should be contiguous with the Western Ghats of Maharashtra and Karnataka,” Sawant said. The chief minister said that there are four talukas whose parts come under the Western Ghats, none of which qualify as per the criteria. “In all four cases only a minuscule percentage of the total area is 600m above MSL — Cancona (0.2%), Dharbandora (2.5%), Sanguem (4.9%) and Sattari (4.9%). Therefore, the state went down to the village level to identify those that meet the 20% above MSL criteria,” he said. “As far as the height criteria is concerned, although these villages have a maximum height of more than 600m above MSL, only three strictly fulfil the criteria of having more than 20% of their area above MSL. Still we are recommending 30 villages to be included in the final notification for the Western Ghats ESA,” Sawant said. In May 2020, Goa government had proposed deletion of 30 villages from the 96 in the draft notification. “Out of these (remaining) 66 villages, the maximum height of 62 is less than 500m above MSL. Thus, these 66 villages by no stretch of imagination fulfil the criteria laid down by the Kasturirangan committee report and should not be notified as part of ESA of Western Ghat,” Sawant said. In his letter, Sawant said that though in his earlier letter the state had suggested including 10 more villages in the notification, these also do not meet the criteria. “Therefore, the government is not in favour of notifying these 10 villages also as part of the Western Ghat ESA.” Sawant emphasised that out of Goa’s total geographical area of 3,702sqkm, the state is hardly left with just 342sqkm area (only 9.25%) which can be made used for growth and development. “In addition to the above, the total forest and tree cover of the state of Goa is more than 66%. This is because people of Goa have culturally and historically been protecting the environment and forest,” Sawant said. Sawant said to further restrict activities in non-qualifying 66 villages would hamper activities in these villages, which are otherwise permissible by law and would cause grave injustice especially to the people of these villages and generally to the people of the state of Goa. Western Ghats ESA Criteria * The taluka/block should be 600m above mean sea level and 20% of the area of taluka/block should be 600m above MSL * The village should be contiguous with the Western Ghats in the neighbouring state of Maharashtra and Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-30-villages-in-goas-western-ghats-eco-sensitive-cm-to-centre/articleshow/78006116.cms||Murari Shetye
September 9, 2020||Pune||Four violators hurl abuses at cops, land in net||Pune: The Koregaon Park police on Monday arrested two car occupants for hurling abuses and grabbing a policeman by his collar after the officer questioned them for travelling without masks. The two men, identified as Ilias Hashim Aatiya (55) and his son, Hashim (23), were arrested after constable Jaywant Bhalerao of Bund Garden traffic division filed a complaint. As per Bhalerao’s complaint, he and his colleagues were managing traffic at IB Bungalow Chowk in the Queens Garden area. The team was also keeping an eye out for motorists travelling without masks. He spotted a car driver and a young man without masks and asked them to stop. However, the car driver continued to drive, which led to a chase. The vehicle was intercepted in Koregaon Park. After stopping the car, the duo hurled abuses Bhalerao and then shoved him. The duo also hit him, the complaint stated. Sub-inspector Shrikant Gurav of Koregaon Park police station said, “The man runs a small business in Tingrenagar, while his son is a college student. The two got annoyed after constables chased them and asked them to wear masks. They started abusing the policeman after he demanded a fine from them.” “We have seized the car. They were produced before a city court and the court lodged them in daylong police custody,” he said. In another incident in Sahakarnagar, two motorcyclists verbally abused policemen who caught them travelling without masks. The motorcycle riders were unhappy after the constables started shooting a video on their cellphones. Sub-inspector Chhaya Gadilwad of Sahakarnagar police station lodged a complaint against the duo — Hrishikesh Raut (35) of Dhankawadi and Shaunak Panase (39) of Sahakarnagar — following which they were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-violators-hurl-abuses-at-cops-land-in-net/articleshow/78006114.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||Bumpy ride on University Rd as rains hit resurfacing work||Pune: The unfinished resurfacing work on the stretch where the E-Square flyover was demolished has become a safety hazard for motorists driving on University Road towards Baner. Regular commuters have raised concerns about the uneven, gravelly road surface riddled with deep, crater-like potholes. “It had been almost a fortnight since the flyover was brought down, but several sections of the road were still unfit for driving. The surface is uneven, gravel is strewn all over the carriageway and there are deep potholes, which makes driving uncomfortable and slow,” Ashish Sharma, a regular commuter, said.Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is currently carrying out resurfacing of this stretch. PMRDA chief engineer and planner Vivek Kharvadkar said regular of rain have caused several delays. “The work has started, but we are waiting for a dry spell to complete it. It will take three days to finish the resurfacing,” he said. Another commuter, Sanjay Godbole, said the road leading to Aundh was resurfaced with tar, but that the work on the carriageway along the SPPU junction and the lane leading towards the Baner Road remained unfinished. “The rough surface and potholes frequently force traffic to slow down, causing congestion. The authorities must expedite the work,” he said. Several commuters said the turn towards Chatushrungi and Senapati Bapat Road was sealed to facilitate resurfacing, and adds to the woes of the motorists. “One has to drive further down Ganeshkhind Road and take a U-turn to go back to take this turn. Since only one vehicle can make a U-turn at a time, traffic builds up causing congestion during peak hours,” Shreya Joshi, who works in the area, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bumpy-ride-on-university-rd-as-rains-hit-resurfacing-work/articleshow/78007093.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan is the worst performer in literacy of girls: NSO report||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has recorded the lowest literacy rate of 57.6% for women in the country, making it the state most unfit for education of girls. The National Statistical Office (NSO) report 2017-18 says the state’s overall literacy rate is 69.7%, the second worst in the country, just above Andhra Pradesh which logged 66.4%. The report finds that 43.7% of women in the age group of five and above have never had any formal education or enrolled themselves in any educational institution. The figures have come as a setback for consecutive governments that have introduced several schemes and policies, including freebies, to promote the literacy rate and enrolment of girls. The state has various schemes such as Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, Gargi Award and Chief Minister Higher Education Scholarship of up to Rs 1 crore along with financial benefits of Rs 51,000 for a girl child who completes education till Class XII in a government school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-is-the-worst-performer-in-literacy-of-girls-nso-report/articleshow/78006119.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Tech companies lap up 12.55L sqft office space in Chennai||CHENNAI: While some tech companies are surrendering their office spaces partially or wholly, some others including financial services giant BNY and global electronics company KLA Tencor have signed up real estate deals during the lockdown to enhance their city presence. Between April and August when the city was either fully or partially locked down due to Covid-19, more than 12.55 lakh square feet of office space has been lapped up, mostly by tech companies. While Omega Healthcare signed up for 41,000 square feet at Chennai One IT park, banking giant BNY pocketed 6.25 lakh square feet space at Embassy. Desi payments company NPCI and Nine Stars, too, joined the space hunt, sources said. BNY did not respond to a TOI questionnaire, but sources confirmed the deal, “These are encouraging deals in the city. The companies, though mandated before the pandemic, decided to go ahead with the transactions, indicating their keenness to expand or set up operations in the city,” said Srinivas Anikipatti, senior director at real estate consultancy Knight Frank. “While companies were talking about cost saving and productivity improvements due to work from home (WFH), creativity appears to have taken a back seat, our clients tell us,” he said. Real estate industry sources said that WFH is effective when it’s training related, but when its R&D or manufacturing design, collaboration with colleagues enhances quality. “Cost saving is from productivity and not quality. We will get to see return to campuses or a hybrid model. This full WFH may not work in the long run” sources said. “These deals indicate that there is nothing to panic, as earlier thought. Since January nearly 2.2 million square feet has been absorbed and we may end 2020 with 4.2 to 4.3 million square feet. (In 2019 Chennai absorbed 5.8 million square feet) ,” said Rajesh Babu, Chief Consultant, at real estate consultancy Asset Advise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tech-cos-lap-up-12-55l-sqft-office-space-in-city/articleshow/78004926.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
September 9, 2020||Pune||Taps to run dry across most areas tomorrow||Pune: Water supply in most parts of the city would be shut on Thursday and it would resume on Friday afternoon, the Pune Municipal Corporation said. The closure has been announced to facilitate the maintenance and repair works at the water pumping stations including Parvati, Vadgaon, SNDT, Chatushrungi, Warje, Pune Cantonment and New Holkar. The PMC water supply department said it would try to complete the work at the earliest. Water will not be distributed to the sub-stations as pumping will remain shut throughout the day. The water supply will be restored late on Friday morning in a phased manner, the civic body said. However, residents said even though the administration claimed the supply would resume on Friday morning, it would take at least six more hours to get supply at normal pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/taps-to-run-dry-across-most-areas-tomorrow/articleshow/78006118.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Despite colleges shut, drug menace continues in M’luru||Kevin.Mendonsa Mangaluru: It would follow that the indefinite closure of educational institutions, particularly those of higher learning, owing to the Covid-19 crisis would have paralysed the market for narcotic substances in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, but such is not the case. The trade of drugs continues unabated, virtually unaffected by the suspension of most businesses in the coastal districts, which are home to prestigious universities and higher education institutions, wherein nearly five lakh students are estimated to be pursuing various courses. A senior police official familiar with the functioning and operations of the drug racket said that, the pandemic may have forced those involved in the illegal business to make some changes, but the sale of narcotic substances continued to be going strong. “The seizure of the huge cache of ganja a few weeks ago attests to this. The peddlers have been very active since the lockdown was lifted,” he said. While ganja remains the most popular drug, ecstasy, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and hash oil are the other narcotic substances much in demand in the two coastal districts. Another cop in Mangaluru said that students pursuing medicine constituted the bulk of the customers for the peddlers, followed closely by engineering students, and those pursuing other professional courses. “Interestingly, a few students also double as peddlers. Once a student gets addicted, he or she may also take to selling the substance on the campus. That way, peddlers reduce their exposure, and the students get to purchase it from someone they know. This is prevalent on many college premises, but remains unnoticed,” he added. Professionals working in a stressful working environment, those whose working timings are irregular, constitute another section of the customer base for narcotic substances. A Mangaluru-based counsellor pointed to the rise in the number of high-school students getting addicted to drugs. “Earlier, most students picked up the habit after entering PU, but this is not the case anymore. Owing to addiction, many high-school students are dropping out, while many in the 18 to 30 age group are ending up in rehabilitation centres,” the counsellor said. Former director general of the National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics G Shreekumar Menon, who has studied the rampancy of drug abuse in the coastal districts, said that the nefarious network had spread its tentacles wide and deep into the educational institutions. He opined that students either consumed drugs to feel euphoric or to keep their undivided attention on studies without feeling physically stressed or sleepy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/despite-colleges-shut-drug-menace-continues-in-mluru/articleshow/78003629.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||New airport terminal building by Dec next year||Pune: The new terminal building of the city airport would be ready for operation from December next year, officials said. The building was slated to be completed by May-June next year, but the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in delay of another six months. Sources in the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said work was expected to go on smoothly now. “The Rs478-crore terminal building is an important project and will increase the number of flights and passengers at the Pune airport. While the contagion and the lockdowns have delayed the project by some more months, it is not a major delay,” an AAI official said. Egis India, the project consultant, had told TOI in April that construction work had stopped on March 20 for over 40 days and the building was only 30% ready. Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said, “Even if the deadline is met by AAI, there will be other challenges like using the airport to its optimum capacity since it will be sometime before the airport is able to achieve the pre-Covid traffic level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-airport-terminal-building-by-dec-next-year/articleshow/78006120.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 9, 2020||Pune||New system taps weather data to predict outbreaks||PUNE: Experts from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the state health department’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme have developed an ‘Early Health Warning System’ which, they said, can predict the outbreak of diseases such as malaria, diarrhoea, dengue at least two to three weeks in advance. Changes in rainfall and temperature patterns play a major role in incidence of disease, scientists have found. It’s for this reason that a disease warning system that includes weather data is a significant development, especially during the Covid-19 outbreak. The project's scientists have already tested a pilot for Pune and Nagpur districts, which involved an analysis on the incidence of malaria and acute diarrhoea in these districts between 2009-2016. The study used historical data to assess the link between the diseases and meteorological parameters. AK Sahai, the lead IITM researcher, told TOI, “We found that increased probabilities of high rainfall, high minimum temperature and low maximum temperature are more conducive to both diseases (malaria and diarrhoea). With probabilistic forecasts of disease incidences, this early warning system was found to be a useful tool with reasonable skill to provide a climate-health outlook on possible disease outbreaks at least two weeks in advance, for any location in India.” Sahai added that the IMD could issue outbreak forecasts based on the new model with help from local authorities who would be required to share disease data with IMD and IITM. He said, “We found that Nagpur experiences more malaria cases compared to Pune, which registers more acute diarrhoea cases. Also, Pune district gets more or less a constant number of acute diarrhoea cases during all seasons, except for an increase during the period from mid-June to September. In Nagpur, the magnitude of acute diarrhoea cases is more during the July to August months.” Pradip Awate, the state surveillance officer with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, told TOI, “We found that malaria cases are more before and during the monsoon season in Pune. In Nagpur, malaria cases are more after a month of monsoon onset until the post-monsoon month of October. So variations in rainfall distribution, maximum and minimum temperatures over these two regions likely play a major role in seasonality of malaria and acute diarrhoea.” Awate added that in Pune district, a large number of acute diarrhoea and malaria cases were associated with moderate to heavy rainfall activity, higher minimum temperatures and moderate maximum temperature values in some weeks of a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disease-warning-system-taps-weather-data-to-predict-outbreaks-2-weeks-in-advance/articleshow/78007106.cms||Neha Madaan
September 9, 2020||Kochi||16% of students suffer from learning disability||Kochi: A study has found higher prevalence of specific learning disability (SLD) among school going children in the district. The study conducted by the psychiatry department in Kalamassery medical college and published in Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine’s April edition has found prevalence of SLD in 244 (16.49 %) of 1,480 students, studying between classes IV and VII in both government and private sector. It has also been noted that the prevalence of disability in written expression, reading and mathematics was 15.60%, 12.57% and 9.93%, respectively. Most of the children covered in the study were staying in municipal and panchayat limits following state syllabus. The study also looked into association of risk factors like low birth weight, type of delivery, parental education, developmental delay and physical illness as factors contributing to the SLD among students. “It has been found that risk factors significantly contribute to the learning disability. Developmental problems in brains lead to SLD in students. Many overcome the SLD later in life and performed well in academics,” said Dr Vidhukumar, additional professor, psychiatry, Kalamassery medical college. He and Dr Deenu Chacko conducted the study. There are remedial measures to address SLD in students, but parents are not keen about it, say doctors. “Parents are not ready to accept that their children have SLD. When we noticed SLD in 244 children, we asked their teachers to address it by training. In some cases, children need professional approach. But what surprised us was that not even a single parent of these 244 students approached us. They are not even bothered about remedial measures. What we usually see is that when such students reach Class IX or X, their parents approach us for certificates to show that their wards have learning disability. The certificate will help them avail benefits like service of a scribe to write examination,” says Dr Chacko, who now works in Alappuzha government medical college as assistant professor in psychiatry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/16-of-students-suffer-from-learning-disability/articleshow/78003645.cms||T C Sreemol
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||A heartbreaking tale of two tests, two days apart||Lucknow: A 67-year-old patient who tested negative for Covid-19 on September 5 by RT-PCR method at Balrampur Hospital not just tested positive for Covid-19 with the same method two days later, but also died of Covid pneumonia at SGPGI on Tuesday evening. The Aliganj resident had a heart condition since 2010 and a renal transplant in 2015. His son had tested positive on the evening of September 3. The son got a call from the control room on September 4 to inquire about his and his family’s health. The elderly got himself tested at Balrampur Hospital as he fell in a vulnerable group due to comorbidities. However, his report on September 5 was negative. On September 6, the elderly man felt breathless and was rushed to SGPGI where doctors got the test done again after finding blood oxygen levels at 87%. The Covid report then came positive on September 7. “The infection had badly damaged my father’s lungs leading to pneumonia,” the son told TOI. “I don’t know who to blame—delay in contact tracing, ban on home collection by private labs or false negative report by Balrampur hospital,” he added. SGPGI ICU 3 in charge Dr Tanmoy Ghatak said that Covid pneumonia is the third stage in a patient which occurs after 10-14 days of infection. In the first stage, the virus replicates inside the body and breathlessness occurs in the second. “Going by expert opinion, the caseload in my father should have been high on September 4, then why did the test at Balrampur Hospital not detect it?” the son posed. Officiating CMO Dr MK Singh said the patient’s comorbid conditions must have accelerated the viral load. “Anything can only be said after an audit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-heartbreaking-tale-of-two-tests-two-days-apart/articleshow/78006759.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Surat||DNA profiling to confirm identity of dead Thai woman||Surat: Senior city police officials are yet to rule out possibility of murder of the 27-year-old Thailand woman whose charred body was found from her rented accommodation on September 6 morning. The lock on Wanida Bousorn’s home’s front door holds the answer to the mystery which police are trying to solve. Meanwhile, investigations are on taking the case as an accidental death and no evidences were available that could suggest anything foul. The lock was broken to enter the first-floor house by the owner of the house. Since the house was locked from outside, police earlier suspected involvement of some person but later found out that the room had another door and stairs on the back. Room mate of the deceased woman told police that they sometimes used the back door to enter the house and let the front door stay locked from outside. “We examined the backside door and found it covered with cobwebs. The stairs leading down were also unclean while the grille was locked from inside. It appears as if the back door was not used for a long time,” a senior police officer told TOI. Samples were collected for DNA profiling which will be matched with her family members to establish her identity. Bousorn was on a tourist visa and had arrived on March 20. Her visa was to expire on September 19. Police suspect that her passport and two mobile phones may have been destroyed in the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dna-profiling-to-confirm-identity-of-dead-thai-woman/articleshow/78003716.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||He was conscious of producing opportunities to attract good students||(Take with Narlikar’s photo from comyan) and the slug In the early 1960s, three scientists working in the United States, all of them radio astronomers, met to work out some way of placing their knowledge at the disposal of the mother country. They wrote to the agency heads of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), University Grants Commission (UGC) and Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), offering all three agency heads to set up radio astronomy in India. Only one of the three agency heads replied to the letter. That was Homi Bhabha, the head of DAE. He wrote back saying that they should meet and work out in what way radio astronomy can be brought to India under the guidance of these experts. The three scientists decided to visit India and make suitable practical suggestions. They were willing to return to India if the project they were proposing could be supported. The three scientists were Mukul Kundu, Kochu Menon and Govind Swarup. As a positive response was promised by Bhabha with jobs in the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), they decided to return to India. However, in the end, only one of them stayed back. Menon and Kundu went back to work in the United States after a few years of stay in India. Govind Swarup led the efforts to bring radio astronomy to India. His dedication to the job is well-known. As a result of that dedication, he started with a modest radio antenna near Kalyan in Maharashtra working upwards to have a radio telescope in Ooty and finally working still further to make the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT). The radio telescope at Ooty was used for many interesting observations, including measuring angular sizes of radio sources. The GMRT is proving to be of international value. It was chosen to use wavelengths long enough for comparison with telescopes in the West. Because of noise at these wavelengths arising from industries in advanced countries, these wavelengths of metre size are not used abroad. Thus, GMRT has a unique role to play. Finally, one should remember that while working at the extreme high end of radio science, Govind was aware of the need to have more good students working in this area and he has always been conscious of producing opportunities to attract good students. We may mention Shri Kulkarni, Rajaram Nityananda and Vijay Kapahi who became distinguished astronomers. Because Govind was enthusiastic about the new projects to bring students,he kept talking about them, and changing their nature from today to tomorrow, thus making it somewhat confusing to the listener as to what he will finally converge on. We all will miss this enthusiasm that Govind brought. (The writer is an eminent astrophysicist and founder-director of Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics in Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/he-was-conscious-of-producing-opportunities-to-attract-good-students/articleshow/78007114.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Mission Rabies seeks land to bury dead dogs||Panaji: In the absence of incinerator or land to dispose dead dogs at the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Mission Rabies has requested the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services to allot 50sqm of land. The land will be utilised for disposal of dead dogs which are tested negative for the rabies virus. “We wish to collect all accidental and dead dogs found on the road, test them for rabies and dispose the bodies. But presently we are forced to restrict the number of postmortems for want of a place for carcass disposal of the negative cases after postmortem,” director of education at Mission Rabies, Dr Murugan Appupillai, said. He further said that they are struggling to identify a place for deep burial of the dead dogs. A few animal lovers and NGOs so far have helped to dispose the carcasses from time to time. “This was until a month ago, but now there is no solution so we are restricting the number of postmortems being conducted,” he said. The rabies positive dogs are very few, one or two per month, which are being disposed by following the required SOP, he added. “We had identified land at Curca, but the panchayat had raised objection on the matter. We were also trying to shift the Panaji animal shelter there as well. It is very important to have a dog burial ground, especially since so many of the stray dogs die due to road accidents.” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The department of animal husbandry and veterinary services refused to comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mission-rabies-seeks-land-to-bury-dead-dogs/articleshow/78006131.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Parties begin campaign for corp polls||Kochi: With the local body elections around the corner, political parties have started preparations for campaign. Candidate aspirants in both the fronts have started lobbying to secure seats for contesting the polls to Kochi corporation. While the main poll plank of LDF will be what they call the failures of UDF which had been in power in the past few years, the ruling front will be focusing mainly on issues like gold smuggling which shook the state government. “No projects have been implemented in the past five years. This shows the failure of the ruling front. This would be the major point of our campaign,” a CPM leader said. “They couldn’t even complete the construction of the main office of the corporation. Waterlogging, waste management, etc still remain unresolved. Many of the projects by the state government like Life Mission can give the LDF a fillip,” he said. Even while CPM leaders put the blame of failures on UDF, the fact that LDF also heads three standing committees would be hindrance for them to wash off their hands. Meanwhile, UDF hopes that it could come back to power riding on the anti-incumbency factor against the state government. Ruling front leaders also claim that they have a lot of achievements to showcase. “We are hopeful that UDF will come back to power,” said T J Vinod MLA, who is the District Congress Committee (DCC) president and former mayor of Kochi corporation. “We haven’t finalized the campaign issues so far. We have constituted committees to look into the preliminary issues in each local body in the district. The committee is expected to sort out issues like differences of opinion in the local level. Preparation of candidates’ list for the local bodies, including Kochi corporation, will be conducted later,” Vinod said. Expectations that the LDF may wrist the power from UDF have led to a situation where many CPM leaders girding up their loins for contesting the corporation elections. In LDF, CPM state committee member and former mayor C M Dinesh Mani, district secretariat member and Bamboo corporation chairman M K Jacob, district committee member M Anil Kumar are learnt to have in the list of contenders for mayoral candidate of the front. Going by the unconfirmed reports, CPM is planning to field a woman psychologist who had been in the news for her virtues and kind attitude towards Covid-19 patients. Former GCDA chairman N Venugopal, deputy mayor K R Premakumar and former standing committee chairman A B Sabu are the top contenders for the mayoral post in UDF, it is learnt. A section in the Congress is against fielding mayor Soumini Jain once again. But, those who favour her point out that if she doesn’t contest, rivals will portray it as escapism. Meanwhile, there may be chances for some of the councillors switching sides. CPM is learnt to have started unofficial talks with one of the UDF standing committee chairpersons for contesting as LDF candidate. Similarly, one of the UDF councillors is also exploring the possibilities of joining LDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parties-begin-campaign-for-corp-polls/articleshow/78003654.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra scraps 70% regional quota for medical seats, to follow ‘1 Maha 1 Merit’||MUMBAI: The state government has junked a 20-year-old regional reservation policy followed for medical college admissions. Announcing the decision to scrap the 70:30 reservation formula in the state assembly on Tuesday, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said that henceforth, the ‘One Maharashtra One Merit’ principle will be applicable. For medical admissions, the state is divided into three regions—Marathwada, Vidarbha and Rest of Maharashtra (RoM). As per the policy, 70% of medical college seats in these regions were set aside for locals and the remaining 30% were for the entire state. Deshmukh told the lower house that many bright students were deprived of medical education due to the 70:30 quota system. “Now all admissions will be given only on the basis of merit in NEET,” he said. In a press statement, he said the number of colleges and the seat distribution differed in the three regions and thus meritorious students from Marathwada and Vidarbha were at a loss. He added there have been continuous demands from the Marathwada region. The decision will allow meritorious students from across the state to get admissions in the college of their choice, he said. Dr T P Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said the ‘One Maharashtra One Merit’ principle will be implemented from this year.  “It should have ideally been implemented a few years ago when NEET was made mandatory. Within the state, there was no point in having reservations. It is a fair move,” Lahane said. The decision to reserve 30% state quota seats was taken in 1999. Prior to this, 100% seats were filled only by local students from the respective university zones, said Dr Pravin Shingare, former DMER director. The meritorious students from other zones, therefore, were deprived of seats in sought-after colleges in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. However, over a period of time, this policy was being misused as students migrated to other cities for their SSC and HSC exams and claimed domicile of that region, only to get a seat under the 70% regional quota, he said, adding that scrapping the policy is a welcome move and admissions should be only based on state merit. ROM currently has 13 government and 11 private colleges. It has some of the most sought-after colleges such as the ones attached to KEM, Sion, Nair, JJ hospitals and BJ Medical College, Pune, while Vidarbha has six and Marathwada has only four government colleges. Marathwada, in fact, did not get a single new college for over five years, leading to zero increase in 70% quota seats, Shingare said.  Sudha Shenoy, a parent representative, said the decision is fair, but implementing anything at the eleventh hour is uncalled for. “Students plan their targets based on the previous year’s cut-offs. The move will definitely benefit high-scoring students from regions other than ROM,” she said, adding that the cut-off in government colleges in ROM was 549 last year and it dropped to 535 for Vidarbha and less than 510 for Marathwada colleges. “How the new policy will change these cut-offs will have to be seen this year,” Shenoy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-scraps-70-regional-quota-for-med-seats-to-follow-1-maha-1-merit/articleshow/78006760.cms||Yogita Rao
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Benefit from scrapped flat deal is capital gain’||MUMBAI: If a Mumbaikar books a flat, then cancels the deal with the builder, and benefits by receiving a sum higher than the earnest amount paid, the excess will not be treated as a tax-free income. In tax parlance, it will not constitute a capital receipt. The Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal’s Mumbai bench, in a recent order, ruled that the excess consideration received is in the nature of ‘capital gains’. In the absence of any contrary jurisdictional order, this ITAT order will also play a significant role in assessment of cases outside Mumbai. The ITAT view is more favourable than the tax department’s. An I-T officer, in the course of his assessment, had treated the excess sum minus the booking and earnest money as ‘income from other sources’. Under Section 54 of the Income-Tax (I-T) Act, if long-term capital gains arising out of a house sale are invested in another home in India within a stipulated period of time, then to the extent of such investment, the taxable component of capital gains is reduced. This results in a lower tax outgo. Thus, if the entire amount of long-term capital gains is invested, no tax is payable. Anil Harish, an advocate specialising in real estate, told TOI: “I agree with the ITAT view and it is a good decision. Years ago, in 1979, the Bombay high court had held that when a part-payment was made and a right was acquired, this amounted to a capital asset, even though the transaction had not been completed. On the sale of the asset, the surplus was to be treated as a capital gain. This high court order has been the foundation for several other decisions referred to in the recent ITAT order.”In this case heard by ITAT, Mukesh Sohanraj Vardhan, the taxpayer, had treated the benefit of Rs 18.75 lakh received from the builder on cancellation of his deal—flat booked in Vardhaman Heights, Byculla—as a long-term capital gain. He had invested a significantly higher amount in another house property within the stipulated time and thus claimed the benefit of Section 54. The I-T officer, though, sought to treat the sum of Rs 18.75 lakh as income from other sources—a position the commissioner of income-tax (appeals) upheld. The appellate commissioner was of the view that an incomplete, non-registered letter of allotment cannot be treated as a valid document to determine ownership of the capital asset—the flat whose booking was cancelled. To be considered a long-term capital asset, the flat needs to have been ‘owned’ for at least two years (for financial year 2011-12 covered in this case, the period of holding was three years). The tribunal relied on an earlier judgment and a circular issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (number 471), which stated the property acquired by the allotment letter is to be considered as capital asset for the purpose of exemption from capital gains. Thus, ITAT upheld the capital gains deduction claimed by the taxpayer under section 54.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/benefit-from-scrapped-flat-deal-is-capital-gain/articleshow/78006761.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||30% Covid admissions in Pune from outside district; hospitals to up beds||PUNE: At least 30% Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals across Pune are from neighbouring districts, shows a recent estimate which has prompted divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to ask the collectors of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts to increase the number of beds at their local Covid facilities. However, officials from these regions said it would take them at least a month to upgrade. Rao said he has now asked hospitals in Pune to immediately increase beds and prepare for outstation patients. A letter has been sent to the Sassoon General Hospital and Army establishments in the region, he said. For weeks, outstation patients who have been unable to find quality Covid care immediately have been pouring into Pune city. Officials said many of them were turning up at critical stages of the illness. Rao said the 30% estimate was arrived at after a survey of admissions in Pune district. Many of the outstation patients are from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts. Collectors of these districts have been asked to ensure that all hospitals in their jurisdictions are following the 80:20 rule — reservation of most beds for Covid treatment. “We are working on a centralised bed management system for these districts where the number of beds will be ramped up. Around 700 beds will be increased in Kolhapur, 500 in Solapur and a similar number in Satara district. All these should be ready by the end of the month,” Rao said. Experts have said the influx of outstation patients is the result of inadequate local and expert care. In an earlier interview, Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state government on pandemic control, had told TOI: “Only a few states — Tamil Nadu and Kerala are examples — have taken steps to improve local healthcare systems. Merely constructing hospitals will not do. In Maharashtra, there are not enough doctors or trained staff to run new hospitals. What have we done to prepare for an extreme situation like Covid-19? I would say nothing.” Rao said the shortage of beds with ventilator support will ease once the jumbo units are full operational. A plant in Chakan, which is expected to supply medical oxygen to Pune district, is also expected to become operational by October 5. Rao said oxygen can also be procured from other states to ease the shortage in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-covid-admissions-in-pune-from-outside-district-hospitals-to-up-beds/articleshow/78006129.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Time we moved away from hurtful past: Pant||Lucknow: “The demolition of Babri Masjid was an injustice and its culprits are at large but there is no point peeling old wounds now,” said Padma Shri Professor Pushpesh Pant who has been appointed as the consultant curator by Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation(IICF)--a Trust set up by the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board for the 5 acre plot allotted in lieu of the mosque. Prof Pant who has already begun work on curating the archive/museum to come up in a section of the land in Dhannipur village said that it’s about time we moved away from the hurtful past but keep holding onto the syncretic history of our country. “Beinsafi hui hai, demolition ki saza nahi hui hai. Par ghaav khurachne se kuch nahi hoga. And no matter what the verdict, we have to abide by the Supreme Court now. So I was elated to know that a section of Muslims came up for a new beginning. And it was commendable that they decided not to build the same mosque, as that would have never ended the fight,” Prof Pant explained. “I have started work on the project and hope to produce an illustrated catalogue of IICF in around one to one and a half years time. The Trust can then take it forward from there with their expert architects and team,” Prof Pant said. An academic and food critic who retired as international relations faculty at JNU, Prof Pant (74) in a conversation with TOI said that the archives/museum would focus on a holistic experience of Awadh which will be inclusive of Lucknow and Faizabad but not limited to it. “From Islam’s influence on Indians irrespective of them being Muslims or non-Muslims, our intertwined food, culture, architecture, customs, everything that speaks of our collective heritage will be showcased at the museum. A digital experience will also show visitors unique mosques from around the country like the glass mosque of Kerala,” said the expert in a passionately hasty flow of words. Highlighting the independent importance of Ayodhya, he said, “It was Ayodhya which was anglicized by the British as Oudh. It was Ayodhya which was present 300 years before Christ’s birth. We will not get into the fight to know whether Ram was real or not, but before Islam and Hindu, there was Ayodhya. We are talking of around 2,500 years of history here.” Defining ‘Awadh’ in his own terms Prof Pant said that for him Awadh is Kanpur, Kotwara, Mahmudabad, Shikohabad, Rampur, Firozabad, Shahjahanpur, Jaunpur and that all of their distinct art forms will find place in the museum. “We cannot omit the Persian and Shia influence on food, culture and art either. So Karbala will also find space with great poets Mir Anees and Mirza Dabeer,” he said. The land will also have a community kitchen, a pharmacy, a madrassa and a masjid. Recalling his deep connection with Lucknow and Rampur, Prof Pant said, “My father was a doctor at King George’s Medical University so I’ve seen Lucknow closely. My maternal grandfather was the only Hindu minister in the Rampur royalty and their customs interlinked with ours. All of this syncretism will be revived in the archives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/time-we-moved-away-from-hurtful-past-pant/articleshow/78006763.cms||Yusra Husain
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Private bus operators resume services||Hyderabad: The transport departments of Telangana and AP are yet to take a decision on resumption of inter-state bus operations, however, private bus operators have resumed their services in a phased manner. While a few operators started their services to AP this week, many are still awaiting inspections and document clearances from transport authorities to resume services. All bus operators have been instructed to make alternate seating arrangements as per the Covid safety protocols. However, with not more than 60 buses plying currently, passengers say that they are finding it difficult to book tickets. Divya Sri, a resident of Miyapur, said, “I have been trying to book two tickets for Guntur for the past two days but there are no seats available.” Nagula Pradeep, who travelled from Vijayawada to Hyderabad, said, “The ticket used to cost me Rs 360 but now it is for Rs 580. As there are very few buses runnin, a few bus operators are cashing in on the situation.” Private bus operators say that passengers struggling to book tickets will not face the problem for long as 99% of the remaining operators will also be resuming services in the next three to four days. “A few bus operators have started operations from September 1 but there are still many private players who are yet to finish their registration and documentation process with the transport department. The remaining operators will also resume their services in the next couple of days, not in the interest of making huge profits but to keep the business running,” said Orange Travels owner M Sunil Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-bus-operators-resume-services/articleshow/78004943.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Navi-mumbai||10-year-old girl dies in Taloja house collapse||A ten-year-old girl died in a ground-plus-one tenement collapse in a chawl in Pendhar village, near Taloja MIDC, on Tuesday morning, while three of her siblings sustained injuries and were rescued by locals. Their parents were away at the time of the incident. The structure—six rooms below and seven above—was dilapidated, and the owner had asked the family to vacate, police said. They were to return to UP, but could not due to the lockdown. Fire brigade officials and excavators cleared the debris and a case of accidental death was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/10-yr-old-girl-dies-in-taloja-house-collapse/articleshow/78006767.cms||Umesh K Parida
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Major work begins to protect Kadana dam||Vadodara: A major exercise is underway to protect the Kadana dam – second largest in the state – from erosion in the downstream. While work had started before monsoon started, it has remained incomplete. The dam had witnessed erosion of soil in its downstream and an estimate of Rs 2.75 crore was drawn to fill the ditch caused by soil erosion. But when work began to empty the water, it came to light that the ditch was much larger than expected. Kadana dam’s deputy executive engineer R B Mall said that material to the tune of 60,000 to 70,000 cubic metres would be needed to fill the depression. He said that more than 10,500 truckloads of material was rushed to the site to fill the depression. When asked about the delay in commencement of the work, Mall said it was due to the Covid-19 situation and lockdown, adding that only a small portion of the work is left to be completed. A row was also raked up regarding meshes used for work at the dam site being found kilometres away on bridges over the Mahi river.  Mall said that these were made from plastics and were stacked for the remaining work, but water had to be released from the dam and they got dragged away in the current. The large-scale movement of trucks, machinery and workers had led to panic and speculation in the area. But officials have said that the maintenance was only preventive and the dam structure was not damaged in any way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/major-work-begins-to-protect-kadana-dam/articleshow/78003545.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Metro ridership picks up, 26,000 take train on Day 2||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metro Rail witnessed a rise in ridership as it recorded 26,000 passengers on the second day of resumption of services as compared to 19,000 on Monday. The operations on Corridor 3, which resumed on Tuesday between Nagole and Raidurg from 7 am to 12 noon and 4 pm to 9 pm, ferried 9,000 passengers, while another 17,000 passengers travelled on the Miyapur to LB Nagar stretch. According to Hyderabad Metro Rail officials, the rise in number of passengers was due to more people becoming aware of the resumed metro services. They, however, said that this was anticipated and thus the entire team was ready for it. “A total of about 240 train trips were made on the second day of resumption of services. We will run services on all the three corridors from tomorrow onwards continuously from 7 am to 9 pm without any break,” said Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy. To help passengers get used to the new functioning of the system, the metro rail authorities ensured regular announcements on maintaining physical distancing, wearing masks apart from checking temperature and encouraging people to follow government guidelines. Metro officials were also present to guide passengers through the process. However, medical experts believe that resumption of the Metro might increase the risk of getting infected if commuters do not follow the safety protocols when the footfall increases. “Even if the authorities take all the necessary precautions to ensure that the passengers do not contract the infection, it will be of no use if people are not responsible. We can see a lot of them in the city who are taking this whole situation for granted by not following the basic precautions like wearing a mask. A public transport service like a bus or a metro rail can become a hot spot for spreading infection if people do not take precautions,” said Dr Mohammad Nisamuddin, a senior epidemiologist. The medical experts further advised that only asymptomatic persons who did not come in contact with the Covid-19 infected persons or their secondary contacts in the last 14 days should travel after undergoing thermal screening at the entrance and taking all the necessary precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-ridership-picks-up-26k-take-train-on-day-2/articleshow/78004940.cms||Moulika.KV
September 9, 2020||Business||ED to fly Deepak Kochhar to Delhi, quiz him at its HQ||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate will fly down Deepak Kochhar to the capital for his custodial interrogation in a money laundering case in which he is co-accused along with his wife and former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar. The promoter of Nupower Renewables, Deepak Kochhar, was arrested on Monday by the agency in Mumbai for being allegedly evasive during questioning in the recent past. A special court in Mumbai remanded him in ED custody till September 19 in view of fresh evidence gathered by the agency and for his refusal to cooperate with the investigative team. Chanda Kochhar and Videocon Chairman Venugopal Dhoot, other two accused in the money launder ing investigation initiated by the agency in January 2019, might also face action as, sources claimed, they too have been evasive. “Both Dhoot and Chanda Kochhar have not been forthcoming in their statements recorded with the agency while the money trail is providing direct evidence to a quid pro quo,” an officer pointed out. Deepak Kochhar will be questioned at the agency’s headquarters by the headquarter intelligence unit (HIU) which is probing his case. The high-profile probe is monitored by the special HIU team also for the reason that the ED case is based on a CBI FIR registered in the national capital. The former ICICI Bank CEO is accused of “illegal sanctioning of loans” of Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon group of companies as part of an alleged quid pro quo in which Dhoot paid money to Deepak Kochhar’s Nupower Renewables. The judge observed that the custodial interrogation of Deepak Kochhar was “necessary”. It is an economic offence which requires a certain different type of probe, so considering overall arguments, the accused is remanded in the ED’s custody, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-to-fly-deepak-kochhar-to-delhi-quiz-him-at-its-hq/articleshow/78007439.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||1.4L candidates set to appear for Eamcet in Telangana||Hyderabad: As many as 1,43,000 candidates will be appearing for Telangana State Engineering, Agriculture & Medical (Pharmacy, Veterinary) Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) which will begin on Wednesday. The test, for engineering stream candidates, will be conducted in two sessions on September 9, 10, 11, and 14 in 102 centres. The morning session will be from 9 am to 12 noon and the afternoon session from 3 pm to 6 pm. Candidates appearing for the exam will have to submit a signed declaration stating that he/she has not tested positive for coronavirus. Those experiencing cough, cold, sneezing, fever, etc., must inform, well in advance, to the authorities at the Test Centre so as to make necessary arrangements. The student must maintain physical distancing starting from the point of entry in the exam venue until his/her exit from the exam venue and follow directions given by representatives at the test centre. Candidates must bring their own masks and a simple pen. They may also bring flexible gloves, a personal hand sanitizer (50ml), and a transparent water bottle, if needed. No other items will be permitted inside the exam venue. The temperature of candidates will be checked at the entry to the exam venue via a Thermo Gun. No waiting place will be provided to accompanying persons at the test centres in view of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-4l-candidates-set-to-appear-for-eamcet-in-telangana/articleshow/78004974.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Online quiz championship by innovation council for students from Classes III to XII||Panaji: As children are stuck at home away from their schools, the Goa State Innovation Council and the education committee of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry have decided to motivate students to learn by holding an online proctored quiz championship. The Goa Quiz Championship (GQC), as it will be called, will be unlike the usual general knowledge contests and will test the children’s understanding of concepts, logic and presence of mind. Besides this, a quarter of the questions asked will be to test the child’s knowledge of Goa. The championship, being held along with Space Odyssey Education, will include categories of sub-juniors for students from Class III to V, juniors for those studying in Classes VI to VIII and seniors for those in Classes IX to XII. There are prizes worth a total of Rs four lakh to be won. “The underlying goal is to give the Goa students a taste of skills that will hold them in good stead in real life. All students of Goa schools from Classes III to XII are eligible to participate in the GQC. Students from outside Goa who have a genuine interest in Goa are also eligible to participate, but must bear in mind that being Goa-oriented, the quiz will have about a quarter of questions related to Goa – its history, culture, specialities, accomplishments, famous people and more,” the organisers said. Students have to register online to participate and have up to September 30 to do so on the website www.spaceodyssey.in/GQC. “GQC Finals will be conducted on November 28, 2020. The quiz will take place online on an Artificial Intelligence proctored platform to ensure clean and genuine participation. The platform will be able to judge in case of cheating (checking answers online or taking help of someone else online or in the room and similar methods to gain an unfair advantage),” the organisers said. Two mock tests will be conducted in October to help students familiarise with the entire system. Those declared champions will get an individual cash scholarship of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 75,000 and Rs 50,000 in the seniors, juniors and sub-juniors categories, respectively. There will be cash prizes for first and second runners-up in category too. School topper of each school will be awarded a medal and a certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-quiz-championship-by-innovation-council-for-students-from-classes-iii-to-xii/articleshow/78006172.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Teen ends life over refusal to buy phone in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 15-year-old Class 9 student committed suicide allegedly because his parents refused to buy him a smartphone. The youngster, a resident of Kolwai in Bheerpur Mandal of Jagtial district, was on Tuesday found hanging at his house by his neighbours. His parents, who are toddy tappers, had gone for work. According to police, the youngster had been asking for a smartphone for personal use. “The family did not buy him the phone as they have been facing financial problems and could not afford to buy a phone. The father of the boy was into farm work to earn some extra money. Upset with his parents’ refusal, he hanged himself on Tuesday afternoon,” said Bheerpur SI Manohar R. The police did not find any suicide note and shifted the body to the hospital mortuary. A suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-ends-life-over-refusal-to-buy-phone/articleshow/78004972.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||6 Marathwada revenue circles report heavy rain||Aurangabad: Marathwada received widespread rainfall activity between Monday and Tuesday with six revenue circles reporting heavy showers. As per the Met department, more showers are in the store for the region as light to moderate rainfall is expected in parts of the region over at least 48-hours. As per official data, areas that reported heavy rainfall included Kandhar revenue circle (149 mm) from Nanded district, Belkund (69 mm) and Lamjana (66 mm) circles from Latur district, Satona (73 mm) from Jalna district, Ashti (71 mm) from Beed and Digras (69 mm) from Hingoli district. Marathwada as a whole received 12 mm rainfall during the past 24-hours with Beed, Hingoli (both 18 mm), Latur (16 mm), Aurangabad (12 mm) and Osmanabad (11 mm) reporting maximum showers among total eight districts in the region. As per official data, Aurangabad (126%) and Jalna (122%) have already crossed the figure of expected showers received from June to September. Among remaining districts, Hingoli has received 93% of the expected showers followed by Parbhani (78%), Nanded (74%), Latur (71%) and Osmanabad (67%). Marathwada as a whole has reported 88% of the expected showers so far since June as compared to 83% received the during corresponding period last year. As per forecast issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada are likely to witness cloudy skies for next few days. Spells of light rain are likely amid overcast conditions during the next 24 hours, followed by the possibility of moderate showers for next subsequent 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-marathwada-revenue-circles-report-heavy-rain/articleshow/78002658.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Accused in hit-and-run case held||Hyderabad: Saroornagar police on Tuesday arrested a 32-year-old car driver, Rasheed, in connection with a recent hit-and-run case near Nagarjuna School on the Kothapet to Dilsukhnagar road. Two persons were killed in the accident. A security guard, S Ravi (50), resident of Venkateswara Colony in Saroornagar and his friend, B Dhanraj, a GHMC contract worker from Karmanghat, died on the spot when they were hit by a speeding car at Nagarjuna School near Chaitanyapuri on Sunday night while crossing the road. The accused will be produced before the court for judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-in-hit-and-run-case-held/articleshow/78005010.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Retired IAS Partha Sarathi is new Telangana state election commissioner||HYDERABAD: Retired IAS officer C Partha Sarathi was on Tuesday appointed Telangana state election commissioner (SEC). The state election body has remained headless after the retirement of the state’s first SEC V Nagi Reddy in April this year. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan issued a notification appointing the former bureaucrat as the SEC for three years from the date of assumption of office. The new SEC will have his task cut out as he will oversee the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation and Municipal Corporation of Khammam apart from elections to vacancies in several local bodies. Dubbaka bypolls are also likely to be held soon. A 1993 batch IAS officer, Sarathi’s last posting was director general of Environment Protection Training and Research Institute and had retired on April 30 this year. He had served Telangana and the united AP governments in prominent positions, including principal secretary, agriculture and cooperation. While discharging his role as principal secretary, he also held the post of incharge VC of Telangana University, BR Ambedkar Open University and Konda Lakshman Telangana State Horticulture University. An MSc (agriculture) in agronomy with distinction from the AP Agriculture University, he started his career as a revenue divisional officer in Vizianagaram between 1988 and 1991 and later worked as executive director from 1993 to 1996 and district revenue officer in Adilabad for three months in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retired-ias-partha-sarathi-is-new-sec/articleshow/78005005.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: ESI Hospital declared Covid-19 care facility||JAIPUR: The ESI Hospital became the third government hospital in the city to be declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility. The state government has issued directions on Tuesday to shift patients already admitted to Zanana Hospital and Sawai Man Singh Hospital to ESI Hospital as per the need of treating patients. Besides, three private hospitals have signed MoUs with hotels to develop Covid care centres. While one private hospital signed MoUs with three hotels, two others signed MoUs with one hotel each to admit asymptomatic or patients having mild symptoms for treatment. With the sudden spurt in coronavirus cases, the state government is expanding healthcare facilities for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/esi-hospital-declaredcovid-19-care-facility/articleshow/78006164.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Scores of technical institutes in Raj but only 2.9 per cent students enrol||JAIPUR: Rajasthan boasts of having two state-run technical universities, 150 engineering colleges and 52 private universities at 52 (all offering technical courses), but barely 2.9% of its students are enrolled in technical institutes. Leading in the country is Kerala with over 10% of the students enrolled in the technical institutes, according to the report of the National Statistical Office (NSO) 2017-18 released recently. The report doesn’t give the absolute numbers. Disapproving the figures as presenting an actual picture, HD Charan, VC of Bikaner Technical University, said the actual number of the students enrolling in technical educational institutes should be double than projected had they didn’t go to other states for pursuing technical education. “The state has seen the emergence of technical institutes very late or after 2005. By then almost 90% of the state students were heading to other states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and united Andhra Pradesh for engineering, medical, nursing, pharmacy or even for polytechnics. The technical institutes in these states had started as early as in the Sixties and Seventies. The early start has helped to become a brand pulling students from across the country including Rajasthan,” said Charan. Echoing the views of Charan, Puneet Sharma, a technical education expert, said as soon as the technical education took off in the state, it crash-landed due to the great recession of 2009. “It has been a decade and it was never recovered. In 2008, over 73,000 students enrolled alone in the engineering colleges which has now reduced between 15,000-20,000 from 2012 till 2019,” said Sharma. The poor enrolments are also deterring the growth of technical education in the state. The absence of any strong industrial zones, sectors or regions lets the candidate move to other states for jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scores-of-technical-institutes-in-raj-but-only-2-9-per-cent-students-enrol/articleshow/78006165.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Coordination meeting held to curb fuel pilferage at pumps||Hyderabad: After arresting the accused involved in fuel pilferage racket by manipulating software installed in filling station integrated circuits, Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar held a a coordination meeting with various agencies involved to prevent such frauds from recurring. Officials of Legal Metrology, various oil corporations including IOCL, HPCL, BPCL, Essar Oil and fuel dispensing unit company, Gilbarco Veeder Root India Pvt Ltd were present at the meeting. “Measures to be taken to prevent the irregularities and ensure fool-proof delivery system at fuel stations were discussed,” Sajjanar said. While legal metrology officials explained how the fraud was committed, Sajjanar spoke about tampering of software in the motherboard and in the display in dispensing units resulting in the pilferage of oil. It was decided that legal metrology department and fuel company representatives will jointly inspect 11 filling stations and submit a report for necessary action. “The dispensing unit manufacturing companies were asked to provide us with a list of employees and ex-employees who worked on the pumps at the 11 erring stations. We have suggested that oil companies should have tamper-proof and breach alert system like the one in ATM centers. We also asked legal metrology department and oil firms to regularly conduct surprise checks at the stations,” Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coordination-meeting-held-to-curb-fuel-pilferage-at-pumps/articleshow/78005030.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Karvy files plea against probe order||Hyderabad: Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) has filed a writ plea in the high court challenging a single judge order that refused to interfere in an ongoing central probe into the affairs of the company. The company is facing charges of raising loans on the instruments of its clients without their knowledge and diverting a major portion of such money into its realty firm. The Centre had ordered a probe by Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). Contending that this was a premature decision taken without sufficient material and without giving them adequate opportunity to explain their case, KSB challenged the SFIO’s notices. The single judge made it clear that the ‘opportunity of being heard’ could be in the form of a written representation by the petitioner and a consideration of the same by the authorities. Aggrieved by this, KSBL filed its appeal questioning the order of the single judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/karvy-files-plea-against-probe-order/articleshow/78005032.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisherman spends two days at sea in a dinghy, rescued||Mangaluru: The ordeal of a fisherman, who was rescued off the coast in Malpe, Udupi, after spending two days in a dinghy, was no less than the ordeal of the protagonist of the movie ‘Life of Pi’. Sunil,50, a resident of Ullal, whose dinghy accidentally got separated from a purse seine fishing boat, survived by drinking rainwater. According to police, Sunil, a traditional fisherman, had gone fishing in a dinghy which was tied to a purse seine boat on Sunday morning from Mangaluru Port, and in middle of the sea, his boat got accidentally separated from the purse seine boat. Though Sunil tried to alert the boat crew of his situation, he failed as they couldn’t hear him due to the purse seine boat’s engine and noise from the sea. A missing complaint was filed at the Ullal police station. Initially, the purse seine boat crew suspected that the dinghy may have capsized. They also told the police that they tried to search for Sunil when the dinghy went missing. On Tuesday, fishermen off the coast of Malpe found Sunil sailing in the dinghy, and rescued him. He was brought to shore and given medical assistance and sent home. Sunil told the media that it was a miracle that he survived the rough sea and hot sun in a small dinghy, which could have capsized at any time during his ordeal. He added that as the boat had no food on it, he managed by drinking rainwater. “I would have lost my life if it hadn’t rained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fisherman-spends-two-days-at-sea-in-a-dinghy-rescued/articleshow/78003735.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Scrapping of 70:30 quota celebrated||Aurangabad: The decision taken on Tuesday by the Maharashtra government to scrap the 70:30 quota in medical admissions has been widely celebrated by students and parents among other stakeholders across Marathwada. While the students from the region were suffering due to the one-of-its-kind ‘quota within quota’ in the country for a long time, parents and experts have demanded that the government must file a caveat in the court as an initial safeguard measure against any possible legal battle. Latur MLA Amit Deshmukh, after becoming state medical education minister in January, had said that he would take a stand on the demand for scrapping the quota by weighing all the pros and cons. While announcing the scrapping of the 70:30 quota for medical admissions in the state legislature, Deshmukh said the practice of “One Maharashtra, One Merit” would now be in place. Krushna Muley, a parent, said the corrective measure in the form of scrapping the 70:30 quota was long due. “There was mounting public pressure on the government for doing away with the quota. We parents express gratitude towards Deshmukh, who is from Marathwada, for showing the courage to scrap the quota which was causing injustice to students from Marathwada,” he said. As per official data, Marathwada has only six medical colleges, including four government colleges, that offer MBBS degree. On the other hand, Western Maharashtra has a total of 26 colleges (13 government and 13 private), whereas Vidarbha has eight (six government and two private) colleges. For BDS courses as well, Marathwada has only seven colleges as compared to 18 and five colleges in Western Maharashtra and Vidarbha respectively. Dilip Deshmukh, chief coordinator of CET cell of Rajarshi Shahu Junior Science College in Latur, said Maharashtra government must ensure that the decision to scrap the 70:30 quota reflects in the admission brochure for medical admissions for academic year 2020-21. When contacted, Deshmukh said the government would leave no stone unturned to ensure the decision to scrap 70:30 quota in medical admissions remains untouched. “The concept of quota within quota was relevant in earlier times when there were no entrance tests at the national or state level. We have taken the decision to scrap the quota in the light of Indian Constitution in order to promote merit-based admissions as per evolved situations. Therefore, the decision would survive any test in future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scrapping-of-7030-quota-celebrated/articleshow/78002679.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||‘19% ready to travel in festive season’||JAIPUR: Every year, this time around, people start booking for their vacations during the festive season. Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath, typically come in October-November when the tourist season enters into the deep end. But this year is different. People are scared of travelling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As per a survey by Local Circles, 69% respondents said they will not be travelling this year and would stay at home, while only 19% of them said they were willing to travel, that includes vacationing in a holiday destination, visiting family and friends during the festive season. Only 12% said they are unsure of what they would do. Of the 19% willing to travel, only 23% said they would travel by a flight and the rest would prefer car or taxi, which they feel safe in the current circumstances. "Generally, travel picks up during festivals due to long holidays. But this year, the case is different, meaning children would be at home and working class parent would still be operating from homes. So, there is a flexibility to travel as and when they want," said Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a leading hotel chain. He said people have already started travelling and this is going to go up as has been witnessed in the past one month or so irrespective of the festival season. However, the survey said that most people do not want to make their booking till they get closer to their travel date indicating that Coronavirus positive cases would weigh on their decisions. A tour operator in Jaipur said that tourism is no more limited to weekends. "Weekdays are witnessing increased demand as people want to avoid crowds. This trend is visible in Udaipur, Kumbhalgarh, Pushkar, Mount Abu and Alwar," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19-ready-to-travel-in-festive-season/articleshow/78006168.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held for cook’s murder||Hyderabad: Four youngsters were arrested for their alleged role in the recent murder of a cook at Mailardevpally. Police arrested Syed Kamran Hashmi, 20, Sk Azharuddin, 22, Mohammed Hannan, 19 and Md Khan, 19, for the murder of Mohammed Maqbool in Mailardevpally on September 5 . According to Rajendranagar ACP K Ashok Chakravarthy, Kamran bore a grudge against Maqbool as the latter often use to reprimand him for loitering with other youngsters and hatched a plan to eliminate Maqbool with help from other accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-for-cooks-murder/articleshow/78005035.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-MLAs’ assn to give Rs 1.5cr to Covid fund||Kota: The Rajasthan former MLAs association has decided to donate Rs 1.5 crore, 20% of their travelling allowance, to the state government for Covid-19 fund. The association has already contributed Rs 1.25 crore to the Covid 19 fund. President of the association Harimohan Sharma has recently written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on September 5 informing him of the decision of the association on donation and requesting him to direct for the deduction of Rs 1.50 crore from the travelling allowance for 2020-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-mlas-assn-to-give-rs-1-5cr-to-covid-fund/articleshow/78006169.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||WhatsApp group formed for Covid+ve police personnel||Aurangabad: City police — in order to address the issues faced by police personnel who have tested positive for Covid-19, and ensure timely treatment along with other facilities at the hospitals as well as the Covid care centres — on Tuesday formed a dedicated WhatsApp group with Covid positive personnel as its members. The group members also include senior inspector Anil Adhe and newly-appointed commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta. To ensure that there is prompt and timely resolution to the concerns and issues raised by these police personnel, Gupta has asked Adhe to act as the coordinator for ensuring timely response. Directives have also been issued to the coordinating officer to ensure that beds are made available at any hospital of the patient’s choice. The decision to form the group was taken after Gupta held a video call with policemen being treated at different hospitals in the city. As on date, 29 policemen are currently under treatment at different hospitals. So far, 149 policemen have tested positive for the contagion, out of which three have succumbed during the treatment, while 117 have fully recovered and discharged from the hospitals. “Being head of the unit, I am duty-bound to ensure welfare of my subordinates in the best way possible and formation of this WhatsApp group is a step in the same direction,” Gupta said. An officer privy to the initiative said that the decision is aimed at ensuring the infected policemen are helped in getting bed in the best of hospitals in the city. “There have been incidents of patients raising concerns and lodging complaints about not getting proper treatment, food or medication at government as well as private super-speciality hospitals,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/whatsapp-group-formed-for-covidve-police-personnel/articleshow/78002697.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Three drug peddlers held, variety of narcotics seized||Hyderabad: Three drug peddlers were arrested and a variety of narcotics were seized from their possession at Ameerpet on Tuesday. Acting on specific information, the enforcement team of Prohibition & Excise Department raided a house at BK Guda in Ameerpet and arrested Pilli Manoj Kumar alias Bunty, 31, B Rohit, 34, and G Naveen Raj, 31. The excise team seized 46 ecstasy pills, two grams of MDMA and 10 grams of charas, along with an I10 car and Activa scooter from the possession of the accused. “During interrogation, Manoj Kumar confessed that he along with Naveen Raj and three others purchased drugs from Goa for Rohit, who consumes ecstasy pills and also sells the same to customers. Manoj has also been selling drugs, including cocaine, to customers in the city,” assistant excise superintendent N Anji Reddy said. On Monday night, Manoj and his associates returned from Goa with drugs after spending five days there. When the accused met at Manoj’s house in BK Guda on Tuesday morning, the excise team caught them along with the drugs and seized four cell phones. “Manoj and Naveen Raj confessed that Kunal Shinde and Rafee sold them the drugs at Anjuna Beach in Goa,” Anji Reddy said. The accused along with the seized material were handed over to Ameerpet excise station staff for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-drug-peddlers-held-variety-of-narcotics-seized/articleshow/78005036.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||It’s time to enrol for School Super League||The School Super League, the most-awaited inter school quiz competition organized by the Times Newspaper in Education programme in association with Byju’s Learning App, has taken a fresh, but fun filled online avatar this year. The event reaches out to more than 30,000 plus schools and one crore students. The challenge, rigorously designed by experts, aims at helping students gain insight into their scientific, mathematical and social science aptitude. The challenge will be held in three categories - sub-juniors comprising students of classes III and IV; juniors comprising students of classes V, VI and VII; and seniors comprising students of classes VIII, IX and X. Every participant will receive an e-certificate of participation, a 60-day free subscription to BYJU’s The Learning App worth Rs6,000, besides Rs5,000 in their BYJU’s wallets, which could be redeemed to purchase any BYJU’s course from classes I to XII. Every grade topper will also get a one-year online subscription to Premium BYJU’s – The Learning App worth Rs25,000 each and a chance to take part in the state finals. The first round for Coimbatore has begun and registrations are underway. The registrations will be closed by September 30. Please contact your Times NIE teacher coordinator for more details or call Times NIE at 8754200444/9500405014. The national round, scheduled to be held in Mumbai, will be aired on television. The national level winning teams (winners, 1st runners up, 2nd runners up) will get an all-sponsored trip to NASA, along with their school principals. Speaking about the competition, Atit Mehta, VP- marketing, BYJU’S, said, “We have taken steps to ensure that students don’t miss out on their favourite school quiz this year. In fact, thanks to the growing acceptance and adoption of digital learning, we expect the participation to be higher than ever before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/its-time-to-enrol-for-school-super-league/articleshow/78005040.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Puthupally awaits Oommen Chandy but what about CM’s chair?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Over the last two years or so, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has not exactly been in hibernation but nor has he been his usual hyperactive self. Preparations are on to celebrate his 50 years as a legislative assembly member next week, and political pundits see it as a prelude to Chandy’s active re-entry into Kerala politics.  In an interview to TOI, the former chief minister refused to give a direct reply to whether he will contest a 12th straight — and successive — time from Puthupally in the next assembly elections slated for mid-2021. “It is the party that decides who has to contest or not,” Chandy said. He maintained the same deadpan on being asked if he will remain just an MLA if elected. "The party decides everything... everything is decided by the party high command," Chandy repeated, which, in all probability, is shorthand that he is already in the fray. Chandy has been keeping a low profile ever since he opted out of the opposition leader's post. He, however, says he has not been away from frontline politics. "I am involved in all issues, I am constantly interacting with people. I am visiting my constituency regularly and am among the people. Doctors have advised me to avoid long speeches over certain health issues but you cannot say that I am not active,’’ he said. Chandy attributed all his achievements to the party. "I am totally satisfied with what the party has given me. I have been an MLA for the last 50 years because the party was with me and people had trust in me,’’ he said. The former chief minister was all praise for Ramesh Chennithala's work as opposition leader. "Just see how many serious allegations Ramesh has brought up against this government? He was snubbed first and all the allegations were rubbished but look what has happened now. All the allegations have proven true and are haunting the government. People are seeing this," he said. Certain that the UDF would come back to power, Chandy said Chennithala’s work as opposition leader would have its impact in the coming elections. "No government in the past has faced such allegations. They (LDF) themselves have lost faith in their earlier claims of returning to power. The people of Kerala are well aware of the happenings," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/puthupally-awaits-chandy-but-what-about-cms-chair/articleshow/78005067.cms||Rajiv G
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Four booked for assaulting water board staff in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Four persons were booked for allegedly assaulting HMWS&SB employees in two separate incidents in the city. In the first case, a lineman of HMWS&SB lodged a complaint alleging that he was assaulted by three persons at Budvel. On Tuesday, Srinivasulu, a lineman of HMWS&SB working at Budvel section office, lodged the plaint with Rajendranagar police alleging that when he went to Budvel to collect pending water dues from customers, three customers — Srikanth, Sridhar and Susheela — had assaulted him. Rajendranagar police registered a case. Two days ago, HMWS&SB employee Azeezuddin lodged a similar complaint with Kanchanbagh police. “Azeezuddin said that when the water board team went to Champapet to collect bills, they were abused and heckled by one Shakeel. We have booked Shakeel,” Kanchanbagh inspector Venkat Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-booked-for-assaulting-water-board-staff/articleshow/78005041.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Every 3rd household has Net access in Raj||Jaipur: Every fourth household in Rajasthan has Internet facility, taking the desert state among the Top 10 in Net connectivity states in the country. The NSO report says that 27.7% of rural households have Internet facility, while it becomes 49.9% for urban households. The access of Internet gives a sound picture for a state, but its sharp rural and urban divide and vast gender gap highlights gross inequality. The rate of access of persons in rural areas was 11.6% while in urban areas it was 26.2%. The gender gap in rural areas was almost 10% and in urban areas was 18%. “Although the numbers have become redundant as the number of Internet users has increased manifold in the last three years. The only point of worry is the striking gender gap in Internet access,” said Puneet Sharma, a technical education expert. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/every-3rd-household-has-net-access-in-raj/articleshow/78006173.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad sizzles, may get respite in coming days||AHMEDABAD: Ajay Singh, a resident of South Bopal, is using air-conditioning since past one week. “The spell of rains had brought the temperature down – but with almost no breeze at night and rise in temperature during the day, our A/C usage has again increased,” he said. Singh is not alone feeling the heat as the city had received its last spell of rain almost a week ago. For past three days, the city’s maximum temperature hovers around 35C. But now the citizens can have some respite – while the city is not likely to get much of rainfall for next few days, the temperature could come down from Wednesday onwards with partly cloudy sky, mentioned India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.  On Tuesday, the maximum temperature for city was 34.8C, which was 1.7 higher than the normal, whereas the minimum temperature was 2.1 more at 26.7 . Till 8 pm on Tuesday, only a few talukas in south Gujarat received light to moderate rainfall. While there is no forecast for major rainfall for next two days, some parts of the state including Dahod, Bharuch, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Tapi, Valsad, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Botad can receive light to moderate showers from September 11 to 13, mentioned IMD forecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-sizzles-may-get-respite-in-coming-days/articleshow/78006174.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||7 deaths reported across Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The death toll due to Covid-19 reported across Aurangabad district increased to 759 on Tuesday with addition of seven deaths. The spread of Covid-19 cases in rural parts of Aurangabad is also on the rise as of the 312 positive cases reported on Tuesday 173 were from the rural areas of the district. The remaining 139 cases were reported from the city. “As many as 282 patients were also discharged from various hospitals across the district,” a health official said. “The tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district has reached to 26,465. It includes 20,176 cured patients and 5,530 active cases,” he added. Those who died due to the contagion at government hospitals on Tuesday included 50-year-old man from Vaijapur, 85-year-old woman from Padapmpura, 46-year-old man from Balaji Nagar, 64-year-old woman from Katkat Gate and 70-year-old man from Nandawan colony. “In addition, a 62-year-old woman from Sanjay Nagar and 49-year-old man from Baijipura died at private hospitals,” the official said. The district administration has appealed to the citizens to wear face masks and maintain social distancing besides following other safety measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-deaths-reported-across-aurangabad/articleshow/78002708.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Sharp rise in tests, positive cases go down||Vadodara: The number of tests conducted in the city and district saw a sharp rise with 2,655 tests being conducted in the city and district in 24 hours ending Tuesday evening, the highest so far. With 124 new cases being detected from these tests the total number of cases reached 9,045. Sources said that an increasing number of people were keen to get themselves tested in wake of cases being reported around them. While the number of tests increased by 246 tests as compared to Monday, the number of positive cases went down marginally. On Monday, 126 persons had tested positive from 2,409 samples that was the highest number of tests conducted till Monday. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths on Tuesday due to Covid-19 being the primary cause. The number of such deaths in the city and district now stands at 154. However, this does not include the deaths caused by comorbidities or other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sharp-rise-in-tests-positive-cases-go-down/articleshow/78004469.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-dargah custodian ends life||Hyderabad: A former custodian of Dargah Yousufain at Nampally committed suicide by hanging at his home in Habeebnagar on Tuesday. Mohammed Faisal Ali Shah, 52, was found hanging by his kin. “He was allegedly facing financial and health issues,” said Habeebnagar sub-inspector Jayanth. However, no suicide note was found. A suspicious death case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-dargah-custodian-ends-life/articleshow/78005039.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Virtual meets order of the day in govt||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot will not meet any visitors for the next one month as Covid cases have been on the rise in the state. This comes after about 40 staff and some a few security personnel at the chief minister’s residence and office tested positive and several cases were recently reported from Raj Bhavan and high court. The chief minister said he will only meet officials virtually for works related to ‘good governance’. Governor Kalraj Mishra has also stopped meeting visitors and interaction with the officials are being done virtually or by phone. Except the staff, no outsiders are allowed in Raj Bhavan. Following the spread of Covid cases at the secretariat, official meetings at the state secretariat are now being held online. Chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup has directed all officers not to come to his office for meetings and instead join virtually. The decision to hold government meetings online has been taken in the backdrop of cases being reported even from these high security premises. After several cases were detected at the high court, it had closed for a week and intensive Covid tests were conducted for lawyers and staff. It had reopened for physical hearing only last Monday with due precautions. Chief minister has been holding meetings at his residence instead of the chief minister’s office at the secretariat. He has been interacting virtually with political leaders and field officers whenever he wanted feedback from district and divisional level officials. The CM has been meeting only a selected top officers in review meetings. An officer said, “Virtual meetings are now the norm. All are advised to avoid physical proximity as the pandemic has hit the normal functioning of offices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virtual-meets-order-of-the-day-in-govt/articleshow/78006170.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Minister assures Jain seer on corrections in PU textbook||Mangaluru: Karnataka education minister Suresh Kumar has responded positively to the Moodabidri seer’s request to rectify the inconsistencies and discrepancies regarding Bhagwan Mahaveer and the Jain religion in the II PU history textbook in Kannada. Swasti Sri Charukeerthi Panditachayavarya Maha Swamiji of Jain Kashi Mutt, Moodbidri, told TOI the minister called him over phone on Tuesday and assured him that the textbook would be reprinted after necessary corrections are made to the paragraphs that had inaccuracies concerning Lord Mahaveer. The seer had written a letter to the minister on September 3 expressing his anguish over discrepancies regarding Bhagwan Mahaveer and the Jain religion, requesting him for necessary action. The contents were highlighted in a report by TOI. Though the textbook has been prescribed for PU since 2015-16, the seer said the discrepancies were brought to his notice recently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/minister-assures-jain-seer-on-corrections-in-pu-textbook/articleshow/78003777.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh grants Rs 70 crore for Punganur cow study||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh government has sanctioned Rs 70 crore for advanced research on the famed Punganur dwarf cow breed. This particular cow breed is known for its high fat content and rich medicinal properties. AP State Biodiversity Board secretary Nalini Mohan said efforts were being made to replicate the breed’s characteristics and develop them in a regular cow breed. “Punganur cow is the smallest cow. It has a high milk fat content of 7-9%. It also has several health improving properties. What more, it helps infants gain better immunity,” he said. Though Punganur cow’s milk yield is less, its properties have high quality, experts said. Mohan said the board is currently working on Ongole breed and with the animal husbandry department on Punganur cow. The Centre for Advanced Research on Livestock Ltd at Pulivendula in Kadapa district submitted a detailed project report for conservation of Punganur cattle under ‘Mission Punganur’ research project. Officials said ovum pick-up and in vitro fertilisation technologies would be used for the next five years to develop the breed. The government said the Mission Punganur project is aimed at not only protecting the breed but also ensure its rapid multiplication through in vivo and in vitro embryo production. “Efforts will be made to use low genetic cows as surrogates and produce more offspring,” officials said. AP State Biodiversity Board secretary Nalini Mohan said efforts were being made to replicate the breed’s characteristics and develop them in a regular cow breed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-grants-rs-70-cr-for-punganur-cow-study/articleshow/78005071.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Mansarovar, Sanganer & Malviya Nagar worst-hit in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Pink City is passing through a difficult phase as Covid cases continue to spiral. Residents of Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar and Sanganer localities need to take more precautions as these are the areas facing the worst outbreak. In the past seven days, Mansarovar has reported the highest (282) cases, followed by Sanganer (239) and Malviya Nagar (179). Jhotwara and Jagatpura, too, have reported more than 100 cases in the past seven days. From September 1 to 7, Jaipur has reported 2,245 cases, which account for 17% of the total infections reported in the city since the first case was detected on March 3. While the virus has spread very fast in the city, the health department has doubled its testing facilities along with increasing facilities for treatment of patients. “We have doubled the number of samples testing daily. Also, we have expanded our treatment facilities. We have started admitting patients to Jaipuria Hospital and now we will soon start Covid treatment at ESI Hospital. We have started Covid treatment at Railway Hospital and Metro Mass Hospital too. With more persons testing positive, we have expanded our treatment facilities,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). The health department has directed all private hospitals to start Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mansarovar-sanganer-malviya-nagar-worst-hit/articleshow/78006175.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plot to kill Zadafia: ATS invokes GujCTOC||Ahmedabad: After the arrest of one more accused person from Mumbai, in connection with the alleged conspiracy to kill BJP leader and former MoS Gordhan Zadafia, the Gujarat anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has invoked the GujCTOC (Gujarat Control Of Terrorism and Organised Crime) Act against two accused persons. According to ATS officials, they arrested the second accused, identified as Shivesh Kharade from Chembur. An ATS team had earlier arrested the would-be shooter, Irfan Kalia, who is also from Chembur, from a hotel on Relief Road, alleging that he had come to Ahmedabad to kill Zadafia on August 19. Kharade had allegedly provided a gun to Kalia, which he wrapped in clothes and put in his bag, due to which hotel workers could not see it when they checked his bag. ATS officers claimed that the other accused persons — Mohammed Salim alias Munna Zingada, 58, an Indian who is now based in Pakistan; Haji Shabbir of Pakistan; and underworld gangster Chhota Shakeel, the right-hand man of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim — had plotted to kill Zadafia. The officers said that they got input from central agencies on August 15, about two shooters landing in the city to eliminate a political leader. Working on the input, a team of Gujarat ATS comprising DIG ATS Himanshu Shukla, in-charge SSP Deepan Bhadran, DSP K K Patel and DSP B P Roziya raided Hotel Vinus on Relief Road in Ahmedabad. They found only Kalia, who allegedly fired on the ATS team, but nobody was injured. The other person, Salman, is said to be on the run. Shaikh later was found to have Covid-19 and was been shifted to a city hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plot-to-kill-zadafia-ats-invokes-gujctoc/articleshow/78006177.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar: Five labourers electrocuted in freak accident||AHMEDABAD: Five persons died and three suffered injuries when a giant ladder they were carrying touched a high-tension wire at an under-construction industrial shed in Santej area of Gandhinagar. The tragedy occurred at around 3pm at Om Industrial shed on the Santej-Vadsar road. The deceased have been identified as Kartik Bise, 18; Mahesh Dulera, 35; Bhavuji Thakor, 32; and Pankaj Vaniya, 36. All were residents of Ahmedabad.  The fifth deceased has been identified as a migrant worker, Bajrangiray Narayanray, 25, from Jharkhand. According to an FIR filed with Santej police by Gautam Bhagora who suffered injuries, he and his co-workers were at Om Fibre Get Glass facility when the accident happened. “I have been working as a construction labourer along with Dinesh Rot and Rahul Rot, who all hail from Dungarpur in Rajasthan, for about a month,” said Bhagora.  He said that all the eight labourers were trying to fit a tin shed at the construction site.  They were carrying the giant iron ladder which touched the wire and all of them suffered a massive shock. Five of them died on the spot. Locals called 108 ambulance in which the injured persons were taken to a private hospital where they are still undergoing treatment. Inspector Vanrajsinh Manjaria of Santej police said that a case of accidental death has been registered and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-labourers-electrocuted-in-freak-accident/articleshow/78006192.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||UKIBC renews MoU with T govt||Hyderabad: The UK India Business Council (UKIBC) renewed its Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Telangana Industries and Commerce Department, Government of Telangana, on Tuesday. The MoU was signed at a virtual round table by Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, and Kevin McCole, managing director, UKIBC. The collaborative partnership between the UKIBC and Telangana has seen two UK business delegations to the state and a further delegation of leading UK universities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ukibc-renews-mou-with-t-govt/articleshow/78005099.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Mudhol hound is as good as a Belgian Malinois||KOCHI: In a first, eleven dogs belonging to south Indian breeds like Mudhol hound, chippiparai and kanni are being trained as explosives detection canines at the State Dog Training School (SDTS) in Kerala Police Academy, Thrissur. They are expected to be inducted in the K9 dog squad of Kerala police, founded in 1959, on completion of their training in November. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in a recent Mann Ki Baat address, pitched for inducting indigenous dog breeds in military and security operations. He had also mentioned various Indian breeds, including the Mudhol hound, in his address. “It is for the first time that the state police has recruited Indian dog breeds into the K9 squad; the training is going well. They will be deployed in their respective trade-work after passing out,” Neeraj Kumar Gupta, DIG (training). B Sandhya, ADGP Training & director, police academy, said the department would decide on bringing in more indigenous breeds for training based on their performance. Police dog trainers said the Indian dog breeds would make a better asset to the K9 squad than foreign breeds if well trained. According to them, the dominance of foreign breeds in the squad is only due to an obsession towards them in the society and the hesitation to tap the potential of Indian breeds. “There is a misconception that indigenous breeds can’t be trained but it is all about how well we condition a dog to receive training. The only criterion is that a dog should be less than three months’ old when the training starts,” said P Ramesh, sub-inspector and master dog trainer at SDTS. Of dogs being trained at the academy now, the Indian breeds include five kanni dogs, five chippiparai and one Mudhal hound. The remaining 32 foreign breeds include 20 Belgian Malinois, five beagles and six labrador. The training for Indian breeds had started in January. Ramesh said the Indian breeds have 30% lesser maintenance cost than foreign breeds. They take only 150gm of dry dog food at a time as against around 350gm for foreign breeds. Also, Indian breeds are all-terrain dogs and have more physical fitness, agility and immunity as they are genetically accustomed to Indian climate. “They are more immune to even skin infections, which are very common in foreign dogs,” said Ramesh, who has 15 years’ experience as a dog trainer. He said the present batch of Indian breeds at the training school proves that they could match any foreign breed in terms of efficiency. “The Mudhol hound was initially difficult to train but we made some alterations in our methods to condition the dog and it was effective. Breeds like combai and Rajapalayam, which are known for their larger jaws and ferociousness, could make excellent guard dogs like Belgian malinois or doberman. These breeds also have a history of serving as hounds in the armies of kings,” he said. V V Saseendran, sub inspector and master dog trainer, is also involved in the dogs' training at the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mudhol-is-as-good-as-a-belgian-malinois/articleshow/78005130.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
September 9, 2020||Goa||Rampant illegal sand mining threatens Khandepar river||KERI: The Khandepar river, the main source of raw water for the Opa water treatment plant supplying potable water to Tiswadi and Ponda talukas, is presently under threat due to rampant and illegal sand mining in Collem, which is part of the eco sensitive area of the western ghats. The directorate of mines and geology has banned sand mining, but the illegal activity continues with the alleged involvement of locals. Along with sand, pebbles are also excavated. Pebbles are in high demand in the construction industry, sources said. The combined activity of sand and pebble mining has not only affected a 3km stretch of the river and its course, but has also threatened the vasant bandhara constructed by the water resources department. The bandharas serve to augment raw water storage for the summer months. The Khandepar river, which originates in Karnataka, is called the Dudhsagar river in Dharbandora taluka. Extended mining, deforestation and sand extraction has now caused the Goa-part of the river to run dry by February every year, a phenomenon that has been steadily worsening every year. “I will inform the mamlatdar of Dharbandoda taluka about conducting a site inspection and submitting a status report on sand mining in the Khandepar river at Collem,” deputy director of mines and Geology Abhir Hede told TOI. Collem sarpanch Manish Lambor said that he was aware about the sand extraction going on in the river. “Some villagers are involved in it, but not for commercial gains. They only use the sand for constructing their houses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rampant-illegal-sand-mining-threatens-khandepar-river/articleshow/78006198.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur contributes 31% of Rajasthan’s total active cases||JAIPUR: Pink City’s pandemic situation is worsening as 31% of the state’s active cases belong to Jaipur. At the same time, the state’s active cases breached the 15,000 and touched a new high of 15,090 cases on Tuesday. Along with it, the state reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,590 new infections taking the overall tally to 94,126. Graph of active cases in Jaipur continuously moving up as the number of active cases rose to 4,671, the highest in the state, followed by Kota (2,618), Jodhpur (1,633) and Alwar (607). Active cases in Jaipur are constantly increasing with each passing day forcing the health authorities and district administration to create more space in hospitals. “We are expanding our treatment facilities for Covid patients in Jaipur,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, the virus claimed 13 lives taking the state’s toll to 1,164. Ajmer reported its 79th Covid-19 death, Alwar 6th, Bharatpur 73rd, Chittorgarh 9th, Jodhpur 113th, Kota 83rd, Udaipur 39th, Bikaner 84th, Jaipur 290th, Jalore 13th, Jhalawar 5th, Pratapgarh 7th and Sawai Madhopur reported its 16th Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (325), Kota (185), Jodhpur (149), Alwar (117), Ajmer (86), Pali (69), Sikar (61), Bikaner (50), Jhalawar (44), Bundi (43), Bhilwara (43), Chittorgarh (39), Nagaur (39), Baran (34), Dholpur (28), Banswara (26), Sriganganagar (25), Udaipur (25), Bharatpur (24), Jaisalmer (24), Dungarpur (22), Barmer (20), Sirohi (18), Churu (16), Karauli (16), Jalore (15), Rajsamand (13), Sawai Madhopur (12), Tonk (9), Hanumangarh (8), Jhunjhunu (4) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-contributes-31-of-states-total-active-cases/articleshow/78006178.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Jaleel, 70 supporters booked||Aurangabad: Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel and 70 of his supporters, including some corporators, have been booked by the Vedantnagar police on charges of disobeying orders issued by the government authorities. Citing poor conditions of city roads, Jaleel along with his supporters took to road on Monday and held demonstration at a flyover in the vicinity of Aurangabad railway station. Taking cognizance of the same, police sub-inspector Pramod Devkate lodged a complaint against the agitators, following which an offence under section 188 of the IPC and section 135 (for disobeying or abetting disobedience of the order lawfully made) of Maharashtra Police Act. Jaleel said, “We have been booked for democratically exercising our constitutional right of registering our protest. The roads are in pathetic condition and people may end up dying in accidents resulting from bad roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jaleel-70-supporters-booked/articleshow/78002764.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 9, 2020||Surat||Petroleum minister bats for spl trains||Surat: Union Petroleum minister, Dharmendra Pradhan has written the railway minister for restarting of the Shramik special trains from Odisha to Gujarat to bring back the migrant workers.Pradhan has written a letter to minister Piyush Goyal, requesting his personal intervention for restarting the special trains from Odisha to end the plight of the migrant workers from Odisha who are in urgent need of livelihood. Talking with TOI, South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) president, Dinesh Navadiya said, “We are hopeful that the special trains will start soon after the intervention of the petroleum minister.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/petroleum-minister-bats-for-spl-trains/articleshow/78003812.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Second phase of trial: 14 in Tamil Nadu get vaccine shots||CHENNAI: The phase-2 human clinical trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin began at SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre at Kattankulathur with 14 volunteers administered a shot of the vaccine on Tuesday. Doctors said they will have enough data before the year-end to decide if the vaccine could be officially launched. SRM was one of 12 institutions chosen by ICMR to conduct trials of the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, reports U Tejonmayam. The phase-1 trials began on July 23 and around 30 volunteers were administered two doses, each 0.05ml, of the vaccine, which contains inactivated coronavirus to provoke immune response. After the volunteers showed no side effects and their blood samples were sent to ICMR, 14 were given shots under phase-2 trials. They will be given a second shot on day 28. In phase-2, parameters like immunogenicity or the vaccine’s ability to provoke an immune response, the antibody titer, which is a test to detect the presence and measure the amount of antibodies present in a person’s blood as well as the safety of the vaccine will be analysed. “This is the dose selection phase. We had three formulations in phase-1 and we chose two of them for phase-2. Finally, one with better results in phase-2 will be chosen and given to volunteers in phase-3 trials,” said Dr Satyajit Mohapatra, principal investigator at the hospital. “Certainly, before the end of this year we will have results to see whether we can bring out the vaccine or not,” he added. In phase-2, around 50 volunteers will be administered two doses on day one and 28. They will have to visit the hospital for a follow up on day 42, 56, third month and on the sixth month. Unlike phase-1 which involved 30 volunteers per testing site in the age group of 18 to 55 years, phase-2 will have around 50 volunteers per site in the age group of 12 to 65 years. “Based on the data and the analysis of blood samples in phase-2, phase-3 trial may be decided, which will have volunteers in the 1000s,” he said. The state health department has, meanwhile, called for volunteers for the phase-2 human clinical trials of Covishield vaccine developed by Oxford University, which reached the city on September 3. The vaccine will be tested on volunteers at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Porur, as part of a multi-centric study in India. “This phase requires 110 to 150 volunteers,” said Dr TS Selvavinayagam, director of public health and principal investigator for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/second-phase-of-trial-14-in-tn-get-vaccine-shots/articleshow/78005106.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut gets 24 hours to save bungalow||MUMBAI: The Mumbai municipal corporation issued a 24-hour notice to actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday seeking a reply on alleged “illegal alteration and construction” within the premises of her recently renovated bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra. The structure is a row house that has been converted into an office. If Kangana fails to reply to the notice in 24 hours (Wednesday morning), the BMC will demolish the unauthorised portion of the bungalow, said assistant municipal commissioner (H-West ward) Vinayak Vispute. BMC has moved court asking for a hearing and to ensure ex parte orders are not issued in case Kangana approaches it to stop the demolition. The BMC notice lists out unauthorised constructions of toilet, kitchen, pantry on the ground floor. It also mentions an unauthorised room built on the first floor using a wooden partition and illegal inclusion of a second floor balcony into habitable area. The bungalow was earlier used as a kindergarten; Kangana purchased it a few years ago. She had approached the residents’s association to inform them that after renovation, she would use the bungalow as an office-cum-home. The actor appeared unfazed by the BMC’s action. She tweeted, “Now @mybmc has filed a caveat against me, really desperate to break my house, I deeply love what I built with so much passion over so many years but know that even if you break it my spirit will only get stronger .... GO ON ...” Civic staff had carried out an inspection of the bungalow on Monday. Because of the criticism that @mybmc received from my friends on social media, they didn’t come with a bulldozer to… https://t.co/hG9GatvExJ— Kangana Ranaut (@KanganaTeam) 1599543281000The action followed news of the Centre granting her Y-plus security after her tweets comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kash mir riled the political dispensation in the state. Kangana’s comments were against Mumbai Police for its handling of the Sushant Singh probe. Now @mybmc has filed a caveat against me, really desperate to break my house, I deeply love what I built with so mu… https://t.co/cby1xaQmhE— Kangana Ranaut (@KanganaTeam) 1599567161000BMC’s notice to Kangana was dubbed as “politically motivated” by residents in the locality. Madhu Poplai, secretary, Pali Hill Residents' Association, said, “No demolition is required unless there are structural changes in the premises. In the city, people always carry out some or the other alteration in their houses. If they want to act, BMC should act against all.” Meanwhile, CRPF security was deployed at the building where Kangana lives, a day ahead of her arrival in the city. Watch Mumbai-PoK row: BMC alleges unlawful construction, issues notice to Kangana Ranaut||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-ranaut-gets-24-hours-to-save-bungalow/articleshow/78007443.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Varanasi||IMS-BHU experts all set for test of ‘corona-killing’ virus||VARANASI: Encouraged by the results of an extensive research project, experts at the department of neurology, Institute of Medical Science of Banaras Hindu University (IMS-BHU) are looking forward to conduct human trials of Gangetic bacteriophages — viruses that infect and kill bacterial cells — to prove their therapeutic utility and treatment of SARS-Cov-2 infection (Covid-19). The research team consisted of the head of the department Prof. Rameshwar Nath Chaurasia, senior neurologist Prof Vijay Nath Mishra, Kumari Nidhi, Dr. Abhishek Pathak, Dr. Varun Kumar Singh and Dr. Anand Kumar. Besides, Rajnish Chaturvedi of System Toxicology and Health Research Group, CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow and Arun Kumar Gupta, Amicus Curiae, Allahabad High court, are also associated with the group in exploring the varied applications of bacteriophages and their revival in the frozen Himalayan permafrost. Several studies have confirmed that in addition to their anti-bacterial abilities, bacteriophages also show anti-viral and anti-fungal properties. Their review article — ‘Bacteriophages: Possible roles in treatment for SARS -Cov-2 infection’ — has been accepted by the ‘International Journal of Microbiology’ for publication. “This review explores the impact of bacteriophages on SARS-CoV-2, especially concerning phage therapy (PT). It has also been shown that PT is effective for building immunity against viral pathogens; additionally, phages produce the anti-viral protein phagicin”, said Mishra adding, “Water from Ganga has traditionally been considered a therapeutic agent for several diseases. We hypothesize that the Ganga river may play a therapeutic role in the treatment of Covid-19”. The phagicin is a protein that interferes with the replication of viral DNA, but it does not cause any harm to the host DNA. Phages in the body compete with the other highly infective eukaryotic viruses for cellular receptors and thereby restrict their harmful actions on the host cell. Bacteriophages consist of a nucleic acid molecule surrounded by a specific protein coat (capsid). In Ganga, the proportion of bacteriophages is three times higher than that of bacteria. It has been reported by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute that the Ganga contains approximately 1,100 types of bacteriophages. This is significantly higher than that in the Yamuna and Narmada, which contain fewer than 200 species of bacteriophages. Ganga water exhibits high alkalinity, and some of its self-purificatory properties contribute to the growth of bacteriophages. Chaurasia said that the phages mediate immunoregulatory and immunotherapeutic activities that are relevant in balancing the immunological homeostasis of human subjects. Many bacteriophages possess hydrolytic enzymes called lysin, including endolysins and ectolysins, which help to rupture the bacterial peptidoglycan cell wall to allow entry of phage DNA. The PT can also be used against non-bacterial infections like viruses and fungi. Thus, the phages found in the body or Ganga water (phageome) can protect humans from various infections by killing bacteria as well as non-bacterial host-specific organisms. He said that the findings on phages and their possible antiviral properties are preliminary and need to be validated by meticulous in vitro and in vivo studies. If lab studies show some promising results, then it could be possible to have clinical studies and randomized phase 1-3 human trials to prove their therapeutic utility. “The human trials will be started immediately after the permission of the ethical committee of BHU,” he said adding that all arrangements have been made for this purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ims-bhu-experts-all-set-for-test-of-corona-killing-virus/articleshow/78006188.cms||Binay Singh
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Follow SOPs and stay safe, say health experts||JAIPUR: Post lockdown, the pandemic situation has changed drastically. For making life easy for people, the government has lifted a lot of restrictions. But now a situation has emerged when people should be more alert and vigilant. Over the last two months, the state government has lifted restrictions such as allowing opening of markets and malls, travelling and gyms. Recently, the government also allowed opening of religious places and also letting families to perform last rites of kin who died of Covid. All these relaxations have now transferred more responsibilities to people to ward off risks of getting infected while enjoying the liberty provided by the government. Health experts believe that it is now people who have to follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the Centre and the state government to prevent spread of the virus. Health experts say if people misuse the liberty and flout guidelines and protocols for treatment under home isolation, guidelines on cremation and burial of bodies of Covid positive people or guidelines on gyms and offices along with guidelines on praying at religious places, the virus will spread significantly. “The state government apart from being alert and cautious, it is also sensitive. Knowing the intention of the people, chief minister has directed the health department to handover the body of Covid infected patient to family members and get the cremation done by taking full caution. The pandemic is spreading rapidly in the entire country and in such a situation, the public has to be very cautious. Any kind emotional negligence could prove fatal,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Health experts say people should not step out of their houses unless it is important. “People must cover all routes of entry of the virus such as eyes, nose and mouth with glasses and face masks while maintaining social distance in public places,” said Dr M N Theraja, president (state) Indian Medical Association (IMA).  “People should not forget that virus is still there. The government has lifted restrictions, but it does not mean that the virus has gone. Take precaution while going to office and avoid gatherings and celebrations and crowded places,” said Dr Adil Aziz, senior consultant (medicine), at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/follow-sops-and-stay-safe-say-health-experts/articleshow/78006179.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Governor Kalraj Mishra completes one year in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra completed one year in the state on Tuesday. While addressing a function at Raj Bhavan, Mishra described Rajasthan as the land of God, bravery, art, architecture and heritage. “The governor has to work on constitutional basis. The state government works for the all-round development of the state. With the coordination of the governor and the state government, round-the-clock development of the state takes place in a better way,” said Mishra. On this occasion, book ‘New Thinking-New Dimensions’, published on the golden one year of governor Kalraj Mishra was released by chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Speaker of Vidhan Sabha C P Joshi. The book has 36 chapters and 168 pages. It talks about the governor’s work, the initiative taken by him, innovation, Rajasthan, Raj Bhavan and the functioning of the governor’s secretariat. The inspiration of the book is governor Kalraj Mishra. The book has been directed by secretary Subir Kumar and edited by assistant director (Jas) Lokesh Chandra Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-completes-one-year-in-rajasthan/articleshow/78006189.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly poll dates may be announced in October||PATNA: Contrary to expectations, Election Commission (EC) may announce the state assembly election schedule in October and may also reduce the number of phases. “Making the poll schedule announcement is in the EC domain. They can choose the dates as per their own understanding,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. “We are ready as and when the poll schedule is announced. However, at the meeting with the state chief electoral officer here, the opposition parties had demanded to keep the election schedule in two to three phases only. The BJP, however, had asked for one-phase poll in the state,” Patel said. Even state CPI secretary Ram Naresh Pandey said all the Left and non-Left parties in the opposition wanted short election procedure. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Monday also indicated that the poll schedule may be announced in October. Without mentioning the EC, he said PM Narendra Modi will make announcements regarding the proposed and completed projects worth Rs294 crore pertaining to various departments from September 10 to 25. Any new announcement either by the PM with regard to Bihar or by CM Nitish Kumar would not be possible once the EC declares the poll schedule before September 25, as the model code of conduct would immediately come into force. If the EC chooses to announce the poll schedule in October, it will give cushion to the PM or CM and also curtail the number of phases to two or three, observers felt. Otherwise, the EC is expected to announce the election schedule in September. During the 2015 election, the EC had announced the five-phase poll schedule on September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-dates-may-be-announced-in-oct/articleshow/78005152.cms||Abhay Singh
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Cooling off period before divorce can be waived: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court, on the plea of a couple, ordered waiver of the compulsory six-month cooling off period before their divorce by mutual consent after it found that there was no possibility of reconciliation and the couple was firm in their resolve to get divorced. “Broadly, such waiver can be considered if: (i) the statutory period of six months specified in Section 13-B(2), in addition to the statutory period of one year of separation of parties under Section 13-B(1) is already over before the first motion itself; (ii) All efforts for mediation/ conciliation to re-unite the parties have failed and there is no likelihood of success in that direction by further efforts; (iii) the parties have genuinely settled their differences, including alimony, child custody or other pending issues and (iv) the waiting period will only prolong their agony,” observed the high court in its detailed order. The provision under Section 13B (2) of the Hindu Marriage Act contains a bar to divorce being granted before six months elapsing after filing of the divorce petition by mutual consent. Justice Sanjay Kumar passed the order while setting aside the August 6, 2020 order by Mohali additional district judge who refused to waive a local couple’s statutory waiting period of six months. The couple had sought dissolution of their marriage by way of a decree of divorce under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 on the ground of mutual consent. This divorce petition was filed in June 2020. Meanwhile, they also filed an application to waive the statutory waiting period of six months prescribed under Section 13-B (2) of the Act. The additional district judge, Mohali, however, had dismissed their application on August 6. Aggrieved from the order, the couple had approached the high court and submitted that they got married in November 2010 but they have been living separately since January 2018. According to them, there was no possibility of reconciliation and they were firm in their resolve to get divorced. After hearing the arguments of the couple, the HC observed that apparently the petitioners have executed a memorandum of understanding on June 10, 2020 settling all issues and there was no dispute even with regard to the custody of their minor daughter. They are both over the age of 30 and educated. They would, therefore, be presumed to know as to what would be in their best interest. “Given the aforestated circumstances, this court is of the opinion that this was a fit case for the learned additional district judge to exercise his discretion in their favour, in terms of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in 2017 in the case titled Amardeep Singh versus Harveen Kaur and waive the waiting period. In consequence, the statutory waiting period of six months shall be duly waived. The parties are at liberty to approach the additional district judge, Mohali for advancement of their case, on the strength of this order, and seek appropriate further orders,” observed Justice Sanjay Kumar while setting aside the order of Mohali court. With this, the couple would not be required to wait for a period of six months to get divorce on the grounds of mutual consent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-rules-cooling-off-period-before-divorce-can-be-waived-if-no-possibility-of-reconciliation/articleshow/78005154.cms||Ajay Sura
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Finance dept issues salary cut orders||Jaipur: The state finance department on Tuesday issued salary cut orders of government employees from September for Covid relief fund despite protests by the staff unions. The finance department order follows the cabinet decision to this effect on September 3. Accordingly, every month, seven days’ salary of the chief minister, cabinet ministers and ministers of state will be deducted. A day’s salary will be deducted from the MLAs emoluments every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/finance-dept-issues-salary-cut-orders/articleshow/78006180.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Schools with low income not happy with HC order||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court’s interim order allowing private schools to charge 70% tuition fees till January does not seem to benefit smaller schools. Many private schools where nominal fees between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 is charged per student are said to be in a lot of trouble. Narendra Bhati, the principal of MNPS School at Harmada in Jaipur, said the institute was barely making ends meet and this order will affect them severely. “We charge Rs 200 to Rs 500 from our students. Now, if I have to cut 30%, how am I supposed to survive? There are schools who are barely making ends meet,” said Bhati. Mohammed Ashar, principal of Royal Oxford Sr. Sec. School in Gangapol, said he is almost on the verge of shutting the school. “Most of the students in my school are from lower income families and labour class who are unable to pay due to job loss. The students pay fee during the final examination when it’s a requirement for appearing in examination. This fee cut is beneficial for expensive schools but not for us,” said Ashar. Most school authorities claim to be running in a no-profit, no-loss basis. With minimum fee, teachers are being paid less and for the last five months, not a single penny has been earned. There have been incidences when school owners have committed suicide and teachers are opting for alternative profession like selling vegetables or masks. Anil Sharma, president of School Shiksha Pariwar, agreed with school authorities. “Not every private school is a money minting factory. For these small schools, it is difficult to survive in the pandemic. Only 70% fee is not feasible for lower income school,” said Anil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-with-low-income-not-happy-with-hc-order/articleshow/78006199.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||GujCTOC provisions challenged||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notice to the advocate general of Gujarat in response to a petition challenging certain provisions of the newly introduced Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) Act. The provisions of the law’s retrospective effect, bail and confession have been challenged as being against Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution. The provisions under challenge are Sections 2(1)(c), 16, 20(3), 20(4) and 20(5) of GujCTOC. An accused, Mohammed Hussain Makrani, has filed the petition after he was booked under GujCTOC in Rajkot in connection with an FIR that was lodged in 2016. His advocate, Virat Popat, contended that the law has draconian provisions. If more than one chargesheet is filed in 10 preceding years against a person, a new offence under this law can be registered. Such retrospective criminal legislation has to pass through scrutiny of Article 20 of the Constitution. The second objection to the law is about bail provisions. The petition states that anticipatory bail is not provided for persons booked under this law. Moreover, stringent bail provisions have been introduced which are not only uncalled for but in violation of constitutional provisions. Another challenge is to the provision of admissibility of confessions made before a police officer. The petitioner has challenged Section 16 of the Act dealing with the provisions of confession. The main objection is the admissibility of such confessions of co-accused, conspirators and abettors. The petitioner has contended that the Indian Evidence Act places a bar on certain types of confession, and the way the provision has been carved out in GujCTOC is contrary to the provisions laid down in the Constitution protecting certain rights of an individual. The petitioner asserted that the provisions of GujCTOC are drastic, arbitrary and unreasonable and they are susceptible to misuse by police authorities, and therefore these provisions of the law should be quashed. The petition cited an example of the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), from which certain excessive provisions were quashed by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujctoc-provisions-challenged/articleshow/78006200.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Verandahs outside Walled City shops set for makeover||Jaipur: A meeting was held in Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) with the Vyapaar Mandals of Walled City, on the repairing of verandahs outside shops in heritage city on Tuesday. The repair of the verandahs is on and the shopkeepers were called to discuss in detail the process by which the work has to be progressed. Meeting was chaired by JSCL CEO Lok Bandhu and various businessmen from the city. Lok Bandhu, while talking to TOI explained, “The work at verandahs has started. Different tenders for different verandahs have been given and we expect the work to be compete within a year. Vyapaar Mandals wanted some changes in the market and had a few demands, which we accepted.” The work of smart city is on and a tussle between the authorities and shopkeepers has come to light. In the Heritage Bylaws recently made, many owners of buildings were found to have made alterations in the building structure, while installing air conditioner ducts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/verandahs-outside-walled-city-shops-set-for-makeover/articleshow/78006197.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Surat||Unlocked Surat economy slowly limps back to normal||SURAT: The diamond and textile industries, the backbone of Surat’s economy is slowly getting back on track after the lockdown relaxation but the returning workforce remains a matter of concern for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). According to sources, there are a total 10,077 industries in the city out of which 6,363 have become functional. According to the latest estimate, over 6,81,223 labourers have returned to work. Out of the 6.81 lakh labourers, 95,600 are back in textile, 4 lakh in diamond, 1.33 lakh in GIDC and around 52,557 workers are back to work in factories. Moreover, over 16,391 construction labourers have also resumed their work. “The returning labourers need to stay in isolation for seven days once they are in the city and if they have any symptoms they need to get tested themselves for Covid-19 to ensure that they don’t spread the virus,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. In various industries, 40,414 workers have been tested for Covid-19 tests of which 8,35 have been found positive in the city. “Static units have been established at the railway station, bus depot and entry points of the city for screening of the passengers and people entering the city. People are screened for temperature and oxygen level at such units and symptomatic passengers are tested for Covid-19 on the spot. Random testing of passengers is also carried out on the spot,” said an official. About 6,761 passengers at the Surat Railway station have been tested so far, of which 78 were tested positive for Covid-19 and about 2,401 passengers were tested at a bus stop in which 41 were found positive. A total of 6,480 people at five entry points of the city have been tested, of which 85 were tested positive. “SMC has formed various SOPs for safe functioning of diamond and textile Industries and also for returning labours. The guidelines for enrolment of the migrant returnee labourers to duty in their respective industries state that a labour is allowed to resume duty only if he has tested negative or has presence of antibody or stays quarantined for a period of seven days,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/unlocked-surat-economy-slowly-limps-back-to-normal/articleshow/78003853.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Remote access to virtual labs, libraries to be the new normal||VISAKHAPATNAM: Educational institutions in the state have remained closed since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. Later, the institutions switched over to virtual classrooms, accelerating the adoption of digital technologies and learning. Even though Covid-19 has disrupted academic activities, it opened up new horizons for the educational institutions in the form of swiftly embracing the change. Engineering colleges and universities in Andhra Pradesh have now started offering remote access to labs for students. Engineering labs like Matlab, Labview, XiLink, CATIA, AutoCAD and Staad Pro, etc. are being provided through the virtual private network (VPN) services. Some institutions are also offering remote access to their libraries. Premier national institutions like Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam, and Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy are offering near physical learning experience through the tech-led solutions. The educational institutions have invested heavily in procuring the needed technologies for the online learning. G Gopala Krishna, chief technology officer, GITAM, said that the key prerequisite to get an access to virtual laboratory is computers, including lab and student home computers, running Windows 7 or later with at least 2 Mbps unrestricted internet. “The computers should also be able to run Windows Remote Desktop Protocol services. The service allows the students from across the country to have an access to practical lessons along with online learning. The varsity established a help desk to provide real time support and ensure the remote lab programme takes off smoothly,” said Gopala Krishna. Prof VSRK Prasad, director, IIPE, said that the institute started virtual classes from September 1. “If the face-to-face practical sessions are not possible to be conducted due to the pandemic in this semester, there are also plans to start semester classes by postponing practical sessions of the odd semester to 2021. This will leave enough time for the practical sessions in the even semester,” said Prof Prasad. Prof K Sivaramakrishna, vice-chancellor, GITAM, said that the labs and practical learning in engineering courses make fundamental concepts more tangible for students. “We have taken the initiative of online learning a step forward by offering remote access to labs for students,” said Professor Sivaramakrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/remote-access-to-virtual-labs-libraries-to-be-the-new-normal/articleshow/78002969.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Farmers across Andhra Pradesh alerted over lumpy skin disease among cattle||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 23 lakh dairy cattle farmers have been alerted over the outbreak of lumpy skin disease, a viral infection which has affected cattle in pockets of Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur districts. The state animal husbandry department has instructed veterinary doctors, lab technicians, and other veterinary field staff to collect samples of cows and buffaloes suffering from primary symptoms of the diseases like fever and lumps on skin. “Swabs of affected animals are being collected in all districts and will be sent to the laboratory in Vijayawada first before being sent to Bengaluru for further confirmation,” said animal husbandry director in-charge T Damodar Naidu. Naidu said that just like Covid-19, there was no vaccine available for the disease and that symptomatic treatment was the only way to control the disease. “This disease does not directly or indirectly affect humans so people need not be scared. We have been monitoring animals in all 13 districts. The first case was reported in north coastal AP near the Odisha border a year ago,” Naidu told TOI. The disease is said to have entered the state from Odisha through Srikakulam and Vizianagaram last year and is akin to chickenpox in humans. Affected animals must be rested for rapid recovery. “The disease spreads from one animal to another through houseflies and mosquitoes. So, we suggested farmers to keep the animal shelters clean using neem smoke and other agents to keep mosquitoes away from the animals,” Damodar Naidu said. Farmers have also been suggested to take homoeopathic medicines for treatment, if available. Another animal husbandry department officer said that while they don’t maintain a special record on the number of cattle affected by the disease, they keep track of every animal suffering from the basic symptoms of the disease across all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-across-ap-alerted-over-lumpy-skin-disease-among-cattle/articleshow/78003112.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||Central team visits flood-hit districts in Karnataka||Dharwad/ Madikeri/ Gadag: In the wake of people across several districts of the state suffering enormous losses owing to torrential rain in the past few months, an inter-ministerial study team from the central government on Tuesday visited areas that had borne the brunt of the natural calamity to take stock of the damage. A team headed by the chief of the Directorate of Oil Seeds Development Wing under the Union ministry of agriculture Manoharan and comprising superintendent engineer in the Union ministry of water resources J Guruprasad and Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority divisional manager GS Shrinivas visited the flood-hit areas across Dharwad district. The team inspected the bridge across Tuppari Halla near Harobelawadi village on the Dharwad-Savadatti Road, which was breached following excess rain in the region. The team also visited villages where farmers had reported loss of crops on hundreds of acres. Green gram and soya bean crops cultivated across hundreds of acres across Dharwad district were washed away in the flood. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, and officials from the district agriculture and horticulture departments accompanied the members of the central team during the tour. Dharwad Rural MLA Amrut Desai and Savadatti MLA Anand Mamani also participated in the activity. In a bid to give an accurate picture of the loss to property owing to rain, DC Patil gave a Powerpoint presentation to the central team at the Circuit House in Hubballi. Patil informed the central team that, in all, the district had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 582 crore. The DC said that torrential rain between August 4 and August 8, and again from August 15 to August 18, had wrought untold damage, with farmers incurring severe losses. The team was informed that two people had died owing to the natural calamity. On the one hand, more than 1,200 houses have been damaged across the district, in addition to several school buildings and other public establishments also suffering structural damage. While agricultural crops across 55,970 hectares have been destroyed in the deluge, horticultural crops across 6,635 hectares have been washed away in the spate across the district. Kalghatgi taluk has suffered the most in terms of losses to farmers, with crops across 18,826 hectares being destroyed. Damage in Kodagu taken stock of In Kodagu, where the flood claimed the life of five people, in addition to those of many domestic animals, a central team headed by joint secretary of the Union ministry of home affairs KV Prathap assessed the damage wrought by the calamity. The central team members were accompanied by Kodagu deputy commissioner Anies Kanmani Joy, who gave a Powerpoint presentation at a Madikeri school to provide a comprehensive picture of the toll that the natural calamity had extracted from the hilly district. She informed the central team that Kodagu had received 1,955mm rain in 2020, adding that landslides, coupled with heavy showers, had wrougt untold damage in the district. With the district continuing to receive rainfall, the members of the team visited Talacauvery amid showers to take stock of the damage caused in the taluk owing to the double jeopardy of rain and landslides. The team also visited Cherangala village. In all, as many as 115 villages across Kodagu district had borne the brunt of the heavy rainfall, while several roads including stretches of highways had been damaged, the central team was told. Team in Gadag The central team visited Gadag district to assess the loss caused to crop and property due to heavy rain and floods in the district on Tuesday. The team comprising Sadanand Babu, superintending engineer, Union ministry of road transport and highways, regional office, Bengaluru, and VP Rajavedhi, under secretary, Union rural development ministry visited Konnur and reviewed the bridge which was destroyed during floods. They sought details from engineers and discussed about remedial measures. They also visited fields where crops like green gram, cotton, maize, gauva have been destroyed. Later they visited Lakhamapur and reviewed houses damaged after heavy rain. Deputy commissioner Sundaresh Babu said that if all villagers agree, administration is ready to shift the whole village. He further informed, “The district has received rain of 462 mm against usual quantity of 363mm, which is 27% more than normal. A total 14 villages were affected in Nargund and Ron taluks. As many as 17 animals were killed due to lightning and 283 house were damaged. The district has suffered a loss of Rs 158 crore,” he stated. ZP president Rajugouda Kenchanagoudra, SP Yatish N and other officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/central-team-visits-flood-hit-districts-in-karnataka/articleshow/78002862.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||Central team faces 2019 flood victims’ ire in Belagavi||Belagavi: The two-member central team that was in the district to assess the damage caused by the flood in Belagavi had to face the ire of the residents, who protested the failure of the government to compensate them for the losses incurred in the last year’s calamity. The team headed by the chief of the Oil Seed Development Directorate Manoharan arrived in Belagavi on Tuesday morning, before embarking on a tour of the flood-hit villages in Gokak, Hukkeri and Savadatti taluks. The omission of Ramdurg taluk in the team’s itinerary raised eyebrows given that it has suffered the most owing to excessive rain. In Lolasar village, Gokak taluk, the convoy, also comprising Belagavi deputy commissioner MG Hiremath, was blocked by protesters, who sought to know the reason behind the protracted delay in the disbursal of funds meant to compensate them for the losses incurred last year. When the protesters refused to give way after some time, Hiremath was compelled to step out of his vehicle, and pacify them. Niganna Patil, one of the agitators in Gokak, questioned the rationale of the central government’s decision to send a team to inspect the damage caused in Belagavi this year, while hundreds of people across the district had not been compensated for the loss of crops and property in the 2019 spate. “We are being paid the money in instalments, and so far, most of us have received just the one. The government has also not kept its promise on construction of new houses for those who lost theirs in the calamity,” Patil told TOI. The Belagavi DC received from the protesters a list containing the names of those who were yet to receive the entire amount of the compensation they are entitled to. He assured them of the district administration’s commitment to building new houses for those who had been rendered homeless owing to nature’s fury. He said that the district administration had pegged the total loss incurred by the people and the government owing to the flood at Rs 1,702 crore, of which Rs 1,344 crore accounted for crop losses. The members of the central team, along with representatives of the district administration, met the aggrieved farmers. Hiremath said that the team could not visit Ramdurg, since the itinerary was drafted in such a way as to cover those places along the route the team takes, which in this case was from Belagavi to Dharwad district. “But we have shown officials photographs of the damage caused by the rain in Ramdurg taluk,” the DC said. Activist Ashok Chadaragi dubbed the entire exercise an ‘eye-wash’, while Ramdurg farmer Jagadish expressed disappointment over the central team’s failure to visit the villages in the taluk. “The state incurred losses to the tune of Rs 38,000 crore owing to floods last year, but the Centre paid a paltry Rs 1,800 crore in compensation,” Chandaragi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/central-team-faces-2019-flood-victims-ire-in-belagavi/articleshow/78002675.cms||Shreyas HS
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Livelihood an issue in colony clusters||Thiruvananthapuram: As cluster of cases centred around families keep rising in closely-inhabited colonies and slum population, the health team and authorities are likely to face a dilemma similar to ones they confronted in coastal areas. With the inhabitants in these areas thriving on daily labour, a two-week quarantine and a 10-day isolation, followed by observation period, could seriously impact their means of livelihood. Health officials often face stiff protests from people who test positive when they have to be shifted to first line treatment centres or hospitals. “There was an old woman who tested positive but pleaded with us to let her finish selling vegetables. There are so many sole bread winners who either test positive or have to be quarantined. They don’t have much savings and if they are out of work for seven days or more, their families would suffer badly,” said a health official associated with Covid management in a slum area in the city. When clusters were detected in coastal areas, the authorities and health team had faced intense protests from the coastal folk since they were being deprived of livelihood, and government’s aid in the form of ration hardly catered to their needs. With clusters taking shape at a fast pace within the slums in the city, the health team is wary of a similar situation. Jayalekshmi, ward councillor, Thampanoor said that livelihood is a crucial factor even while pressing for isolation and containment. “We are not able to enforce complete containment here because people are forced to go for work and earn daily for their families. Even though we try to supply them with provisions, without earnings they are forced to work,” said Jayalekshmi. When cases were first reported in Chalai, many of them belonged to Karimadom colony. However, cases did not spread much then, and with markets reopening people were able to find work. “This time around, daily wage labourers, old people are getting infected with Covid, and the spread has been consistent that containment zone had to be declared in these areas,” said an official. Auto drivers, market employees, home maids and cleaning staff have been infected in these clusters. Containment of the area and isolation of individuals are turning out to be a tough task for authorities. Officials point out another aspect wherein relatives of an infected family pitch in to take care of kids or elderly persons. “Sometimes parents may test positive but kids will be negative. In such cases, relatives will take care of kids. They may be primary or secondary contacts; however, they will have to work for themselves and for the people they need to take care of,” an official said. Meanwhile, MLA V S Sivakumar distributed sanitizers and masks in colonies. Around 30,000 masks and 3,000 sanitisers are being distributed at Rajaji nagar, Karimadom, Chirakkulam, Bund colony and areas at Thycaud and Melarannur. Sivakumar said that food and financial aid should be made available to people under quarantine in these colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/livelihood-an-issue-in-colony-clusters/articleshow/78003888.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||High levels of organic pollutants cause fish deaths in Gandhisagar||Nagpur: The mass fish die-off at Gandhisagar in August was due to the lake’s eutrophic nature. The lake is rich in nutrients and so supporting a dense plant population, the decomposition of which kills animal life by depriving it of oxygen.The bio-monitoring studies conducted by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute’s (Neeri) Dr Sharda Kosankar indicates that Gandhisagar was highly nutrient rich, with increase in the concentration of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. The other parameters like COD, BOD (Chemical Oxygen Demand and Biochemical Oxygen Demand) also indicates that the lake has polluted water.“The Gandhisagar lake exhibits the most diverse species, which indicates organic pollution. The Chironomous species was dominant and it is pollution tolerant species and observed in eutrophic lake. The Diapteran species of family Tipulidae and Simulidae were also observed. The Tricoptenan and Coleopteran were also sighted and indicates the saprobic nature of Gandhisagar lake water,” Dr Kosankar told TOI while discussing the lake analysis report submitted to NMC’s water works department.Fish deaths in Gandhisagar are common every year during the monsoon season, reveals the study. On August 12, TOI had reported mass death of fish at Gandhisagar after which NMC sought Neeri’s help to find its cause.Dr Kosankar told TOI that other lakes have catchment areas and are surrounded by trees to help in filtering the rainwater. However, this lake, which is centrally located, has no buffer zone and is surrounded by commercial areas, where many people use insecticides to check rat menace.“Every monsoon the run off takes a lot of silt, sand and dirt of nearby areas into the lake,” she said. This may contain the toxicants which causes fishes to die. Even one gram of any xenobiotic can cause the death of fishes. To overcome this, a proper management plan needs to be implemented in consultation with experts, the senior Neeri scientist said.Dr Kosankar explained that NMC can also carry out plantation surrounding the lake in the buffer zone to help filter the water entering the lake.NMC water works department superintending engineer Shweta Banerjee said, “As per Neeri’s suggestion, the NMC will prepare a plan to save ecology of the lake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-levels-of-organic-pollutants-cause-fish-deaths-in-gandhisagar/articleshow/78005915.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kathwada villagers challenge AMC merger||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notices to the authorities concerned after residents of Kathwada village on the outskirts of Ahmedabad challenged the amalgamation of the village into the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The Kathwada residents had challenged the government’s decision to include their village in the AMC, but on July 8 the state government issued a notification and merged the gram panchayat area with the AMC and carved out seats for the purpose of AMC elections as well. The villagers moved the HC again, and requested the court to permit them to challenge the notification in the same petition. The HC has permitted them to challenge the notification and sought a reply from the government by September 9. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kathwada-villagers-challenge-amc-merger/articleshow/78006210.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker killed in fight with another one in Anamalai Tiger Reserve||COIMBATORE: A tusker aged around 25 years was found dead in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Tuesday. Since the carcass was found with injury marks, forest officials suspect that the tusker might have died after a fight with another wild elephant. People working in the nearby tea estate also told the officials that they had heard sounds of two elephants fighting on Monday night. This is the third elephant to die in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve and the 19th one in the Coimbatore forest division this year. An officer said it was the local residents who spotted the carcass first. “The tusker was found dead in the reserve forest of Andiparai Shola in the Valparai forest range, which falls under the Pollachi forest division attached to the Anamalai Tiger Reserve.” The residents subsequently alerted the forest officials, who performed an autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infighting-claims-tuskers-life-in-atr/articleshow/78005159.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||After 18 days, MT-4 spotted with injury at Mukundra||JAIPUR: The forest administration at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) will tranquillise tigress MT-4 after the monitoring team detected injury on its front paw. After nearly 18 days, the tigress was spotted by trackers on Monday. The staff observed that the big cat was limping and required treatment. S R Yadav, field director, MHTR, said, “It appears the animal needs to be tranquillised for treatment. Following the incident, a team of veterinarians was called for observation and diagnosis”.  The collar of MT-4 will also be replaced as the existing one is non-functional. “Since we cannot dart the tigress every time, the collar will be replaced after the treatment,” Yadav added. Expensive radio collars with global positioning system (GPS) and very high frequency (VHF) systems fitted around the big cats’ necks in MHTR are not functional. This was revealed after death of MT-2 and MT-3 took place a month ago.  The forest department had come under fire when MT-4 was not sighted in MHTR for about a fortnight since August 19 when it was last photographed. However, a massive hunt on Sunday helped officials trace the tigress after finding fresh pugmarks. Learning lessons from the past, the staff at MHTR is being extra cautious and will replace the tigress’ collar for effective monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-18-days-mt-4-spotted-with-injury-at-mukundra/articleshow/78006203.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Central-Airport metro service via Koyambedu yet to resume||CHENNAI: A day after metro services resumed in a graded manner, many people came to metro stations in Anna Nagar thinking the line was operational, only to be turned away by station staff. The line from Central Metro to St Thomas Mount which connects Shenoy Nagar, Anna Nagar and Koyambedu, will open for services on Wednesday. However, direct service from Central metro to Airport via Koyambedu will not be operated. It means, passengers heading from Airport to Koyambedu will have to shift corridors at Alandur metro or at Central Metro if they were travelling from Washermenpet to Koyambedu. On Monday, metro rail resumed operations by opening one of the two lines from Washermenpet to Airport. On Tuesday, a few people, unaware that the other line from Central Metro to St Thomas Mount was not open for service, were disappointed after they walked into stations in Anna Nagar and found out that trains were not operated on the line. M K Ajith, who dropped off his wife working in the airport at Anna Nagar Tower station, said she was forced to take half-a-day leave after she realised she cannot get to work on time when a security guard at the station told her that trains were not operated on the line. A few other passengers too came to Anna Nagar Tower station on Tuesday morning and were informed that the line would open for operations only on Wednesday. At Shenoy Nagar too, a few passengers walked in only to find that the train service was yet to resume. Metro rail officials said they were opening services in a graded manner. On Monday when the services resumed after a break of five months, 5,033 passengers used the service which included 164 passengers using the new QR-code ticketing service while rest used smartcards. Train timings and frequency will be the same, as that of the already opened line, on the Central Metro-St Thomas Mount line when services resume on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-airport-metro-service-via-koyambedu-yet-to-resume/articleshow/78005162.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||10,600 new coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, 73 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: After reporting a three-week low of about 8,300 Covid-19 cases on Monday, Andhra Pradesh registered 10,601 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally to 5,17,094. The death toll mounted to 4,560 as 73 more people succumbed to the disease. Meanwhile, as many as 11,691 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 96,769 active cases in AP with 4,15,765 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate over 80%. The recovery rate improved to nearly 95% in West Godavari, while neighbouring East Godavari witnessed some improvement with about 80% recovery rate. Prakasam, which is believed to have entered the novel coronavirus peak curve, stood last among districts with 53% recovery rate. Prakasam reported 1,457 fresh cases on Tuesday, followed by East Godavari 1,426, Chittoor 1,178, West Godavari 1,122 and Nellore 1,042. Of the 73 deaths reported on Tuesday, 10 are from Guntur, eight each from Anantapur and Chittoor, seven each from Kadapa and Prakasam, six each from Nellore and Visakhapatnam, five each from East Godavari, Krishna and West Godavari, three from Srikakulam, two from Kurnool, and one from Vizianagaram. The state has so far tested 42.37 lakh samples — 79,346 people per every one million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/10-6k-new-coronavirus-cases-in-ap-73-deaths/articleshow/78003046.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Cops nab 3 believed to be part of close to 60 house break-ins||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police have arrested three persons who they believe are behind 58 house break-in cases in Vizag city, Vizag rural, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. Over 1,240 grams of gold ornaments worth Rs 27 lakh, around 1,700 grams of silver ornaments worth around Rs 1 lakh and nearly Rs 1.7 lakh in cash have been recovered from the accused. City police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said the arrested have been identified as Bathula Prabhakar, alias Rahul Reddy (24) from West Godavari, Pedapati Naveen (21) from Vizag city and Kuppa Taviti Raju (28), a native of Vizianagaram who used to buy the stolen goods from Prabhakar and Naveen. Some unidentified persons had broken into the house of bishop K Rajendra Singh in Paradesipalem area of the city on the night of August 16 and decamped with over 500 grams of gold jewellery and Rs 2 lakh in cash when the inmates had gone out of town. Police formed special teams and managed to nab Prabhakar who was found hiding near Gnanapuram station. The stolen property was also recovered from his residence in Gopalapatnam area of the city. Based on Prabhakar’s confession, cops arrested his associates Naveen and Taviti Raju. Police said Prabhakar confessed that they were involved in over 58 property offences. Most of the stolen items have been recovered. The cops are trying to recover the remaining goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-nab-3-believed-to-be-part-of-close-to-60-house-break-ins/articleshow/78003138.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district recovery rate crosses 84%||VIJAYAWADA: The Covid-19 recovery rate in Krishna district touched 84.22% on Tuesday. The cumulative caseload in the district stands at 19,064, after 389 new cases were reported on Tuesday. The number of active cases fell to 2,726 — lower than the number of beds available at district Covid-19 hospitals. Last week, the district reported around 2,000 Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that 3.5 lakh tests have been conducted in the district till date. The district has a positivity rate of 4.62%, the collector said, and a death rate of 1.58%, adding that the administration is working to bring down mortality to below 1%. Health wing authorities said they have increased ventilator and life support bed strength in hospitals across the district. Meanwhile, revenue authorities at Machilipatnam and Gudivada relaxed guidelines for shops and other commercial establishments, permitting them to function from 6 am to 6 pm. Authorities are ensuring that physical distancing is maintained at market places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-dist-recovery-rate-crosses-84/articleshow/78003088.cms||Venu Lanka
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Covid norms would be followed during CETs’||Vijayawada: Education minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said all common entrance tests would be held as per Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Centre. The tests are scheduled to be held from September 10, starting with AP ICET, which will take place in four sessions on September 10 and 11. The other tests to be held are AP ECET (Sept 14), AP EAMCET (Sept 17 to 25), AP PGCET (Sept 26), AP PGECET (Sept 28 to 30), AP EDCET and AP LawCET (Oct 1) and APPECET (Oct 2 to 5). Candidates can check information related to exam dates, download admit cards, exam day instructions on the APSCHE website www.sche.ap.gov.in. As many as 2,72,720 candidates have registered for EAMCET, 64,884 candidates for AP ICET, and 37,167 have applied for AP ECET. The number of examination slots have been increased to accommodate less number of students in each slot. All examination centres would be sanitised with sodium hypochloride after each session and the centres will have sanitisers, gloves, face masks and thermal scanners to ensure a safe environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-norms-would-be-followed-during-cets/articleshow/78002997.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||PCCF office keeps accountant on same post for 14 years||Nagpur: As per the transfer policy of the state government enacted in 2005, no employee should be posted on sensitive posts for more than three years, but principal chief conservators of forests (PCCFs) are turning a blind eye to the posting of chief accountant, who has been working on the same table for 14 odd years.The PCCF office has failed to shift chief accountant SG Sukare, who is still on the same table since 2006, the year in which he joined the forest department. As per the Transfer Act, 2005, normal tenure of a government official/employee is three years on a particular post.As per rules, Group C category employees (non-secretariat service) shall be transferred after completion of two full tenures (6 years), while for secretariat service employees it is three years.Sukare, a Group C employee (secretariat service), is working on the same table since his posting in forest department from August 18, 2006. He has completed over 14 years and seen 11 PCCFs, but has not been transferred out of the establishment desk since his appointment.In such cases, high court and Maharashtra administrative tribunal (MAT) have directed the government to strictly adhere to provisions of the Transfer Act. A GR has also been issued on February 11, 2015 framing transfer guidelines.Sukare deals with important establishment matters of Maharashtra Forest Service (MFS) & Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers and has allegedly developed vested interests. There have been several complaints against him, the latest one filed with forest minister Sanjay Rathod by Ashok Patel from Gondia, on July 22.Even after his promotion from the post of accountant to chief accountant in 2016, his post and table has not changed from the establishment desk. Talking to TOI, PCCF (head of forest force) N Rambabu said, “Sukare was working on different posts over the years. Yet, I will look into it.”However, a section of forest union leaders said, “There are 28 desks at PCCF office and after completion of his tenure, Sukare could have been posted at any desk other than Desk 9, where he is working for over 14 years. He is not being shifted knowingly by top officials.”The APCCF (HRM), who is responsible for implementation of the provisions of Transfer Act 2005, is also turning a blind eye to the issue. Senior forest officials said, “Sukare is misleading management and government in establishment matters such as transfer cases, departmental enquiries, promotion and pension cases, and induction of MFS officers into IFS cadre. From Desk 9, where he is posted, confidential information is leaked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pccf-office-keeps-accountant-on-same-post-for-14-years/articleshow/78006001.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 9, 2020||Varanasi||Karni Sena supports Kangana, demands apology from Sena MP||Gorakhpur: The Karni Sena unit in Gorakhpur came out in support of actress Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday and staged a protest against Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for his disparaging remarks against the actor. The Karni Sena members also burnt the effigy of Sanjay Raut at Shastri Chowk in Gorakhpur and demanded his apology. They said the kind of language the Shiv Sena leader has used for Kangana is an insult of all women. Shri Rajput Karni Sena, popularly referred to as Karni Sena, is considered to be a fringe outfit and is based in Rajasthan. Karni Sena district president Devendra Singh said, “History is testimony that Rajputs have always supported women whenever they were disrespected and insulted and have come out to defend them. Sanjay Raut used unparliamentary language for Kangana ji which is very shameful. We condemn his shameful and objectionable language. We demand the Maharashtra Government and Shiv Sena party to take stern action against Sanjay Raut otherwise Karni Sena will come on roads to fight for the respect of women.” Sanjay Raut is the executive editor of Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ and was on Tuesday appointed party’s chief spokesperson. In a tweet, Kangana had compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir while targeting the Maharashtra government. Karni Sena has also declared that it takes responsibility for Kangana Ranaut’s security in Mumbai after some Sena leaders issued threats. Karni Sena said its members will protect Kangana Ranaut and escort her from the airport to her home. In January 2018, Karni Sena had protested against the release of movie Padmavat in Gorakhpur and had burnt the effigy of the director Sanjay Leela Bhansali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/karni-sena-supports-kangana-demands-apology-from-sena-mp/articleshow/78006209.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Surat||Visdalia bamboo cluster selected under NBM||Surat: In a major boost to tribal artisans, the Visdalia Cluster of Surat forest department has been selected as one of the nine clusters under the National Bamboo Mission (NBM) in the country.This is the only selected from Gujarat. Visdalia village is located 60 km from Surat on Kim-Zankhvav Road. Bamboo crafts and furniture made by the artisans of Visdalia Cluster Gram Vikas Samiti, an initiative of the Surat forest division has made a mark for in the state. With this recognition and support under the NBM, the bamboo-based products’ business is set to go beyond Gujarat and the country. “The Visdalia cluster provides direct employment to over 120 people and indirect employment to more than 400. Now, the Bamboo unit has got recognition at the national level, which will boost the confidence of the artisans,” deputy conservator of forests (Surat Division), Puneet Nayyar, told TOI. Rural artisan Jayshree Chaudhary and Vijay Vasava interacted with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday from Visdalia. “Since this cluster was set up we have been getting work here and now don’t need to migrate to cities,” said Chaudhary. Vinit Prabhakar, head of the Visdalia cluster said that a team of 12 bamboo artisans have gone to Palghar near Mumbai and 20 others were in Junagadh to help set up Bamboo based units there. “Tribals from 32 villages are getting employment under Visdalia cluster and it is receiving orders from Delhi, Mumbai, Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad among other cities. First, we trained our tribal artisans and then hired interior designers and marketing professionals to support them,” said Prabhakar. “We are setting up four specialized bamboo clusters in nearby villages for furniture, crafts, housing and interior design. Her specialized work will be done focus will be on high-end products for the urban markets,” he added. The tribal bamboo artisans, who were once getting Rs 120 per day, are now earning Rs 300 per day, said forest officials. The cluster runs ‘Rural Mall’ which is major attraction for its bamboo furniture and craft products. In fact, the bamboo outlets and the cafeteria at the Ekta Nursery near Statue of Unity (SoU) in Kevadia Colony are made by these artisans. The initiative has made a remarkable development in bamboo products in the last two years and received a huge response from customers. The turnover of bamboo units zoomed to over Rs 1 crore from 11 lakh in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/visdalia-bamboo-cluster-selected-under-nbm/articleshow/78004609.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Online exams: Catch them young & watch them grow||Nagpur: Even as the debate continues over holding online exams at varsity level, schools are slowly acclimatizing their students to that ecosystem now itself. Many schools have started live online exams for students right from the primary section. Amol Badjatia, principal of Jain International School, said, “It’s a good way of keeping formative assessments up to date and also training children at small levels for the future of exams.” Reena Dargan, principal of Ira International School, said, “We use our own app plus Google Form to conduct online exams. We have not faced technical issues yet and have generally found junior students to be more sincere while attempting the answers on their own.” Jayshree Bhake, principal of GH Raisoni Vidyaniketan, said, “We conduct exams Google and Webex. Since certain segments of questions , like diagrams, can be an issue and so, we ask them to draw and upload them within the stipulated time.” Manjari Joshi, principal of Lalitha Public School, said,“We are taking online exams on Google forms and students have adapted very well. They are not only comfortable with MCQs but also with short answers. Actually students are more tech-friendly than us and their typing speed is also very fast.” Arvind Kumar, principal Kendriya Vidyalaya (Vayusena Nagar), said, “We reshuffle the questions in Google form so that the sequence is different. Descriptive exams are also conducted and for that we send the question paper on WhatsApp and they get limited time to send the solved paper back to the teacher.” Ritu Sharma, principal of Delhi Public School (Kamptee Road), said, “We have live online exams — formal and informal. Formal exams are conducted using Microsoft forms. Teachers/invigilators monitor exam time by calling students’ names randomly.” N Kazi, teacher at Reliance Foundation School (Mouda), said, “We use a special web program which locks the exam if the student tries to minimize the window and search for answers. There are many other features. The examiner has complete control over the application.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-exams-catch-them-young-watch-them-grow/articleshow/78005883.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 9, 2020||Vadodara||Six-foot-long crocodile rescued||Vadodara: A six-foot-long crocodile was rescued from a tin shed on the Sama-Savli Road late on Monday night. The reptile had crawled into the shed where some labourers were staying. Volunteers of the Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) rushed to the spot and rescued the crocodile and handed it over to the forest department. WRT volunteers said that the shed was made for labourers who were working at a construction site nearby. The reptile probably ventured out of Vishwamitri River or some nearby water body. Over the last few days, several crocodiles that were spotted on the roads have been rescued from different areas of the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-foot-long-crocodile-rescued/articleshow/78004540.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Five arrested for murder of petrol pump owner in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Police on Tuesday arrested five persons, including a private bank employee, in connection with the murder of petrol pump owner Nishant Jain. The accused, who were detained on Monday and arrested on Tuesday after they confessed to the crime, have been identified as Vinit Singh Gaur, Abhay Singh, Gautam Singh, Aydan Singh and Chetan Singh. Police said Gaur was the key conspirator who leaked information about his bank client Jain to the other accused. “Jain had a history of visiting the bank every Monday to deposit Rs 20-25 lakh. Gaur passed the information to the other accused and convinced them that they can loot the money and share it among themselves. He called the accused to the bank to give onformation about Jain’s movement,” said ASP Bajrang Singh. Chetan Singh and Abhay Singh brought a county made pistol from Uttar Pradesh to commit the crime, police said. On the day of the incident, Gaur met the other accused at one of their rented accommodations and told them that the victim was likely to deposit money. “The conspirator went to the bank and his co-accused reached ARG tower to wait for the victim. After seeing the victim coming out of his car at the parking lot, one accused tried to grab the bag from his hand. Jain resisted and held to the bag containing the cash. Seeing that Jain was not letting off the bag, Gautam fired at the victim and snatched the bag. They ran away leaving him in the pool of blood,” the ASP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-arrested-for-murder-of-city-petrol-pump-owner/articleshow/78006211.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Tribal woman taken to PHC in a doli||VISAKHAPATNAM: In yet another incident that highlights the plight of north AP tribals due to the lack of road connectivity to their villages, a tribal woman had to be carried on a doli (makeshift stretcher) for five kilometres to the nearest primary health centre after she fell ill. The incident took place at Poimala village in Kodama panchayat area of Salur mandal in Vizianagaram district. According to reports, M Sunamma of Poimala village was ill for the last few days. But there are no medical facilities in and around her village. Nor can the village be reached by an ambulance or even by two-wheelers; the state of the roads is in such a shape. Consequently, locals had to carry the woman in a doli to the nearest PHC. Tribals of the area have expressed their indignation at the lack of road connectivity to their villages. They said that they are particularly worried for medical emergencies as they have no other option but to carry their patients like bundles. “Even though there have been several instances of tribals being taken to hospitals in dolis, successive governments have failed to improve road connectivity and medical infrastructure in these areas,” said K Lokanatham of the CPI(M).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-woman-taken-to-phc-in-a-doli/articleshow/78003076.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI admissions: Only 23% seats filled at end of round 1||NAGPUR: Under the Common Admission Process (CAP) for Std XI, around 23% seats got filled in city colleges at the end of round one. The second round of admissions will begin on September 10. CAP is a mandatory online process for admissions to all junior colleges located within the jurisdiction of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Technically, ‘Round One’ is not the first round of admission as the title suggests. CAP starts off with ‘Round Zero’ in which quota seats (management, in-house etc) are filled. If one breaks down the numbers streamwise, then the science stream performed the best when it comes to admission to intake capacity comparison. 26% of the available science stream seats got filled at the end of first round. Science stream has the maximum number of seats on offer through CAP, courtesy the booming coaching industry in the city. However, it is estimated that many admissions have shifted to colleges located just outside the city limits, because they do not come under CAP. In such colleges, admissions can be done by coaching classes. As per an unofficial mutual agreement, such students are exempted from attending classes. However, a similar set up exists in city colleges too. Since a majority of parents themselves demand such a ‘tie-up’, the other stakeholders like colleges and coaching classes willingly oblige. Arts stream was the worst performer at the end of round one, using the same admissions to intake comparison parameters. Just 17% of the arts stream seats got filled whereas MCVC was slightly better at 18%. Commerce stream’s performance was much ahead at 22%. The allotment list for round 2 will released on Wednesday, with admission process starting from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-admissions-only-23-seats-filled-at-end-of-round-1/articleshow/78005950.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Physiotherapy can combat Covid-19 confinement blues||Visakhapatnam: On the occasion of World Physiotherapy Day on September 8, experts commended the use of physiotherapy techniques for Covid-19 patients confined to a room or a bed and in keeping the respiratory system and oxygen levels healthy. The novel coronavirus affects the respiratory system, leading to shortness of breath, coughing and chest pain. While it is known that the virus infects the lining of the throat, respiratory tract and lungs, there may also be changes in the cognitive behaviour of patients that lead to stress, anxiety and depression. Dr Priyalini Sarkar, AP state coordinator of Women’s Cell in Indian Association of Physiotherapy, said, “A physiotherapist’s main job is to help the patient in improving the respiration capacity and provide free airway by evaluating effective physiotherapy strategies like chest physiotherapy through positioning of the patient, chest percussions, cupping, postural drainage, airway clearance and ventilation. Because of the virus attack, the chest feels congested, resulting in suffocated breathing. Breathing exercises follow next, which include pursed lip breathing, square lip breathing, belly breathing, diaphragmatic breathing and quadruped breathing. Taking a deep breath and forcing the mucus out of the throat will help clear the airway. These help maintain healthy oxygen levels and help in relieving stress and anxiety.” “Further, mobile exercises are a must to help in strengthening the musculo-skeletal system of the body. A Covid-19 patient is usually confined to bed and lack of movement may cause the muscles to go sore, weak or stiff. So, early mobility with assistance is needed. Aerobic exercises help a lot to improve muscle functioning,” added Dr Priyalini, who also conducts tele-physiotherapy consultations. Dr Rajesh Boyina, member of Physiotherapy Association of Visakhapatnam and IAP, said, “Physiotherapy can play an important role in rehabilitation of people who have been severely infected with Covid-19. For a patient in the early stages, breathing exercises would be beneficial to avoid oxygen desaturation and in the later stages, chest physiotherapy along with a ventilator is recommended if the condition is severe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/physiotherapy-can-combat-covid-19-confinement-blues/articleshow/78003170.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||143kg venison recovered in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: The sale of venison (deer meat) is going up in Shivamogga. Poaching of deer has gone up due to the huge demand for venison in the town. On Sunday, in two raids by police and forest officials, authorities recovered 143kg of venison. A Kumsi police team raided Adagadi village and nabbed accused Anil and Hanumantha and recovered 40kg of venison and deer pelt. Tunga Nagar police in Shivamogga and forest officials, in a joint operation in the city, recovered 103kg of deer meat, which was later seized. Accused Manjunath and Umesh Naik from Malligenahalli were caught transporting venison in an autorickshaw. According to the forest personnel, butcher shops in the city mix venison with mutton. A large number of customers prefer deer meat and some of them directly purchase from poachers. During weekends, demand for chicken and mutton has increased, which could be because people have started getting a taste for venison, knowingly or unknowingly. Some knowingly purchase venison, but many customers are unaware that they are consuming it. A kilogram of mutton costs nearly Rs 700, while poachers sell venison at Rs 300 to Rs 400 per kg. For this reason, meat shop owners make quick money by mixing venison with mutton, and cheat customers. The forest department had conducted raids on shops and seized venison six months back. Deer are poached in neighbouring Mandagadde and Shettihalli forest regions, and then sold to select mutton shops. DCF of forest mobile squad in Shivamogga, Balachandra, told TOI that they are keeping an eye on meat shops to check this illegal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/143kg-venison-recovered-in-shivamogga/articleshow/78003129.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Online classes for AU engg, PG courses may start on Sep 21||Visakhapatnam: Andhra University plans to launch online classes for engineering and postgraduate students from September 21. The varsity is also making arrangements to conduct final examinations from the fourth week of September. Meanwhile, two engineering students at AU, A Vineel Judson and N Sai Charitha, have made a preliminary discovery of 10 near-Earth objects. The discovery was made as part of the All India Asteroid Search Campaign (AIASC), organised by SPACE India and the International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC), a NASA-affiliated citizen scientist group, during July-August 2020. Vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy congratulated the team of students and met them in his chamber on Tuesday. He appreciated students for their effective utilisation of the lockdown period. University officials said the team worked under the mentorship of Prof P Mallikarjuna Rao of the department of electrical engineering, who is acting as the teacher-mentor for space activities in the AU College of Engineering. AUCE principal Prof P Srinivasa Rao appreciated the team and extended his cooperation and encouragement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/online-classes-for-au-engg-pg-courses-may-start-on-sep-21/articleshow/78003009.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Patna||Aishwarya Rai may contest assembly polls against Tej Pratap Yadav: Dad||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai may contest the upcoming assembly election against her estranged husband Tej Pratap Yadav, her father Chandrika Rai indicated on Tuesday. A petition for divorce between Aishwarya and Tej is pending in a city family court. “She will be making her own decisions and I fully support her. I am not going to stop her from contesting election where ever she wants,” Chandrika told TOI. Chandrika, who left RJD and joined JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar recently, said he would support his daughter in her political plans, even to contest against Tej. He also said Aishwarya would soon tell the media about her plans. Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap, who is an MLA from Mahua in Vaishali, is looking for a safe seat and may contest the coming election from Hasanpur in Samastipur district. He visited the constituency on Monday. When asked if Aishwarya would contest against Tej from Hasanpur, Chandrika said no such decision had been taken yet. The speculation about Tej shifting to Hasanpur was rife after he met his father Lalu in Ranchi last week. He also held ‘Tej Samvad’ with people in Hasanpur and held a road show there on Monday. JD(U)’s Rajkumar Rai had won the Hasanpur seat in alliance with RJD and Congress in 2015. “It is not because of Aishwarya that he is planning to change his seat. He is a bhagoda (fugitive). He neither visited his constituency nor did any work for the people of Mahua. He knows he will lose from Mahua,” said Chandrika. However, RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the seats have not been decided yet and such visits are common before elections. “He is our party leader and can visit any constituency for campaigning. This has nothing to do with the ticket,” said Gagan. Political experts also feel this could be Lalu’s trick to divert Aishwarya’s attention from Mahua. Also, both are waiting for one another to open their cards first. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aishwarya-may-contest-polls-against-tej-dad/articleshow/78005170.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||State set to register all travel agents||Visakhapatnam: Following a series of incidents where some travel agents collected lakhs of rupees from unsuspecting customers before vanishing overnight, the government has decided to register all travel agents in the state. “Several complaints have been received against a few fly-by-night travel agents. The government, which was planning to fix a module to monitor all travel agents in the state, issued an order two days back,” said K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours & Travels Association of AP. The decision is meant to encourage tourism service standards and ease of tourism investments in AP. The government has identified tourism as one of the key service sectors for the growth and development of the state. “This registration has other advantages too. In the wake of Covid-19, travel agents have requested for a few grants and help from the government. The registration would make them eligible for all kinds of government-sponsored initiatives, incentives, subsidies and schemes,” tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-set-to-register-all-travel-agents/articleshow/78003184.cms||Arpit Basu
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Cardiac arrest cuts short Tollywood actor Jayaprakash Reddy’s life at 74||GUNTUR: Tollywood actor Jayaprakash Reddy died of cardiac arrest in Guntur in the early hours of Tuesday. He was 74. He is survived by his wife Rajyalakshmi and son Chandrapratap Reddy. Popularly known as JP, Jayaprakash worked as a school teacher in a municipal high school before trying his hand at acting. He became popular in Telugu cinemas with his inimitable style of dialogue delivery, particularly his Rayalaseema accent. He played negative roles in over 100 films and many of them were blockbusters. Though JP’s forefathers hailed from Kurnool district, he settled down in Guntur after completing his high school and college education in the city. He had been staying in his flat in Vidya Nagar area for the last five months as film shooting was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After his son and daughter-in-law tested positive for the virus a few days ago, JP and his wife had shifted to another flat in the same apartment. On Tuesday morning, he had gone to the wash room where he suffered a massive heart attack. He died on the spot. Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent a condolence message to the family in Telugu. Vice-president Venakaiah Naidu, home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, his Telangana counterpart KCR, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu, actors Chiranjeevi, Mohan Babu and Mahesh Babu and director Rajamouli condoled the sudden death of Jayaprakash. Several prominent leaders, including former ministers Alapati Rajendra Prasad and Nakka Anand Babu, visited JP’s residence and paid tributes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cardiac-arrest-cuts-short-tollywood-actor-jps-life-at-74/articleshow/78003375.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Five lakh Tamil Nadu fraudsters swindle Rs 110 crore in PM Kisan Scheme||CHENNAI: The unfolding PM Kisan Scheme fraud is gaining mammoth proportions with close to 50% of the districts in Tamil Nadu reporting falsification of records by ineligible beneficiaries. The state agriculture department’s inquiry in the last few weeks shows that there are more than 5 lakh fake entries on the beneficiaries’ list, mostly from northern and western districts, and the exchequer has lost Rs 110 crore to fraudsters. The department has recovered Rs 32 crore so far, said state agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi. The government has suspended three assistant directors in the agriculture department, initiated departmental action against 34 officials and dismissed 80 contractual staff for their alleged involvement in the scam. So far, 18 people have been arrested by the CB-CID team investigating the case, he said. The epicentre of the scam is Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts, he said. Most fake entries were made during the lockdown period, mostly from June this year, taking advantage of the option given to left out farmers to file applications online. Inability of officials to do field-level verification during the pandemic turned out to be an added advantage to fraudsters. The extent of misuse of the central government scheme can be gauged from the fact that people living in places like Alandur, Ambattur, Maduravoyal, Madhavaram, Sholinganallur and Tiruvottiyur in Greater Chennai, which has no agricultural land as per revenue records, have availed of the Central government dole. District-wise data put out by the PM Kisan Scheme website shows that Rs 7.6 lakh has been disbursed as assistance to farmers in Chennai district. The state agricultural department has embarked on a massive verification drive to weed out every ineligible person from the scheme, said Bedi. Block-level agriculture and horticulture officers have been deployed to recover the money from those who have obtained the benefits fraudulently, he said. But even after identifying fake entries on the beneficiaries’ list, officials are struggling to recover the money disbursed to them as the entire money has been withdrawn from most bank accounts, said another official. Hence, district collectors and revenue machinery have been roped in to provide teeth to the recovery drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-lakh-tn-fraudsters-swindle-rs-110-crore-in-pm-kisan-scheme/articleshow/78005174.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, Kolkata cops to mark C-zones only if they’re a threat to other areas||KOLKATA: The now familiar bamboo barricades and police guard rails, indicating containment zones, may soon become fewer in number with the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and police deciding to impose restrictions only on areas with three specific conditions: there is a chance of a larger outbreak in adjoining areas, especially in slums that house a large population, the numbers of infected people is so high that normal home isolation is not possible and an exceptional situation arising out of prevailing micro-level problems. The KMC’s change in stand was ostensibly prompted by chairman of the board of administrators of KMC Firhad Hakim, who expressed his willingness for a more hands-on approach. Instead of following a straightjacket policy, he advocated a rational and practical move: that unless there is concentration of Covid-positive cases in a neighbourhood, that could spell danger for adjacent areas, such restrictions were not needed. “We should remain alert against the spread of the virus. But that does not mean we will keep everything shut. That will create many hurdles for residents, especially for people from the lower income group. From now, KMC will study the rate of infection from case to case in the neighbourhood and decide whether or not it was necessary to enforce a containment policy to break the chain of virus transmission,” Hakim said. TimesViewThe containment-zone plan seems to have worked, if the rapid reduction of such zones is anything to go by. But the fresh-infection reduction rate is very gradual in Kolkata; adding to the city's risk is the situation in the neighbouring districts, especially North 24 Parganas. These issues should be kept in mind by policy deciders.That does nor mean that KMC and police will withdraw their ongoing field-based work. The KMC will now concentrate more on providing medical services to those who need them urgently. “We have tied up with the IMA to reach medical advice to citizens at their doorsteps. We will also send health workers from door to door who will keep track of the health conditions of people—especially if they have major ailments—living in a Covid high-prevalence neighbourhood,” said a KMC health department official. Kolkata police plans to ask all its personnel, who were on containment duty for the past two-and-a-half months, to be on “home isolation” assignment. “We will ensure they not only call up the patients, but also carry out spot visits. The two agencies have a few joint plans. The chief among them is to arrange for provisions for isolation homes, just like they used to do for containment zones. Though we have this system in place, the additional manpower can make it more robust,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The lone containment zone in the city, Umesh Dutta Lane, is an example of why it was included on the list last week. The zone had initially reported six cases, though active cases had already gone down. Cops from Burtolla and Girish Park police stations said they made it a containment zone for its proximity to Ramesh Dutta Lane slum and Lohapatty, both densely populated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-cops-to-mark-c-zones-only-if-theyre-a-threat-to-other-areas/articleshow/78005182.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Phulewadi is new hotspot in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The Phulewadi area has emerged as a new hotspot, while Tarabai Park is also back on the list due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases there. Phulewadi has so far reported 253 Covid-19 cases and over the past few days, roughly 10 to 15 cases are emerging daily. Tarabai Park too has 243 cases. Apart from these two areas, there are five other locations — Rajarampuri Kasba Bawda, Shivaji Peth, Mangalwar Peth and Shahupuri — that have emerged as hotspots. So far, 288 containment zones have been notified in the city, of which, 176 are active. Officials claimed that in some hotspots, which have reported cases since the beginning, there is community transmission. In just four wards of Rajarampuri area, there are 582 positive cases. In Kasba Bawda’s five wards, there are a total of 509 cases. Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said: “We have started a survey of Covid suspects. So far, around 900 families have been screened. We have initiated contact tracing on a war-footing in the containment zone. Citizens need to strictly maintain social distancing to ensure a break in the chain of Covid transmission.” Meanwhile, Kalshetti has asked officials to crack down on patients found violating home quarantine. On Tuesday, he imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on a Covid patient, who had violated home isolation. The patient had started operating his grinding mill. “I have asked the local staff to trace the people who came in contact with the patient. I have formed special teams to keep watch on such violators. I appeal to the citizens to immediately call us if they find any person with home isolated stamp on his/her hand roaming around or working outside,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/phulewadi-is-new-hotspot-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78002830.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Ex-peddler finds new life amid the dead||CHENNAI: Five months ago, Mahesh (name changed) would frequent a burial ground in north Chennai to smoke ganja and meet peddlers. He still visits the burial ground, but for a different reason. At a place where the dead are put to rest, the 18-year-old has found a new life. The former ganja peddler now helps the cemetery staff in burying bodies. Mahesh used to be the most sought after courier among established peddlers. He was known for his ability to give police the slip. Mahesh told TOI that he would earn about Rs 10,000 every month ever since he was 16 and given his background, he was doing well for himself. “I used to earn well but I was never happy. There was the constant fear of getting arrested and it left me sleepless. Though I lost interest, I was forced to continue the business as the society began to recognize me as a ganja peddler,” Mahesh said, adding that he would haunt Pulianthope and TP Chatram to procure weed. Inspector Rajeshwari of Secretariat Colony once caught the boy peddling ganja and gave him an option to turn reform. He was offered a job at the burial ground where he is being paid anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1000 per burial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-peddler-finds-new-life-amid-the-dead/articleshow/78005187.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||At 1,295, least daily cases in 8 days||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat recorded 1,295 new Covid cases, taking the total to 1.06 lakh. It was the lowest daily case tally for the state over the past eight days. The cases included 265 from Surat, 170 from Ahmedabad, 134 from Rajkot, 124 from Vadodara, and 99 from Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 792 or 61% of the total cases in 24 hours. With the update, Ahmedabad was closer to 33,000 cumulative cases, whereas the tally is set to reach 23,000 for Surat and 6,000 for Rajkot. The state also recorded 13 deaths, taking the toll to 3,136. The deaths include six from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot, and one each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar. The toll for Ahmedabad and Surat has reached 1,740 and 668. An analysis of the deaths in the first eight days of September reveals that of the 114 deaths, 81% were recorded from Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot districts. Cumulatively, the four districts account for 85% of the state’s deaths. In all, 1,445 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 87,479. The discharges included 320 from Rajkot, 231 from Surat, 130 from Jamnagar, 105 from Vadodara, and 95 from Ahmedabad. The number of active patients in Gujarat have risen to 16,351, accounting for 15.3% of the total positive cases so far. Of the total, 81.8% have been discharged, whereas 2.9% have succumbed to the infection. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 72,076 tests, taking the total to 29.25 lakh. The state health department said that the testing rate is 1,109 per day per million population. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 5.85 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 467 were under facility quarantine, while the rest were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-1295-least-daily-cases-in-8-days/articleshow/78005317.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Jaipur||Accomplice of Pak agent in police net||Jaipur: The intelligence wing of Rajasthan Police on Tuesday arrested Meera Khan (38), an accomplice of Mushtaq Ali, who has been charged with espionage. Ali led the police to Khan.Khan is accused of acting as a carrier for Pakistan for providing money, sweets and other goods to Mushtaq Ali for his espionage activities. ADG (Intelligence) Umesh Mishra said that during interrogation, it was revealed that the two got acquainted at Sedwa in Barmer while working as drivers.After that Mushtaq Ali took Meera Khan to Delhi and arranged a visa to go to Pakistan. They went to Pakistan in November 2018 and also lived there together for some time. “Mushtaq Ali stayed in Pakistan for a month in December 2019 and met Pakistani handlers. On his return to India, he started sending border area information of strategic importance to Pakistan through WhatsApp,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accomplice-of-pak-agent-in-police-net/articleshow/78006213.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Early detection, treatment help dist bring fatality down||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 fatality rate has dipped to 1.7% from 2% in the district in the past 20 days. From the beginning of this month, the number of Covid-19 deaths has come down to two to five a day, compared to eight to 14 earlier. The health department and city corporation officials attributed the drop in the number of deaths to early detection of cases and treatment. On Monday, when the Covid-19 tally touched 19,479, the toll in the district was 332, pointing to a death rate of 1.7%. The death rate has dropped below 1.9%, which was the third highest in the state, in the district after nearly a month. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “Setting up of triage centres, which are equipped with lung x-ray machines, CT scan facilities and pulse oximeters, have helped early detection of cases and offering them right treatment. When a patient comes in with lung changes or low oxygen saturation levels, it helped us send them to a hospital with high-flow oxygen beds or ventilator after consulting with doctors there.” Recently, they had sent a 38-year-old patient with breathing difficulties from Karur to a private hospital at Gandhipuram. “This way, they don’t waste time going from one hospital to another searching for a bed with ventilator,” the official said. At least nine patients with low oxygen saturation levels were detected at triage centres and sent directly to hospitals with high-flow oxygen beds. “So, their condition did not aggravate,” said Kumaravel Pandian, city corporation commissioner. The deputy director of public health said the use of pulse oximeter rather than infrared thermometer had also helped detect cases. “We have requested all corporation officials going for door-to-door surveillance to first check people’s oxygen saturation rate. All laboratories have also been asked to check people with an oximeter when they come for a test.” Microlabs, he said, alone had sent five patients directly to hospitals before their test results arrived. “We have realized that low oxygen saturation is better indicator of the virus, rather than temperature.” According to officials, at least 50% of cases that are being reported from the city corporation limits a day are detected at fever camps. An official said, “Fever camps also help detection of cases in the pre-symptomatic and mildly symptomatic stages. So, it helps us at times to prevent the progression of virus into to the lungs. In Covid care centres too, we take patients’ lung x-rays to check for any changes to provide them extra attention.” In some cases, people who died during home quarantine haven’t yet been included in the state bulletin. It has also helped the death rate to plummet for now, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/early-detection-treatment-help-dist-bring-fatality-down/articleshow/78005177.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Appoint legal member in GERC’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the state government in response to a petition seeking the appointment of a legal member in the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC). The Consumer Protection & Action Committee approached the high court against the GERC’s public notice inviting objections and views over the draft of Multi-Year Tariff Regulation Act, 2021. The petitioner contended that this issue of legislation cannot be addressed in the absence of a legal member in the commission. The petitioner has also submitted that the post of the legal member has been vacant for quite some time and in April 2018, the Supreme Court had directed the state government to fill the vacancy by appointing a judicial officer. However, the government has till date not appointed any retired judicial officer as a legal member of the commission. In the absence of the legal member, the petitioner sought a stay on the process of inviting public objections to the draft. The HC has sought a reply from the government by September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/appoint-legal-member-in-gerc/articleshow/78006214.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Business||Passengers’ money given as interest-free loan to airlines, says consumer rights body||MUMBAI: An affidavit filed by civil aviation ministry before Supreme Court on airline refunds was ambiguous on financial incentives for passengers whose money was with airlines, said Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), a consumer rights body. The matter pertains to air fare refunds for flights cancelled due to Covid lockdown this summer. Airlines moved the amount into a "credit shell" which the passengers could use to buy fresh tickets, but within a stipulated time. If the credit shell isn’t used within the deadline, the passenger would lose the money. In April, an NGO filed a petition in the Supreme Court stating that airlines should refund the full fare to the passengers who did not intend to use the credit shell within the stipulated time limit. The SC directed the ministry of civil aviation to reach a solution after consulting all stakeholders, and file an affidavit detailing the solution. The said affidavit, filed recently, has met with objections from consumer rights body. Read AlsoSupreme Court to make airlines party in tickets-refund caseThousands of passengers seeking refund of air tickets of flights cancelled during the lockdown can take heart as the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that a solution had been arrived at even as the SC agreed to add all airlines operating in India as parties in PILs seeking refunds.For instance: point 19, 3b of ministry’s affidavit states: "There shall be an incentive mechanism to compensate the passenger if there is a delay in consuming the credit shell.." The ministry proposed a financial incentive under which, each month, the amount kept in each passenger’s credit shell would grow by a small amount. The relevant portion appears in point 19, titled "The interests of both passengers and well as airlines". Within it, point 3b states: "There shall be an incentive mechanism to compensate the passenger if there is a delay in consuming the credit shell - from the date of cancellation up to 30 June, 2020 the value of credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.5% of the face value (the amount of fare collected) for every month…" After June 30, the value of credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.75% of the face value per month, up to March 2021. Then point 3d says: "By the end of March, 2021, the airlines shall refund cash to the holder of the credit shell." MGP pointed out that, in this case, the relevant portion in the affidavit is the one which states that incentive mechanism is only for passengers "consuming the credit shell". That is, only those passengers who buy fresh tickets before March end will get this financial incentive. Advocate Shishir Deshpande, MGP chairman said: "Such incentivization is not being offered to those passengers who opt for refund. They have kept their their money with the airline till March 31, 2021, after which they get a refund. In short, airlines have been allowed to use such passengers' money as an interest-free loan." Deshpande added that this is patently unfair. "It also amounts to discriminating between passengers using credit shell and those made to wait for refund. Hence we need to demand a 9 % interest per annum in all refund cases," he added. Another objection the consumer body raised was about no provision for immediate refunds to senior citizens. "Incentivising senior citizens to use credit shell is in contravention to government policy of discouraging travel by senior citizens during the pandemic," he said. Another grouse was that the ministry in the affidavit said that they have submitted the affidavit "after hearing all the stakeholders". "But not a single consumer rights’ body was consulted," Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aviation-ministry-affidavit-on-ticket-refunds-ambiguous-consumer-body/articleshow/78004884.cms||Manju V
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ecotourism park comes up at Debjharan||Sambalpur: An ecotourism park has been developed at Debjharan, which is a major tourist draw of Sambalpur district and famous for its cascading waterfall, nestled in the lap of nature. The minor irrigation (MI) wing developed the park, which was dedicated for the public on Tuesday. Rairakhol MLA and deputy government chief whip Rohit Pujari inaugurated the park. Sub-divisional officer (SDO) of minor irrigation wing, Kishore Panda, said the park has been developed on 3.5 acres. The land belongs to the wing. Around Rs 64.39 lakh has been spent to develop the park. Under this project, the barricading work surrounding the land has been carried out apart from landscaping, he said. Ornamental trees have been planted in the park. Moreover, a pathway has been developed besides solar high-mast lights have been installed in the garden. This apart, two toilets have been developed and drinking water facilities made available for the visitors. He also said some more beautification work would be carried out besides sitting arrangements would be developed at the park in the next phase. The park will be an added attraction for the people who come here for picnicking during winter, said an official of the minor irrigation wing. The site, Debjharan, is close to Jujumura, which in the past witnessed Maoist activities. However, the area is free of Maoist activities at present, said an officer. The place currently sees a footfall of more than 30,000 annually. A large number of people visit the place between November and January. The park is expected to attract more visitors to the scenic place. The forest department is also carrying out the work to develop Debjharan into an ecotourism site. The department has planned to carry out many beautification and development works including construction of a floating jetty, three toilets, nature trail, watchtower, concrete platform for the picnickers and pathway to reach to the waterfall. This apart, boating facility has also been proposed to be developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ecotourism-park-comes-up-at-debjharan/articleshow/78003894.cms||Subrat Mohanty
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Set up panels to explore fee relief: HC to schools||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday proposed that all the 145 schools that were part of the PIL on school fees set up a seven-member committees, including the school head, three senior teachers and three parents, and voluntarily suggest the extent of fee relief the institutes can offer. The HC also said 80% school fees for August and September should be paid by September 15. The HC also urged parents to refrain from staging protests at schools gates since it was hearing the issue. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya said, “It is heartening to note that almost without exception, schools that participated in the hearing said they had entertained, on a case-to-case basis, appeals by parents who have been financially hit or have lost their jobs or have been unable to pay the fees.” The HC order said, “It will be open to all schools to consider such instances on a case-to-case basis without any generic direction...” The HC urged schools to allow students to continue with online classes if fees were deposited by the September 15 deadline. The order said any “report of agitation at school gates may be reported by relevant schools for appropriate police action”. The HC also said the preliminary report filed by the two-member committee “indicates several fallacies in the accounts submitted by the schools”. The order said, “In some cases, monthly breakup of the accounts have not been furnished. The committee expressed reservations about certain heads as indicated in the preliminary report.” The committee of Suranjan Das and Gopa Dutta had been given the responsibility of going through school accounts details and submit a report to court on justification for fees being charged under certain heads, especially during lockdown. The HC is hearing a PIL filed by Vineet Ruia on why parents need some relief in paying school fees during the pandemic. The court expressed satisfaction that many schools already allowed some reductions in fees. While some schools paid salaries in full, some cut payments and disengaged contractual employees, so the expenses of the two kinds would be different, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/set-up-panels-to-explore-fee-relief-hc-to-schools/articleshow/78005216.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||1,087 Covid patients get discharged; new cases dip below 500||Coimbatore: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the district dropped below 500-mark after eight days on Tuesday, when it recorded 446 cases, taking the tally to 19,948. The day also saw a whopping number of 1,087 Covid-19 patients getting discharged from the treatment facilities, bringing the number of active cases down to 4,032. It was the highest number of discharges that the district recorded in a single day so far. For the first time in more than a month, the district also didn’t record any Covid-19 deaths on the day. The toll remains at 332. The data was, however, available only for 360 of the 446 new cases. Peelamedu recorded the highest number of 18 cases in the city limits, followed by Thudiyalur (17). Seven people were tested positive for the virus from Rathinapuri and four each from Selvapuram and Sowripalayam. Among the rural areas, Sulur recorded 26 cases, followed by Mettupalayam (14) and Periyanaickenpalayam (12). While KS Nagar at Periyanaickenpalayam recorded eight cases, the remaining were spread across other parts of the village. The Covid-19 nodal officer and a team from Chennai would visit the district on Wednesday to take stock of the situation, testing protocols and camps, among others. In the city corporation limits, around 1,000 streets have Covid-19 cases. At least 77 of them have more than five cases each. The south and central zones seem to be the most affected, recording the highest number of cases and 100 deaths each. With the number of new cases dropping by an average of 50 a day, compared to last week, officials say the district might just have crossed its peak. “The challenge is to maintain the downward curve, through public cooperation, tracing of contacts and isolating them and maintaining the testing momentum,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1087-covid-patients-get-discharged-new-cases-dip-below-500/articleshow/78005217.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man raped woman in his wife’s presence, she abetted the crime||AHMEDABAD: A 27-year-old woman from the Rakhial area of the city on Monday filed a complaint alleging that her employer, the owner of a stitching unit, had raped her frequently since 2014, when she started work for him and his wife was not only present at the time of each offence but also abetted the crime. The complainant states in her FIR that she was forced by Ayyub Ansari and his wife Tabassumara to abort fetuses four times as she had conceived after being raped. She states that her father died in 2010 and she, the eldest of five siblings, had to start earning. She met Ayyub and asked for work. He employed her to stitch clothes at his unit in January 2013 and teased her during the first few days of her employment. “He used to force himself on me and raped me in the presence of his wife who used to abuse me and laugh at me when he sexually assaulted me at his unit. This happened every now and then till 2016 when I quit the job there to be rid of him,” she states. Ayyub had filmed the acts and even after she left the job, he blackmailed her with those videos and raped her at various hotels in Khokhra, Narol and Naroda. She was taken to three different doctors and one midwife in Maninagar for abortions. She was finally taken to a doctor in Isanpur in April 2020. She finally told her mother about this and her mother took her to the police and filed a complaint of rape, causing abortion and criminal intimidation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-raped-woman-in-his-wifes-presence-she-abetted-the-crime/articleshow/78006219.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deaths decline, severity of cases still a worry for docs||Ahmedabad: On May 5, 47 days after the first Covid case and 44 days after the first death from the disease in Gujarat, the state had recorded 49 deaths in 24 hours. That translated to one death every 30 minutes. Ahmedabad accounted for 39 or 80% of those deaths. It was the highest ever single-day death toll for the state. Ever since, the state has recorded a gradual decline in mortality. The first eight days of September registered on average 14 deaths daily. “We now know that Covid-19 affects lungs of patients and also causes blood coagulation (clotting), which can lead to multiple health implications for the patients,” said a city-based intensivist. The intensivist added that the share of patients with severity has not gone down drastically. “Days of hospitalization increases for such patients,” he said. The data of the state health department reveals that the average number of patients requiring ventilators in September is 90 daily. The patients on ventilators account for 1.5% of the total active cases, and another 16% require oxygen or BiPAP support, said experts. The experts said that hypertension and diabetes are found to be the most prevalent comorbidities among the Covid-19 patients. “It’s still important to exercise utmost caution and follow safety protocols including wearing a mask in public places and washing hands frequently,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). “Those with any symptoms should remain home,” Dr Gadhvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deaths-decline-severity-of-cases-still-a-worry-for-docs/articleshow/78005215.cms||Parth Shastri
September 9, 2020||Chennai||Ganja goes digital: Order online, get home delivery in Chennai||CHENNAI: A few among food-delivery agents have emerged as a cog in the city’s preferred ganja peddling apparatus, with police stumbling upon the well-oiled network by chance. In sync with the times, by-referral-only WhatsApp membership is another ganja delivery avenue that is under the police radar. The delivery agents were the chosen medium because they are neither suspected nor stopped by police. But on Monday, a patrol team found something amiss when two youngsters were seen giving away parcels to a delivery agent instead receiving parcels as is normal. Curious, the policemen questioned the youngsters and a series of contradictory answers tumbled out, after which the two techies -- K Pugazh Jermain, 26 and V Arun, 25 of TNHB quarters -- were arrested along with the food delivery boy, Lakshmanan, who acted as the courier. Both the youngsters are team leaders at a renowned IT firm on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. A search in their houses led to the seizure of 10.5kg of ganja. City police, who had been tracking known peddlers, were surprised to learn of the new mode of transportation. “This is the third such case caught in city since last month -- ganja was peddled in an insulated box that is hid regular among food parcels,” said a police official. According to the official, such networks are mainly formed through WhatsApp groups where the consumer will have to first join as a member by referral. On joining the group, the member will be initially given a free sample offer and those who refer new customers can get a 5 to 10% commission which works out up to Rs 20,000. Tech savvy customers like software engineers and those who are in ‘creative pursuits’ leave their e-mail address in the groups and have all conversations over mail, while some others send the Google map location of a common place, where they come and collect. Those who do not avail themselves of door-delivery services have to get it themselves at a common point by saying out the code words. ‘Potlam’, ‘dhum’ are the common code words and if the dealer is still reluctant, another code word – ‘Kisa’ -- is used, says Dhanapal, 30 (name changed), a dealer. “Earlier, I used to roam around in a cycle. Now, everything is through Whatsapp,” says Dhanapal, who is now a ‘veteran’ and administers his own WhatsApp group ‘Amirtham’ (nectar). The drugs, police say, are brought mostly from the naxal-hit pockets along the Andhra-Odisha border and the Sileru river belt. The East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh, Malkangiri district in Odisha and Sukma district in Chhattisgarh are a few of the many pockets where the cultivation of ganja thrives. On being harvested, the green ganja will be dried and stored in farmyards before being transported either by road or rail, according to the convenience of the cartel. Watch Ganja goes digital: Order online, get home delivery in Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ganja-goes-digital-order-online-get-home-delivery/articleshow/78005218.cms||Sindhu Kannan
September 9, 2020||Meerut||129 test positive in Bareilly, Agra reports 89 cases||Agra/ Bareilly: Parts of western Uttar Pradesh continued to witness a surge in the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Tuesday. In Agra, 89 new cases surfaced, taking the district’s tally to 3,548. Officials said among those who tested positive include five patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, six patents of influenza-like illness, four patients of severe acute respiratory infection, three patient of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. However, no new deaths were reported in Agra the district. Meanwhile, 43 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Out of the 3,548 cases reported in the district, 77.28% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 696 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,742 people have been cured of the infection and discharged.” In Bareilly, 127 people tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 7,773. In Shahjahanpur, 84 people tested positive with three deaths. The cumulative cases here are 4,019 and 56 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/129-test-positive-in-bareilly-agra-reports-89-cases/articleshow/78002840.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Operations of two banks affected after staff tests +ve||Bicholim: The operations of two banks, including one private bank in the Karapur-Vithalapur village in Bicholim taluka and one nationalised bank from Bicholim town came to standstill after some staff members tested positive. Sources said that at the private bank’s branch in Karapur-Vithalapur was closed since Monday after one of its staff tested positive, the nationalised bank has been shut from Saturday after four staffers contracted the virus. Meanwhile, Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit stated that on Tuesday 58 new cases were reported in Bicholim taluka, including 29 in Bicholim, 12 in Mayem and 17 in Sakhali, bringing the count of active cases to 476.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/operations-of-two-banks-affected-after-staff-tests-ve/articleshow/78006227.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist records 621 Covid cases, 23 deaths||Kolhapur: District collector Shekhar Singh has admitted that the administration is under stress to manage the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients as a total of 621 new cases were added in Satara district on Tuesday. There were also 23 deaths recorded. Singh has appealed to the people with mild symptoms to opt for home quarantine. “Few patients were unnecessarily occupying the beds and they should follow the medical advice and stay quarantined at home. The administration is taking all the steps to improve the heath infrastructure,” he said. Satara (123) and Karad (178) continue to record high number of patients, while the situation in Phaltan is also gradually becoming bad as it added 71 new patients on Tuesday. Khandala and Wai reported 34 and 17 cases respectively, while new cases were also found in Maan, Koregaon, Jawli and Patan tehsils. Two new cases were also reported in Mahabaleshwar. Out of the 23 deaths, 16 were men while the remaining seven were women. Satara and Karad tehsils have recorded six and four deaths, respectively. The district’s Covid tally has increased to19,609, out of which 11,452 have been discharged. As many as 7,622 patients are active, while the death toll stands at 536. Meanwhile, a total of 337 new cases and eight deaths were reported in Solapur rural, taking the total number of cases to 14,522. “As many as 9,683 people have recovered so far, while the number of active cases is 4,220. The death toll is at 419,” a health official said. Solapur city on Tuesday recorded 66 new cases and two deaths. As many as 12 patients were discharged from the hospital. The city’s case tally stands at 7,145. Out of them, 806 are active patients. So far, the city has recorded 431 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-records-621-covid-cases-23-deaths/articleshow/78002851.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||File affidavits on VB row: High court||Kolkata/Birbhum: The Calcutta High Court has directed stakeholders to file affidavits following a PIL praying for a CBI probe into the recent vandalism at Visva-Bharati. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar on Tuesday directed Visva-Bharati, Sriniketan-Santiniketan Development Authority and the state to file affidavits by September 16 and slated the next date of hearing for September 18. State advocate-general Kishore Dutta questioned the maintainability of the PIL on the grounds that VB did not need legal aid through a PIL. The division bench kept the matter open till the PIL hearing. Earlier in the day, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh in Birbhum’s Kirnahar supported VB’s stand of protecting its property without going into the arguments over fencing off Poush Mela grounds: “The campus and the land need to be protected from land sharks. The Trinamool-backed land mafia have already occupied a huge portion of Visva-Bharati.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/file-affidavits-on-vb-row-high-court/articleshow/78005257.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Dilapidated, Singanallur housing unit may collapse any time soon||Coimbatore: The collapse of the two-storeyed building at KC Thottam near Chetti Street during the downpour on Sunday night, claiming four lives, has now raised concerns over other dilapidated buildings in the district. The housing unit at Singanallur is one such unsafe buildings. One of its residents, Kannammal, 50, says the condition of the building has been deteriorating with every passing year. She has been living in the housing unit for the past 15 years. Without any repair, parts of the building have started to fall off every time it rains, exposing the skeleton structure at multiple spots. She says, “It is scary to reside in the building and it looks like it might collapse anytime. While some of the occupants have vacated the building out of sheer fear, some of us continue to reside here as we have no other place to go.” Like her, more than 200 families are residing in the housing unit. Two years ago, another resident says, a portion of the wall had collapsed after the rain. “The walls became damp and their top layers started to peel off. When I was leaning on to the balcony wall, it collapsed and I fell down from the first floor. After that, we reconstructed the damaged portion. But the balcony on the floor above us is in an extremely bad shape and we don’t know when that would collapse.” Pointing out that they have been highlighting the issue for the past few years, Kannamal says while officials and public representatives would inspect the building during every monsoon, there wasn’t any initiative to repair the housing unit so far. About 960 families were residing in the housing unit that was constructed about 30 years ago. Deeming the building unfit for residing, the city corporation had issued several notices to the occupants, asking them to vacate the building. There are several other dilapidated buildings in the district. Following the Sunday’s tragedy, district collector K Rajamani has directed the local bodies and revenue officials to identify both the government and private buildings that are in a bad shape and notify their owners to demolish the structures at the earliest. As the northeast monsoon is fast approaching, work should be carried out immediately and if building owners fail to take necessary steps within a stipulated time, strict action would be taken against them, he said. City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian has subsequently directed the zonal assistant commissioners to identify damaged buildings in their limits and take immediate steps to vacate their occupants. He said the assistant commissioners have also been instructed to identify unauthorized buildings in their limits and issue notices to their owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dilapidated-singanallur-housing-unit-may-collapse-any-time-soon/articleshow/78005263.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 9, 2020||Chennai||TN to HC: Scrapping arrear exams in tune with UGC norms||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government has justified its decision to cancel arrear exams for college students in view of the pandemic, saying it did not violate UGC norms. “The government order has been passed under the Disaster Management Act exercising the powers vested with the state disaster management authority under the legislation. Even the Supreme Court has upheld such rights and powers of the state authority under the act if it does not conflict UGC guidelines,” Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayanan said on Tuesday. The order is not in conflict with any UGC norm. As per UGC guidelines only final exams cannot be cancelled, he said. Earlier, advocate E Vijay Anand, counsel for former Anna University vice chancellor E Balaguruswamy, contended that only universities had such powers and not the state government. “The Supreme Court has held that the UGC is the ultimate authority in such issues. UGC has advised the states only to promote the students keeping the backlogs. But the arrear exams itself cannot be cancelled,” he said. Vijay Anand said universities were bound by statutes and the state could not simply pass a GO overriding such legislations. If the decision of the Tamil Nadu government is not quashed then students across the country would claim cancelation of arrears as a right, he argued. Even AICTE has written to Anna University against such a decision and has threatened to revoke the recognition if arrear exams are cancelled, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state to file a detailed counter and adjourned the plea to September 30. The issue pertains to two PILs moved by Balaguruswamy and advocate Ramkumar Aditiyan challenging the government order cancelling arrear exams in the state. According to Balaguruswamy, the decision will demoralise the good and meritorious students who have toiled day and night to pass the university exams. The government order will definitely lower the education standard of the students and the university. It will badly affect the reputation, credibility, and prospects of good meritorious students and the quality of education, he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-hc-scrapping-arrear-exams-in-tune-with-ugc-norms/articleshow/78005251.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha records 13% more farmers’ registration||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Tuesday said 13% more farmers have registered with various primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) to sell their Kharif paddy under the price support system. Last date for farmers’ registration for procurement of kharif paddy was September 7. State food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain said over 14.02 lakh farmers have registered their names to sell their paddy at the minimum support price at state-sponsored procurement centres for kharif 2020-21 year. During 2019-20 kharif year, 12.35 lakh farmers had registered their names. “The online farmers registration was done by adhering to all guidelines issued by the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. I commend the officials of the food supplies and consumer welfare department and cooperation department for carrying out the registration exercise properly,” said Swain. The registration of farmers was done through 2,852 designated PACS and large area multipurpose societies in all 30 districts. While almost all districts have witnessed growth in farmers registration compared to last year, districts like Nuapada, Balangir, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Bhadrak, Dhenkanal, Angul, Jagatsinghpur and Koraput have recorded significant growth in farmers’ registration. The procurement in Odisha is being done though the paddy procurement automation system (P-PAS), an online platform that ensures transparency in procurement and helps in timely transfer of payments to the farmers bank account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/state-records-13-more-farmers-registration/articleshow/78014641.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Police allay emergency workers’ fears on lockdown day car query||Kolkata: A text message by Kolkata Police, asking people to explain the reasons behind leaving home in cars on lockdown days has created confusion and anguish among some doctors on emergency duty. But pointing out that those with genuine reasons had nothing to worry about, cop s said the message was sent to the officials and workers of emergency services, including doctors, just for information and that they should respond to it. For the last two months, cops have been sending text message in the format : “Your vehicle is found moving on road during lockdown on 07-SEP-20. Reply reason mentioning your vehicle number for plying beyond permissible time to caseenquiry.ktp@kolkatatrafficpolice.gov.in. Any violation of Govt. norms shall attract legal action. -Team KTP.” Cops said the automated text messages had been sent to the owners of those vehicles, the registration numbers of which were tapped by traffic cameras in roads on total lockdown days. “It’s just a query and those like doctors and workers of other emergency services, who had genuine reasons to go out, have nothing to worry. All they need to do is write a simple reply to e-mail address mentioned in the text message. If their reasons are valid, no action will be taken against them. In any case, we try to filter the cars with doctors’ stickers but at times, the stickers are too small to be noticed,” said Rupesh Kumar, DC traffic of Kolkata Police.  “We, the doctors, are most stressed out because of the Covid situation in the. In the face of such a pandemic, it’s difficult to handle such unnecessary traffic queries,” said Sourav Datta, a surgeon and resident of Behala, who had received the message on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-allay-emergency-workers-fears-on-lockdown-day-car-query/articleshow/78005252.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 9, 2020||Varanasi||Plaints moved against Sanjay Raut for remarks on Kangana||Varanasi: The volunteers of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Abhiyan, led by Dr. Rachana Agrawal, gave a complaint to Sigra police on Tuesday against Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for his alleged objectionable remarks on actor Kangana Ranaut. “Despite holding a constitutional position, Raut made indecent remarks on Kangana Ranaut which is an insult of the women,” said Agrawal adding, “Raut not only insulted the women, but also Shivaji Maharaj who had a great respect for women.” A local lawyer, Kamlesh Chandra Tripathi, also gave a plaint in the ACJM court for lodging a case against Raut under sections 153(A), 505(1)C, 505(2), 506, 115, 116 of IPC and section 67 of IT Act for his (Raut’s) controversial tweet. In Marathi, Raut had tweeted that ‘Mumbai belongs to the father of a Marathi man… Those who do not agree with this should show their father.’ Meanwhile, Kangana on Tuesday also shared her picture of sailing in the Ganga in Varanasi on her twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/plaints-moved-against-sanjay-raut-for-remarks-on-kangana/articleshow/78006221.cms||Binay Singh
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha records 13% more farmers’ registration||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Tuesday said 13% more farmers have registered with various primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) to sell their Kharif paddy under the price support system. Last date for farmers’ registration for procurement of kharif paddy was September 7. State food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain said over 14.02 lakh farmers have registered their names to sell their paddy at the minimum support price at state-sponsored procurement centres for kharif 2020-21 year. During 2019-20 kharif year, 12.35 lakh farmers had registered their names. “The online farmers registration was done by adhering to all guidelines issued by the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. I commend the officials of the food supplies and consumer welfare department and cooperation department for carrying out the registration exercise properly,” said Swain. The registration of farmers was done through 2,852 designated PACS and large area multipurpose societies in all 30 districts. While almost all districts have witnessed growth in farmers registration compared to last year, districts like Nuapada, Balangir, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Bhadrak, Dhenkanal, Angul, Jagatsinghpur and Koraput have recorded significant growth in farmers’ registration. The procurement in Odisha is being done though the paddy procurement automation system (P-PAS), an online platform that ensures transparency in procurement and helps in timely transfer of payments to the farmers bank account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-records-13-more-farmers-registration/articleshow/78003909.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Noida||Shooters enter Noida society, kill 2 in car, flee||GREATER NOIDA: Two shooters got past security at a housing society where 2,000 families live in Noida Extension on Monday night, wandered around the compound looking for a black Tata Harrier, which they found in a surface parking area facing the perimeter wall, and sprayed bullets on two men in the front seat. The shooters then managed to escape through a different gate of the society – Ajnara Le Garden – once again evading security. This was the third major crime in the past week in Noida, after the fatal attack by suspected carjackers on a BTech student in Sector 62 and the murder of a cabbie, allegedly by three passengers, in Dadri. The victims of the Ajnara Le Garden shooting were identified as Dal Chand Sharma, who was from a political family in Faridabad, and Arun Tyagi, a resident of Bisrakh. They were attacked around 9.15pm. While Sharma was hit seven times, Tyagi took two bullets in the chest. However, two others who were in the back seat were unhurt. Police said Sharma was the main target and Tyagi, who was sitting next to the other window, got hit because the shooters had taken position on either side of the front window. Sharma and Tyagi were still breathing when a police team reached the spot. They died during treatment at Yatharth Hospital. The two persons in the car who were unhurt have been detained for questioning. Sharma’s relatives have alleged that the murder was plotted by a rival family from their village. The two feuding families, police said, had seen several murders in the past few years in a long-standing dispute. Sharma had been to jail in connection with one of the murders and was living a low-key life in the Noida Extension society after being released on bail last year. He was running a property dealership and staying at Ajnara using his son’s name — Virat. Harish Chander, DCP (central Noida), said political murders in the two families had started in 2011. “Sharma’s father was the village pradhan then. That year itself, Sharma’s brother and another relative had been killed in a similar manner. Eight persons were arrested in that case. Sharma himself had been to jail in 2017 for the murder of one of these eight persons,” the officer said. Sharma’s family members reached Bisrakh police station after getting the news of his death and lodged a complaint, naming seven persons from the rival family. “They have been targeting us since 2011. My uncle knew he could be attacked. So, after his bail last year, he shifted to Noida and started a business here,” said Amar Bhardwaj, Sharma’s nephew. Chander said the seven persons named in the complaint were prima facie not found to have any direct involvement in the murder. “However, they are very much under the purview of investigation,” the officer added. An FIR has been registered against unknown persons under sections 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Till late on Tuesday evening, the police had not been able to make any arrests. “They seemed to be professional shooters. They fired the maximum bullets at Sharma. Only two bullets missed the target,” Chander said. The police are scanning CCTV footage sourced from cameras in the society to identify the hitmen. The shooters, who appear to be in their twenties, can be seen entering the society on foot and wandering around for several minutes before finding Sharma’s car. “They were firing from both sides of the car. Tyagi was not the target. He got hit in the firing,” said Munish Chauhan, the SHO of Bisrakh police station. The shooters can be seen in CCTV footage running towards gate no. 2 of the society, which opens into a construction site of the same project. As the area is not covered by CCTV cameras, it was not clear where the two fled. Tyagi’s family supported the police theory, saying he had nothing to do with Sharma’s rivalry. “He was meeting him over some professional commitments. The police should investigate the case properly,” said Tyagi’s brother. The builder denied any lapses in security, insisting that the guards are always on alert. But residents voiced alarm about lack of vigil. “Security at both gates has been a cause for concern. One or two guards are there, but they allow anybody to enter without seeking their details,” said a resident. Watch Greater Noida shootout: Residents concerned over law and order situation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/shooters-walk-into-noida-condo-kill-2-and-flee/articleshow/78006226.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Arthur Rd jail ‘humanly degrading’, says Nirav Modi’s barrister||Billionaire jeweller Nirav Modi’s barrister described Indian prisons as “shameful” and Arthur Road jail in Mumbai as “humanly degrading” on the second day of the 49-year-old’s extradition hearing in London. Clare Montgomery QC said the Mumbai jail was “grossly overcrowded and easily passes the threshold of being humanly degrading”, as she showed Judge Samuel Mark Goozée pictures of “prisoners sleeping on top of other”. She pointed out there had been a Covid outbreak at Arthur Road jail in May, when 182 inmates and 46 staff tested positive, and sarcastically said the government of India’s claims it had been resolved leaving only one person positive demonstrated “near miraculous control over the outbreak” and was “improbable”. “The true state of affairs is there is a 57% Covid prevalence rate in Mumbai and Arthur Road jail depends on outside contractors coming in,” she said. The court was shown a fresh video of Barrack 12 in the jail on Monday, where Nirav will be housed if extradited, made by Indian authorities, with jazzy music and a male voice-over boasting of “free passage of natural light and air”, three ceiling fans, six tube-lights, LED TV and an attached washroom with “all basic amenities”. “The reality is Barrack 12 is itself a structure which raises questions about its humanity,” Montgomery told Westminster magistrates’ court, in an attempt to prevent his extradition under European Convention on Human Rights, claiming he would be subjected to inhuman or degrading conditions in an Indian prison. “It is a stone building shielded in a steel structure. But it operates as an oven. It is an old -fashioned sweatbox. In hot seasons it is intolerably hot, no doubt as result of having built a steel oven over it. It emits no natural light once you understand the geometry of various walls. Someone in there is effectively inside an oven with no natural light and limited opportunities to engage in meaningful activity,” she said. “When directions were given by the high court in Mumbai in 2015 to ensure overcrowding at the jail reduced, nothing happened,” she said. “The Indian prison inspection regime is hopelessly ineffective. The prison system in India has been in a state of continuing decline for two decades. “Suicides and unexplained deaths are notably high in Indian prisons and unexplained by any particular difference in the prison system, other than the utterly degrading way prisoners’ mental health is treated,” Montgomery said. She said Arthur Road jail had more than 3,000 inmates, an acute shortage of hospital beds, no X ray technician, a lack of jail staff and a shortage of psychiatrists, psychologists and doctors. She cited numerous reports and open letters, including a UK Home Office report, to back up her claims of “sub-human conditions”. Montgomery said Nirav’s mental state had been worsening at Wandsworth prison in London due to the declining provision of any form of counselling or social contact, which seriously diminished since lockdown. “In July he was only allowed out of his cell for 20 minutes,” she said. She said the cell earmarked for Nirav made no allowance for his psychiatric illness, which was now so bad he was at high risk of suicide, may be subjected to a hospital order and may be unable to plea at his trial in India. “This court has to enquire whether there are appropriate arrangements in place in India for him,” she said. “The video claims he will be kept in humane conditions but they are completely inadequate if you bear in mind his psychiatric condition and the looming threat of Covid,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arthur-rd-jail-humanly-degrading-says-nirav-modis-barrister/articleshow/78004885.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid: 21-50 age group at risk in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 2,392 new cases of Covid-19 and 11 deaths, even as authorities warned that the virus was fast spreading among the younger lot. Authorities said the number of patients in the 21-50 years age category which is the ‘susceptible category’ is on the rise. “There is a high incidence of Covid disease in the age group of 21-50 years, hence people are requested not to go out, unless absolutely necessary like going for work/essential shopping,” a government statement said. Authorities said 75% of Covid-19 patients fall in this age category. “When they go out, they should strictly observe precautions like the use of face masks and social distancing,” it added. While the death toll reached 906 on Tuesday, the total caseload reached 1,45,163. About 1.12 lakh patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. Altogether, 31,670 patients are currently under medication in hospitals and at home. The recovery rate is now at 78%, which is also the national average recovery rate. A total of 60,923 samples were tested on Tuesday for the Covid-19 virus and with this, the total number of samples tested so far in the state reached 18.28 lakh and the samples tested per million population stands at 49,234. Of the samples tested on Tuesday, 45% are of primary contacts of patients who have tested positive over the last one week while 15 percent are of secondary contacts and the remaining are new suspect patients. Among the districts, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar Medchal Malkajgiri, Khamma, Suryapet and Nalgonda saw high numbers even as the surge continued across districts. As per latest statistics, 69% of total Covid-19 patients in the state have been asymptomatic, and the rest symptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-21-50-age-group-at-risk/articleshow/78005279.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Fresh plea in HC against ban on public entry to religious places||Cuttack: A petition filed in the Orissa high court has challenged the ban the state government has imposed on opening of temples, gurudwaras, mosques and churches for the public till September 30. Jayant Kumar Bal, a resident of Cuttack city, filed the petition seeking intervention against the restriction the state government has imposed on opening up of religious places and places of worship for the public in its August 31 order. Jayant was one of the petitioners who had earlier filed two PILs seeking opening of the Jagannath Temple in Puri and other religious places in the state for the public. The PILs were disposed of on August 10. In the petition filed afresh on Monday, Jayant has alleged that the state government’s restriction in the August 31 order reflected non-compliance of the high court’s August 10 order. In the August 10 order the court had said, “While not issuing any general direction, this court deems it appropriate to require the state government to examine the grievance of the petitioners, keeping in view the observations of the Supreme Court in the July 31, 2020 order related to Jharkhand and take a decision as it may deem appropriate, depending on the situation prevalent, from place to place and time to time, with regard to the entry of public in different places of worship in the state of Odisha, by adhering to the norms of social distancing and use of masks and sanitizer etc.” On July 31, 2020, the Supreme Court had said, “The state cannot shirk from its responsibility to enforce social distancing norms, particularly when there is opening up of such places throughout the world. As the state government has to make proper arrangements, we refrain from issuing a direction to the state government; however, we earnestly request them to find out a possibility of limited entry of the general public in temples, churches and mosques in the state.” The petition had sought the Supreme Court’s direction to the state of Jharkhand and the central government to open Baba Baidhyanath Jyotirlinga Temple in Deoghar and Baba Basukinath Temple in Basukinath to the public. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/fresh-plea-in-hc-against-ban-on-public-entry-to-religious-places/articleshow/78003922.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||50 miss flights, stuck in jam on battered road||Kolkata: At least 50 passengers missed their flights again on Tuesday, despite meticulous arrangement and well-managed queues at the Kolkata airport, which had struggled with the rush of passengers on several days last week. On Tuesday, many flyers faced problems reaching the airport due to the rain, waterlogging in various places and a battered road near the airport and they were seen running towards the airport terminal with trolley bags and rucksacks in the evening when vehicles got stuck in traffic snarls. On Tuesday, 104 flights departed from the airport, the highest in the last four months. “It took me around 75 minutes to cross a 5km stretch between Madhyamgram and airport. The entire stretch was chock-a-block with vehicles,” said Jayati Das, who reached the airport in the nick of time and managed to enter the security hold area barely 40 minutes before the departure of her flight. Cops blamed the poor condition of the 1km road between airport arhai No. gate and the VIP Road crossing – Jessore Road for the traffic snarls. “The road is in a shambles and needs to be repaired immediately. The road belongs to the airport authority and they can only repair it. We have informed them about the condition of the road several times in the last few days but with no response. We are laying some bricks to fill the craters but it’s not sufficient. Unless the road is repaired, the traffic chaos cannot be solved,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner (traffic) of Bidhannagar city police. Airport officials said they had tried to repair the road on the last two lockdown days but couldn’t finish the work because of a major leakage in a water pipeline under the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-miss-flights-stuck-in-jam-on-battered-road/articleshow/78005281.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Health, home depts okay with antigen test on arrested accused||Ahmedabad: The state health department on Tuesday told the Gujarat high court that it is all right if Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) instead of RT-PCR is performed on arrested persons to ascertain their Covid-19 status ahead of their production before judges after arrest. According to sources, the director general of police had conveyed to the high court that the home department did not have any problem if RAT is performed on arrested people before producing them in court. The health department has concurred with the opinion. However, since the note placed by the health department mentioned that it was opining so according to the high court’s direction, the judges clarified that the court had only sought opinions and suggestions for use of RAT on accused so that the 24-hour deadline of producing the accused persons in court after their arrest is not violated. The government is to now make a statement on September 14 on whether RAT can be an option to RT-PCR to save time of the police custody before arrested persons are produced before the judge. The issue rose after wife of Virendra Patel, one of the accused in the Popular Builder case, was detained and his arrest was not shown. His wife filed a habeas corpus petition questioning the police custody of more than 24 hours. In March, the high court had ordered that every person who was to be sent to jail should be tested for Covid-19. Later, the subordinate courts issued directions that the accused persons must be tested for Covid-19 ahead of their production before judges. Under court orders, cops have to wait for at least one day for arrested persons’ Covid test results. Earlier, this wait period was even longer forcing cops to keep accused in their custody. The RAT is reportedly having less specificity than RT-PCR test. However, the state government, on July 16, told the high court that the specificity of RT-PCR itself is 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/health-home-depts-okay-with-antigen-test-on-arrested-accused/articleshow/78005288.cms||---
September 9, 2020||India||Covid: Govt reaches out to firms to make Sputnik V vaccine||NEW DELHI: Russia has reached out to India to seek collaboration of Indian companies in manufacturing vaccines against Covid-19 and also whether phase 3 or bridging studies could be done here. The Centre said there has been significant movement on both the fronts. Outreach has been extended to many companies and several have agreed. The regulator will also facilitate phase 3 or bridging studies on Indian patients for the Russian vaccine. India is working to start large scale manufacturing as well as phase 3 clinical trials locally for Sputnik V — the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Russia. Chairman of the National Covid-19 Vaccine Administration Taskforce VK Paul on Tuesday said India attached great importance to the Russian offer of manufacturing of the vaccine by Indian firms as well as phase 3 trials or bridging studies, as might be required to establish the efficacy of the vaccine. The government has reached out to several firms for manufacturing of the Russian candidate and around three firms have already shown interest while many other are evaluating the opportunity. “Russia approached India through appropriate channels on two counts — one is the manufacturing of Sputnik V through the network of Indian firms to achieve a scale of production that is the best in the world; the second is the possibility of conducting phase 3 human clinical trials in India as phase 1 and phase 2 trials on the vaccine have concluded and the results have been published in The Lancet recently,” Paul said. “The Indian government attaches great importance to these offers from Russia and there have been key movements on both these fronts,” he said. Last week, Lancet published the first peer-reviewed data on the vaccine from early phase 1 and 2 studies showing that the vaccine induced an antibody response in all participants in early trials and has shown a good safety profile with no serious adverse effects. The government said it is a “win-win situation” for India given large production capacities that Indian firms have. Serum Institute alone has the capacity to make up to 100 million vaccine doses in a month. “The phase 3 or bridging studies would be facilitated by the regulator. We can consider the same model (similar to Serum) for the Russian candidate which will then undergo Phase 3 trials on Indian volunteers,” said Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-govt-reaches-out-to-firms-to-make-sputnik-v-vaccine/articleshow/78007445.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||1st day: Safe show at Jamalpur||Ahmedabad: On the first day of trading after a long break of five months, it was festive mood at the Jamalpur APMC market on Tuesday, albeit with precautions because of the Covid pandemic. APMC officials ensured that social distancing was maintained at any cost. Even the office-bearers of the APMC were not allowed to enter the market without masks. The officials said that 157 shops in the market were divided in three parts. Shops with numbers 1, 4, 7, 10 were opened on first day while shops with numbers 2, 5, 8 11 will open on the second day, and the remaining on the third day. Each trader will get two days for trading with no business on Sunday. The officials said that on Tuesday morning, it was just like the mahurat trading with actual trading starting at 8pm. A trader said it has been decided that no retail trading will be allowed and those coming to the market will have to purchase a bag irrespective of the weight of the goods. The traders can carry 15-20 kg in each bag. Ever since the traders had moved to the Jetalpur APMC, it was the norm that the vendor will have to purchase one bag only. On day one, as the trading began the traders insisted that there should be no overcrowding and even the regular vendors were asked to keep a safe distance. Each and every visitor — farmer, vehicle driver or labourer — had to go through the sanitizing tunnel. A senior official of the APMC said that a constant vigil will be there inside the market to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are maintained. “The traders have been warned that if there is overcrowding at their shops, they would not be allowed to trade,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1st-day-safe-show-at-jamalpur/articleshow/78005360.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Agra||9 Covid care centres in Agra dist lack proper fire safety set-ups: Audit||AGRA: Nine hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in Agra district lack adequate fire safety arrangements. These include state government's SN Medical College and district hospital. Following major fires at Covid care centres in Ahmedabad and Vijaywada, on August 6 and 9 respectively, additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi had directed chief fire officers of all districts in UP to conduct fire safety audit at Covid-19 centres. Eight patients were killed due to the fire in Ahmedabad and 10 in Vijayawada. In Agra district, nine of the 12 Covid-19 facilities failed the fire safety audit. District administration has issued notices to all these hospitals. According to the audit report, the nine Covid care centres where adequate fire safety arrangements were not found include Agra district hospital, primary health centre in Baroli Ahir block's Nayati hospital, Prabha hospital and trauma centre, Pushpanjali World Link Hotel (a Covid isolation centre) and Ram Raghu hospital. Required fire safety arrangements were also not found at the maternity wing, new surgery and allied specialty block, eye care department and emergency wing of SN Medical College. Additional district magistrate (city) Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Following the fire safety audit, notices have been issued to nine Covid care centres. These centres were found not to have fulfilled mandatory fire safety parameters. The management of these centres have been given 30 days' time to ensure adequate fire safety arrangements. Fire service department will again conduct an inspection at these centres after one month.” Meanwhile, a day after a major fire broke out at a chemical manufacturing unit in Agra’s Sikandra area, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh ordered a fire safety audit at all commercial units in the district. The fire service department will be conducting the audit from Wednesday. DM said, “Chief fire officer has been directed to conduct the fire safety audit at all the commercial units. The exercise is aimed to prevent any major fire incident. The need for adequate fire safety arrangement will be discussed in the next with business fraternity representatives. Fire department has also been directed to spread awareness on fire safety measures”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/9-covid-care-centres-in-agra-dist-lack-proper-fire-safety-set-ups-audit/articleshow/78002877.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman’s body found in abandoned toilet in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: The partially decomposed body of an unidentified woman was found inside an abandoned public toilet near Bible House in Secunderabad on Tuesday. Police registered a murder case. The body was found at Sulabh Complex near the railway bridge, with just the undergarments. “The victim, suspected to be 35 years, may have died two-three days ago. She had black marks on her chest,” Market inspector Shankar Yadav said. All her belongings were missing, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womans-body-found-in-abandoned-toilet/articleshow/78005297.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH junior doctors boycott duties over poor infrastructure, threaten strike in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Junior doctors from the department of general surgery at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) boycotted outpatient duties, ward duties and elective OT duties on Tuesday over poor infrastructure. They served a strike notice to the hospital authorities over poor facilities in elective operating theatres, post-operative ward, and wards for elective admissions. Hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender said the operation theatres were set up as per government directives and they have taken appropriate precautions to ensure surgeries are performed in all departments. “Despite PGs boycotting duties, we have taken measures to avoid inconvenience to patients and have taken steps to ensure OP services continue as usual,” he said. While senior doctors, professors, assistant and associate professors were pressed into service, the boycott of duties will continue Wednesday too, said the junior doctors. They said the provision of designated wards to accommodate patients admitted through OP as well as providing proper oxygen ports and flowmeters along with monitors, resuscitative equipment, basic emergency drugs is required, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-junior-docs-boycott-duties-over-poor-infrastructure-threaten-strike/articleshow/78005282.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH plan submitted to Telangana HC||Hyderabad: The government on Tuesday furnished to the high court the site plan and building details of Osmania General Hospital. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of petitions with some seeking demolition of old OGH buildings and build a new complex, while another set insisted on preserving the Nizam-era heritage buildings. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-plan-submitted-to-telangana-hc/articleshow/78005290.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Motorcyclist hits wild boar, dies||Coimbatore: The forest department on Tuesday handed over a solatium of Rs 50,000 to the kin of a man, who died after his motorcycle hit a wild boar on Mettupalayam-Bhadrakaliamman road here on Monday night. A forest official identified the deceased as M Abdul Nasar, 47, of Wellspuram area in Mettupalayam. The official said, “He used to sell betel leaves on his two-wheeler. The incident took place when he was returning home around 8pm on Monday. When he neared Samayapuram, he saw the wild boar crossing the road and lost control over the motorcycle, which hit the animal. He was thrown off the vehicle and sustained injuries in the incident.” Other commuters took him to the government hospital in Mettupalayam, where doctors declared him brought dead. Meanwhile, based on the directions of the additional principal chief conservator of forest, I Anwardeen, Mettupalayam forest ranger Selvaraj handed over Rs 50,000 to the family members of the victim. Pointing out that it was one of the elephant crossing areas in the region, the official said they have been warning motorists to drive with caution as there has been an increase in the movement of wild animals in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/motorcyclist-hits-wild-boar-dies/articleshow/78005291.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Is SP Mookerjee more important than Netaji: PIL||KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court on Tuesday admitted a PIL filed by Forward Bloc state secretary Naren Chattopadhyay, challenging rechristening of Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) as Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Kolkata. The division bench of Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee directed the Central government and KoPT to file affidavit within three weeks stating the reason for change of name, as there already are two docks in KoPT in the name of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. On January 12, 2020 Prime Minister Narendra Modi renamed the port. The Forward Bloc leader claimed it was an attempt to demean Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Chattopadhyay’s counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya and Uday Shankar Chatterjee pleaded that the Centre had made the gazette notification to change the name in a haste after they came to know a PIL was filed against this renaming. Earlier former Forward Bloc MP Debabrata Biswas had made a representation to the Prime Minister. The petitioner’s counsel pleaded that the renaming of KoPT as Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port was arbitrary, whimsical and capricious. They mentioned that the name change of the port is demeaning for Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and has lowered his position than that of Syama Prasad Mookerjee. It has also hurt the sentiments of the FB supporters, they claimed. Bhattacharya said: There should not be any comparison between eminent figures like Netaji and SP Mookerjee and one should not be placed at a higher pedestal than the other as it hurt the sentiment of many people. For which he pleaded that KoPT should either retain its original name or should be renamed after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/is-s-p-mookerjee-more-important-than-netaji-pil/articleshow/78005316.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Trichy||50% of central TN cases were in Aug||Trichy: Out of the 37,428 Covid-19 cases reported in the eight central districts of the state till September 8, 18,683 were recorded in August alone, which accounted for over half the total. With the restrictions on movement of people lifted to a large extent, September is also witnessing a huge number of positive cases. Public health department officials cautioned people to be mindful of their safety with the government opening almost every business activity. The region has been witnessing a spike in fresh cases since mid-July after which the number of daily cases was 500 and above every day except a few days in July. Till mid-July, the central region had recorded a moderate number of daily cases — up to 200 to 300. After July 23, the cases started increasing and had been recording 500 plus cases every day. Starting August, the numbers ranged between 500 and 600. There was an unprecedented jump from 432 to 763 new cases on August 7 when the region recorded its highest single-day spike of 763. In recent weeks, a steady contribution from Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Trichy raised the tally to over 37,000 and these districts had been producing over 100 cases on most days. Fresh cases in Nagappattinam, Ariyalur and Karur also contributed to the rise. Though Perambalur saw a 173% rise in positive cases, the number of daily cases was low compared to other districts. August also proved to be fatal for the region with 343 casualties reported in the eight districts till August 31. Out of 565 Covid deaths recorded in the region till September 8, only 148 had died till July end. The medical bulletin said most of the casualties were of patients above 50 with comorbid conditions. Delayed diagnosis of Covid-19 and late admission to hospitals were also cited as causes for the fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-of-central-tn-cases-were-in-aug/articleshow/78006232.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 9, 2020||Goa||A chain tree plantation drive to counter Mollem felling||Panaji: It’s a tree plantation drive of a different kind, one that aims at countering the recent government-sanctioned felling of trees at Mollem to accommodate developmental projects. Parishioners of the church of Our Lady of Penha de França at Britona kickstarted a tree plantation drive on September 6, that they plan to take all the way to Mollem. The initiative aims at highlighting the importance of love for nature and the role trees play in providing us with oxygen. “This is our way of showing that one must not go for destruction, but instead, plant more trees. This drive is being taken up to make people aware that trees must be respected and that more and more trees must be planted,” parish priest Fr Matheus Sequeira said. The drive started off at Porvorim from where it will progress to Santa Cruz, Siridao, Goa Velha, Agasaim and Cortalim. Volunteers are also reaching out to people via social media, urging them to participate, till the chain reaches Mollem. “Penha de Franca Church has taken the initiative to protect and preserve nature and the environment by planting trees in a chain to save Mollem and Melaulim wherein thousands of trees are being cut for double-tracking for transporting coal and polluting Goa, with no benefits for us at all, and for bringing new electric transmission lines for someone else’s betterment. This is to highlight our love for nature, which provides oxygen free of cost and reduces carbon dioxide and helps humanity to live healthily,” their message reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-chain-tree-plantation-drive-to-counter-mollem-felling/articleshow/78006247.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Alumni sponsor Ballubhai students||Ahmedabad: The global epidemic of Covid-19 not only affected health of the citizens, it also resulted in deaths of earning members of some families and also caused job loss and economic distress for many. “We as part of Divan Ballubhai Alumni Association (DBAA) have helped many students over the years. But deaths of a few nears and dears prompted us to think about the students of Divan Ballubhai School who have lost their fathers or earning members of the family in the recent past due to any reason,” said Kshitij Thakor, part of 1968 batch of the school. Thakor and others started the drive of identifying such students from the school and donors who wish to contribute for the cause. The DBAA members said that they have robust network of social media and messaging platforms that’s organized batch-wise. Rajesh Shah, who is part of 1984 batch of the school, said that in no time, they could gather Rs 29 lakh. “The donations have come from almost all corners of the world – from the US to Australia where our alumni are settled, but are still connected emotionally to their alma mater,” he said. The DBAA members said that so far, they have identified 32 students in need who fit the criteria. “Irrespective of the class they are in right now, their education till class XII will be taken care of. We never interact with these students or family and instead encourage the principal and school management to carry out the formalities so that the students can live with dignity and can also get encouraged to do well academically and help others,” said Thakor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alumni-sponsor-ballubhai-students/articleshow/78005332.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||HC tells MMRDA to stop road work on housing society plot||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Tuesday directed MMRDA to “forthwith stop work of road-widening on a plot owned by a housing society” in Kurla (W) after it alleged that the authority took possession of 700 sq metres in a “high-handed manner’’. The work is for an elevated road corridor from Kurla to Vakola on Santacruz-Chembur link road and MTNL junction, BKC to LBS flyover at Kurla. Kapadia Development Coop Housing Society argued, through its counsel Rakesh Agrawal, that Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority forcibly took possession of part of its plot for the project. MMRDA counsel Akshay Shinde, admitting that road-widening was on, on the society’s plot, said it was acquired by BMC. But special counsel Anil Sakhare said the project was undertaken by MMRDA and BMC had not acquired the plot. An HC bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla said that if what BMC stated was correct, MMRDA was not entitled to carry out road-widening by making use of the petitioner’s plot. HC directed MMRDA to file a detailed affidavit on what basis it submitted to court on affidavit that the plot admitted owned by the society and used for road-widening was acquired by BMC. The matter will be heard next on September 15. The property abuts Mithi river. The society is not opposing the public project but the manner in which, taking advantage of the lockdown in April, part of its plot was “forcibly taken”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-tells-mmrda-to-stop-road-work-on-housing-society-plot/articleshow/78004886.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 9, 2020||Agra||99,000 college students to take exam in Agra||AGRA: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University has determined 380 centres to conduct the session 2019-20 exams for the final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Out of these, 32 colleges have been marked as nodal centres. Total 99,000 students of colleges in Agra and seven other nearby districts will participate in the exam scheduled to start from September 11. The exams will continue till October 6. Varsity’s examination controller Rajeev Kumar said, “Total 380 centres have been determined for the exams. Details in this regard, along with the admit cards of the students, have been uploaded on the official website of the university.” “The schedule of the examination, along with the directions to prevent the spread of Covid-19, have been issued to the colleges,” he added. According to the university officials, no theoretical question will be asked this time. Students will have to answer multiple-choice questions on an OMR sheet. The exam duration will be of two hours. According to the varsity records, maximum 43,495 students will be eligible to appear for BSc final year exam, 30,969 for BA final year, 10,812 in BCom, 8,684 of MA, 2,085 of MSc, 2,689 of MCom and 308 of BCom (vocational).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/99k-college-students-to-take-exam-in-agra/articleshow/78002897.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Denied pickle, man kills boy||COIMBATORE: A 20-year-old guest worker was arrested on Tuesday for murdering his 17-year-old friend at Avarampalayam in the city after he refused to give him pickle. The Peelamedu police identified the accused as M Pajirangi Kumar, a native of Patna. Employed with a wet grinder manufacturing company in the city, he was residing along with workers of two other private firms on the top floor of a textile machinery spare part manufacturing company. According to a police officer, Pajirangi Kumar had on Monday entered into a verbal altercation with R Sidu Kumar, also a native of Patna, during lunch after the latter didn’t give him pickle. “Soon, it took an ugly turn with Pajirangi Kumar strangling the minor boy and punching him on his chest very hard. Sidu fainted after the blow and other workers rushed him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” the officer said. When alerted, the Peelamedu police registered a case against Pajirangi Kumar under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt for him. Police arrested him at Avarampalayam on Tuesday. Later, he was produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. The officer said Sidu was employed with Blue Moon industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-pickle-man-kills-boy/articleshow/78005315.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake deputy mayor tests +ve||Kolkata: Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass on Tuesday morning. Chatterjee is the third representative of the civic body to have contracted the virus. Earlier, Ward 6 councillor Subhash Bose and Ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta were also infected. Dutta had recovered, but Bose lost the battle to the disease. Chatterjee had developed mild fever with some discomfort a few days ago. He underwent Covid test on Monday and the report came positive that night. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-deputy-mayor-tests-ve/articleshow/78005320.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 9, 2020||Surat||SMC engages 28 labs for industries||Surat: For labourers engaged in various industries, an alternate system has also been set-up whereby private pathological laboratories have been engaged by SMC for Covid-19 tests through Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Pathology Associations. SMC is giving rapid antigen test kits to such laboratories for testing of labourers engaged in these industries. If a unit wants to get all or few of the labourers tested through these empanelled laboratories, they will have to pay only the operating charges to the laboratories. There is an option for the owners of the industrial units to approach these engaged laboratories for testing of their labours. SMC has engaged 28 such laboratories. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-engages-28-labs-for-industries/articleshow/78004041.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||DIC to hold sessions for aspiring entrepreneurs||Coimbatore: The District Industries Centre (DIC) would hold weekly online sessions to reach out to aspiring entrepreneurs and beneficiaries of loan schemes. In a press statement, district collector K Rajamani said because of the pandemic DIC’s services such as guidance for new entrepreneur cum enterprise development scheme, unemployed youth employment generation programme and Prime Minister employment generation programme, consultations for starting new industries, information on subsides, directions to get clearances from other departments, energy audit schemes, and PM formalisation of micro food processing enterprises scheme would be offered online. The release said a Zoom meeting would be held for the purpose every Thursday from 3pm to 5pm. The meeting ID is 79287703871 and the password is Gmdic. For more details, people could contact 9443565891.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dic-to-hold-sessions-for-aspiring-entrepreneurs/articleshow/78005347.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Pressure on Amravati University to hold exams online||MUMBAI: Amravati University’s decision to conduct final exams for the graduating class of 2020 has not gone down well with state government. The vice-chancellor was questioned over the decision to waver from the “online take-from-home” exam pattern, announced by higher education minister Uday Samant, even before all VCs were told to decide their exam format. All other universities have opted for online mode with the format being multiple choice questions. But Amravati University, which conducted a student survey mapping devices candidates had, found that merely 40% had a mobile phone, leave alone laptops or computers. The percentage fell further when asked about access to smartphones. Moreover, question papers were lying printed by the university in its safe. With that, statutory university bodies, board of examinations, academic council and management council decided to opt for the traditional mode of exams. TimesViewThe state government would do well to take a look at its own affidavit in the apex court, which spoke about poor internet connectivity in rural pockets as one of the reasons it did not want exams to be conducted. Students from tribal areas and other rural regions that Amravati varsity covers cannot appear for exams online, so it is unreasonable on the state’s part to push them into doing so. Instead of resorting to coercion, the state government must take the varsity authorities into confidence and find a middle ground so that no student is left out of the exam process.That may change with state government pressure. “The university may be rethinking its decisions. It has been made to understand that university bodies will deliberate again on plans. They now feel they are the only university in the state to call so many students and hence they are feeling singled as conducting the exam in the traditional mode may be risky. They will call so many students and the pandemic may be at its peak,” said a senior government official. Even as the VC explained his stand, sources said, the government official told the university to reconvene a meeting of statutory bodies and amend its decision. “It was made to understand that if the VC does not submit a fresh proposal with online MCQ as mode of exam, disaster management committee may strike down the idea of the traditional mode of conducting exams and Amravati University may not be able to conduct exams or may fail to meet the deadline of conducting exams and declaring results by October 31,” a source said. The VC refused to comment but some management committee members said the online exam will be able to cover only 30% students as the varsity has three large tribal belts of Melghat, Yavatmal and Buldhana. “The online exercise will be a waste of time and resources, as 70% students don’t have a smartphone. The other problems are data and speed. Online exams will not do justice to many,” said a university official. Ironically, state pressure to go online contradicts affidavit filed in Supreme Court few weeks back, while opposing conduct of final exams. The state had submitted, “Online exams have their own limitations and inherent defects... lack of electricity supply in some areas, sudden disconnection of electricity supply, lack of internet facilities in rural areas, lack of availability of computers.” TIMES VIEW: The state government would do well to take a look at its own affidavit in the apex court, which spoke about poor internet connectivity in rural pockets as one of the reasons it did not want exams to be conducted. Students from tribal areas and other rural regions that Amravati varsity covers cannot appear for exams online, so it is unreasonable on the state’s part to push them into doing so. Instead of resorting to coercion, the state government must take the varsity authorities into confidence and find a middle ground so that no student is left out of the exam process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pressure-on-amravati-university-to-hold-exams-online/articleshow/78004888.cms||Hemali Chhapia
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Anganwadi workers protest delay in transfers||Coimbatore: Anganwadi workers under the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) staged a protest in front of the district collectorate on Tuesday, seeking transfers for seniors before filling up vacant posts. They said several seniors, who have been in service for more than three to 10 years, had been waiting for transfers to anganwadis in their localities, as they had to travel long distances for work. R Shanthi, district president, Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ Union, said as per the norms local transfers should be carried out before making fresh recruitments. “There are around 200 vacant posts. Senior workers and widows have to travel long distances to reach their workplaces. They have been waiting for transfers to the centres nearby their houses for long.” A mini centre would have just one worker, who would be promoted to a bigger centre with a cook and helper. The protesters said the workers, who had six more months to complete three years of service that was required for promotion to main centres, should be given promotions and postings in bigger centres near their residences. According to Shanti, there are around 1,500 ICDS workers in the district. When contacted, district administration officials said genuine transfers had already been done and call for recruitment was done only after that. They, however, said they would look into the issue raised by the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anganwadi-workers-protest-delay-in-transfers/articleshow/78005331.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kanpur||Paramount Hosp violates Covid-19 protocol, booked||Kanpur: Senior health and district administration officials found laxities in Covid protocol at a private hospital in Naubasta during a surprise inspection on Tuesday and ordered action against it. The district administration registered an FIR against Paramount Hospital in Naubasta for not following Covid protocol and treating patients without testing them for novel coronavirus infection, thereby increasing the risk of spreading the infection. A team of officials led by additional chief medical officer and Nayab Tehsildar went to the hospital on a surprise inspection to check the facilities being provided to patients and whether Covid protocols were being followed. During inspection, the officials found that the hospital was not following the prescribed Covid protocol and was treating patients without conducting a test for coronavirus. There were several patients who had flu like symptoms similar to those infected with the virus. The case files of patients also had the same entries, but the hospital administration did not bother to inform the district administration. Health officials said there were clear instructions from the government that private hospitals would inform health authorities whenever any patient with corona-like symptoms comes for treatment. The officials took documents, collected facts and submitted a report to their seniors. The district administration took cognizance of the report and registered an FIR against Paramount Hospital management at Naubasta police station for violation of state government’s guidelines and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. This is the second FIR against a private hospital in the city. There were several reports that private hospitals were not following the guidelines issued by the state government and were overcharging patients. The district administration had fixed charges for treatment of Covid patients in private hospitals. Even then some hospitals were demanding more than specified charges. Earlier in the morning, district magistrate Alok Tiwari made a random visit to a private hospital in Kakadeo and inspected the facilities being provided to Covid patients. DM Tiwari directed the static magistrate to check the roster of incoming and outgoing specialist doctors and monitor the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the ICU, besides ensuring that no patient is made to pay extra. The district magistrate made a special appeal to specialist doctors, urging them to come forward and assist in the crisis. He also interacted with the patients in ICU through video calling and asked if they were satisfied with the treatment or had any problem and wished them early recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/paramount-hosp-violates-covid-19-protocol-booked/articleshow/78006243.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 9, 2020||Kanpur||Property of Vikas financier Jaikant’s wife Shweta seized||Kanpur: The district and police authorities on Tuesday attached an immovable property of wife of gangster Jaikant Bajpai, alleged financier of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. The move comes in view of the deaths of eight policemen including a Dy SP rank official in an encounter with henchmen of the dreaded gangster in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night. Police after lodging gangster cases, have been seizing moveable and immoveable properties of aides of Dubey, particularly his financier Jaikant Bajpai, and latter's three brothers Rajaikant, Ajaikant and Shobhit and are still finding more. SSP Preetinder Singh had recently submitted a report and said that Jaikant Bajpai, his three brothers and others had amassed wealth by illegal activities following which the district magistrate ordered attachment of his multi-crore assets. The property, which is in the form of agricultural land and in the name of Shweta, wife of Jaikant Bajpai, amounts to Rs 33 lakh. "During investigation, it came to fore that Jaikant's wife Shweta had 2.5 `biswa' of agricultural land worth Rs 33 lakh in her name. The authorities on Tuesday made seizure of the agricultural land located in Chowdharypurwa village of Billhaur," informed Inspector Armapur Ajit Kumar. "The accused have purchased immovable property by diverting the amount collected through illegal means," said the official further. Earlier, on Monday, the authorities had also seized his vehicles Audi, Fortuner, and Verna parked on the premises of Kakadeo police station. These vehicles were abandoned by Jaikant and his aides in Kakadeo’s Vijay Nagar area soon after the Bikru ambush. "Jaikant's apartment located in Aryanagar was also seized," said tehsildar Atul Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/property-of-vikas-financier-jaikants-wife-shweta-seized/articleshow/78006251.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Standing panel nod to pay Rs32.66L/month towards DCH staff honorarium||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has completed the process to appoint 218 staff required to run five 500-bedded dedicated Covid hospitals. The standing committee on Tuesday gave its nod to the civic administration’s proposal to spend Rs32.66 lakh per month towards honorarium of these staff. The NMC will depute 11 specialist doctors against the approved strength of three. The additional appointment of eight specialists will put an additional burden of Rs21.50 lakh. NMC has already completed the process to recruit 37 medical officers, five hospital managers, 115 staff nurses, five x-ray technicians, five ECG technicians, 10 data entry operators and 30 ward boys. The NMC will also pay an additional Rs10,000, Rs7,000 and Rs3,000 to doctors, nurses and other contractual workers respectively if they wear PPE kits. In the standing committee meeting, held through video conferencing, chairman Vijay Zalke also gave nod to renew 11-month contract of 79 ex-armymen working as civic cops. The tenure of 41 civic cops has already ended on July 31, while that of 38 expired on September 1. Zalke also convened a meeting of additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma on Wednesday to review availability of ambulances to ensure swift medical emergency facilities to Covid-19 patients across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-nod-to-pay-rs32-66l/month-towards-dch-staff-honorarium/articleshow/78005368.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC earmarks 2,000 daily tests for walk-in patients||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday paved the way for “testing on demand” for city residents. They can now walk up to a laboratory without a doctor’s prescription and take an RT-PCR test to detect Covid-19 infections. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subromonium Prasad said “keeping in mind the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, this court is of the opinion that the situation does not brook any further delay” and earmarked 2,000 daily tests for voluntary walk-in patients. “Any resident of Delhi who wished to get tested at his/her own expense through RT-PCR for Covid-19 infection need not produce a prescription from a doctor, but would only be required to fill up the form prescribed by ICMR and produce Aadhaar card to establish that he/she is a resident of Delhi,” the court said. The high court provided a buffer of 2,000 tests, besides 10,000 prescribed tests, to the state government out of a total capacity of 14,000 RT-PCR tests. The court stepped in after the AAP government didn’t take a clear stand despite several reminders in the past few hearings. Even on Tuesday, standing counsel Satyakam said the government was still “mulling over the matter” and some more time was required. The bench said data revealed the number of cases was climbing up sharply since late August and called it “rather alarming”. It also took note of the latest advisory by Indian Council of Medical Research that recommended testing on demand for all individuals, including those undertaking travel to other countries and states demanding a negative test report at the entry point. The bench, however, cautioned that private laboratories receiving samples from Delhi government couldn’t be lax in submitting their reports. “It is directed that all private laboratories shall prioritise testing RT-PCR samples sent to them by Delhi government. In the event, Delhi government sends additional samples... the same shall also be entertained and reports given without any delay.” The court said in view of the recent surge and a jump in the number of containment zones — standing at 1,114, the AAP government must ensure that at least four mobile vans were available in each of the 11 districts near prominent Metro stations. The court also asked the government and DMRC to prepare a map indicating testing sites and display these closest to the commuters’ points of exit/entry. It was hearing a plea seeking directions to conduct large-scale rapid testing in Delhi for identifying infected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-earmarks-2000-daily-tests-for-walk-in-patients/articleshow/78005372.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Covid tests ‘on demand’ in Delhi, no prescription needed||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has cleared the way for ‘Covid tests on demand’ with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday morning directing health minister Satyendar Jain to start testing people with RT-PCR without the prescription of a medical practitioner. Now anyone can walk into a Covid testing centre — private or government — and get themselves tested for the novel coronavirus. Delhi high court also directed on Tuesday that doctor’s prescription is not mandatory from now for people who voluntarily want to go for RT-PCR test in the capital. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already revised its strategy on Covid-19 testing and recommended testing on-demand. It has done away with prescription by a registered medical practitioner. In the wake of the strategy revision, Kejriwal has ordered doing away with prescription. Until now anyone wanting to undergo RT-PCR test was required to have a prescription from a medical practitioner advising Covid tests without which no RT-PCR test was conducted. This requirement has been abolished in Delhi. The government has been working to launch ‘tests on demand’ since last Wednesday after it was decided by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority that the government should roll out tests on demand and also conduct tests at construction sites, railway stations, etc. “Delhi government has increased testing multi-fold. I have directed the health minister this morning that doctor’s prescriptions should not be asked for testing. Anyone can get himself tested,” Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday evening. People just need an Aadhaar card for undergoing tests. The move will boost the government’s plans to further increase the number of Covid tests. The daily Covid tests have been doubled in over past one week from 20,000 per day to more than 40,000 tests including RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. The government wants to sustain this huge number of daily tests and also increase it further. “We expect that the tests on demand facility will encourage more and more people to come out for tests. Due to the Covid pandemic scare, it is common to find people with cold and cough suspecting that they have got infected with coronavirus. Many of these people want to get tested. Now that they will not need a doctor's prescription, they may feel encouraged to go for tests,” said an official. A senior district official said at the ground level testing without prescription would be started after the districts received a written order to that effect from the health department. “Because we have not received the order till Tuesday evening the tests will not start from Wednesday morning. The tests without prescription will start immediately after the order is issued,” said a source. Another source said that the order would be issued soon. The capital currently has 14,000 RT-PCR testing capacity. The samples are sent to 64 laboratories — including government and private. The testing capacity for rapid antigen tests is unlimited and the state government is trying to increase it further. The government on Tuesday said it has conducted 45,797 tests — 35,853 antigen and 9,944 RT-PCR — in the last one day. The tests on demand are also likely to help the district authorities who are hard pressed since the government decided to double the number of Covid tests per day. “It is very hard to convince people to come out for tests. The mandatory need for prescription did not deter people from coming out for tests, but the removal will definitely encourage them and the testing numbers will slightly go further up,” said an official. Watch Covid-19 in Delhi: Doctor's prescription not mandatory for testing, says high court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-tests-on-demand-in-capital-no-prescription-needed/articleshow/78005355.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Politicians slam BJP leader’s nomination to BU syndicate||Coimbatore: Following the nomination of BJP’s state vice-president P Kanagasabapathi to the syndicate of Bharathiar University by governor Banwarilal Purohit, political leaders on Tuesday criticised the move and called for the decision to be revoked.In a communication on Tuesday, member of Parliament from Coimbatore P R Natarajan (CPM) said, “The governor has set a wrong precedent by using his authority to nominate a political party representative to a state university’s syndicate.” “At a time when there is a country-wide opposition against the new education policy from educationalists, intellectuals, and students, we doubt if through such moves, the BJP is trying to implement the policy in the state,” Natarajan said. He added that when there was a rule that the governor should consult the vice-chancellor before nominating members for the syndicate, a question arises as how the VC had agreed to the move.“The nomination of a politician to a university’s syndicate cannot be accepted. The governor should revoke the move. The chief minister and the minster for higher education, should intervene and press the governor to cancel the nomination,” Natarajan said.On a similar note, Singanallur MLA N Karthik of the DMK said Kanagasabapathi’s nomination showed that the Centre’s intrusion in state’s higher education was increasing. “As the state government is weak, the Centre is fulfilling its wishes in the state through the governor,” he said. Academicians and teachers have said even though the nomination was legally correct, it was ethically wrong. Kanagasabapathi, for his part, had told TOI that he was nominated based only on his academic credentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/politicians-slam-bjp-leaders-nomination-to-bu-syndicate/articleshow/78005366.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cop saves three-month old baby||BARASAT: A cop from Kolkata Police crime branch rescued a three-month-old baby, lying near Barasat court, on Monday night. While returning from duty, Chiranjeet Dutta of crime branch, a resident of Barasat, found the baby lying on a poorly lit street. After a brief search, he found a “mentally unstable” woman sleeping around 100 metres away. She claimed to be the mother of the baby. “None lent me a helping hand. I came across one of my friends and we alerted Barasat police about the matter,” said Dutta, who had guarded the baby for nearly an hour till cops arrived on the spot. The woman from Chhoto Jagulia, nearly 14km from Barasat, was looking for some food but no shop was open in the area owing to the lockdown. Cops gave the woman some money, food, milk and water, and arranged a vehicle for her, along with her child, to return home. “It would have been disastrous, had the baby been lying unattended in the place that was full of stray dogs and strangers,” added Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-saves-three-month-old-baby/articleshow/78005378.cms||Kamalendu Bhadra
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||PU to send hard copies of question papers to colleges||Chandigarh: To facilitate border students of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and other states where internet connectivity is an issue, the controller of examination (COE) has decided to send hard copies of question papers to identified colleges, which will become nodal centres for candidates. According to the record, there are around 600 students enrolled in various colleges from the border areas of Punjab and 1,300 from Himachal Pradesh, which includes tribal areas. Parvinder Singh, controller of examination (COE), Panjab University, said his office would send hard copies to all centres considering an emergency situation where e-mail or other mode was not accessible due to technical flaw. He said the office was focusing on border areas of the states as he was aware of the internet connectivity issue which the candidates would face. He said if any candidate faced any issue, he/she could visit the identified colleges and collect the hard copy of the question paper. He said the university was making nodal centres on the basis of the strength of the colleges of the area so that students do not face any inconvenience in accessing the nodal centres. Officials said colleges in Firozepur, Abohar, Jagraon, Talwara, Hoshiarpur and Moga were identified as nodal centres. It is decided that, while issuing the admit card, each student will get a list of the nearby nodal centres so that they do not face any issue in attempting the question paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-to-send-hard-copies-of-question-papers-to-colleges/articleshow/78004054.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Cops collect Rs15.7 lakh fine from 4,975 for not wearing masks||NAGPUR: Citizens taking lightly the rule of wearing mask in public got a stick from the cops on Tuesday as a record 4,975 persons were booked in the city under a drive launched by CP Amitesh Kumar. City’s traffic wing, under DCP Vikram Sali, was instrumental in fining 2,133 persons and collecting Rs9.28 lakh while the cops from 33 police stations collected another Rs 6.37 lakh fine from 2,842 violators. “We will continue with the drive as of now,” said Kumar. NMC’s nuisance detection squads (NDS) too caught 649 persons loitering without masks on the road recovering fine of more than Rs 1.29 lakh. Around 180 civic cops were deployed across the city for the special drive. The highest number of the violators was found in Dharampeth zone (204) followed by Mangalwari zone (135). The decision of the simultaneous citywide drive against those not wearing masks was taken following the meetings of mayor Sandeep Joshi, NMC chief Radhakrishnan B and CP Kumar. The civic and police agencies decided to jointly or in parallel act towards various goals to tackle the spiraling numbers of Covid cases in the city. Joshi and Radhakrishnan are learnt to have visited certain places to monitor the situation while Jt CP Nilesh Bharne too remained present at different locations during the day long action. DCP, traffic, Sali said there had been misconception among many motorists regarding wearing of masks while driving but they are bound to follow the norms. “We are following the central and state guidelines and there is no exception for motorists. As the pandemic is getting severe, citizens are expected to co-operate or else police will come down heavily on them,” he said. Lakadganj police, under PI Narendra Hiware, were among the most active. “We have fined more than 200-250 violators at different places, especially at Marwadi chowk and Darodkar chowk,” he said. Tehsil police under PI Jayesh Bhandarkar said around 160 persons were fined for not wearing masks. Traffic division of Sadar under Atul Sabnis and Cotton Market under PI Shailesh Sankhe were among the highest fine collectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-collect-rs15-7-lakh-fine-from-4975-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/78005402.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Covid tally breaches 77,000, over 1,800 cases for second day||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 1,864 people testing positive for Covid-19. With these new cases, tally of positive cases in the state reached 77,323 on Tuesday. It was the second consecutive day when more than 1,800 new positive cases were reported in the state and sixth consecutive day when more than 1,600 new cases were reported in the state. Earlier, on Monday, the state had recorded its highest single-day tally of 1,885 while 1,694 cases were reported on Sunday, 1,636 people on Saturday, 1,658 people on Friday and on Thursday 1,672 new positive cases were reported in the state. An alarming 13,358 new cases have been reported in 8 days of September so far. This is 17% of the total cases reported in the state since March 20, when the first Covid-19 patient was found in the state in Jabalpur district.  Apart from these fresh cases, 20 deaths were also reported. With these casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 1,609. Of the 52 districts of the state, fresh cases were reported from 51 districts. It was only Dindori district where no new fresh case was reported. As per the state health bulletin, maximum 295 cases were reported from Indore, followed by 205 in Bhopal and then 182 cases in Jabalpur. On Tuesday, when 1,864 people tested a total of 22,597 samples were tested and thus 8.2% of those tested were found positive.  This positivity rate of 8.2% is far above the average positivity rate of the state till now which is around 4.8%. On the brighter side, 1,600 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering the total number of people recovered reached 58509 in the state. As on September 8, there are a total of 17,205 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-covid-tally-breaches-77000-over-1-8k-cases-for-2nd-day-in-mp/articleshow/78005384.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||19 passengers +ve in Kalupur||Ahmedabad: On Tuesday, of the 819 passengers aboard the Rajdhani from Delhi who were tested, 16 were found positive for Covid. On Monday, 26 passengers of the Rajdhani had been found positive. Officials said that 1,782 passengers of three trains — from Delhi, Gorakhpur and Muzaffarpur — were checked and 19 tested positive for Covid. The officials said that on Tuesday, 577 passengers who arrived from Muzaffarpur were checked and three were found positive. Of the 396 passengers from Gorakhpur not a single passenger tested positive. The officials said that over Monday and Tuesday, 52 passengers have tested positive at the Kalupur railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19-passengers-ve-in-kalupur/articleshow/78005405.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Scholars submit memo, seek access to labs, library||Chandigarh: With coronavirus pandemic affecting people as well as students, scholars at Panjab University are worried about their research work as they have not been able to work on the same. There are over 3,000 research scholars enrolled in 67 departments on the campus. They have also submitted a memorandum to the authorities concerned on Tuesday. The memorandum was signed by over 250 research scholars. “I am clueless about my research subject on which my experiment work was going on from past more than seven months. I will have to restart my research work from scratch,” said one of the science scholars. He also raised the issue that they should be allowed to come back and visit their labs. “I left the campus hostel six months ago due to the lockdown and was hopeful that would return in four or five days to again start my research work at the department’s laboratory where I was categorising the compound for my PhD on organic synthesis, but my research work has lost its authenticity due to the gap and I will have to re-start and this would further delay my work by at least two months. Despite the unlock 4.0, PU has not issued any guidelines,” Priya Garg, department of chemistry. The scholars laid stress on various problems faced by them at their homes due to unavailability of labs, proper internet facilities and sound environment to carry out with their research work. Another scholar from English and culture Ravinder Kaur said she was stressed as she doesn’t have access to expensive journals or paid websites. “I cannot concentrate on my research work and my family is keen on getting me married instead of going ahead with my career as I do not have any job,” she said. She said scholars should be allowed to access the campus library and hostel as their works have already been delayed by six months and extension of the same would not serve any purpose. V R Sinha, dean research, Panjab university, said the university has to follow the guidelines issued under unlock 4.0 and whenever they receive permission, they will allow scholars to visit the campus and access labs and library as per their requirement. The Panjab University Research Scholar Association has demanded that the university must constitute a committee to take decision on letting the scholars return on the campus at the earliest. The university must arrange for their accommodation within the campus. Dr Ashwani Kaul, chief of university security, agreed with the demands and assured that a statement of purpose (SOP) will be prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scholars-submit-memo-seek-access-to-labs-library/articleshow/78004062.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 9, 2020||Erode||Retrieve conditional patta lands: Perundurai MLA||Erode: AIADMK Perundurai MLA Thoppu N D Venkatachalam on Tuesday petitioned collector C Kathiravan urging him to retrieve conditional patta lands in the district. Talking to newsmen after submitting the petition, Venkatachalam said the state government gave lands to scheduled caste peosple in s1923 under conditional patta in Perundurai and Karumandi Sellipalayam in the district. As per the conditional patta, the beneficiary could do farming activities in these lands and enjoy the harvest. “At the same time, he or she must return the land when the government wants to take it back,” he said. He alleged that many beneficiaries had converted the conditional patta to ordinary patta with the support of revenue department officials after the market rate of these lands crossed a crore together. “Market rate of one acre currently has crossed several crores,” the MLA said, adding that, after converting the patta, they had sold it to many people especially non-SC people. Citing the government order, the MLA said a SC beneficiary should sell the conditional patta land to another SC and not to others. “But, in Erode district, more than 250 acres, which meant for conditional patta, were sold to non-SC people after converting the conditional patta to ordinary patta,” he said. Recalling one of the incidents, the MLA said he had retrieved nearly 20 acres that was possessed by an individual in Perundurai and gave back to the government after cancelling the patta. “Now, we had constructed a government polytechnic in that place at the cost of Rs 50 crore,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/retrieve-conditional-patta-lands-perundurai-mla/articleshow/78005387.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Lioness kills 7-year-old boy in Visavadar||Rajkot: A seven-year-old boy was killed by lioness in Virpur Shekhava village of Visavadar taluka of Junagadh district on Tuesday. According to the forest department, Amit Dharambhai was playing while his parents were working in the farm when the lioness suddenly attacked the child. According to forest officials, hearing their child’s cries, the parents rushed to save the child. Seeing them, the lioness went away leaving the boy severely injured on his neck and back. Amit was taken to a nearby primary care centre where he was declared brought dead. The family had migrated from Madhya Pradesh and was engaged as agricultural labourers in Udaybhai ni vadi, which falls in Visavadar range of the forest department. A team is working to capture the killer lioness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lioness-kills-7-year-old-boy-in-visavadar/articleshow/78004069.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Assembly seeks Bharat Ratna for Telugu bidda||HYDERABAD: The Telangana legislative assembly on Tuesday passed resolution urging the Centre to confer the country’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao to mark his birth centenary this year. Moving the resolution, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao described Rao’s service to the nation on a par with India’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru. KCR said if Nehru was responsible for an independent India, Rao with his bold decisions during the ’90s was the architect of global India. “Because of his long-term vision, India was able to get investments when the country was in a deep crisis. Because of him, more private jobs were made possible,” he said. KCR said being the first prime minister from the south, Rao’s knowledge on various issues was immense. Praising the former PM, the CM said: “He never cared for power. He lost his CM post when he tried to implement land reforms. He gave away 800 acres of land to the government to be distributed among the poor.” The CM said Rao had never received the recognition as PM because he hailed from Telangana. “People of this land see him as their pride.” The CM said it would be in fitness of things that the Centre make an announcement on Bharat Ratna for Rao in the forthcoming parliament session. “Apart from conferring Bharat Ratna, University of Hyderabad should be named after Rao and a statue of Rao should be unveiled in parliament.” He said Rao was multi-talented and a multi-linguist. Because of his efforts, Telugu writers like Viswanatha Satyanarayana and C Narayana Reddy won Jnanpith awards. Another Telangana poet, Kaloji Narayana Rao, came into prominence because of Rao’s efforts. “From introducing Navodaya schools to open jails to supporting mulki rules, Rao was always there for people.” KCR also made an appeal to assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy to unveil the former PM’s portrait in the assembly complex to which the latter agreed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assembly-passes-resolution-seeking-bharat-ratna-for-pv/articleshow/78006870.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 9, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe re-elected legislative council deputy chief||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe was re-elected state legislative council deputy chairperson on Tuesday even though Opposition BJP had approached Bombay high court against the poll. Council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar declared her elected unanimously. Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has higher numbers in Upper House and the poll’s outcome was a foregone conclusion. But BJP had fielded Bhai Girkar and approached HC. “We approached HC against holding of the election during the pandemic. Legislators who could not attend or were advised against attending due to co-morbidities will lose their right to vote,” said leader of Opposition in state council Pravin Darekar. He said the election should be stayed till HC took up the matter on Thursday. Nimbalkar went ahead, contending that HC does not have jurisdiction over the House’s internal proceedings. “I am going ahead as it is my prerogative to declare the poll. HC has no jurisdiction over internal proceedings of the state legislature,” said Nimbalkar. He said he had not received any communication from HC. “If I receive summons from HC, I will respond,” Nimbalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senas-neelam-gorhe-re-elected-legislative-council-deputy-chief/articleshow/78004890.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
September 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sacorda woman booked for murder after brother dies||PONDA: Following the death of Keshav Galkar, 38, a resident of Murge-Sacorda in Dharbandora on Tuesday afternoon, the accused, his younger sister, has been booked for murder. Collem police had earlier booked the accused for attempting to murder her brother after she had stabbed him with a kitchen knife in his abdomen on Sunday night. Collem PI Prajyot S Fadte said the woman has mental health disorder and has been lodged at the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB), Bambolim, for treatment. “She was in two days remand, however, considering her mental condition, we have admitted her to IPHB, after permission from the court,” Fadte told TOI. Fadte, who is the investigation officer, said the woman had been quarrelling with her mother and brother over her remarriage and property matters. On Sunday the scuffle could have escalated into stabbing the brother, he said. The 36-year-old woman was married to a man from Bhoma-Adcolna a decade ago, but due to her mental illness, they are estranged. from her husband soon after their marriage and since then was staying with her family. The family has some ancestral property and she felt she could marry if she had property in her name, said a source. The body has been preserved at Goa Medical College and Hospital mortuary for autopsy, which is likely to be conducted on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sacorda-woman-booked-for-murder-after-brother-dies/articleshow/78006340.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Marijuana worth Rs 68K seized, 2 held||Rajkot: In two different operations, police arrested two persons for possessing marijuana worth Rs 68000 from Morbi and Bhavnagar on Monday. The special operations group of Morbi police raided the house of 28-year-old Asaram Hadiyal, who lives in Gujarat Housing Board quarters. Cops found 5.7kg marijuana from Hadiyal’s house. “The accused had got the marijuana stock from Surat and used to sell in Morbi in smaller quantities,” said investigating officer J M Aal. Along with marijuana, cops seized Rs 3,500 cash and weighing machine from Hadiyal’s house. In another incident, 1.2kg marijuana was found in possession of Dalpat Bharti Goswami, a resident of Bela village in Bhavnagar. “The accused is addicted to marijuana and has admitted of buying marijuana many times in the past,” said inspector K B Jadeja of special operations group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/marijuana-worth-rs-68k-seized-2-held/articleshow/78004097.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Erode||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007782.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Madurai||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007783.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chennai||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78005393.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007781.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||RLA starts e-auction of 448 leftover vanity numbers||Chandigarh: The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) of the Chandigarh administration has started re-auction of 448 leftover special or vanity registration numbers of the 10 series - CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS. The registration for participating started on Tuesday and will continue till September 14 by 5pm. The e-auction will start at 10am on September 15 and end at 5pm on September 17. Vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same will be available on the UT transport department’s website www.chdtransport.gov.in and obtain a unique acknowledgement number (UAN). Those who have purchased their vehicles from a Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The sale letter i.e. Form No. 21, Aadhaar card and address proof of Chandigarh are mandatory to participate in the e-auction. After getting registered, the owner of the vehicle will deposit the fee for participating in the e-auction and the reserve amount of the special or choice registration numbers in the office of the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), Chandigarh. To facilitate public, Punjab governor-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore in August last year had launched the registration of new vehicles (non-transport) at dealers’ point. The vehicle owner will no longer have to stand in long queues and make rounds of the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA). The city has 52 dealers of cars and two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rla-starts-e-auction-of-448-leftover-vanity-numbers/articleshow/78004092.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Teachers fret as heads call them to school||Chandigarh: Even though the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has closed schools, colleges and coaching institutes in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 and heads have been asked to not call teachers to schools and colleges if not important, schools and colleges of UT Chandigarh are not following the same. Teachers of a government school in Sector 28 have alleged that the school head has been calling around 10 teachers to school daily since June. The teachers, who could not come to school due to some problem, were allegedly marked on leave. Besides this, another teacher, who is a resource teacher having five more schools to look after, was marked “absent from duty”. Principal of the school Sunita Sethi said, “I have been calling only a few teachers per day and every teacher has to come only twice a week for two days for school related work. There are so many works, including salaries, distribution of money for midday meals, phoenix, PISA, tasks assigned by the MHRD etc. We were told by the department that teachers can be called if required.” “We call teachers, who are working from home, to get information and get no response in return. When asked, they say that their children had the phone for online classes,” she said. On Tuesday, staff members of the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 42, also alleged that the principal had been forcefully calling a contractual teacher to college for admission work, even though her husband was quarantined after testing positive for Covid-19. The teacher too tested positive later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teachers-fret-as-heads-call-them-to-school/articleshow/78004081.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 9, 2020||Kanpur||Online sex racket busted, three held||Kanpur:An online sex racket was busted after the police raided a house in Shivkatra area of Chakeri. Three persons, one among them believed to be the kingpin, were arrested in the Monday night raid. The gang had posted mobile phone numbers on social media accounts to take calls from customers, police said. “We have detained three persons from an apartment in Shiv Katra locality of Chakeri. We closely monitored certain social media platforms through which arrangements were being made for indulging in immoral activities. Following this, the spot was raided late on Monday night and three persons including two women and a man were arrested,” said Inspector Chakeri Ravi Srivastava. A case under the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act was registered against the trio. “We are in the process of identifying their aide and they too would be arrested soon,” Srivastava added. The police seized several cellphones and cash from them. The police is now scanning the CDR (call detail record) of the cell phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/online-sex-racket-busted-three-held/articleshow/78006272.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court employees test Covid positive||Ahmedabad: Less than a week ahead of the Gujarat high court is to commence functioning physically, three employees on it Sola campus were tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Sources said that one employee in the government pleader’s office and two others in the HC registry were tested positive. This has put a question mark on the HC’s plans to open courtrooms for physical functioning in a phased manner from September 14. However, the registrar general did not respond to call for a query in this regard. Earlier, in the end of June, seven persons were tested positive in the HC registry. The HC had completely shelved its judicial functioning after that though the judges were conducting cases through video conference only. Meanwhile, on Monday, the chief justice once again asked the lawyers, who want to prosecute their cases physically in courtrooms, to inform the HC about their participation by Wednesday evening so that the court can make preparations for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-employees-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78005397.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Salem||22k cops received birthday greeting cards since 2018: IG||Namakkal: West zone inspector general (IG) K Periaiah said since August 2018, birthday and wedding anniversary day greeting cards were sent to police personnel in the zone through their district SPs. The west zone has eight districts - Coimbatore, Nirgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri. “These cards were sent to the cops with a leave granting order a day before their birthday or wedding anniversary day,” the IG said. While birthday and wedding anniversary day greeting cards were sent to 5,115 and 3,184 cops in 2018 respectively, 9,453 and 7,090 cops received them respectively in 2019. Till September 7 this year, birthday and wedding anniversary day greeting cards were sent to 8,251 and 5,086 cops respectively. A police officer said, “This initiative by the west zone IG was appreciated by many police personnel.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/22k-cops-received-birthday-greeting-cards-since-2018-ig/articleshow/78005416.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Puducherry||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007780.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||229 new cases take Bhopal Covid count to 12,818||BHOPAL: Stress on the public healthcare system is becoming more visible by the day in the state capital. Fifteen doctors were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. Overall, the state capital reported 229 new cases of the infection, taking the total number of cases to 12,818 and 307 deaths. According to health department reporting, nine more medicos from Gandhi Medical College (GMC) tested positive. Other doctors are from AIIMS Bhopal, and the health department has begun contact tracing patients who may have come in contact with the infectedmedicos. Five members of the same family in Kasturba Nagar (BHEL) were diagnosed with the infection. Misrod reported three positives. Shyam Nagar, Orchid Palace (Kolar) reported two positive cases each. Three positives have been reported from Jain Nagar. Chanakyapuri and Alkapuri reported two positives each. Singnature Residencey (Kolar) reported five positives in the same family. EME centre reported two positives. Six positives have been reported in same family in Ashirward Colony. CSD and SSB Bhopal reported three positives. Sunder Nagar reported two positive cases . Sarita Nagar reported two positive cases. Sports Authority of India (SAI) Stadium reported two positives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/229-new-cases-take-city-covid-count-to-12818/articleshow/78005408.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||HC questions govt competency to prescribe rates for non-Covid patients||NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has asked Maharashtra government to inform on its competency to prescribe rates for non-Covid patients as specified in its May 21 notification. The notification fixed rates for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients in hospital/nursing homes/clinics across the state. Through it, the government had warned these establishments against charging above the fixed rates. “We are anxious to know from the government its competency to prescribe rates for non-Covid patients. We, therefore, direct assistant government pleader AM Deshpande to take instructions on this aspect in the matter,” a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. The bench was hearing petitions filed by Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician running a nursing home, and Hospital Association. Jemini Kasat pleaded for the corporation. Along with amicus curiae Subodh Dharmadhikari and Deven Chauhan, Dr Arora, who pleaded in person, pointed out that the government was not competent to fix rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals. Many other hospitals had also challenged NMC’s notices in HC on an individual basis. “Our attention is invited by senior counsel to the July 14 order passed by apex court in writ petition (civil) Diary No. 10918/2020 (Sachin Jain versus Union of India and others). A report is called from the Centre and state government in respect of directives/guidelines proposed to be issued under the provisions of Disaster Management Act. We have been informed that the matter is fixed before the top court and order is not uploaded,” the judges said. Before adjourning the hearing till September 15, the judges said they are not concerned with the report to be submitted by the government in top court in this regard. The petitioners had challenged NMC notices to private hospitals over alleged over-charging of fees from Covid-19 patients. Questioning the legality of NMC move, they termed it as “gross abuse and misuse of powers” by the civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-questions-govt-competency-to-prescribe-rates-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78005412.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 9, 2020||Trichy||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007784.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Low cost blood flow meter developed||Thiruvananthapuram: A cost effective blood flow meter that can track the results of open heart surgeries easier, has been developed by researchers at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST). Presently, hospitals are dependent on imported blood flow meters for precise measurement of blood flow rates, a critical parameter to measure the outcome of open heart surgeries. However, this is expensive with each unit costing upto Rs 25 to 30 lakh and can be afforded only by very few super specialty hospitals. “This indigenous technology of blood flow meter will considerably reduce the cost of the device to a few thousands from around Rs 25 lakhs and make it available to public hospitals for safer and less expensive cardiac surgeries. SCTIMST has developed technologies for many devices used for cardiac surgeries and this is the latest of them,” said Dr Asha Kishore, director, SCTIMST. The institute has developed a palm-sized device that measures the flow rate of blood using a novel magnetic method and a signal conditioning technique. The device has a mechanism to produce a magnetic field, an electronic measurement system and a disposable biocompatible tube fitted with electrodes which are kept over the magnetic field. The technical knowhow of this portable battery-operated device has been transferred to EnProducts, a Kochi-based company, for commercial production. The Institute has applied for patent and published two scientific papers based on this technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/low-cost-blood-flow-meter-developed/articleshow/78004158.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Salem||2,000 one-doctor clinics in Tamil Nadu to treat non-Covid patients||CHENNAI: The state health department will soon open 2,000 single-doctor mini-clinics across Tamil Nadu to treat patients for ailments other than Covid-19, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting on the pandemic with officials and public health experts. Apart from a doctor, the hyper wellness clinics will have a nurse and a health assistant. The facility, expected to serve 10,000 people in rural and 50,000 in urban areas, will be set up in places where the nearest primary health centre is not easily accessible. “These clinics are set up to treat patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments. Doctors in several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients suspecting Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. The clinics will have equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments and services will be free. Officials said the idea to open these clinics came from fever camps set up in TN over the last four months. Many people visited these camps because it was closer to their homes. “It will also avoid crowding at tertiary and secondary-care hospitals. We are planning to depute local doctors and nurses so that they will be able counsel people about good health practices,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. The health department had also sought permission to increase the number of doctors and nurses besides filling up existing vacancies. During the meeting, Palaniswami reiterated the need to create awareness among people about the pandemic rules use of masks, maintaining social distance and practising hand hygiene. “When I was travelling between Chennai and Tiruvallur, I noticed about 40% people were not wearing masks,” he said, warning that violations will lead to increase in viral infection. With aggressive screening, testing, isolation and treatment, the state has been able to bring down the incidence of Covid-19 until now, he said. “But the situation is not the same anymore. We have offered several relaxations. Intra-district travel, public transport, industries and businesses are all open,” he said, instructing officials to ensure compliance on wearing of masks and impose fine on violators. He also asked the police and fisheries department to use public address systems to tell people not to crowd at fish and meat markets and warn those entering beaches. Labour and industries departments and municipal corporations must ensure SOPs are followed in all business establishments and industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2000-one-doc-clinics-in-tn-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78007785.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Agra||Hindu Mahasabha spokesman booked for ‘promoting enmity’ on AMU's complaint||AGRA: National spokesman of the Hindu Mahasabha Ashok Pandey was on Sunday booked by Aligarh police for terming Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students “terrorists” and the institution “a seminary for terrorists” in an interview. Following a complaint lodged by the university authorities, Civil Lines police booked Pandey under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 153B (assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the FIR, Pandey had dubbed AMU founder Sir Syed Ahmad Khan as a “traitor” and the university as “an institution being a classroom of terrorists” during an interview with a news channel. Noting it to be a “serious issue”, the AMU authorities stated in the complaint that it could vitiate not only the atmosphere of the university, but also spoil the communal harmony of the city. “This statement was issued to hurt the sentiments of those who love AMU and a particular community in order to spread hatred between two communities,” reads the FIR. AMU spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said taking cognisance of a viral video on social media, police registered a complaint against Pandey. “We have demanded that the video be removed from various social media platforms, as it could create differences between two communities, and strict action be taken against the accused,” added Kidwai. According to AMU officials, Pandey’s controversial statement came close on the heels of Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank praising the university and hailing its founder, teachers and students as “nationalists” while inaugurating a university examination centre online last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hindu-mahasabha-spokesman-booked-for-promoting-enmity-on-amus-complaint/articleshow/78002949.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||76 test positive for virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district reported 76 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 1,989, of which 408 are active cases. The increase in the cases in the past few days has brought down the recovery rate to 78.7%. The total number of patients discharged from hospitals after treatment stands at 1,567. Among the new cases are three people, two of them women, working with the Ooty government hospital and a 29-year-old man working with the police department. Another 18-year-old man tested positive for the virus after visiting Thoothukudi. Officials said Coonoor reported 10 new cases, while eight cases were reported from Ooty town. Six people were tested positive from Thooratti village. The remaining cases, mostly from secondary contacts, were reported from other parts of the district such as Gudalur and Kotagiri taluks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/76-test-positive-for-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78005450.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur administration ropes in 9 more pvt hosps for Covid patients||Chandrapur: With the district witnessing over 3,000 Covid patients in just three weeks and crossing the 50 deaths figure on Tuesday, collector Ajay Gulhane has overhauled the health mechanism and also roped in nine more private hospitals to tackle the patient load. Facing shortage of beds for serious patients, health department has now allowed treatment of asymptomatic patients at home. “There could be a crunch of treatment facilities for serious patients if number of patients continues to multiply at this rate. Hence, we have enlisted nine private hospitals as Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs), while a 100-bed additional facility (DCH) is being raised at the district women’s hospital,” Gulhane informed TOI. The collector said while all the existing institutional quarantine centres are being converted into Covid Care Centres (CCCs), the administration has directed the nine private hospitals to collectively provide around 350 beds where Covid patients will be treated free of cost. These private hospitals have also been allowed to use 20% beds treatment of Covid patients at government prescribed rates. One such private DCHC will be fully dedicated for paediatric patients, he said. Apart from this, two private hospitals — Christ Hospital and Dr Manvatkar’s Nursing Home — are already serving as government facilities for Covid treatment, he added. Gulhane also admitted shortage of doctors and paramedics to treat Covid patients and maintained that none of the private doctors is ready to treat Covid patients. Moreover, there had been no response to the recruitment advertisement floated by the health department for Covid treatment. “Hence, now we have decided to hire a manpower supply agency which can provide us with doctors and health workers for Covid treatment,” said Gulhane. He claimed that doubling rate in Chandrapur is 10 days, which means the number of active patients, which is now just over 2,000, will double by September 18. “Anticipating this, we are allowing asymptomatic patients having isolation facilities for home quarantine treatment. Such patients, however, need to have regular consultation with either government or private doctor,” he said. Gulhane claimed to have ordered for procurement of one more RT-PCR machine to increase testing and it will be installed within a week. Two pathology labs and three hospitals have been allowed to conduct Rapid Antigen tests at government prescribed rate of Rs700, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-administration-ropes-in-9-more-pvt-hosps-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78005462.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Home-isolation patients question efficacy of Covid tele-med facility||Lucknow: Despite the district administration’s claims of tending to patients under home isolation through tele-medicine facility by promptly prescribing medicines to them, people complain that they are not receiving calls, and even if they do, the information provided to them is inadequate. Patients claim they have to contact doctors known to them for guidance. The CMO, however, claimed that the control room was attending to 5,000-6,000 patients per day and rapid response teams were visiting every patient under home isolation. Abhishek Shukla (33) of Mahanagar tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday but did not receive any call till Monday afternoon. “I read in newspapers that labs inform authorities who then contact patients to inquire about their status and allot hospital, if required. Those opting for home isolation are explained about medication. When I did not receive any call, I contacted my doctor and took medicines as advised by him,” Shukla told TOI. Dhiraj Rastogi (62) of Chowk got a call from the control room within hours after testing positive last Monday and opted for home isolation. “The caller took details of my primary contacts. Later, my two sons also tested positive but this time nobody called to explain about medicines and precautions. My sons consulted a local doctor and started taking the same medicine which was prescribed to me,” he said. Vikram Singh (28), who tested positive on August 26, got a call from the control room and was informed about the prescription which he followed. However, after taking medicines, he suffered from diarrhoea and vomiting. He called the control room and was prescribed one more medicine which provided relief. “I also contacted a KGMU doctor known to me. When I informed him about the prescription, he pointed out that an antacid was a must with the medicines, which the control room doctor did not prescribe me,” Singh said. “I did not have fever but had nausea and vertigo. I was tested for Covid-19 at a private laboratory but I was not informed about the report until I called them up. I was then asked to isolate myself. I did not receive any call from the health department and had to depend on my family doctor,” said Gitika Chandra of Jankipuram. The husband of Filza Khan, a resident of Aliganj, tested positive a fortnight ago. “We got a call from health authorities who inquired about my husband’s health but he was not prescribed any medicine. He remained in home quarantine and took medicines suggested by a doctor friend,” she said. Officiating chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MK Singh said, “Control room checks the health status of 5,000-6,000 home-quarantine patients daily and explains them about the medicines in detail. In case of confusion, patients can also call the control room as well as ‘Hello Doctor’ facility to get more information Besides, the rapid response team also visits patients a day after to check their health status, trace their contacts and distribute medicines to the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/home-isolation-patients-question-efficacy-of-covid-tele-med-facility/articleshow/78006284.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board plans 11-storey housing tower for its employees||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) plans to build a 11-storey tower under the UT employees housing scheme 2008, offer more floor area ratio, charge only for the built-up area of the flat instead of the total area which includes land for road and green belt. The administration had started exploring different proposals for construction of flats on the directions of the central government. Recently, the Centre had directed the administration to recalculate the rates of flats to be made for different categories. UT adviser Manoj Parida, who is also chairman CHB, said the UT and CHB are working on different options. “We will come out with a detailed plan and accordingly will discuss it with the employees association,” he said. Last month, on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, a meeting through videoconferencing was held under the chairmanship of Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. After deliberations to resolve the issue regarding rates of flats of the scheme, it was decided that the calculation of rates be made again for different categories by applying various factors like floor area ratio (FAR), collector rate and plot area in consultation with the representatives of petitioners in the case. Last year, after opposition by employees, the administration had decided to reconsider high prices of flats under the UT Employees Self Finance Housing Scheme 2008. The CHB last year had finalised a three-bedroom hall kitchen (BHK) flat for Rs 1.76 crore, Rs 1.35 crore for two BHK flat, Rs 99 lakh for one BHK flat and Rs 58.07 lakh for one BHK (EWS) flat. Employees had decided not to give consent to the high prices. Earlier, the CHB had estimated Rs 2.08 crore for a three BHK flat, Rs 1.64 crore for a two BHK flat, Rs 1 crore for a one BHK flat and Rs 60 lakh for one BHK (EWS) flat. As the decision was taken to construct the flats for UT employees on “no profit no loss” basis, the prices were calculated to Rs 1.76 crore for three BHK, Rs 1.35 crore for two BHK, Rs 99 lakh for one BHK and Rs 58.07 lakh for one BHK (EWS). When the scheme was announced in 2008, the rates were Rs 34.70 lakh for three BHK flat, Rs 24.30 lakh for two BHK flat, Rs 13.53 lakh for one BHK flat and Rs 5.76 lakh for one BHK (EWS) flat. On January 2 last year, the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the proposal of the housing scheme pending since 2008. A total of 73.3 acre land was earmarked for the construction of 3,930 dwelling units for the employees. Out of which, 11.8 acre was already in the possession of the CHB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-plans-11-storey-housing-tower-for-its-employees/articleshow/78004174.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 9, 2020||Agra||Woman attempts self-immolation outside SSP’s office||AGRA: A woman and her two minor children attempted to immolate themselves outside the office of the SSP on Tuesday, while accusing police of inaction on her complaint against her family members. The woman, Tulsa, poured kerosene on herself and her children, but luckily, policemen present there intervened before she could strike a match. SSP Babloo Kumar said her complaint involved a family dispute, and that a case has already been registered at Sadar police station. He added he has asked the Sadar station house officer and investigative officer to look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-attempts-self-immolation-outside-ssps-office/articleshow/78002963.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Online fraudsters try new tricks, pose as officials of WhatsApp offering lottery prizes||MOHALI: The Mohali cybercrime department has come across a new way by which fraudsters approach people by posing as employee of WhatsApp and claim that they are calling from the head office. The officials claimed that the miscreants lure victims by telling them that they have won a lottery of Rs 25 lakh. “The fraudsters tell victims that an international lucky draw has been conducted in five countries and that he/she has won it. To claim the same, they tell the victims that the lottery has reached the Mumbai State Bank of India branch and they send them the photo of a cheque which also mentions the contact details of the bank manager, who would guide them on retrieving the lottery and also send them a pic,” said the officials. The officials said the fraudsters then ask the victim to add the number on WhatsApp and call the manager through WhatsApp only. They further tell them that one cannot make a normal call because the lottery has been won on WhatsApp. The victim is then asked the lottery number mentioned in the photo. Deputy superintendent of police, Cyber Crime, Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi, said, “The Mohali cybercrime officials have come across this new type of scam. We have not received any complaints regarding this. However, we got to know about the new tactics of fraudsters and hence are making people aware. The most important step is that if a person receives such message on WhatsApp, he/she should immediately block the number.” Sources in the cybercrime department revealed that they were sure that complaints regarding this crime will come slowly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-fraudsters-try-new-tricks-pose-as-officials-of-whatsapp-offering-lottery-prizes/articleshow/78004123.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
September 9, 2020||Trichy||Woman, 2 others kidnap man after luring him on FB, held||Trichy: A 31-year-old man from Cuddalore district was kidnapped by a gang when he visited Trichy city on Saturday to meet a girl he befriended on Facebook. Three of the accused have been arrested, and the KK Nagar police are on the lookout for three more members of the gang. The arrested a 20-year-old girl from Kajamalai, M Ashik aka Nivas, 21, of Valluvar Nagar, and M Mohammed Yasser, 22, of Palakkarai. They were arrested on charges of kidnapping and threatening to kill the man. They have also been slapped with charges under sections of the IPC for wrongful confinement, uttering obscene words, causing hurt committing dacoity. They also face charges for capturing his nude pictures under sections of the Information Technology Act. The victim and his Facebook friend, a third-year college student in Trichy, began conversing a few weeks ago. The duo, who also began chatting over phone calls, decided to meet in Trichy following her request. He reached Trichy on a two-wheeler on August 5 and waited near Mannarpuram, where the gang, including Ashik and Yasser, arrived in an auto-rickshaw and kidnapped him. The man was taken to a house on the VOC Road where he was thrashed. The gang demanded a sum of Rs 1 lakh and accused him of ruining the girl's life. This girl is the girlfriend of one of the accused. The gang captured nude photos of the man. The gang members deleted the pictures and the messages on his phone, sent by the girl earlier. The man, who managed to escape from the gang, lodged a complaint with the KK Nagar police on Monday. Sub-inspector Shanmugapriya stated that the modus-operandi of the gang was to trap men online and take money from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-2-others-kidnap-man-after-luring-him-on-fb-held/articleshow/78006289.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 200 Covid deaths reported in Satara in a fortnight||Kolhapur: There has been a sharp rise in the Covid-related fatalities in Satara district besides the surge in the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases reported over the past two weeks. Officials are anxious about the mortality rate as almost half the deaths in the district has been recorded in the past fortnight. The district has so far reported 528 deaths, of which 213 deaths have been recorded between August 24 and September 7. The first death in Satara district was recorded in April. The number of deaths was somewhat arrested in May and June. On May 24, the district had seven Covid fatalities while on June 24, the death toll stood at 41. The number of deaths sharpyl increased by 60 by July 24, taking the death toll to 101. As many as 214 deaths were reported between July 24 and August 23. Officials pointed out that it was the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that over 200 deaths have been reported within a fortnight. Officials attribute the increasing deaths to fear among the people who stay away from getting testes. Officials also admitted that some parts of the district, like Karad and Satara tehsils, were badly hit. Till Monday night, Satara and Karad tehsils recorded 78 and 47 deaths respectively. There has been 33 Covid-related fatalities in Wai. Khatav and Patan tehsils have been recording many deaths in the past fortnight. While the death toll in Khatav stands at 35, there have been 32 Covid-related fatalities in Patan. With 198 grampanchayats, Karad is the biggest tehsil in the district followed by Satara which has 195 grampanchayats. As per official data, 158 grampanchayats in Karad and 165 in Satara have been badly hit by Covid-19. 15 of the 28 gram panchayats in Mahabaleshwar, which is the smallest tehsil in the district, have been affected. Mahabaleswar has had the lowest number of patients (199) in the district with three deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-200-covid-deaths-reported-in-satara-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/78006283.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Time allotted as per each party strength: Balka Suman||Hyderabad: Condemning the allegations made by Congress legislators that speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy was not allotting sufficient time to them, government whip and Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Balka Suman said the speaker was allotting time based on each party’s strength in the House. Addressing a press conference along with MLAs S Saidi Reddy, M Anand and Dasari Manohar Reddy, he said as per the numbers, Telangana Rashtra Samithi should get 74 minutes while it should be five minutes for Congress during a debate on former PM PV Narasimha Rao.  But, the speaker gave 10 minutes to Congress MLAs to speak, Suman said. The whip said the Congress was making irrelevant charges against the speaker. “We will meet the speaker on Wednesday and urge him to give time as per each party’s strength,” he said. The MLA reiterated that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government was ready to debate any issue concerning people. “We strongly condemn the accusations of Congress leaders against the state government and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” he said. As per the numbers, TRS should get 74 minutes while it should be five minutes for Congress during a debate PV Narasimha Rao. But, Speaker gave 10 minutes to Congress MLAs to speak, he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/time-allotted-as-per-each-party-strength-balka-suman/articleshow/78005452.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Two fuel stations raided for illegal sale of biodiesel||Rajkot: The special operations group of Rajkot police raided two fuel stations for selling biodiesel illegally on Sokhda village road on Monday night.Police said that the fuel stations were selling biodiesel illegally to trucks. According to cops, biodiesel can be used only for industries and agricultural purposes. When SOG sleuths raided the stations, trucks’ fuel tanks were being refilled with biodiesel. Police informed the civil supplies department on Monday night, but as nobody from the administration turned up for investigation, cops themselves sent samples of the fuel to FSL. “Based on the report by the FSL, we will take appropriate action,” said a police official. Meanwhile, the station has been sealed and the owners have been served notices. Police have also seized 11,700 litres of biodiesel worth Rs 6.7 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-fuel-stations-raided-for-illegal-sale-of-biodiesel/articleshow/78004164.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KU’s Haithalayam to be a model of biodiversity: Min||Thiruvananthapuram: The decision by Kerala University authorities a year ago to do away with acacia and eucalyptus trees that contributed much of the greenery on their campus at Kariavattom here and replace them with crops was a historic move, said agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar on Tuesday. He was speaking after inaugurating the harvest of crops cultivated on 15 acres on the Kerala University’s Kariavattom campus. The inaugural ceremony was held online, adhering to Covid-19 protocols. The minister said that Kerala University’s Haithalayam initiative would be hailed as an exemplary model of biodiversity. The government would consider expanding this initiative and convert the campus into a major seed production centre. The high-yielding Manuratna variety of rice harvested in the campus would be procured by Kerala Agriculture University. They would then be distributed among farmers across the state for more production. KU vice-chancellor V P Mahadevan Pillai, pro vice-chancellor P P Ajayakumar, KU syndicate members too attended the harvest festival. Besides the 15 acres of paddy crops, the Harithalayam project of Kariavattom campus also include a palm plantation with 1,000 coconut trees, five acres of vegetable garden, five acres of fruit garden and five acres comprising gardens of exotic plants brought from Andaman Islands, rare medicinal plants from Agasthya forests, indigenous varities of mango and jackfruit trees and teak. Authorities launched Harithalayam initiative after the ecalyptus and acacia trees planted on the campus as part of afforestation started causing environment problems. Recently, the KU syndicate also took a decision to offer agriculture fellowship to students who take part in activities of reproduction and conservation of crops. Also, campuses that excel in farming and cultivation activities will be given Harithalayam Award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kus-haithalayam-to-be-a-model-of-biodiversity-min/articleshow/78004265.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur:​ Restaurant owners to face action if customers found dining in||KOLHAPUR: The district collector has issued orders to close restaurants or slap a hefty fine on the owners if customers are found dining in their establishements. District collector Daulat Desai has written to the local civic bodies and the police to pay surprise visits to the restaurants. He has asked the authorities to book the owner of the restaurant for violating the order of the state government, seal the restaurant and slap a hefty fine if customers are found dining either in the open or with shutters down. Several complaints with photographs of restaurants serving food have poured into the district collector’s office. As per the last order issued by the state government, food cannot be served at restaurants. The options of take-home facility and parcel delivery have been made available to the customers after the first phase of the lockdown. Even the food court in the malls and hotels with lodging facilities have been prohibited from serving food to outsiders. Desai said, “I have asked all authorities to keep checking the restaurants randomly. We have not granted permission to the restaurants for serving food to customers. Only hotels with lodging facilities are allowed to do so. The government has not yet issued any standard operating procedure for the restaurants.” Restaurant owners are now demanding that the dining facility be allowed in their establishments as they are facing losses and have to pay the salaries of the staff, cook, etc. It has been learnt that many owners have confused the opening of hotels with restaurants. Desai said that the order issued on August 31 was self-explanatory and would continue to be in place till September-end until and unless the state government modified the order and allowed full-fledged operations of the restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/restaurant-owners-to-face-action-if-customers-found-dining-in/articleshow/78006307.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||80% patients did not visit PGI ever since pandemic broke out||Chandigarh: As many as 80% of patients from medicine, eye, gynaecology and orthopaedics departments who used to visit PGI before the coronavirus pandemic broke out are not coming to the hospital for follow-up despite tele-consultation, prompting doctors to deduce that some of them could end up as emergency cases or a few might have even died. “It is worrisome that our patients are unable to come due to the fear of the infection. We also often ask them to avoid the visit, as we do not know when such patients can be converted into the emergency category,” said a doctor. To enable patients to talk to doctors without hospital visits, the teleconsultation was started. “But for patients suffering from cancer, heart, liver or renal diseases, without clinical evaluation, an online assessment is not satisfactory,” said a doctor. Also, the registration timing for the online consultation is for an hour. “It is not sufficient to get registered at a time when the OPDs are closed,” said the doctor. Due to the virus, non-Covid patients are suffering. “There seems to be no solution as the focus in on Covid. Though this pandemic has led to collateral damage. where other patients have been suffering and cannot visit hospitals, we need to settle the pandemic crisis first,” said Prof K K Talwar, former director, PGI, and advisor, health and medical education, Punjab. He said, “At such times there seems to be no short-term solution, however, the pandemic has left us to rethink on public health strategies for future and non-Covid patient management.” For the heart patients or those who are ‘old’ follow up cases and had been coming after 3-6 months, are also missing the follow ups. “I give on getting messages and calls from my patients who complain of some issues. But I feel helpless as without physical examination, cannot prescribe anything,” said a senior doctor in PGI. OPD patients before Covid Internal Medicine | Ophthalmology | Orthopaedics | Gynaecology Jan | 15,076 | 9,218 | 10,228 | 6,314 Feb | 16,507 | 9,728 | 11,147 | 6,192 Teleconsultation in August Internal Medicine Ophthalmology | Orthopedics | Gynaecology 1,802 | 2011 | 1,376 | 1533 (+around 2,500 physical patients)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-patients-did-not-visit-pgi-ever-since-pandemic-broke-out/articleshow/78004205.cms||Shimona Kanwar
September 9, 2020||Trichy||Awards for NIT faculty, researchers||Trichy: On the eve of Teacher’s Day celebrations, the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy recognized 27 faculty members with best performer award apart from P S Manisundaram award for three non-teaching staffs and budding researcher award for 14 research scholars on Monday. The best department award was bagged by chemical engineering and management studies. Speaking at the event organized on a virtual platform, newly appointed chairperson, the board of governors of NIT Trichy, Bhaskar Bhat stressed on the need to integrate undergraduate studies with rigorous exposure to professional fields through flexible curricular structure. On the National Education Policy, the former MD of Titan company limited Bhat said it envisions Indian centeredness education system that contributes directly in transforming our nation into a vibrant knowledge society. He applauded the efforts put forth by Mini Shaji Thomas, director, NIT Trichy for converting vision into goals and truly being focused on it and converting it to reality. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/awards-for-nit-faculty-researchers/articleshow/78006304.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||Scientist who put India on radio astronomy map loved his Bengali platter of bhaat-daal||KOLKATA: Govind Swarup, the genial scientist who put India on the world radio astronomy map, followed Bengali perfectly. “At TIFR, Bengali is the second most spoken language after English,” Swarup, who helmed the strong group in radio astrophysics at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, would tell students during lectures at Science College, Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science and IIT Kharagpur where he was instrumental in setting up the ISRO centre. He also loved a typical Bengali meal and enjoyed steamed rice, masoor daal, stuffed brinjal and roti at the home of his former students Goutam and Sulekha Chattopadhyay in Pasadena, California, in 2005. Post lunch, he spoke about his dream to establish science institutes with excellent research opportunities. “That turned out to be Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER),” recounted Sulekha, senior regulatory analyst on transportation electrification. Goutam, senior scientist at NASA-Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Caltech, recalled Swarup’s eagerness to interact with young scientists. “Fresh out of BE College and hired by Prof Swarup at TIFR, we were setting up our labs in Pune when I decided to organise a seminar series on the instruments in our lab so that young engineers were able to know their capabilities and limitations. It was to be held at 9am every Monday. “When Prof Swarup learnt about it, he requested the time be pushed back to 10am so that he could attend them. When I told him the seminar was scheduled early for precisely that purpose so that others would get an opportunity to speak, he laughed and said he would not talk at all. We did push the time back but could not curb his excitement and animated discussions,” said Goutam. Those who had worked with Swarup said he helped create such an environment in GMRT that young engineers and students never hesitated to go up to his office and tell him their true feelings and opinions. That upbringing in GMRT environment has served everyone well. Rajesh Kumble Nayak, who works on gravitational data wave analysis at IISER-Kolkata, said what set Swarup apart was his ability to innovate. “When he was designing the 45-m GMRT dish antennas, India’s funding in science was limited. To cut expenses and make it maneuverable, he used stainless steel mesh instead of solid metal for the large dish. It also reduced the wind load and was acclaimed internationally,” Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/an-innovative-geniuis-who-loved-a-bengali-meal/articleshow/78005511.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Four tourists held for killing Malabar squirrel, barking deer||Udhagamandalam: Forest department officials on Tuesday arrested five people, including four tourists, under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for allegedly hunting a barking deer and a Malabar squirrel. Officials said the four tourists N Sulaiman, 31 from Madurai, C John Armstrong Babu, 41, D Jabakumar, 44 and D Ramaiah, 39, all three from Thoothukudi, had come to Ooty on Sunday. The four friends had obtained e-passes to enter the district for business purposes and were staying in a cottage owned by V Manikandan, 43, at Santhur near Ketti, 8km away from Ooty. According to Saravanakumar, assistant conservator of forests, Manikandan used an air-gun to hunt a Malabar squirrel near Mayinalai village on Monday morning. Its meat was cooked for lunch and served to the four guests at his cottage. Later in the day, Manikandan killed a barking deer using the same air-gun near Muttinadu village. Its meat was also served as dinner to the guests. A tip-off from local residents alerted forest officials. “We nabbed all the five accused for illegally hunting animals early on Tuesday. Some leftover meat was found in their cottage. There was blood stains on their car,” said Saravanakumar. All five accused were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-tourists-held-for-killing-malabar-squirrel-barking-deer/articleshow/78005491.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Teak wood imports down by 50%, furniture prices shoot up||Rajkot: Despite dip in sales, wooden furniture is still priced quite high. The reason behind this is almost fifty percent reduction in import of teak wood, which is primarily used in making these furniture, for the past four months.Kutch’s timber industry, India's biggest timber production hub, is facing acute shortage of teak wood after it resumed operations since the unlock. Their imports have been halved owing to non-availability of this particular wood in the countries exporting it. This has pushed up prices by 10 to 15 percent. Teak wood is used in the manufacture of furniture, doors, window frames and other household materials. It’s preferred as the base material for furniture owing to its tensile strength and low stiffness. India imports the teak wood mostly from African and Latin American countries besides New Zealand. According to rough estimates India imports 90,000 cubic metres teak wood every year. The import price ranges between $250 to 300 per cubic metre. President of Kandla timber association, Navneet Gajjar, said “Generally we used to import 5,000 containers of teak wood every month. This has now reduced to 2,500 containers for the past three to four months, which is pushing up the market prices by 10 to 15 percent.” With the lockdown and labour shortage, the demand for teak wood in India had also reduced considerably but has now picked up since last month after construction work has resumed. Keyur Thakkar, a custom house agent associated with timber industry, said that all the backlog import orders were completed by June. “Wood harvesting in forest areas of the exporting countries too had got suspended because of Covid. The entire process — from harvesting of the logs to these reaching India — takes more than two months. So, the cycle between June to August remained disturbed. We are hoping the import cycle normalizes soon.” Proximity to the port has made Kandla a suitable furniture hub of the country as 70 percent timber of country gets imported through Deendayal Port. The 2,000-odd saw mills and 100 plywood factories in and around Gandhidham town of Kutch imports more than Rs 7,000 crore timber annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teak-wood-imports-down-by-50-furniture-prices-shoot-up/articleshow/78004216.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Trees killed with acid for better hoarding visibility||NAGPUR: In a tragic incident, eight recently-planted trees in the city were mercilessly burnt for better visibility of an advertisement hoarding. In August this year, environment activist Shrikant Deshpande had planted the trees along the road between Bhole Petrol Pump square and Variety Square. “I had planted some fully-grown trees and some medium-sized trees to increase the green cover in the area. Overall, I had planted 18 trees,” said Deshpande. On Tuesday, he was shocked to see eight trees completely burnt, in all probability by deliberately using harmful chemical or acid. “The chemical was so strong that all the trees got completely damaged. None survived,” he said. According to him, the trees were deliberately killed for better visibility of an advertisement hoarding. “This is happening repeatedly in the city. The hoarding owners are finding ways to rampantly destroy trees and no action is being taken against them,” said Deshpande. He added that earlier too trees at same location were cut for the same reason. TOI has also been highlighting how city is losing its green cover for such trivial reasons. A few days back, old trees were chopped off at Laxmi Bhuvan Square as they were supposedly obstructing view of a newly constructed building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trees-killed-with-acid-for-better-hoarding-visibility/articleshow/78005509.cms||Manka Behl
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress: Sought Ratna for P V Narasimha Rao before formation of Telangana||HYDERABAD: The then Congress government had sought Bharat Ratna for former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao in 2014 itself in the united Andhra Pradesh, party legislators claimed on Tuesday. Stating that the ruling TRS was not allowing Congress MLAs to speak in the assembly, party floor leader Bhatti Vikramarka and member D Sridhar Babu said the N Kiran Kumar Reddy government had written to the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on Narasimha Rao after the then state cabinet demanded the highest civilian award for the son of the soil. “KCR is trying to take political mileage by owning the legacy of Rao. Congress had sought Bharat Ratna for him before the formation of Telangana,” D Sridhar Babu, who was then the legislative affairs minister, said. “Whoever honours PV, we are happy about it because he was a Congressman from his birth to death. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao could have pursued the award of Bharat Ratna for Rao over the last six years. We support Bharat Ratna resolution passed in the assembly but want to remind that Congress had recommended it six years ago,” Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said, responding to the resolution. Uttam was a minister then. Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy, Sridhar Babu and Bhatti said: “Congress is the only opposition party in the assembly as MIM is a friendly party of the ruling TRS and BJP has only a single MLA in the House.” “It is not only an insult to me but also the House that the main opposition party is not being given time. I was told to complete my speech in just six minutes. KCR has done away with media point in the assembly and is not allowing Congress to raise the problems being faced by the people. TRS is suppressing the voice of the main opposition even in the House. But people are watching,” Bhatti said. Government whip Balka Suman hit back at the Congress leaders stating that time to speak in the assembly was decided based on the number of MLAs the party has in the House. “Actually, Congress is eligible for only five minutes, but the speaker gave 10 minutes to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-sought-ratna-for-pv-before-formation-of-t/articleshow/78005500.cms||Roushan Ali
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh jail inmate dies of drug overdose||RAJKOT: Two prisoners of Junagadh jail consumed medicines and cough syrup on Monday and Tuesday. While one prisoner died due to overdose at Rajkot civil hospital, another inmate is under treatment in Junagadh. Meraj Shah (25) had consumed tablets and cough syrup prescribed for his fellow inmates on Monday. Shah, who is an undertrial in two dozen cases of theft and robbery, became unconscious after consuming the medicines. He was taken to civil hospital in Junagadh from where he was referred to Rajkot as his condition deteriorated. He succumbed on Tuesday during treatment. Another robbery accused identified as Sikander Bukhari too consumed tablets on Tuesday like Shah. Police said that Bukhari is currently under treatment in Junagadh. Police officials said that Shah was addicted to cough syrup and whitener. “Due to his addiction, he consumed medicines and cough syrup and due to overdose of drugs, he died. In case of the other inmate, we are yet to question him as he is still unconscious,” said deputy superintendent of police Pradeepsinh Jadeja. Cops will also look into the footages of CCTV cameras to get more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-jail-inmate-dies-of-drug-overdose/articleshow/78004289.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Hide Covid information, face action: Panjab University warning to staffers||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is planning to take legal action against employees who do not inform the authorities if a family member or a neighbour has tested positive for Covid-19 and continue reporting to their workplace. A committee constituted under PU dean research V R Sinha discussed the matter in a meeting on Tuesday. The university said it could file a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against such people. If one is convicted under Section 188, the person can undergo six-month prison term of fine, or both, which can be extended to two years. A sub-committee constituted by dean research would supervise such lapses and recommend action according to the norms set by the ministry of home affairs. As many as 30 novel coronavirus cases have been reported on the campus so far. Recently, a family member of an employee in the accounts branch was detected with Covid-19. However, without informing the head or subordinates, the employee came to the branch for work. Three days ago, the university closed the branch. Recently, the administrative block, dean university of instructions, vice-chancellor office and secrecy branch were closed down after one of the employees had contracted the infection. Committee members during the meeting discussed the clause was not mentioned in the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the past. Sources said the SOPs would mention that employees found not following the guidelines would face legal action. Official said the first such case was when a security guard fled from his residence and came to the campus hostel without the knowledge of the authorities. He had been booked under Section 188 of the IPC. Members suggested if any employee complains of fever, the head of the branch should report the case to the campus dispensary and send the employee for check-up as a precaution. The committee asked all administrative branch and teaching department heads to direct their employees to not hide any information regarding Covid-19 patients in their family or neighborhood. Sources said employees on contractual basis are concealing such information over fears of losing their jobs. Officials said the university should issue instructions that there will be no job loss in case any family member or neighbor of an employee is detected with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hide-covid-info-face-action-pu-warning-to-staffers/articleshow/78004238.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 9, 2020||Salem||Principal receives best teacher award||Salem: Principal of Yercaud Montford Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School Rev Bro Dominic Savio received Dr Radhakrishnan’s state best teacher award on Tuesday. District collector S A Raman handed over the award in his chamber at the district collectorate. Dominic Savio has served in the field of education for over 20 years as a teacher and principal in various Montfortian institutions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/principal-receives-best-teacher-award/articleshow/78005503.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Trichy||Puliyancholai turning into boozers’ haven||Trichy: Puliyancholai – a water stream - located 77km away from Trichy has come alive this season attracting large crowds during the weekends making it an ideal spot to enjoy the natural water stream. However, visitors are polluting the area by littering the place with plastics and empty liquor bottles. Nature enthusiasts and social activists have called for better monitoring and maintenance off the spot by the forest department and local authorities. The natural bathing area in Puliyancholai is fed by a water stream on Kolli hills - Aakasa Gangai. The water is also considered to have medicinal properties which is another reason for people coming in large numbers to take bath in the water stream. Good rainfall in the last few days in the region has increased water flow in the stream. As lockdown norms have been relaxed, people have started coming in cars and vans from distant locations to relish in the water stream. “Those visiting the water stream are at risk of injuring themselves on broken liquor bottles as there has been uncontrolled boozing activities around the water stream in the last few months,” said S Sundararajan, a local. He said there are hardly any steps to promote the place though it has potential to be a tourist spot. Apart from keeping dustbins at a few places, the place needs a facelift like changing rooms and toilets, he said, adding they are in talks with the Uppiliyapuram panchayat union. While Puliyancholai reserve forest comes under Namakkal forest division, the water stream is in Uppiliyapuram panchayat union of Trichy district. “We were regulating visitors to the water stream by appointing people from the tribal community from January this year. The visitors were charged Rs 10 as entry fee but it was scrapped ever since the lockdown was imposed,” said Namakkal district forest officer R Kanchana. She assured to initiate action against those visiting Puliyancholai water stream for boozing and littering the place with used bottles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/puliyancholai-turning-into-boozers-haven/articleshow/78006318.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Patients coming to cities for Covid care, not ideal: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Tuesday that a lot of Coronavirus- infected patients are coming for treatment to cities like Bhopal, Jabalpur, Indore and Gwalior from smaller places, which is not an ideal situation. Facilities of treatment are available in all the districts and if there is a shortfall of beds vis-à-vis patients anywhere, the number of beds must be increased. Reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state before the state Cabinet meeting, Chouhan said that control command centres should be set up in all the districts, where a doctor should be available all the time. There should be enough stock of oxygen in all the hospitals and if required, oxygen meant for use in industries can be provided to them. He said campaign for mandatory wearing of masks must continue. Urban development department and panchayat & rural development department should carry out publicity for the purpose in urban and rural areas respectively. The transport department should ensure that all the bus passengers wear masks. CM said with the process of unlocking gaining pace, it is a challenge to contain the Covid-19 infection. It was told in the meeting that recovery rate in the state is 76% and death rate due to Coronavirus has reduced to 1.4% from 2.4%. A total of 40% patients are in home quarantine, capacity of private hospitals is being enhanced. There are enough beds available at dedicated Covid care hospitals for noe but in the wake of future requirement, more beds are being added. At places like Bhopal and Indore, 55% ICU beds are occupied. It was further told at the meeting that door-to-door sample collection is being stopped and samples would only be collected at "fever clinics." A total of 21% patients with symptoms of Coronavirus infection are in isolation. Those receiving treatment at Covid care hospitals will now be given bills of treatment, which they can pay fully or partially if they so wish. Chief minister said ICU beds should be provided to patients above the age of 60 on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/patients-coming-to-cities-for-covid-care-not-ideal-cm/articleshow/78005505.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Delay in treatment due to dysfunctional lift claims life of an elderly||LUCKNOW: A dysfunctional lift allegedly became the cause of death for a heart attack patient in a high-rise in Jankipuram on Tuesday. The elderly resident of Srishti Apartments could not be taken to hospital on time after a heart attack and died on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. TimesViewThe incident is one of criminal negligence and those responsible for not fixing the elevator on time must be booked. However, elevators are not the only issue for the residents of various apartments built by LDA. They have been complaining about inadequate services and unkept promises for long. The authority will have to evolve a mechanism wherein public grievances are addressed immediately.The lift of the apartment block built by Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) had been dysfunctional for four days. It was not attended to despite complaints of residents. It was finally repaired on Tuesday after the demise of 64-year-old S Ansari. LDA has said it will lodge an FIR against the company which was responsible for maintenance of elevators. On Monday night, Ansari had developed angina. “We immediately called an ambulance that arrived in 10 minutes, but since the lift was out of order, the stretcher could not be brought to my 11th floor apartment,” said Mohammad Irfan, Ansari’s son. The family then made arrangements by carrying Ansari on a blanket. Four persons lifted the corners of the blanket and carried Ansari down 11 floors and into the ambulance. “We brought him down step-by-step through the stairs. It took about 25 minutes. The ambulance rushed him to hospital but he was declared brought dead due to cardiac arrest. The doctor told us that he could have been saved if he had reached 15 minutes earlier,” said Irfan. On Friday, Ansari had slipped in the bathroom and broken his arm. “Even then, the lift was not working,” said Irfan. Angry over the incident, residents of the apartment said that besides causing fatal delays in health emergencies, dysfunctional lifts cause a lot of problems to everyone. “Even a fit person cannot climb up and down 11 floors several times a day,” they said. Shrishti Apartments residents’ welfare association secretary Vivek Sharma said, “We had complained to the helpline number of the lift company as well as LDA officials on Saturday, but nothing was done. Now, after a resident has died due to their negligence, a technician came on Tuesday to repair the lift.” LDA executive engineer KK Bansla said, “I had directed the company official to repair the lift. I will seek answers from them on why the lift was not repaired on the day it stopped and lodge an FIR against the company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delay-in-treatment-due-to-dysfunctional-lift-claims-life-of-an-elderly/articleshow/78006331.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||City logs highest spike of 377 new Covid cases||Chandigarh: The city recorded the highest single-day spike of 377 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Earlier, the top figure was 261 on August 29 and September 6. Health experts have predicted the peak by mid of September. “The numbers are expected to rise. There had been various prediction models for September. The hospitals are geared up, even though our hands are full,” said Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI. As many as 294 patients tested positive with RT-PCR, while the rest with rapid antigen testing kit. The total count is 6,372, with 2,334 active cases. At the same time, a 72-year-old woman from Hallomajra died of the virus at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, raising the toll to 76. She suffered complex cardiorespiratory complications owing to the infection. The city has reported 19 deaths in last eight days. As many as 226 patients were discharged, pushing the recovery count to 3,960. The recovery rate has improved from 58% in August last week to 62%. The confirmed per million number has increased to 5,404, implying these patients tested positive out of every 10 lakh. It is 3,235 nationally. The tests per million, which was 26,000 last month, has enhanced to 31,441. The positivity rate is 17%. 2 deaths, 98 new cases in Ambala In Ambala, two people died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the toll to 47. “The victims were a 64-year-old man of Patel Road, Ambala city, having kidney and heart diseases and a 65-year-old man of Naggal village suffering from diabetes and kidney disease. Ambala’s mortality rate is 0.96%,” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The district reported 98 new cases on Tuesday, increasing the tally to 4,871, with 873 active cases. As many as 72 cases were from Ambala city, 17 from Chourmastpur, five from Ambala Cantt, two from Naraingarh, and one each from Mullana and Shahzadpur,” said Dr Singh. As many as 107 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 3,951, and the recovery rate is 81.11%, he said. “So far, we have collected 73,049 samples for testing in Ambala, of which, 60,299 are RT-PCR samples and 12,750 are antigen testing kit samples. In the district, we have collected 64,760 samples per 10 lakh population”, said Dr Singh. Meanwhile, Ambala Sadar municipal council (MC) executive officer Vinod Nehra said, “Public dealing at Sadar MC office has been closed due to Covid-19 spread. The MC secretary informed over phone that he has tested positive. As a precautionary measure, we have closed public dealing at house tax, rent branch and others at the Sadar MC.” 3 deaths, 168 new cases in Mohali Mohali reported three Covid-19 deaths and 168 new cases on Tuesday, taking the count to 5,274, with 2,206 active cases, and the toll to 116. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the victims were a 40-year-old man from Sunny Enclave suffering from hypertension, a 58-year-old man from Mohali suffering from a liver disease and a 70-year-old woman from Derabassi. As many as 317 patients were discharged, pushing the recovery count to 2,952 Pkl reports 2 deaths, 169 fresh cases Panchkula registered two Covid-19 deaths and 169 fresh cases on Tuesday, increasing the count to 3,315, with 1,240 active cases, and the toll to 36. Chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the victims were a 79-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 19. The recovery count is 2,039||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-logs-highest-spike-of-377-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78004279.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Trichy||Rs 51 lakh netted as penalties as cases spike in Thanjavur||Trichy:A total of Rs 51 lakh has been collected as penalty from those who violated Covid-19 norms in Thanjavur district. Despite the stringent enforcement, Thanjavur continued to witness a spike in fresh positive cases.Following the spike in Covid-19 cases in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, the authorities have intensified the process of tracing primary contacts besides increasing tests, officials said.The number of positive cases for the last eight days in Thanjavur was 961, including the 128 fresh cases reported on Tuesday. Considering the importance of complete screening of symptomatic and asymptomatic people, Thanjavur district administration has made available pulse oximeters with all the health workers who are engaged in Covid-19 duty in corporation, municipality, and panchayat levels, district collector M Govinda Rao said. “Using pulse oximeters will help health workers easily identify the asymptomatic people. Once the health workers identify them, they would be taken to the hospital immediately. This process will minimize the risk,” he added.Officials said that so far Rs 51 lakh has been collected from 48,000 people who had violated Covid-19 norms in the district. People are still reluctant to follow the rules, an official opined.Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded 894 cases in the last eight days, which include 198 fresh positive cases on Tuesday. This is the highest number of positive cases ever recorded in the district, official sources said.“As per Covid-19 norms, now people are allowed to move around without any restrictions adopting the standard operation procedures. However, the general public started utilizing the relaxation without following any safety norms. This might be one of the reasons for the spike,” a senior health official in Tiruvarur said. Moreover, the health department has increased the number of tests to 2,000 from 1,000 for the last one week. This is also a reason for the rise in fresh cases, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-51-lakh-netted-as-penalties-as-cases-spike-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78006327.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||More than 1L screened in 5 days in Pkl||Panchkula: The health department has screened in 1.33 lakh people in the fourth round of door-to-door screening from Friday till now, while two more Covid test centres have pushed the total to 21 in the district. As many as 12,024 residents were found to be in the high-risk group, 345 under ILI (influenza like illness) and 17 in the SARI (severe acute respiratory infections) category, according to the data shared by the department. The patients were given tips on how to stay healthy, with a diet chart and medical tests suggested. Covid-19 samples of 1,286 high-risk persons were collected and 171 out of them were found positive. Child welfare officer and ANM officials are supervising anganwadi workers who are conducting the survey. Deputy commissioner M K Ahuja said people having any of the symptom or weak immunity will be guided to conduct regular checks. Importance to contact tracing is also given. All the persons working in this field have been asked to trace the contacts of Covid-19 patient. General Hospital, Sector 6, sub health centre, Kalka, community health centres, primary health centres, urban health dispensaries and private hospitals have been made Covid-19 sample collection centres. Nodal officers have been appointed at all the test centres to supervise the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-than-1l-screened-in-5-days-in-pkl/articleshow/78004255.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 2.2k trees planted in 6 hours||Aurangabad: Social group ‘Jansahyog’recently planted over 2,200 saplings within six hours in the outskirts of the city in Padegaon, taking its tally of total saplings planted during the current monsoon to around 20,000. Jansahyog founder Prashant Gire on Tuesday said all the planted saplings were of native species. “The tree plantation drive this year has been named as ‘Amazon 2020’ which aims to create dense green-cover in Padegaon area. Over 2,200 saplings of Khair (Acacia catechu) and other types of indigenous trees were planted. We will ensure survival of maximum saplings by providing irrigation and all possible protection from cattle and a section of locals,” he said. Gire said last year, the social group had planted 15,000 saplings in a single day but the feat could not be repeated this year due to bright weather during the first half of the day. Famous for planting indigenous trees in and around Aurangabad, Jansahyog, so far, has planted over 35,000 trees since its genesis seven year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-2-2k-trees-planted-in-6-hours/articleshow/78006321.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Opposition begins planning for GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties have begun planning for the civic polls as the TRS government has been inaugurating a plethora of roads and flyovers and speeding up works on projects, indicating early elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. This also comes in the backdrop of schemes that might come during the course of the assembly session. A preparatory meeting of Congress held here on Tuesday. The party decided to launch “Congress to the door steps of the voters”campaign. The meeting decided to identify its mayoral candidate early and not delay it till the poll results are announced. This time the seat of GHMC Mayor has been reserved for women candidate from BC community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-begins-planning-for-ghmc-elections/articleshow/78005520.cms||Roushan Ali
September 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna ASI shoots himself to death while on duty||AURANGABAD: An assistant sub-inspector serving as the armourer in the Jalna district police allegedly ended his life by shooting himself with his 9mm service pistol. The incident took place around 9 am on Tuesday on the premises of the superintendent of police’s office. The deceased has been identified as Subhash Gaikwad (55) who had come to duty at 8 am and was part of the escort team deployed for the movement of Y-security protectee Shyam Manav, the founder-national convenor of the Akhil Bharatiya Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti. An officer privy to the probe said, “After escorting Manav till the border of Aurangabad district, the police team returned to the SP’s office. The team members were in the process of returning the firearms when the ASI went to the side and allegedly shot himself under the chin.” Other policemen on duty ran to him, only to find the ASI lying in a pool of blood. Upon learning about the incident, senior police officers, including SP S Chaitanya, visited the spot. The deceased’s body was moved to Jalna district civil hospital and later it was brought to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad, for an autopsy. SP Chaitanya told TOI: “A probe into the exact reason for this extreme step is underway. We are checking if any personal, professional or health-related issues forced him to end his life.” The officer said that the crime branch has been tasked to find out the exact reason that triggered the ASI to take the extreme step. Citing the preliminary probe, a crime branch official said that the deceased ASI was recently promoted to the rank of police sub-inspector, but he denied promotion as it would have resulted in his transfer to another place. “Family’s statement will play a crucial role in providing a proper direction to the case,” said inspector Rajendersingh Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-asi-shoots-himself-to-death-while-on-duty/articleshow/78006346.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A campaign for self-sufficiency||Thiruvananthapuram: What began as a service by members of Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad for people under quarantine in Malayinkeezhu panchayat around six months ago has now become a campaign for self-sufficiency. Members of Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad at Malayinkeezhu had started an initiative ‘ikkarapacha’ in March to help people cultivating vegetables at houses to find a market for sale. It all began with ‘aksharavathil’, a programme under which the team collected books and distributed them among people who were under quarantine. It later extended to distribution of vegetables and groceries at houses with help of volunteers. The collective works through a WhatApp group which has 257 members, all residents and traders of Malayinkeezhu. The collective is managed by a team of parishad representatives, including Malayinkeezhu unit secretary Harikrishnan G, Nemom zone treasurer Promod, Nemom zone members Shibu and Suresh. The idea is to promote products made in the panchayat and sell them within the panchayat itself. They collect vegetables and home-made products and post pictures on the WhatsApp group. People can order it with their location for home delivery. “Our aim is self-sufficiency. We provide vegetables, groceries and fish on demand. We don’t charge a service fee from consumers, instead a fee is collected as transportation cost from merchants when there is bulk purchase or the merchant cannot do home delivery,” said Harikrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-campaign-for-self-sufficiency/articleshow/78004311.cms||Anasooya.S
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal sees fourfold increase in road accident deaths during Unlock||BHOPAL: The casualties in road accidents in the city nearly increased four times in 100 days of ‘Unlock’, compared to previous two-and-a half-months of total lockdown. Twenty people lost their lives in road accidents during lockdown, while around 80 road accident casualties were reported in the 100 days of ‘Unlock’ till Tuesday. During this period, more than half of the casualties in road accidents were reported in fatal road accidents which took place on city outskirts including Berasia, Khajuri, Parwalia, Gunga, Nazirabad, Bilkhiria, Misrod, Ratibad and Sukhi Sewania. In many cases more than one casualty was reported per accident in these areas. Although Covid-19 restricted peoples’ movement in lockdown as well as unlock, so the number of road accidents decreased this year compared to same months last year, but the fatality rate in road accidents has gone up sharply now. This year, 28 people lost their lives in 165 road accidents in the city in June while in the same month last year, 30 people lost their lives in 346 accidents which is more than double the number of accidents reported this year. Similarly in July this year, 20 people died in the city in 159 road accidents, while in the same month last year 16 people died in 270 road accidents. In August, 25 people lost their lives in 155 road accidents while in the same month last year, 13 people died in 262 accidents. The number of casualties in road accidents in the month of June increased by 150 percent as compared to casualties reported in the month of May while increased 700 percent as compared to casualties reported in the month of April. In July there was a small decline in road casualties in the city but they increased once again in August. 14 people died in May in 83 road accidents and only 25 road accidents were reported in April in which three casualties took place. In more than half a dozen road accidents that were reported after unlock, the number of casualties were more than 1.DSP Sonam Jharwade said that many factors are responsible for it. Being on state highway heavy vehicles like trucks, dumpers and tractors ply on road but there are no speed breakers built at appropriate spots. Lack of proper signage on the roads is also a problem. Stray cattle are also a menace in the area. Commuters cannot spot cattle sitting on the road in the dark and accidents happen. ASP Rajat Saklecha said that police are analysing the road accidents data and will soon chalk out a strategy to rectify the accident-prone spots on city outskirts. Measures like pasting radium tapes/reflectors on the horns of cattles and on the back of heavy vehicles are being taken to avoid the road accidents. Police will also mark the specific turnings on city outskirts on which encroachments have taken place increasing the risk of road accidents. Speaking on the high rate of casualties in road accidents on city outskirts ADG Upendra Jain said since roads are good, the vehicles tend to travel at high speed without taking adequate precautions so they become prone to accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-sees-fourfold-increase-in-road-accident-deaths-during-unlock/articleshow/78005518.cms||Sudeept Mishra
September 9, 2020||Trichy||School reaches out to underprivileged students||Trichy: Concerned that their students will be left out of online classes as they can’t afford gadgets, teachers from a city government aided school have been visiting the homes of such students and helping them keep pace with academic activity. Many of the students in the high and higher secondary classes of Ponniah higher secondary school, Palakkarai were found to be forgoing classes and going for work to support their families in the last few months. The school learned that these students from marginalised sections of the society were unable to attend classes in the absence of gadgets. Identifying such students, the school teachers started visiting them at their homes and started engaging them by way of assignments and homework. “These students would certainly drop out if the schools are not allowed reopen in another few weeks,” said Geevarghese Mathew, correspondent and headmaster of the school. We are attempting to prevent these children from dropping out by taking efforts to impart education at their door steps, he said. The 92-year-old school has about 2,300 students from classes I to XII. While about 60 percent of students were able to follow video classes uploaded on the school’s website using smart phones, the rest were cut off from academic activity. Starting from mid-August, teachers have roughly visited 200 houses of students. They found students working as store keepers in grocery shops and textile outlets, selling tea and doing other works. Jeevadoss Babu, one of the teachers, said that they told parents not to send their children for work as it may affect their education. “But, they may not listen considering their economic condition. So, we want to ensure that these students don’t lose touch with their studies by visiting them regularly,” he said. Jeevitha, a class XII student, who works for 10 hours a day in a grocery store near her house says that she that she may not have touched her books had the teachers not come to her place. “While it is tiring to study after coming back from work, teachers have been motivating me to revise the portions in the evening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-reaches-out-to-underprivileged-students/articleshow/78006351.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Scrapping 70-30 formula not in Vid’s interest: Experts||NAGPUR: Maharashtra government’s decision to scrap 70-30 regional quota admission formula for medical colleges has not gone down well with many stakeholders. Through this formula, local students got preference for admission to medical colleges in 70% of seats. The remaining were open to everyone from Maharashtra. Senior academic Dr Ved Prakash Mishra said the 70-30 formula was originally put in place to address ‘inequity’. “I had written the original report in 1995-96 addressing this issue. Soon after, the government implemented the 70-30 formula and thus students from Gadchiroli also stood a chance to get medical education. The argument that ‘syllabus is same’ cannot hold true when you look at the existing inequities in different regions. How can a student from Sironcha (Gadchiroli) be equated with someone from Mumbai,” he asked. In the mid-90s, Dr Mishra presented his report on this inequity and proposed the 70-30 formula. “I do not want to get into a political debate about this issue, but as an academic I feel that both Vidarbha and Marathwada students will suffer,” said Dr Mishra. Dr Vinay Hazarey, former dean of Government Dental College, said “There is no doubt the 70-30 formula was perfect. That reflected in the mix of students where different cultures from Vidarbha, Marathwada and western Maharashtra were seen on campus.” Dr Naintara Wasudeo, former head of Preventive and Social Medicine at IGGMC, said, “The concern about prospective students from backward regions of Vidarbha is a genuine.” Sameer Phale, who specializes in medical entrance exam coaching, said this was ‘grave injustice’ for Vidarbha kids. “They initially increased seats from Vidarbha in a phased manner citing assurance of removing our backlog. This should have meant more seats for kids from this backward region but now the story is completely different,” said Phale. He added, “With 70-30 formula in place, our students had the guarantee that will be first in line for admissions. Now with all seats opening up, kids coming from smaller places and having lesser quality educational infrastructure will have to compete with Mumbai candidates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scrapping-70-30-formula-not-in-vids-interest-experts/articleshow/78005531.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Ban printing, cremation of holy book: Damdami Taksal breakaway faction||Amritsar: Peeved over the incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the violation of maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct) during the process of its printing and distribution, Gurmat Vidyalaya Damdami Taksal (GVDT), a breakaway faction of Chowk Mehta-based Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal, has sought government intervention to ban printing and cremation of saroop of the holy book. It has also sought investigation into sending of 450 saroops to Canada. While talking to TOI on Tuesday, GVDT chief Bhai Amrik Singh Ajnala said there was no need to print new saroops. “Almost all gurdwaras across the world have at least four to five saroops, which are sufficient for the sangat, Still, if the sangat feels there is any shortage, they could go to nearby gurdwaras to fulfil their religious aspirations,” he said. Stating that till date many gurdwaras were doing the ‘parkash’ (actively reading the scriptures from the holy book) of even three centuries old saroop of Guru Granth Sahib, he argued that there was no need for the cremation of the holy book. “Only a few ang (parts) of Guru Granth Sahib are damaged, which can be replaced and there is no need to cremate the book,” he said. Recently, the SGPC decided against lodging police complaints against its employees indicted following the investigation into the missing of saroop of Guru Granth Sahib by a sub-committee constituted by the Akal Takht, saying it did not want “government intervention in the functioning of Darbar Sahib”. On the other hand, GVDT has sought the intervention of the district administration to stop printing and cremation of Guru Granth Sahib. “Since we have no trust in the SGPC management and the political party backing it, we want the district administration to intervene into the matter,” said Ajnala. A GVDT delegation had also handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner regarding their demands and given it 15 days’ ultimatum to take action, he added. It has also demanded that the administration hold an inquiry into the alleged sacrilege of 450 saroops sent by SGPC to Canada. Punjab Human Rights Organisations principal investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka said the then SGPC executive body, in its meeting held on December 17, 2014, had admitted that a bus carrying 450 saroops was sent to Canada on the demand of the Ripudaman Singh Malik-led Satnam Education Society. The executive members had resolved to destroy the bus in Canada since it was damaged on the way and would cost them Rs 11 lakh to bring it back to India. “But neither the SGPC nor Ripudaman have made it public to whom were the saroops given,” said Verka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ban-printing-cremation-of-holy-book-damdami-taksal-breakaway-faction/articleshow/78005524.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad shops can now remain open till 9pm||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla has announced relaxations in Covid-19-related restrictions by allowing shops to remain open from 7am till 9pm in non-containment zone areas. The district collector said details of people visiting shops and training centres should be gathered using QR codes after registering at Covid-19 Jagratha portal and sought the cooperation of shop owners in this regard. Also, a maximum of 50 people will be allowed to participate in marriage and related functions and a maximum of 20 people will be allowed to attend funerals. Also, prior permission from police is not needed for holding the function. However, those holding the functions should inform the nearest health centres and the name and other details of the attendees should be entered in a register. Also, in line with the guidelines issued by the central government, gymnasiums, yoga centres and other sports training centres will be allowed to function. However, spectators will not be allowed at the centres. In addition, sports training will be allowed in open grounds and stadiums. Meanwhile, the district reported 24 new Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, of which 21 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Four newly reported cases in the district have unknown sources of infection. The district currently has 249 active cases under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-shops-can-now-remain-till-9pm/articleshow/78004323.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bareilly||Family of five goes missing from village in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A missing person’s complaint was registered at Madhotanda police station on Tuesday morning, regarding a family from village Kesarpur Talluke Ananadpur comprising parents and their three sons, who have reportedly gone missing “mysteriously” since September 5. ASP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi and CO (Puranpur circle) Uttam Singh rushed to the village on getting the information, and deployed police teams to track the family. Malkhan Singh of the same village informed police in writing on Tuesday that his brother Ramautar, along with wife Rekha Devi and three sons aged 16, 13 and 6 years respectively, had gone missing from their home, without informing any of their relatives. He also reported that Ramautar had left his house unlocked, and hadn’t even requested any relative to feed his two buffalos before leaving. His motorbike was also found parked in the verandah of his house. SP Jai Prakash Yadav said the circumstances in which the family had gone missing implied a conspiracy. Apprehending some mishap, police carried out intensive search for the family in the nearby agricultural fields and dense shrubs along the banks of an outlet canal of Sharda that flows next to the village, but without any success. Electronic surveillance of the mobile phone of one member of the missing family showed it was in use in Delhi, but police said they are yet to find out who the actual user of that phone is. SP Yadav said police was hopeful of resolving the case soon. In response to apprehensions that the case might involve human trafficking, he said it would not be wise to conclude anything on the basis of suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-of-five-goes-missing-from-village-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78001168.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||After long delay, govt advertises for chief, state information commissioners||Panaji: More than six months after the chief information commissioner (CIC) retired and two months after the state information commissioner (SIC) retired, the directorate of information and publicity has advertised for the two vacancies. The advertisement by the department of information and publicity comes days after a social activist knocked on the doors of the high court to expedite the process of appointing a new Lokayukta as the current Lokayukta justice P K Misra is due to retire on September 17. The two posts of state chief information commissioner and state information commissioner are being advertised at a fixed monthly salary of Rs 2.25 lakh each. The candidates have been requested to submit their applications by September 24. The last chief information commissioner Prashant Tendolkar retired in February and state information commissioner Juino De Souza retired in July. The commission is functioning with a single information commissioner Pratima Vernekar who will complete her term in December. The government has stated that the two posts are open to persons of eminence in public life with wide knowledge and experience in law, science and technology, social service, management, journalism, mass media or administration and governance. “The state chief information commissioner and state information commissioner shall not be a member of parliament or member of the legislature of any state or union territory as the case may be, or hold any other office of profit or remain connected with any political party or carry on any business or pursue any profession during the period he/she functions as state chief information commissioner or state information commissioner,” director of information and publicity Darshana Narulkar stated. Secretary of Goa RTI Forum Ganpat Kurtikar said, “In our opinion we think that there should only be one SIC and one CIC as an extra SIC would be a burden on the public exchequer. However their mere appointment would not be enough. Rather there should be more focus on speedy disposal through online process of filing RTI applications, appeal and second appeal disposal. Above all, section 4 of the RTI act is the most important section and the core of the Act which is not being implemented since the enactment of the Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-long-delay-govt-advertises-for-chief-state-information-commissioners/articleshow/78006439.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||Rise in elephant population at Bandipur Tiger Reserve||Mysuru: An internal census conducted by the officials of forest department at Bandipur Tiger Reserve indicates a rise in elephant population. According to the last national census conducted in 2016, the number of elephants was estimated to have crossed 1,600 at the tiger reserve. The latest survey indicates an increase in the number of elephants. The five-month long exercise to estimate the population of mega herbivores was done by examining stool samples of elephants. It involves studying the level of decay in elephant dung, which helps the foresters to determine the age, sex, herd count, its movement and other vital details of the pachyderms in the forest. The exercise, widely known as the ‘dung decay’ method, is considered more accurate than other practices. Under the experiment, piles of dung are marked at a location. During the time of the elephant estimation, it is seen how many dung piles remain. Finally, with the line transect method, observations are made following a set line (of 2 km) throughout the area being sampled for two a days month. As Bandipur and Nagarahole tiger reserves has the maximum elephant population in the country, a census to know their exact count was considered important to take up programmes for their conservation activities, said an official. The pandemic-induced lockdown came as a blessing in disguise for foresters to take up the census as the reserve remained closed for public. “We didn’t have the data of elephants. We were depending on the 2016 census data. THis will help us with elephant count to take up programmes in the reserve for their conservation,” said Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra. Balachandra said foresters must know the count in the reserve to take up initiatives to ensure food and water for the animals. “We have collected the details and will prepare a statistical analysis. The survey was done for the academic purpose. The data will be provided to the department to take up programmes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rise-in-elephant-population-at-bandipur-tiger-reserve/articleshow/78003591.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||Shivarajkumar fans adopt animals||Mysuru: After Kannada film actor Shivarajkumar adopted zoo animals, his fans have also started adopting animals. Dr Shivarajkumar Fans Club has adopted peacocks, rhesus monkeys, macaques, mandarin ducks, four-horned antelope and other animals for a period of one year, after making a payment of Rs 89,000, stated a release from the Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens of Mysuru. The executive director of the zoo thanked the fans of the actor and also corporate bodies, charitable institutions, politicians, animal lovers, yoga exponents and animal lovers for taking care of the zoo animals under the adoption scheme. Shivarajkumar has adopted an Asiatic elephant in the zoo for a year. The actor adopted Parvathi after paying adoption fees of Rs 75,000 under the scheme.. Shivarajkumar is not the first Sandalwood star to have adopted a zoo animal. Actors Darshan and Chikkanna and cricketers including M S Dhoni, Zaheer Khan, Javagal Srinath and Anil Kumble are among those who have adopted animals here. Apart from prominent mutts like Suttur Mutt, political leaders including chief minister B S Yeddyurappa, district minister S T Somashekhar, minister Byrathi Basavaraju and KPCC president D K Shivakumar have also adopted animals at the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/shivarajkumar-fans-adopt-animals/articleshow/78002524.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Trichy||Water taken from Trichy canal for quality check||Trichy: The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has collected water samples from the Uyyakondan canal in Trichy to check its quality, following a Madras high court direction seeking a status report on the pollution in the canal. A team of officials from the district administration, Trichy Corporation and TNPCB, led by Trichy district environmental engineer, R Lakshmi took water samples from 12 spots in the city. These places include the stretch behind Ayyappan temple, Alwarthope and Palakkarai where not only effluent is discharged into the canal, but waste is also dumped resulting in pollution of the water body. “Even though the corporation has been taking steps to avoid pollution of the canal, we have suggested corrective steps like de-weeding to be taken up immediately by the PWD and the civic body,” said a senior TNPCB official. The water samples will be taken again after a week from these spots to check if the level of pollution has come down, said the official. A distributary of Cauvery river, the 69km-long Uyyakondan canal originates from Pettaivaithalai and ends in Valavanthankottai of which 9km passes through Trichy city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/water-taken-from-trichy-canal-for-quality-check/articleshow/78006361.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||1.4kg ganja seized in Hubballi, 4 held||Hubballi: Hubballi-Dharwad police seized ganja for the sixth consecutive day on Monday. In two separate incidents, police seized 1,436 grams of ganja and arrested four accused. In the first incident, Keshwapur police arrested three persons who were trying to sell the contraband near railway overbridge on Gadag Road and seized 600 grams of ganja worth Rs 6,000. The arrested are Yashwant Munigate, 22, a resident of Gandhiwada, Prashant Vade Lazrus Bappore, 22, an ITI student and a resident of Pacific Park, Nelson Yohana Maila, 24, involved in catering and a resident of Chalukya Nagar. In the second incident, Gokul Road police seized 836 grams of ganja from a man who was selling it near Tarihal Bypass. The arrested is Imamhusen Davalsab Bijapur, 55, a shepherd from Tarihal village. Police said they are searching for another accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1-4kg-ganja-seized-in-hubballi-4-held/articleshow/78003835.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Pajrapole owners let loose 20K bovine to protest govt apathy||Palanpur: The trustees of about 150 panjrapoles (cattle shelters) in Banaskantha district are up in arms against the state government for not providing fund for maintaining the bovine.The authorities of these shelters on Tuesday let loose over 20,000 bovine on the roads to protest against the government’s apathy. Even the district administration was ready to deal with the situation and had deployed police at the entrance of panjrapoles to prevent the trustees from releasing the animals on the road. But many bovines were set loose before the cops could arrive on Tuesday morning.There are about 154 panjrapols in Banaskantha maintaining 1 lakh bovine.Banaskantha Panjrapols Association’s president Bharat Kothari of Raipur Panjrapole in Deesa said, “Government gives us grant at the rate of Rs 25 per bovine. However, it has stopped since June. Now it is September and we don’t have funds to maintain such a huge number of animals.”The state government in March had promised to continue the grant until the pandemics ends, but we have not received anything since June, he added.Kothari said that 10 days back, five representatives of different panjrapols of Ahmedabad, Morbi, Idar and Banaskantha were called by chief minister Vijay Rupani and assured that the aid will continue, but nothing has been done. “Banaskantha has the highest number of panjrapoles in the state. These shelters at Deesa, Kankrej, Lakhni, Vav, Tharad, Dahnera and Bhabhar have 1 lakh bovine population, most of which are bulls, sick cows and buffalo.“If the same trend if continues, the bovine will die of starvation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pajrapole-owners-let-loose-20k-bovine-to-protest-govt-apathy/articleshow/78004320.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Devesh Pandey new DCP west||Lucknow: The state government transferred six IPS officers on Tuesday. Devesh Pandey, who was posted as SP Armed Training Centre in Sitapur, is new deputy commissioner of police, west zone, Lucknow. He replaces Sarvashresth Tripathi who has been made the new SSP Prayagraj. SP GRP in Gorakhpur, Pushpanjali Devi, against whom CBI has recommended action in Sengar case, has been made DIG GRP in Lucknow. In other transfers, Manoj Kumar who was posted as DIG PAC 11th battalion in Sitapur was shifted to Lucknow PAC in the same capacity. Ganga Nath Tripathi, DIG intelligence of Gorakhpur range, is new DIG anti-corruption organisation. SP vigilance Akhilesh Nigam has been made SP Special Investigation Team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/devesh-pandey-new-dcp-west/articleshow/78006375.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Traffic cops won’t issue fine for spitting, mask violations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The traffic police will no longer book people for not wearing a mask or spitting in public, focusing instead on traffic management and traffic violations due to the sudden spurt in the vehicular volume after Delhi Metro resumed services from Monday. A traffic officer said on Tuesday that an order of the police headquarters put the onus of managing the Covid-19 norms to the local police. So far, Delhi Police has fined over 27,000 people for not wearing masks and over 3,000 for spitting in public areas. In an order issued by the deputy commissioner of police, traffic (headquarters), it has been decided that the traffic police would not haul up people found violating the face mask rule or or spotted spitting in public. “All Covid-related challan books issued to traffic ranges are to be returned immediately to the stationery-in-charge by September 7 for onward transmission to C&T branch,” the order signed by the DCP said. The order came into immediate effect and a wireless message on the implementation was also sent to all zonal heads and traffic inspectors. The new operational change was made in consideration of the increase in the volume of traffic in the last few weeks. The re-opening of Delhi Metro on Monday also indicated an increase in the vehicular movement. “During the peak hours, traffic regulation is more important because even emergency vehicles occasionally get stuck in the jams. In such cases, stopping cars for violating mask and spitting rules only disrupts the traffic flow and causes further snarls,” explained a traffic officer. “This is why it was decided that the traffic police would focus on regulation of vehicular movement and leave the Covid violations to the local police.” So far, Delhi Police has issued 27,71,31 challans for mask violation and 2,434 for spitting in public places. Recently, several people had taken to Twitter and complained about traffic police booking them for not wearing a mask even when they were the sole occupants of the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traffic-cops-wont-issue-fine-for-spitting-mask-violations/articleshow/78005577.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: KT Rama Rao, Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka spar over ‘humiliation’||HYDERABAD: IT minister KT Rama Rao was involved in a heated argument with CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka in the assembly during the resolution on former PM PV Narasimha Rao. While Vikramarka said the Congress members were being humiliated and insulted in the House, KTR said no member was humiliating the Congress but it was the people who had rejected them at the hustings. KTR asked the CLP leader to apologise to speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy when Vikramarka said the chair was humiliating him by not giving him an opportunity to speak on the resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for Rao. “You cannot pass such remarks at the chair. You were given time to speak for one minute as per your party’s strength in the House. You withdraw your comments against the speaker. He did not humiliate you, but people have,” KTR told the CLP leader while addressing the House. Earlier, expressing serious displeasure over Srinivas Reddy’s prodding, Vikramarka said: “We are speaking in honor of the former prime minister but we are not given an opportunity.” As he was speaking, Srivivas Reddy asked him to conclude his speech immediately as he was going beyond the stipulated time of one minute. Vikramarka said Rao was a great philosopher and a visionary like Chanakya. “Rao was instrumental in setting up institutions like National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), National Commission for Women (NCW), and providing reservations for physically challenged.” He also said that the National Backward Development Corporation (NBDC) was incorporated during Rao’s regime. Vikramarka also hailed Rao’s ‘look east’ policy. “Because of his vision, India’s commercial ties with several Asian countries had improved and bonding with Israel had also improved,” he said. TRS members who also spoke on the resolution, however, pooh-poohed his claims saying the Congress did not show any respect to Rao. “The grand old party did not even allow his last rites to be performed in a honorable manner in Delhi and rushed his body to Hyderabad,” the MLAs complained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-bhatti-spar-over-humiliation/articleshow/78005526.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab invites application for scholarships||Chandigarh: Punjab’s department of social justice, empowerment and minorities has invited online applications from eligible students for pre-matric, post-matric and merit-cum-means based scholarships for youth from minorities in the state. Disclosing this here on Tuesday, a department spokesperson said the youth belonging to Sikh, Muslim, Buddhist, Parsi Jain and Christian communities could avail the benefits of these schemes for year 2020-2021. New applicants and candidates for renewal of scholarships under these 100% centrally sponsored schemes can apply till October 31. Only those students who are studying in government or recognised private university/institution, colleges/schools can apply and should have secured at least 50% marks in the previous examination, he added. Students can apply online at www.scholarships.gov.in or www.minorityaffairs.gov.in website links or through National Scholarship App on mobile. The spokesperson clarified that the details of the same bank account should be entered on the student portal which is in working condition so that there would be no hindrance in the payment of scholarship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-invites-application-for-scholarships/articleshow/78005547.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Excise department suggests reopening of bars||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The excise department has suggested that the government could consider reopening the bar hotels across the state in the wake of unlock 4.0 opening most of the sectors and many states reopening the bars. Excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan is learnt to have said that the government can consider the proposal to reopen the bar hotels by adhering to Covid-19 protocol, including reduced seating arrangements by increasing the distance between individuals, frequent disinfection of the bars and the premises, etc. Excise minister T P Ramakrishnan is considering the suggestion, it is learnt. Once the proposal is formalized, the matter would be taken to the chief minister for final decision. The proposal from the excise department has originated in the wake of several states, including Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal, reopening the bar hotels. The present system of take-home sales using token system has been causing heavy inconvenience to the sellers besides affecting the revenue of Bevco. After all the bar hotels and Bevco outlets were shut down in March as part of the nationwide lockdown, the government had in May amended the foreign liquor amendment rules so as to legalise the sale of liquor as take-home parcels from the bar hotels and beer and wine parlours. The amendment said that the government can allow FL-3 licence holders as well as FL-11 licence holders to vend foreign liquor as well as beer and wine to eligible persons, by opening separate counters in the licensed premises. The sale can be conducted for such a period as prescribed by the government, during such a period when the premises cannot be opened for serving liquor. Till then, there was no provision in the foreign liquor rules to allow FL-3 and FL-11 licensees to vend liquor outside their premises, even in such emergency conditions when the premises cannot be kept open for sales. Under normal circumstances, liquor and beer and wine can be sold in hotels with FL-3 and FL-11 licences, respectively, in places either earmarked specifically for drinking or in the restaurants or pool-side, but with the condition that it should be consumed within the premises itself. After putting in the amendment, through an executive order, the government had allowed the FL-3 and FL-11 licence holders to sell liquor outside their premises. Once the latest proposal is agreed to, and the government decides to reopen the bar hotels for regular sale, the government is likely to withdraw the take-away sales, sources said. There are 301 beverages corporation and Consumerfed outlets, 600-plus bar hotels and 359 beer and wine parlours in the state at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/excise-dept-suggests-reopening-of-bars/articleshow/78004370.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bareilly||35-year-old woman run over by speeding car, driver booked||PILIBHIT: A 35-year-old woman, identified as Bela Devi of Auriya village under Neuria police station, was run over by a speeding car on the Bhind-Lipulekh highway near her village on Monday evening. The woman was admitted to a government hospital in Neuria, where she succumbed to her injuries. The body was sent for autopsy. The victim’s brother-in-law Puran Lal said she was on her way home with fodder when the accident took place. The car driver fled the scene leaving the critically injured woman on the road, he added. SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said an FIR was registered against the unidentified car driver under sections 304A (death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-year-old-woman-run-over-by-speeding-car-driver-booked/articleshow/78002102.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Rajkot||Mask-less Gujarat principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi’s video goes viral, netizens want her ‘fined’||RAJKOT: A video of principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi has gone viral on social media platforms showing the top official moving around without wearing a mask in the premises of the circuit house while talking over the phone and taking her morning walk. Ravi who has been camping in Rajkot for the past few days to control the sudden spike in Covid infection in the city has been continuously advocating wearing of masks. A video of principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi has gone viral on social media platforms showing the top officia… https://t.co/zM6r2L4k5j— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1599623402000However, frustrated by strict mask rules and high penalty for common people the netizens burst out on social media after the video went viral, making memes and asking the police and the civic body to fine Ravi too. Netizens decried Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials for collecting fines from people found not wearing masks in restaurants while waiting for food. Rajkot police commisioner Manoj Agarwal could not be contacted for his comment. Be that as it may, the union ministry of health and family welfare had made masks mandatory for all personnel working in infective environment or in public places during the outbreak of the pandemic. The Gujarat government too made a small relaxation in the mask rule in a notification issued on June 27, 2020 by the state home department exempting a lone person occupying a car from wearing mask while driving the car. Even WHO’s revised guidelines suggests that everyone should wear fabric masks (non-medical) in public. Watch Mask-less Gujarat principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi’s video goes viral, netizens want her ‘fined’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mask-less-ravis-video-goes-viral-netizens-want-her-fined/articleshow/78004379.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Residents scramble for Covid tests after taking ill due to impure water||NAGPUR: Panic gripped many areas in West Nagpur after hundreds of residents from Bharat Nagar, Hindustan Colony, Pankaj Nagar and Himalaya Valley allegedly fell sick due to vomiting and diarrhoea. Fearing Covid-19 symptoms, many residents got themselves tested. Fortunately their report came negative. “Over hundreds of residents allegedly fell sick due to contaminated water being supplied to the locality. Doctors from the area too confirmed rise in cases of vomiting and diarrhoea. Residents have been receiving contaminated water since last 10-12 days, the Orange City Water has collected the water samples,” said local corporator Varsha Thakre. Due to contaminated water, around 20 families in Himalaya Valley suffered from constipation, diarrhoea, vomiting and stomach pain in last 10-12 days. Chartered accountant Piyush Daga, a resident of Himalaya Valley, said, “Due to impure water, my mother got so sick that doctor advised her to get tested for Covid-19, which came negative though.” Another woman resident of the society too was advised to go for Covid-19 test, after she developed constipation and fever. “Thankfully my antigen and RT-PCR tests came negative. A peculiar smell emanated from the drinking water as a result of which my two kids got diarrhoea,” she said. Pankaj Nagar resident Rohit Pagare said, “Two members of my family are suffering from diarrhoea for last one week.” Thakre said, “I visited several houses but didn’t find the water muddy or stinking. OCW had collected sample on Monday and the first report says there was no bacteria in it. Still, some more tests need to be done to ascertain why so many people fell sick.” A team of OCW and NMC visited the area on Tuesday. An accompanying NMC engineer said, “Major reason is internal contamination due to uncleaned sump of society since long. But we will also check the quality of water at distribution main.” But many residents countered the point by saying, “That’s the case of just one society. What about those from Pankaj Nagar, Bharat Nagar, Hindustan Colony falling sick?” Report from fresh samples will make the picture clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/residents-scramble-for-covid-tests-after-taking-ill-due-to-impure-water/articleshow/78005568.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Weekend sees huge rise in footfall at Mangaluru beaches||MANGALURU: Panambur and Tannirbavi, major weekend holiday destinations in the coastal city, have been seeing an increase in footfall ever since lockdown restrictions were lifted. More than 20,000 people visited Panambur beach on Sunday, while Tannirbavi beach is also gradually getting back to its pre-pandemic glory, with people visiting in large numbers. However, authorities at both tourist destinations are yet to commence recreational activities like boating, jet skiing, horse riding and beach games. Yathish Baikampady, CEO, Panambur Beach Development Project (PBDP), said people began visiting the beach soon after the central and state governments relaxed lockdown norms. “Sunday’s footfall equals the average footfall we had during the same time last year,” Baikampady said. “We expect more people to visit, especially on weekends, since most people want to go out after being cooped up at home for such a long period during the lockdown. Beaches are safe outing places as it is possible for people to follow social distancing norms.” On relaunching various recreations and beach activities, Baikampady said, “We have not commenced any activities yet. Beach tourism is picking up and we have to prepare to commence all beach activities.” Meanwhile, K Padmanabha Panikkar, manager, Tannirbavi Beach, said tourists, especially those from coastal districts, have started visiting the beach after a gap of nearly five months. “During the lockdown, we blocked entrances of two stretches of Tannirbavi beach to prevent crowds,” Panikkar said. “Recently, people, especially groups of families and friends, have started visiting. However, footfall is far lower than previous years. We have been developing infrastructure and preparing to commence all beach activities. We will begin all activities soon as the government issues guidelines.” He went on to say, “We have displayed notices at the entrances warning people not to enter without face mask.” Idya Beach near Surathkal that was developed by local youths by providing basic infrastructure during the lockdown, also has been witnessing an increase in visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/weekend-sees-huge-rise-in-footfall-at-mangaluru-beaches/articleshow/78003416.cms||Vinobha K T
September 9, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Tomb of Maharaja Duleep Singh’s relative collapses||AMRITSAR: The samadh (tomb) of either Thakar Singh Sandhawalia, cousin of Maharaja Duleep Singh (youngest son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh), or Shamsher Singh Sandhawalia collapsed on Tuesday. Sandeep Singh Sukerchakia, who claims to be the descendant from the royal family of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, said, “The samadh was of Shamsher Singh Sandhawalia. It is not clear that the samadh was destroyed purposely or it fell due to its poor condition. I wish to specify that it happened due to the negligence of the Punjab government since the department concerned never took any interest in its maintenance.” On the other hand, Sukhdev Singh Sandhawalia, also from the royal lineage, said the samadh that collapsed on Tuesday was of Thakur Singh Sandhawalia, which was in a dilapidated condition. “The family and biradari will hold a meeting to decide whether to repair it or build a new one,” he said. Sukhdev claimed that Thakar Singh Sandhawalia was the prime minister in the government-in-exile of Maharaja Duleep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/tomb-of-maharaja-duleep-singhs-relative-collapses/articleshow/78008791.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Tomb of Maharaja Duleep Singh’s relative collapses||AMRITSAR: The samadh (tomb) of either Thakar Singh Sandhawalia, cousin of Maharaja Duleep Singh (youngest son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh), or Shamsher Singh Sandhawalia collapsed on Tuesday. Sandeep Singh Sukerchakia, who claims to be the descendant from the royal family of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, said, “The samadh was of Shamsher Singh Sandhawalia. It is not clear that the samadh was destroyed purposely or it fell due to its poor condition. I wish to specify that it happened due to the negligence of the Punjab government since the department concerned never took any interest in its maintenance.” On the other hand, Sukhdev Singh Sandhawalia, also from the royal lineage, said the samadh that collapsed on Tuesday was of Thakur Singh Sandhawalia, which was in a dilapidated condition. “The family and biradari will hold a meeting to decide whether to repair it or build a new one,” he said. Sukhdev claimed that Thakar Singh Sandhawalia was the prime minister in the government-in-exile of Maharaja Duleep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tomb-of-maharaja-duleep-singhs-relative-collapses/articleshow/78005592.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Staff at small hosps safe: IMA study||KOCHI: With Covid cases increasing, the risk of infection amongst health workers is really high, especially in non-Covid hospitals. However, a study by Indian Medical Association (IMA) as part of its I Safe Model network shows that only 4% hospitals are affected. In 96% small and medium hospitals where the project was implemented, none of the staff have so far tested Covid positive. IMA developed the I Safe Model for infection control and training, especially in small and medium hospitals, on realising that during the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, nearly 50% of private hospitals were closed due to fear of the pandemic. IMA survey showed that 52% small and medium hospitals in the state were closed for a month or more, 17% were closed for three weeks, 20% for two weeks and 11% for a week. However, adequate infection-control measures have now ensured that despite the state seeing a Covid peak, more than 96% of small and medium medical institutions in the state are functional. “Though there is an increase in infection rate amongst health workers, more than 96% of the institutions in the network did not have any staff diagnosed with Covid so far. IMA has been providing logistics, training and updating the member hospitals, thereby enabling safe and continued medical practice during the challenging time of Covid-19,” said Dr Sreejith N Kumar, chairman, I Safe project. The state has almost three times the number of clinics and hospitals in private sector compared to government sector. As part of the project, small and medium hospitals – mostly small (OP alone) and medium institutions (up to 20 beds) – were provided infection-control training via videoconferencing. Since April, about 1,080 hospitals have been provided with infection-control kits comprising sanitiser, disinfectant, soaps solution, masks, face shield and gloves. At present, 769 institutions are part of the I Safe Model network, with more hospitals especially in the suburbs and villages. More than 50% have only 1 to 5 staff members, a fifth have two doctors and rest have only one doctor. “This initiative was started to boost the morale of small and medium hospitals which were closed during the lockdown period. Awareness has helped in infection control. Masks, social distancing and consultancy only by appointment have become the norm and these measures need to be followed for a longer period,” said IMA Kerala president Dr Abraham Varghese. Dr Sreejith added that this model can be easily replicated in all institutions, resident associations and self-help groups and will help to control the spread of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/staff-at-small-hosps-safe-ima-study/articleshow/78004431.cms||Preetu Nair
September 9, 2020||Bareilly||Two minor girls drown in Ramganga river in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Two minor girls drowned in Ramganga river in Ahmed Nagar Jaitwada village, Moradabad, while collecting fodder for their cattle from the adjacent field. The incident occurred on Tuesday around 9 am. While one of the girls slipped into the river, the other one, in a bid to save her friend, too, drowned in the river. A joint team of police and the National Disaster Response Force reached the spot, but they have been unable to trace the drowned girls. The deceased have been identified as Roopa (9) and her friend Shivani (11)—both of their fathers are farmers from Ahmed Nagar Jaitwada village. SHO Kundarki, Sandeep Kumar said, “Heavy police force has been deputed in the area while senior officials, including SDM Prabudh Kunar and CO Mahendra Kumar, among others, have also rushed to the spot. The search operation is still underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-minor-girls-drown-in-ramganga-river-in-moradabad/articleshow/78002121.cms||Maria Khan
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP & Cong oppose scrapping VRO system||Hyderabad: Opposition parties, including BJP and Congress, strongly denounced the scrapping of the Village Revenue officers (VROs) system in the state and termed it as a unilateral decision of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government. The proposed new Revenue Act is also being brought without consulting any of the opposition parties and other stakeholders, they said. BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao said that when making sweeping changes to an institutional framework, the best practice is to initiate thorough discussions with stakeholders, opposition parties and intellectuals through due process. Stating that KCR is trying to outsmart NTR’s reforms in revenue system, but only with a personal political agenda, the BJP demanded reconsideration of these hasty decisions by KCR-government. Bhatti Vikramarka, Congress floor leader in the Assembly, said the KCR-government should have consulted the Congress, other opposition parties and all the stakeholders on VROs and other provisions of the proposed new Revenue Act. BJP demanded that an expert committee be set up for studying the intended systemic changes to the revenue system||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-cong-oppose-scrapping-vro-system/articleshow/78005603.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Excise department teams to check compliance with norms in bars, hotels||NEW DELHI: The excise department is going to deploy multiple teams to check compliance of Covid-19 guidelines in restaurants, clubs and hotels that have been allowed to serve liquor to guests from Wednesday after nearly six months of suspension due to the pandemic. Delhi has around 900 bars, including those located inside hotels. The government has allowed resumption of the services on a trial basis from September 9 to 30. However, no establishment within a containment zone would be allowed to operate. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar Mishra said that the excise department’s enforcement teams would visit different places to ensure that the standard operating procedures (SOP) were religiously followed. “We have enough teams for ensuring compliance of the SOPs. If required, the number of teams will be increased,” he added. The SOPs require social distancing and wearing of masks by guests (if not consuming liquor), serving staff must mandatorily wear masks and gloves at all times and there must be a distance of six feet between two tables. The premises must be sanitised regularly and all guests must be screened for symptoms upon entry. Bars bring more revenue for the government than liquor vends. Besides the 10% excise duty, the government collects 25% VAT on liquor sold in such establishments. The VAT on liquor was raised from 20% to 25% in June to increase revenue collection. “The onus is completely on the licensees to comply with the SOPs issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority. Failure to comply with the guidelines may result in cancellation of the licence. The owners of entities violating the norms will also face charges under Disaster Management Act,” said an official. A final decision on extending the service would be taken based on the functioning of the establishments during the trial period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/excise-dept-teams-to-check-compliance-with-norms-in-bars-hotels/articleshow/78005612.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||IMA to protest govt’s decision to fix Covid treatment rate||NAGPUR: Maharashtra government’s decision to fix Covid-19 treatment rates across all hospitals hasn’t gone down well with Indian Medical Association (IMA). Terming it as a “unilateral one”, the apex body has decided to protest against the government’s move from Thursday. All its branches would be holding a peaceful protest in front of offices of administrative officers, including the collectors and municipal commissioners, in their respective regions against the injustice meted out to doctors. The decision in this regard was taken during IMA’s emergency state council meeting on September 4 where a resolution was unanimously approved to reject the government’s August 31 circular for fixing rates. “The treatment rates at Covid hospitals were fixed up unilaterally without discussing it with the doctors or hospital bodies, on whether they’re affordable or not. Many private hospitals are on verge of closure on account of severe financial constraints. We condemn the government’s undemocratic behaviour,” IMA President Dr Avinash Bhondwe said, adding that around 45,000 doctors from all 216 branches will participate in the protests. The IMA chief in a press release clarified that the hospitals were finding it difficult to meet the cost of oxygen, PPE kits, biomedical waste charges, staff salaries, disinfection at current rates set for hospital ICUs and others. “Out of 25,000 hospitals in Maharashtra, most are on verge shutting down operations. The health minister had decided to convene a meeting with IMA representatives before August 31, to discuss a hike. However, without discussions, the health secretary issued a circular to maintain rates and added more items in it to make it more unaffordable,” Bhondwe said, adding that all doctors were being treated like criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-to-protest-govts-decision-to-fix-covid-treatment-rate-for-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78005599.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Last day to register for admissions to polytechnics today||Nagpur: Last date to apply for admissions to the three-year diploma in polytechnic colleges is September 10. The three-year diploma course in engineering and technology is run by polytechnic colleges in Maharashtra state. Ram Nibude, joint director, regional office, Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), addressed the media and said that an important change had been put in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year’s unique feature of the admission process for the first year diploma course is that ‘e-scrutiny format” for submitting application has been made available due to Covid-19 pandemic. This was the initiative of DTE director Abhay Wagh, who along with his IT cell created the facility for students to fill up the application form from home. In addition to e-scrutiny, the facility for filling up the application form for admission physically in person at Facilitation Centre (FC) is also available like last year. It is noteworthy that e-scrutiny method has been adopted by most of the students to register all the certificates along with the application this year, added Deepak Kulkarni, in charge principal of Government Polytechnic. Every year for first year BTech admissions in IIT, IIIT, NIT and for similar national level engineering institutes, students have the option after 12th through JEE and CET examinations. This year a total of 9,21,261 students have registered for JEE 2020 at the national level. There are 17,627 seats available for the first year degree BTech course in IIT, IIIT. 19,239 seats are available in the first year in NIT. That means a total of 36,866 seats are available to students for IIT + IIIT + NIT. “According to the statistics 96% per cent students may not get admission in first year BTech even after passing JEE and CET,” as per a statement issued by the college. Kulkarni added that through polytechnic diploma, students can directly get admission in second year of engineering degree course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/last-day-to-register-for-admissions-to-polytechnics-today/articleshow/78023447.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Akalis seek CBI probe in SC scam||Chandigarh: Youth Akali Dal (YAD) members demanded a CBI inquiry and custodial interrogation of former social welfare director-turned-Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal to uncover the alleged money trail and receipt of bribes by the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and the party high command. The youth wing of Akali Dal announced that it would intensify its agitation against perpetrators of the SC scholarship scam, including SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and the Congress legislator. YAD president Parambans Singh Romana said it was clear after Dhaliwal’s indictment in the case of wrongful distribution of Rs 16.91 crore to private educational institutions that the officer had purchased the Congress ticket for Phagwara assembly byelection last year. “Dhaliwal came out of the blue to emerge as a dark horse after resigning days before being given the party ticket from Phagwara after ignoring senior Congress leaders, including former minister Joginder Singh Mann. The only reason for this is that he had immense funds at his disposal after swindling money due to Dalit students,” he alleged. The YAD president also demanded immediate winding up of the “sham” committee formed by the chief minister to probe the SC scholarship scam. He said the committee had lost all relevance after it was conclusively proven by the report of the additional chief secretary that SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was the kingpin behind the Rs 63 crore scam and that Dhaliwal had assisted him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akalis-seek-cbi-probe-in-sc-scam/articleshow/78005601.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Day 2 of new normal: Slight uptick in Delhi Metro’s ridership||NEW DELHI: After a largely muted Day 1, Delhi Metro saw a marginal increase in the footfall on Tuesday. Approximately 8,300 commuters travelled by Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-Huda City Centre) between 7am and 11am on Tuesday against 7,500 during the same period on Monday. By the time the evening service of 4pm to 8pm came to close, the combined number of commuters on Yellow Line and Rapid Metro in Gurgaon on Tuesday stood at approximately 17,600 against 15,500 on Monday. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resumed its services after 169 days on Monday as part of a graded resumption plan and on Monday and Tuesday, only Yellow Line and Rapid Metro were operational for four hours each in the morning and evening peak hours. With the Blue (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and Pink (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) lines reopening on Wednesday, DMRC expects the footfall to rise substantially. On Monday, a few passengers were found to be unaware that tokens are not being issued any more and bought smart cards and total 1,115 smart cards were sold at different Metro stations and on Tuesday too, around 1,200 smart cards were sold. DMRC said the operations on both days were smooth as its officials, apart from Central Industrial Security Force personnel, got complete cooperation from commuters who availed the services for the first time in over five months with all new norms of Metro travel in place owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Arrangements are in place to ensure commuters don’t face any hassle and their travel is completely safe in the coming days too as more corridors open and the service timings get extended, an official said. At stations, DMRC has arranged for sanitisation booths at multiple spots, right from the entrance to the time when one enters a train, where all seats are sanitised after short intervals. Thermal screening and hand sanitisation of all passengers are being carried out at entry and frisking points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-2-of-new-normal-slight-uptick-in-metros-ridership/articleshow/78005609.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Doctor’s note not needed in Haryana||GURUGRAM: Days after the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) issued an advisory to states, the Haryana government on Tuesday allowed ‘on-demand’ Covid-19 tests, which can be held without a doctor’s prescription or symptoms. People can now get their samples collected at home or visit a lab or hospital — government or private — for the purpose. The decision came on a day when both the Delhi and UP governments similarly eased testing protocols. All three states have seen a recent surge in Covid cases. Haryana has been adding more than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases daily since the last two days. Last week, it added 13,267 new cases, the highest weekly spike so far. The move is expected to help isolate asymptomatic cases, as well as give some relief to people required to produce Covid-negative reports. The test will focus on three categories — neonate with respiratory illness, patients with atypical manifestations and travel, according to the order released by Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services. In Gurugram, on-demand tests were allowed only in containment zones till now. The health department said it plans to increase sample collection from 2,000 to 3,000 per day. “We have increased RT-PCR testing in the past one week and are conducting a 60:40 ratio for RT-PCR and antigen tests,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. So far, the state has carried out more than 13 lakh tests out of which 78,773 have been positive. From August 2 till September 6, the number of weekly tests has gone up by 66%. In the week ending August 2, Haryana added 5,187 cases and conducted 86,960 tests. Next week, it saw 5,116 new cases and carried out 86,131 tests. Between August 10 and 16, there were 5,518 cases and 90,477 tests were held. The following week, the tally and the testing went up again — 7,233 cases were reported and 1,09,540 tests were conducted. In the week ending August 30, a total of 8,896 cases were added and 1,91,886 tests held. Between August 31 and September 6, a total of 13,267 cases were added to Haryana’s tally and 1,44,472 tests were conducted. With the cases rising, health experts said that the only way forward is to increase the testing process and ensure timely treatment. “The surge in cases is because people are entering from different states and aren’t maintaining social distancing norms or wearing masks properly. It is important to conduct more tests and isolate people at the earliest,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana and head of department, pulmonary and critical care, PGIMS Rohtak. He added that a meeting with the Gurugram team was held, following which a decision was taken to strengthen surveillance, testing, contact tracing, isolation and treatment. “There is emphasis on enforcement of measures like masks and social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-icmr-prod-hry-allows-on-demand-covid-tests-no-need-for-prescription-now/articleshow/78005623.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Youth drowns in bid to nab sis’ kidnapper||LUCKNOW: A youth drowned while trying to nab the alleged kidnapper of his minor sister in Sitapur on Monday evening. Police said some villagers in Rampur Mathura police station area saw a girl being held forcefully by a man and informed her family which immediately rushed to her rescue. On seeing the family rushing in, the man jumped into a river and the girl’s brother followed to nab him. The alleged kidnapper managed to swim across and escape, but the youth drowned and his body was fished out of the river by police late on Tuesday night. SHO, Rampur Mathura, Suresh Mishra, however, said that the girl was in love with a man of another village and villagers had often spotted them together and objected. “On Monday around 3pm, the villagers again saw them together and raised an alarm. Someone informed her parents that she was being abducted,” said Mishra. The girl’s brother jumped into the river while chasing the man and drowned, the SHO added. (The identities have not been revealed as the girl is a minor)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-drowns-in-bid-to-nab-sis-kidnapper/articleshow/78006393.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||COA blames network, power issues for NATA exam glitches||Kochi: The Council of Architecture (COA) has blamed “poor connectivity and power disruptions” at students’ and exam centres’ end for the glitches in the national aptitude test in architecture (NATA). It has announced a re-test for some of the genuine cases (without any fees) as a one-time measure. A total of 30,245 candidates applied for the first test. The test was conducted at 218 centres across the country on August 29 and 13,245 appeared for the test at the designated test centres and 9,598 candidates appeared from the home. Of the 22,843 candidates who wrote NATA for admission to five-year BArch degree course in the country, 19,079 have qualified. A total of 357 home-based test (HBT) candidates were found prima facie using unfair means and their results have been withheld. Students who could not appear for the first test or want to improve their scores can apply for a second one on September 12 which will be conducted in home-based (HBT) and centre-based (CBT) test modes. While most students are appearing for the second test on September 12, some of the candidates have been told that there would be a re-test on the same day itself. However, COA’s statement that poor connectivity and power issues disrupted the examination has not gone well with many parents, including NRIs, who say that they have the best connectivity and don’t have any power cuts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/coa-blames-network-power-issues-for-nata-exam-glitches/articleshow/78004453.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||Push for new civic body for eastern parts||Pune: The demand for a separate civic body for the eastern parts of the city is gaining momentum again with the local body polls in sight and 23 villages set to be added in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, five years after the proposal was floated. Shrirang Chavan, the president of Haveli Taluka Nagari Kruti Samiti — a citizens’ committee pressing for the merger of the remaining villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits as the deadline is drawing closer — told TOI that the management of the newly merged villages would be proper if two municipal corporations were formed. “The east and west side villages should be bifurcated for their management. Two separate municipal corporations have to be formed so that the newly merged villages can be accommodated based on geographical boundaries,” he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had mooted the idea of the second civic body five years ago. But it has remained confined to paper so far. The state government had given an affidavit in the Bombay high court in 2017 that it would complete the formalities of merging 34 villages in three years. The process of adding 11 villages in the PMC limits was carried out in September-October 2017. “The issue was discussed in our meeting a few days ago. Currently, the priority is dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. The other decision will be taken at an appropriate time,” said Chetan Tupe, the city unit chief of the NCP. The PMC, one of biggest municipal corporations in the state, has around 332sqkm areas under its jurisdiction. Its area is likely to increase by around 100sqkm with the addition of 23 more villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/push-for-new-civic-body-for-eastern-parts/articleshow/78004448.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Fatigue haunts Corona patients even six weeks after recovery||Bhopal: It can be tough to get back on one’s feet post recovery from Covid-19. It includes some youngsters, who are still finding it tough to get back to normal, as the ‘new normal’ takes a toll on most of us.“Fatigue is my worst enemy. I walk about 100 metres and have issues in walking faster. I can walk, but it takes some effort,” said a 35-year-old Sameer (name changed), who is in his sixth week of Covid recovery. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier in July. Nearly 60% of the patients involved in the study also admitted to suffering from fatigue, lethargy, tiredness in the weeks following recovery, going by some international papers on the issue. The long term damage of the virus infection is yet to be fully understood. “At first, I assumed it to be a psychological thing. I had never been hospitalised. The stress gets to my wife and children, too,” Sameer said. He strongly advises the need for social distancing and wearing protective gear. “I wore a single mask. Put it off and on, during my business day. It was not the best way to keep myself safe. Thankfully, my family did not get infected. I recovered in 10 days, but the after-effects are a reminder to everyone to take the infection seriously,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fatigue-haunts-corona-patients-even-six-weeks-after-recovery/articleshow/78005619.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||IAS officers to oversee bed management, services at GMCH, Mayo||NAGPUR: The state government has appointed IAS officer Bhagyashree Vispute in charge of Covid-19 War Room of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to oversee management of beds and other services. Similarly, another IAS officer is likely to be appointed for the War Room at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) soon. Guardian minister Nitin Raut told TOI, “The step is part of the process to develop Centralized Admission System (CAS) for making available beds and treatment to all Covid-19 positive patients. Earlier, dean, medical superintendents and doctors of GMCH and IGGMCH were engaged in management of beds and administrative system. Actually, they should concentrate more on clinical management so IAS officials have been appointed.” Raut had already appointed four IAS officials for 8 zones of NMC to oversee Covid-19 works, and one more is likely to be roped in for remaining two zones. “Five IPS officers will also be appointed along with IAS officials. My motive is to control deaths, contain spread and reduce doubling rate soon,” he said. IAS officer of 2017 batch, Vispute has already taken charge of her new assignment. She was working as sub divisional officer at Pandharkawda in Yavatmal district. Another advantage for her is that she has completed BPharm. Mithali Sethi, sub divisional officer of Melghat, is likely to be appointed at a similar position at IGGMCH. If one considers municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, number of IAS officials in city for Covid-19 will rise to 8 apart from collector Ravindra Thakre and divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, who too concentrate more on the city. GMCH and IGGMCH always cite shortage of beds even though over 40% beds are vacant. Raut had given permission for hiring more staff, but nothing has moved. For last three days, GMCH is not taking in critical patients citing problems in oxygen supply. The two hospitals have capacity to take care of 1,200 symptomatic positive patients, apart from suspected and non-Covid patients. Raut said, “A dashboard will be launched soon from which people can know vacancy of beds in hospitals. I asked civic chief to submit revised proposal of Jumbo Covid Hospital so that funds can be approved from the government. I also spoke to leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and BJP city president Pravin Datke on Tuesday and sought their cooperation.” As reported by TOI on Tuesday, NMC has moved ahead with development of War Rooms at 10 zones. Earlier, helpline number for any query or help related to Covid-19 was available at NMC head office. Now, helpline numbers of War Rooms of 10 zones have been launched, which will later be used for CAS. TOI has been highlighting symptomatic positive patients are finding it difficult to get beds, contact tracing has become negligible, and there is no monitoring of positive patients in home isolation. The civic chief has delegated powers to assistant commissioners of 10 zones, who can now increase manpower on their level for all works. All these moves are as per suggestions given by team of experts from Mumbai, including BMC commissioner IS Chahal. The team had also suggested NMC and ZP should convert four-wheelers into ambulances as Covid-19 patients do not require stretchers. Mayor Sandip Joshi on Tuesday requested RTO to give permission for converting school vans into ambulances. He said it will help provide ready available ambulance service, which is important for giving timely treatment to patients to prevent deaths. He also said it will ensure financial support to owners and drivers of school vans who are in trouble with closure of schools, colleges and coaching classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ias-officers-to-oversee-bed-management-services-at-gmch-mayo/articleshow/78005628.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Fast-track: How trains are readied for next shift in just 40 minutes||NEW DELHI: As soon as the clock strikes one in the afternoon, war-like preparations are seen at some Delhi Metro stations on the Yellow Line. An army of cleaners take position along the platform as empty trains roll in for sanitisation after the first shift. The work is completed within 40 minutes and a green signal is given to resume services at 4pm. Delhi Metro has turned 12 stations into temporary halts so that 57 rakes running through the day are cleaned and sanitised there. This exercise is also being carried out at depots. In the extensive process, nearly 20 litres of cleaning solution are used to spray every corner and seat of the rakes to make them ready for the next lot of passengers. Mohinder Yadav, a Delhi Metro spokesperson, said the process of sanitising the stations begins immediately after operations halt at 11am. However, the trains that begin their journey at 11am take at least 45 minutes to reach their destination. The rakes are sanitised only after all passengers have deboarded. “Taking 57 rakes to the depots for sanitisation is a mammoth task. That’s why we are using a few underground stations to speed up the process,” he added. To begin services at 4pm, the trains have to be readied by 1.45pm. “It is a race against time. Each team of cleaners is armed with automatic spray guns and mops to clean every corner of the coaches. The cleanliness is visible to passengers when they enter the coach,” said Anil Kumar, an employee at Green Park metro station. Once the rakes are cleaned, they are inspected by a team of officials who give the go-ahead for operations to resume. Kumar’s colleague, Mukesh, added that the most time consuming process was cleaning the handlebars of the rakes, which were most prone to contamination since they were touched by thousands of people while the train was on the move. A specially-made chemical solution, which can be diluted with water, is being used by Delhi Metro for spraying on doors and windows. “We are using 10 litres of sanitisers and about 20 litres of the solution every day,” said Yadav. A set of personal protection suits and gloves have been kept on standby for the cleaners to sanitise the rakes if any passenger is caught boarding the train with symptoms of Covid-19. Watch Delhi Metro resumes service from today: All you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fast-track-how-trains-are-readied-for-next-shift-in-just-40-minutes/articleshow/78005632.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Pune||nCoV recovered Pimpri Chinchwad cops to motivate others on WhatsApp group||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have formed a WhatsApp group — Corona Fighters — comprising the commissionerate’s personnel recovering from Covid-19 to boost the morale of the cops contracting the infection. At present, a total of 76 police personnel from Pimpri Chinchwad are under treatment as active cases. The policemen recovering from the infection will share their experience about how they successfully fought the contagion. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sudhir Hiremath is leading the initiative. “The infected police personnel can also share their problems pertaining to facilities in the hospital or their families. The idea is to ensure that active patients do not feel left alone. Senior officers who are part of the group will help resolve these problems,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) R R Patil.Positive cop’s experienceA constable from the crime branch who tested positive for Covid-19 and now recovered told TOI, “I tested positive in the last week of July. When I went to the hospital, I came to know that my family members, too, had symptoms. I immediately posted it on the group. My colleagues went to my home and provided help to my family. Our DCP and ACP used to contact us on the group daily and even call us, because of which I could fight the coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncov-recovered-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-to-motivate-others-on-whatsapp-group/articleshow/78004454.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas threaten to boycott paddy procurement over pending dues||Chandigarh: The arhtiyas (commission agents) have threatened to boycott the kharif crop procurement process starting soon since the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is yet to release around Rs 105 crore due to them for the last wheat season. Federation of Arhtiyas Associations president Vijay Kalra said on Tuesday that they also paid for the labourers hired in grain markets and that money was held up with the FCI. “We will soon start an agitation and if the payments are not released, we will boycott the paddy procurement in protest,’ he said. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Aman Arora wrote to the Prime Minister on Tuesday, pointing out that while other agencies had cleared the dues for wheat procurement, the central agency had been sitting on the bill for the past five days. “Punjab’s formers have always contributed to the central pool and this year, 138 lakh metric tonnes came from the state. Commission agents, transporters and labourers played a crucial role in the process despite the threat of coronavirus. While 123 lakh metric tonnes was procured by state agencies, 15 lakh metric tonnes went to the FCI,” he said. The Centre had decided to fix May 31 as the last date for procurement of wheat during rabi season 2020-21 in Punjab. For wheat procurement amid Covid-19 restrictions, Punjab Mandi Board had converted 409 additional rice shellers as sub mandi yards across the state during rabi marketing season 2020-21. The Punjab government had provided details of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act workers to arhtiyas for filling in for the missing migrant labourers, but it had not worked at most places and local casual workers were hired instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arhtiyas-threaten-to-boycott-paddy-procurement-over-pending-dues/articleshow/78005608.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Opposition parties say LRS untimely||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties such as Congress, BJP and the Left found fault with the timing of the layout regularisation scheme (LRS) even as several organisations took out protest rallies in the state demanding reduction in penalisation charges. Congress says the government should penalise the developers of unauthorised layouts and not the individual plot owners.  “Make developers pay for development of roads, green space, sewerage network, water tank and other amenities in the layout, if it has been developed without these mandatory facilities or lack of them,” said M Kodanda Reddy of the Congress, former chairman of Hyderabad Urban Development Authority. He said the timing of the LRS is wrong, in view of the economic crisis due to the pandemic. “We reject this LRS in its present form. It is not only untimely but also unwarranted... when the people are suffering from lack of income,” BJP spokesperson Krishna Sagar Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/opposition-parties-say-lrs-untimely/articleshow/78005613.cms||Roushan Ali
September 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi Metro’s busiest corridor, Blue Line, and Pink Line open today||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday, but it is on Wednesday when it will regain the semblance of the capital’s lifeline. Its busiest corridor, the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), which along with the operational Yellow Line accounts for 60% of the network’s ridership, will reopen after 171 days on Wednesday. So will the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar), which is the ‘ring corridor’. While the Yellow Line along with Gurugram’s Rapid Metro had recorded a footfall of 15,500 on Monday, the figure went up to 17,600 on Tuesday. Nine interchange stations to openWhile the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) forms the north-south axis of the Delhi Metro network, Blue Line connects west Delhi to not only east Delhi but further to Noida and Ghaziabad. These two arterial corridors meet at the heart of the city – Rajiv Chowk. The arclike Pink Line, which largely runs parallel to the city’s Ring Road is also opening on Wednesday and will connect with these two busy corridors at six interchange points. “DMRC will be running 66 trains on Blue Line performing around 478 train trips during morning and evening hours on September 9 and 10,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. The Pink Line, which operates in two sections, will have 27 trains with approximately 228 trips from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and 13 trains with approximately 291 trips from Trilok Puri-Sanjay Lake to Shiv Vihar sections of Pink on these two days, he said. “The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11 and 12 with the opening of other Lines in a graded manner,” he said. Many commuters TOI talked to since the resumption of Delhi Metro services had said that without the availability of interchange facilities, travelling by the metro is not feasible. The problem would be solved to a large extent on Wednesday and lead to increased footfalls, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said. The list of gates which will remain open for entry are available www.delhimetrorail.com. “The re-opening of Blue and Pink Lines will ensure availability of nine of the existing 28 interchange metro stations from Wednesday,” Dayal said. The Pink Line will provide interchange facilities with the Blue Line at Rajouri Garden, Mayur Vihar Phase – I, Karkarduma and Anand Vihar metro stations and with Yellow Line at INA Delhi Haat and Azadpur metro stations. This is apart from Rajiv Chowk where Blue and Yellow Lines meet and Yamuna Bank, where the Blue Line branches off to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali. The interchange between Yellow Line and Rapid Metro is already available at Sikanderpur station in Gurugram. Watch Delhi Metro opens Blue Line and Pink Line today, all set to resume services on the busiest corridor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-metros-busiest-corridor-blue-line-and-pink-line-open-today/articleshow/78007479.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s busiest corridor, Blue Line, and Pink Line open today||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday, but it is on Wednesday when it will regain the semblance of the capital’s lifeline. Its busiest corridor, the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), which along with the operational Yellow Line accounts for 60% of the network’s ridership, will reopen after 171 days on Wednesday. So will the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar), which is the ‘ring corridor’. While the Yellow Line along with Gurugram’s Rapid Metro had recorded a footfall of 15,500 on Monday, the figure went up to 17,600 on Tuesday. Nine interchange stations to openWhile the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) forms the north-south axis of the Delhi Metro network, Blue Line connects west Delhi to not only east Delhi but further to Noida and Ghaziabad. These two arterial corridors meet at the heart of the city – Rajiv Chowk. The arclike Pink Line, which largely runs parallel to the city’s Ring Road is also opening on Wednesday and will connect with these two busy corridors at six interchange points. “DMRC will be running 66 trains on Blue Line performing around 478 train trips during morning and evening hours on September 9 and 10,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. The Pink Line, which operates in two sections, will have 27 trains with approximately 228 trips from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and 13 trains with approximately 291 trips from Trilok Puri-Sanjay Lake to Shiv Vihar sections of Pink on these two days, he said. “The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11 and 12 with the opening of other Lines in a graded manner,” he said. Many commuters TOI talked to since the resumption of Delhi Metro services had said that without the availability of interchange facilities, travelling by the metro is not feasible. The problem would be solved to a large extent on Wednesday and lead to increased footfalls, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said. The list of gates which will remain open for entry are available www.delhimetrorail.com. “The re-opening of Blue and Pink Lines will ensure availability of nine of the existing 28 interchange metro stations from Wednesday,” Dayal said. The Pink Line will provide interchange facilities with the Blue Line at Rajouri Garden, Mayur Vihar Phase – I, Karkarduma and Anand Vihar metro stations and with Yellow Line at INA Delhi Haat and Azadpur metro stations. This is apart from Rajiv Chowk where Blue and Yellow Lines meet and Yamuna Bank, where the Blue Line branches off to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali. The interchange between Yellow Line and Rapid Metro is already available at Sikanderpur station in Gurugram. Watch Delhi Metro opens Blue Line and Pink Line today, all set to resume services on the busiest corridor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metros-busiest-corridor-blue-line-and-pink-line-open-today/articleshow/78007452.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lawyers want to go back to online ways||NEW DELHI: A week after Delhi High Court opened five of its courtrooms, there has been a flurry of requests by lawyers to revert to videoconferencing and paltry attendance in physical hearings. Perhaps spooked by the sudden spike in cases, which coincided with the courts reopening on September 1, most lawyers have been wary of visiting the high court and preferred a non-contact virtual hearing. The matter came to light during a hearing before a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad when all the lawyers appearing for various stakeholders sought virtual hearings. The request prompted justice Kohli to reveal that a miniscule number of lawyers was willing to appear physically. “The court staff is flooded with requests for adjournments and videoconferencing hearings,” the judge remarked, pointing out that the courts reopened only at the request of the advocates. The AAP government’s counsel Satyakam informed the bench that he and other government counsels were in favour of virtual hearings for the time being — a stand that saw support in the Centre’s lawyer Anurag Ahluwalia. Ahluwalia urged the bench to revert to videoconferencing, but justice Kohli said it was up to the co-ordination committee of bar associations to review the situation and send a request to the Chief Justice. Meanwhile, in another matter, Chief Justice D N Patel said the physical hearings would not stop but carry on slowly till the situation normalises. “Once things have started in this high court, they are not going to stop. We will not start and close like the other high courts,” the chief justice said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lawyers-want-to-go-back-to-online-ways/articleshow/78005664.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Tale of 2 cats: One found, another not yet||NEW DELHI: The frantic search for an eight-month-old kitten, Nala, which had gone missing while flying down from Bengaluru to Delhi, has finally borne fruit. She was one of the two pet cats that had gone missing at an airport over the past two weeks. While Nala was coaxed out of her hiding place in the cargo hold area of Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport by the airport authorities and NGO Wildlife SOS with the help of cat food, the other feline was yet to be found. In both the cases, the cats were presumed to have gone missing during cargo transportation by Air India. The first incident occurred on August 25 when Jasleen Sandhu, the owner of three cats, was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai. The second loss was reported on September 1 when Aastha Shah was travelling from Bengaluru to Delhi with two of her cats. Shah was lucky enough to be reunited with Nala after four days of searching. “When the plane landed in Delhi, the passenger was informed that one of the cats was missing from her carrier. One of the pet carrier boxes had come undone in the plane’s cargo compartment,” said an official. The Wildlife SOS team, which was called to locate the cats, said they placed cat food at several places across the airport. After four days of tracking the cat’s whereabouts, she was eventually located scared and hiding in the cargo hold area. “It took several hours to ease out the terrified and hungry kitten from her hiding place before being reunited with her owner,” said an NGO official. Shah said, “My cats are my family and I would move heaven and earth for their safety. House cats struggle to survive on their own and the thought of my pet lost in the busy airport had me in tears. The past few days have been extremely stressful, but I received a lot of support from the animal lovers’ community, Wildlife SOS, Air India staff, airport authorities and DIAL teams. This incident showed me that compassion was not dead and people would still go the extra mile to help a desperate stranger.” Nala’s disappearance caught the attention of several animal lovers’ communities and NGOs, who lent their support to Shah. Officials said once she was back in the family’s company, group video calls were organised with pet lovers checking up on the kitten. Sandhu, however, is yet to get any good news about her missing pet. “The airline says they have been looking for her, but it’s been almost two weeks now. I’m not sure if I’ll ever see my cat again. We are also not sure if she went missing in Delhi or Mumbai,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tale-of-2-cats-one-found-another-not-yet/articleshow/78005663.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||India’s first RBD-antibody testing centre starts in Nagpur||NAGPUR: India’s first RBD-Plasma Bank and Corona RBD-Antibody Testing Center was inaugurated in Nagpur on Sunday. RBD testing allows measurement of the level and effectivity of antibodies developed in patients recovered from Covid-19. Only plasma with enough antibodies can be selected through this process and supplied to seriously ill patients. This will ensure good results of plasma therapy or off-label use of plasma. Dr Harish Warbhe, medical director of RBD Plasma Bank, out of 10 screened recovered Covid-19 patients, only 3-4 show the desired RBD-Antibody levels. With maximum people coming forward for plasma donation, now doctors can select donors with high RBD-Antibody level for therapeutic benefits and faster recovery of other patients. “Giving convalescent plasma blindly without desired RBD-Antibody titer will not give desired benefits to patient but can expose the patients to some potential risks or harm. Patients have shown encouraging results after receiving plasma having RBD-Antibody titer of 1:640 and more. With this testing facility, we can get plasma of this quality,” said Dr Warbhe. Dr Warbhe has already submitted a proposal to partner with PLATINA Project to undertake RBD-Testing on no-profit-no-loss basis. He has also offered to extend free services of RBD-testing to benefit patients in the initial period, since approval process takes its own time. Apart from the use of RBD-Antibody testing for plasma therapy, this lab has many more important utilities like an aid-in-diagnosis to complement RT-PCR to identify patients with recent or prior infection, in sero-prevalence and epidemiology studies, evaluation of vaccine efficacy, and thus helping in reopening society. Recovered individuals (hospital discharged or home quarantined) who are asymptomatic without medication for 14 days, of age 18 years or more, weighing more than 50kg, can donate plasma every 15 days for 4 months after necessary medical examination and blood tests. A suitable donor can donate plasma every 14 days for up to 6 months. The antibody titers do not decrease in donors up to 7 plasma donations. Donating plasma is very safe for the health of the plasma donor. The RBD-Plasma Bank and Corona RBD-Antibody Testing Center was inaugurated by collector Ravindra Thakare on Sunday. This project is by Lifeline Blood Bank, Ramdaspeth, which is NABH accredited and run by a charitable trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-power-to-plasma-therapy-indias-first-rbd-antibody-testing-centre-starts-in-nagpur/articleshow/78005668.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||Farmers float own mart to sell their produce||Hubballi: Farmers of two villages in Ranebennur taluk of Haveri district have floated their own Bhoomika Rural Mart under the aegis of Bhoomika Farmers Producers Sauharda Sahakari Niyamit with the support of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) and other organisations. The move gains significance as several initiatives by the government amid the pandemic, such as online procurement of produce, failed to help farmers due to the involvement of middlemen. As many as 527 farmers from Menasinahal and Itagi launched the new venture with a share capital of Rs 2 lakh around 10 months ago and now their turnover has reached Rs 30 lakh and profit is Rs 2.2 lakh. Speaking to TOI, Bhoomika chairman Shivappa Mudenur said they have set community-based millet processing unit to offer better services to stakeholders, enhance the agricultural production and improve income level of small and marginal farmers in the region. “We are focusing mainly on branding jowar, which is staple food of North Karnataka region, and finger millet. Apart from this we are cleaning, grading, destoning, dehulling, polishing, reducing size, packing and labelling all types of millets and its products,” he said. Bhoomika chief executive Halesh Shivalingappanavar said the organisations obtained a loan of Rs 15 lakh from Nabkissan and set up a solar-based millet processing unit with the help of Selco Foundation, Bengaluru. “Concern India Foundation offered donation of Rs 2.5 lakh for machinery. We were selling our products directly from our units earlier and we set up our first outlet last month where farmers can also buy organic fertilisers, quality seeds and other agri-related products,” he said. Vanasiri Rural Development Society executive director S D Baligar, who is also the promoter for Bhoomika, said it took almost two years to sensitise, unite and train farmers for the new venture. “Now we have handed over it to farmers and we expect a turn over of Rs 3 crore in next three years,” he added. Mahadev Keerti, district development manager, Nabard, Haveri, said Bhoomika has shown better performance in last 10 months. “Nabard is always ready to help farmers’ organisations for sustainable development,” he added. CAPTUON Jowar, Finger millet and other millets processing unit is set by farmers owned Bhoomika Farmers Producers Sauharda Sahakari Niyamit in Itagi, Ranebennur taluk, Haveri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmers-float-own-mart-to-sell-their-produce/articleshow/78003763.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||Bandipur foresters use drone to rescue tiger||Mysuru: A tiger, which had been prowling near Begur village in adjoining Bandipura Tiger Reserve — thereby giving sleepless nights to villagers in the border areas of the forest — was rescued in the early hours of Tuesday. The big cat, aged about 10 years, was tranquilised with drugged darts before being captured. The foresters used quad-copter (drone) cameras to trace the elusive tiger during the operation. The drone-flying team spotted the tiger at a cotton field in Devalapura Hundi in Sargur. After being alerted, the foresters team astride on six elephants tranquilised the big cat at 3.15am. Using nets, the forest staff shifted the animal to a cage where wildlife vet Nagaraj conducted its health check-up. The rescued tiger will be shifted to Mysuru Zoo for observation and medical treatment. The tiger was prowling in the forest borders coming under N Begur range, and was hunting livestock in nearby villages. Recently, it had killed a calf at Katwalu village. Based on complaints from the villagers, the foresters kept a watch on its movement for the past one month. They had also launched an operation to drive the tiger back to the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bandipur-foresters-use-drone-to-rescue-tiger/articleshow/78003675.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||Major mishap averted in Hubballi||Hubballi: A major mishap was averted in Hubballi recently due to the presence of mind of a BRTS bus driver who stopped the bus immediately after he suffered dizziness due to hyperglycemia. The incident happened on Saturday morning but it came to light on Tuesday. According to sources in BRTS, the bus was heading to Dharwad and the incident happened on Navanagar bridge. The driver suddenly started feeling uneasy and dizzy. He immediately drove the bus to the left, stopped it and collapsed. The passengers rushed him to KIMS Hospital, said Vivekanand Vishwajnya, divisional controller. There were about 40 passengers in the bus. No one was injured in the incident. The driver was discharged from the hospital after the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/major-mishap-averted-in-hubballi/articleshow/78003814.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 9,000 apply for LRS in two days||Hyderabad: Over 9,000 property owners applied for layout regularisation scheme (LRS) within two days of its website going live. According to the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department, 9,496 applications were received from across the state since Monday. Officials said nearly Rs 96 lakh has been received towards registration fee. Of the total applications received, 2,316 applications were from municipal corporations, 2,946 in panchayats and 4,224 applications in municipalities. Though the government announced the LRS scheme on August 31, the website for receiving applications was launched on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-9000-apply-for-lrs-in-two-days/articleshow/78005635.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bareilly||Forest watcher found dead in PTR||PILIPHIT: A 23-year-old forest watcher was found dead under mysterious circumstances at the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve’s Dhakka Chat forest post in Haripur forest range on Tuesday afternoon. The victim’s body bore a bullet injury and a 315 bore departmental rifle was found clasped between his legs, said PTR officials, adding that “the department doesn’t provide forest watchers with a firearm, and the rifle found was of a forest guard”. PTR deputy director Neveen Khandelwal and sub-divisional forest officer Praveen Khare inspected the spot. The body was sent for autopsy. Though police and forest officials suspected it to be “a case of suicide”, the victim’s family termed it “a well-planned murder”. The family had, however, not lodged a police complaint till the time of filing this report. The victim — Sandeep Singh of Mahadev Mahti village under Seramau (North) police station —was working as a forest watcher in the PTR’s Haripur forest range for the past one and a half years, said Khare. “The rifle was issued to forest guard Prakash Veer, posted at the same forest post but he was on an official leave the day the incident took place. The victim used to live with Veer in a single forest quarter,” said Khare. Puranpur kotwali SHO SK Singh said, “The bullet hit Sandeep on his trachea below the jaw and blew the right skull. The rifle was found clasped between the victim’s legs. The door of the room was bolted from inside. Forest staff living in the other three quarters managed to enter the room by scaling the boundary wall of the courtyard after Sandeep did not come out of his room till 12.30pm. None of his neighbours knows for sure when the bullet was fired.” “The autopsy report will ascertain whether it was a suicide or a murder. The further course of action will be taken based on the findings of the autopsy report,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-forest-watcher-found-dead-with-a-bullet-injuryon-his-trachea-rifle-found-clasped-between-his-legs/articleshow/78001236.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara contractors demand payment of pending dues||Mysuru: Amid growing clamour for a grand celebration of the Mysuru Dasara or the Naada Habba, which stakeholders are convinced will help revive the local economy that has suffered immensely owing to the Covid-19 crisis, a recurrent theme of the annual fete has raised its head: Pending dues to contractors for services in the last year’s celebrations. Over the years, the delay in issuance of payment to contractors has become a ritual, with most traders complaining of not receiving money till the start of the next year’s celebrations. Furthermore, some of them have complained of their dues not being settled for four years. Consequently, many contractors have decided not to participate in the tender process this year unless the government settles all the dues. One of the contractors who is awaiting dues from the government told TOI, “I have not been paid for the work that I did in 2016, nor have I been compensated for projects undertaken in 2018. Now, with the Covid-19 crisis, we are hardly receiving any orders. Should the government delay releasing the money, we will be in trouble. We have appealed to all the officials and ministers, but the response has not been encouraging.” Mysuru City Corporation Contractors’ Association president C Venkatappa said that the government cumulatively owed Rs 5.3 crore to those who had offered services during the Naada Habba fete. Venkatappa too lamented the lack of response to their repeated pleas for payment of pending dues. “In February, we met senior officials in Bengaluru, who assured us of disbursing the dues, but all our bills are stuck owing to the pandemic,” he said. Venkatappa questioned the failure of the officials to release the dues despite the government earmarking surplus funds for the Dasara celebrations last year. Although senior officials in the district administration were not available for comment on the issue, tourism minister CT Ravi clarified that there were no pending dues to contractors as far as his department was concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-contractors-demand-payment-of-pending-dues/articleshow/78002321.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kanpur||6 held for running fake finance firm||Kanpur:Six people were arrested from city’s Panki area for allegedly running a fake finance company and fraudulently charging processing fee from gullible applicants in the name of providing loan to them. According to the police, interrogation of the accused is underway to arrest their other accomplices. Police further said that the gang used to set up temporary offices in far-flung areas of the city. They would charge people for filing fee, legal fee and disbursement charges and then they switched off their cell phones and escaped. “The breakthrough has been made by SWAT and Panki police team. In all, six persons including one Satyam Pandey, Alok Mishra, Sachin Dubey, Rajveer Singh, Nitesh and Karan Singh were arrested on Monday night from Bhaunti Panki area for running a fake finance company and duping innocent persons. Satyam and Alok are former employees of a finance company,” SSP Preetinder Singh said. “Police had obtained information on the accused and their activities a few days ago and had been tracking their movements. We had been informed about these people who were running this fake finance company by an informer,” he added. The accused have been booked under Sections 420 (Cheating and dishonesty), 467 (Forgery of valuable security), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (Using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They had started this company around one month back. In addition to a lot of materials, around Rs 43,000 in cash, fake seals, fake finance company loan forms were recovered from them. “Questioning has revealed that they had done fraud deals worth several lakh,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-held-for-running-fake-finance-firm/articleshow/78006405.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Air ambulance exclusively for Covid patients launched in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: An air ambulance service exclusively to transport critical Covid-19 patients was launched at the Jakkur airfield here on Tuesday. Fitted with a German-made isolation pod to fly the patient, a jet, a small plane and a helicopter form the fleet stationed at HAL airport. The service is floated by Bengaluru-based International Critical Air Transfer Team (ICATT) and Kyathi, an aviation technology firm. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa inaugurated the service in the presence of health minister B Sriramulu and medical education minister K Sudhakar. Yediyurappa said, “This service will ensure not only ensure quick medical assistance but also high quality care by senior doctors and paramedics trained in critical care while in flight. I’m happy that ICATT & Kyathi chose to station it in Bengaluru and cater to patients throughout south India especially during the pandemic.” According to Dr Shalini Nalwad, co-founding director, ICATT, the country requires better emergency medical services to meet the growing number of emergencies and what’s there now is primarily stationed out of Delhi and Mumbai and providing fragmented services across the country which falls short of meeting the requirement. “For a service to be fully effective, you need last-mile connectivity through well-equipped land ambulances and helicopters that could cater to cases in closeby Tier II cities and overcome the challenge of loss of time in the golden hour due to land traffic.” On Sunday, ICATT Kyathi shifted a critically ill Covid patient from Kolkata to Chennai for treatment. Apart from Covid cases, the service has so far done 63 domestic transfers, 10 international transfers and 7 organ transfers. The cost to airlift a patient from Bengaluru to Chennai or Mangaluru is around Rs 4 lakh, Bengaluru to Hubbali around Rs 3 lakh and from Bengaluru to Mumbai around Rs 6 lakh, all based on number of airmiles and airport fares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/air-ambulance-exclusively-for-covid-patients-launched-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78003289.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Keralites happy with govt’s response to the pandemic||Kochi: Keralites were happier with their state government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic among all the major states in India, according to a Covid-19 impact survey conducted by the Kochi-based Centre for Public Policy Research. The report spotlighted Covid-19-related perceptions, precautionary behaviours, and government responses in an attempt to discern the level of preparedness among the masses and their outlook on the government’s management of the crisis. The study also looked into travel patterns in the pre-lockdown and during the lockdown phase and assessed the change in people’s perception of public transport. The sample survey was conducted during June 16-30 among people living in India since Feb 2020 after unlock phase 1 was underway. The mean rating (weighted average) on a scale of 5 for satisfaction with the response of the Government of Kerala to the pandemic, was 4.11, whereas the mean rating for the central government’s measures was 2.44. Mean rating for all state governments together was 3.32. This was possibly due to the Kerala government’s prompt response to the outbreak which reined in the infection rate prior to and during the period of the survey. Respondents perceive the threat to the economy caused due to the Covid-19 pandemic to be more serious in nature compared to its impact as a health crisis. Nine in 10 respondents believe Covid-19’s threat to the economy to be very or highly severe whereas only six respondents perceive Covid-19’s threat as an illness to be very or highly severe. A quarter of the respondents believe that their likelihood of getting exposed to Covid-19 or contracting the disease is an unlikely prospect. Two-thirds of the respondents believe that the nationwide lockdown initiated on March 24 was justifiable and about three-fourths believe that the lockdown was effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19. On an average, the respondents are relatively more content with their respective state governments’ response to the pandemic compared to the Centre’s. Respondents have exhibited high levels of confidence in doctors, police, public hospitals and NGOs in their ability to respond to the pandemic. Across all self-assessed preventive behaviours, females consistently show more adherence in comparison to males. The adverse effects of the lockdown on mental health related indicators are more prominent among females than males, particularly in terms of being worried about their family’s health or going to public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralites-happy-with-govts-response-to-the-pandemic/articleshow/78004484.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Labour union continues protest for arrest of two rape accused||Bathinda: Activists of Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union continued their protest outside the police station on Tuesday to demand arrest of two accused who had allegedly uploaded vulgar pictures of a minor girl on the social media after she was raped by another man. The alleged incident took place over a month ago. The protest was mainly led by women and girls. The protesters also demanded arrest of accused persons in the killing of farm labour activist Kaka Singh. On August 3, the 15-year-girl of a village had filed a complaint, in which she had alleged that a man had caught hold of her when she was going to school on August 1 and took her to his shop. He downed the shutter of the shop and started molesting her. After some time, she somehow succeeded in raising the alarm as some person opened the shutter of the shop. While she ran off to her home, two other men made a video clip when her clothes were torn and uploaded it on social media. Though initially rape charges were not added in the case, police later added Section 376 (rape) and SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act and arrested the main accused. Police said the main accused has been arrested and efforts are being to arrest the other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/labour-union-continues-protest-for-arrest-of-two-rape-accused/articleshow/78005634.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Sero survey begins in Malegaon||Nashik: The Malegaon municipal corporation and the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana have jointly launched sero survey to check for the presence of antibodies among citizens of the textile town. The 10-day survey will witness participation of nearly 7,000 people. The subjects for the tests will be those working with the Malegaon civic body, people residing in containment zones and those residing outside the containment zones in Malegaon city. As part of the survey, blood sample of former mayor and corporator Rashid Shaikh was collected at Wadia Hospital. The sero survey is aimed at finding out how many people from the sample size have been affected by Covid-19 and have got themselves cured naturally. This can come to fore by the presence of antibodies in people who have not tested positive for Covid-19 so far. The presence of antibodies in blood samples of sero survey test subjects allow the health workers to understand the presence of infection in the community as well as determine the fact weather the residents of those particular areas have developed herd immunity or not. The survey will include testing of over 1,500 MMC employees and officials who are working in health sector. This would also include ASHA and Anganwadi workers. Meanwhile, Malegaon city registered 40 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sero-survey-begins-in-malegaon/articleshow/78006432.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 9, 2020||Amritsar||‘Bring back remains of Prithviraj Chauhan from Afghanistan’||AMRITSAR: With just around 200 Hindus and Sikhs left in Afghanistan, a drive has been initiated to demand return of the remains of Rajput king Prithviraj Chauhan buried on the outskirts of the Afghan city of Ghazni and give him a decent funeral in India. Talking to TOI, UK-based Hindu activist Ashish Joshi, who is leading the drive, said the Indian government should demand the return of Prithviraj’s remains so that he could at least be given a proper Hindu funeral and a national monument could be set up as a testament to his patriotism and humanity. “And, it should be done before the last batch of Hindus and Sikhs leaves Afghanistan for good,” he said. He said Prithviraj’s bones could still be found there and should be cremated with proper ceremonies so that the future generations had a place to visit and offer tribute to one of the greatest Indians that ever lived. An Afghan national, part of a group of 182 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs who migrated to India last week, said around 200 more members of both communities were left in the war-torn nation. He said they would arrive in India in future. “Last year, I went to the tomb of Prithviraj Chauhan. My heart still aches when I remember how the locals disgrace his tomb,” said the Afghan national who didn’t want to give his name fearing for the lives of his relatives still living in Afghanistan. “Prithviraj is an inspiration and a national hero for India and we need to learn the lessons of his bravery, chivalry, betrayal and how the petty grievances led to almost the extinction of Hindu culture in Afghanistan,” he said, advocating to bring back his remains to India. Prithviraj was the last Hindu ruler of Delhi. He defeated and captured the Afghan Muslim invader Mohammed Ghori and through an act of Rajput chivalry subsequently spared his life - only to find that Ghori returned with a bigger army the following year and defeated Prithviraj. But instead of matching Prithviraj’s humanity, Ghori had him blinded and held him as a prisoner in Afghanistan. Even in such a hopeless condition, the brave Rajput king managed to kill the Afghan ruler through a clever trick and avenged his defeat and capture. A petition on change.org seeking to bring back the remains of Prithviraj Chauhan is gradually gaining momentum. The petitioner Sachin Kumar writes, “The inscription on the tomb of Prithviran Chauhan reads: “Here lies the Kafer king of Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bring-back-remains-of-prithviraj-chauhan-from-afghanistan/articleshow/78005661.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Covid positive, dies negative||NAGPUR: On September 6, TOI had reported quoting experts that Covid deaths are being under-reported in the city. It has now come to fore that some coronavirus recovered patients who die later too are not being accounted for as a pandemic death. An investigation by TOI reveals that a patient from Jaripatka died on August 27 while undergoing treatment for Covid at a private hospital. He was not counted as a Covid death. The patient had tested positive and hence got admitted to the hospital. After 10 days, he tested negative on RT-PCR even while he was in hospital. The next day the patient died in the hospital’s Covid isolation ward. The hospital reportedly sent details of the death to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation mentioning that the deceased had tested negative a day before his death. The civic body did not include him as a Covid victim. TOI has a list of people who died on August 27 and the deceased’s name is not mentioned in it. Dr Vinky Rughwani, the vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council, said that deaths occurring due to “continued illness even if patient tests negative in second or third test should be counted as Covid-19 death as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines”. “The concerned authority has to register Covid-19 as antecedent cause of death in such cases,” he added. Saying that few positive patients have died after discharge from hospitals, Dr Rughwani said, “Death audit should be done in every case. The government should come up with a white paper on overall deaths during the ongoing pandemic.” The focus should be in rural areas “where there is negligible testing and monitoring”. “It will help in planning measures to control deaths and contain spread of the disease,” said Rughwani. As per data with the civil surgeon (CS), there were 718 Covid deaths in city in August. This data is considered as official number as, being the nodal officer for the pandemic, he also sends to the state government every day. The NMC had registered 877 Covid deaths, which is 159 more compared with the CS’s data. Though the civic body sends its data daily, the CS reportedly does not consider it. Dr VD Paturkar, who is the civil surgeon, told TOI, “The question of any deliberate under reporting of deaths does not arise.” As per a government report, the case fatality rate (CFR) of state was 3.13%, India 1.78% and World 3.38% on August 31. As per CS data, the CFR of the city was 3.47% (794 deaths, 22,858 positive cases) and according to NMC it was 3.60% (960-26,593). TOI had reported on Sunday that overall deaths in the city nearly doubled in August when compared to the same period last year. August this year had 3,385 deaths registered at 35 crematoriums while in 2019 it was 1,787. As per CS’s data, 718 were Covid-19 deaths. It meant 880 more deaths were recorded last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-dies-ve/articleshow/78005672.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Won’t vouch for anything unscientific: K K Shailaja||KOCHI: Health minister K K Shailaja on Tuesday said she would not vouch for anything that is considered unscientific and she was not qualified to make a statement whether a medicine was effective without a proper study. In a video posted on her Facebook page, Shailaja said the statement made by her while inaugurating the building for Kozhikode Homeo Medical College, referring to studies regarding immunity medicine in homeo, was misconstrued and should not be seen as a stamp of approval for its efficacy. While battling the Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala has taken many strategies and both modern and indigenous medicines played a role in it, she said, adding that no medicine either for treating Covid-19 or enhancing immunity against the virus has been scientifically validated. “Both Ayurveda and Homeo had made claims of having medicines for Covid-19. It might be so, but they have not been proven,” she said, imploring representatives of various streams of medicine to join together in the fight against Covid-19 rather than fighting among themselves. The Indian Medical Association and the scientific community had come out with statements criticising the minister because they consider her statement as a validation for unproven drugs when no scientific study exists. “As the minister handling the health portfolio, I would not allow anything that is unscientific,” she said. Shailaja said only modern medicine is used in the state for treating Covid-19 under ICMR guidelines and Ayush department has been advised against treating patients or those in quarantine. Homeo and ayurveda departments were allowed to provide immunity medicines to those who preferred the stream of medicine. The controversy had erupted after her statement that only a few people who took immunity medicine in homeo had contracted Covid-19 and even those affected were cured in three to four days raised the hackles of the scientific community. Vaidya Maha Sabha, an organisation of traditional physicians, on Tuesday came out in support of the health minister and said IMA’s statement was born out of jealousy. “Many have taken homeo medicine for immunity enhancement and have learned that it is efficient. Ayurveda is India’s traditional stream and it has now become a habit for IMA to badmouth it,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shailaja-wont-vouch-for-anything-unscientific/articleshow/78004550.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Many tourists coming without Covid negative report||NANITAL: The Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association alleged on Tuesday that several tourists are coming to Uttarakhand without Covid-19 negative certification, which is mandatory to enter the state, and renting rooms in hotels that are not registered. In a press conference held on Tuesday, the office-bearers of the association said that while the registered hotels are suffering because of the state’s policy prohibiting entry of tourists who do not have RT-PCR or TrueNAT tests, several unregistered hotels are offering rooms to them. “The state’s guidelines prohibit us from renting rooms to tourists who do not have RT-PCR or TrueNAT test reports. However, many tourists are still managing to enter the state and staying at hotels which are not registered. This is unfair for those who are following the rules,” said Ved Sah, owner of a hotel on Mall Road and secretary of the association. Sah added that they have made complaints to the administration several times but no action has been taken yet. “Whenever we approach the officials, they respond by saying that they are cracking down on people illegally coming into the state. However, it is still going on unabated,” he alleged There are over 120 hotels in Nainital that are registered with the association. However, dozens of other guest houses and smaller hotels also function in the lake town. The association has alleged that these establishments are facilitating renting of rooms without any Covid-19 negative certificates. Reacting to the allegations made by the association, Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal said, “We have been taking action against those entering the state and flouting the norms as well as institutions that are giving them rooms. We have also asked the hoteliers to provide us with inputs if they come across such people or establishments.” Meanwhile, the Mussoorie Hotel Association has also written to the chief minister and chief secretary of the state requesting them to prohibit entry of tourists without Covid-19 reports. “It was noticed by hoteliers that some tourists were coming without Covid-19 negative or invalid reports. We have written to the government requesting them to prevent the entry of tourists without valid RT-PCR report at the state entry points,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotel Association. The president of Haridwar’s hotel association Vibhash Mishra said that the restrictions imposed on tourists is hurting the hospitality business severely, "The ban on entry of people to the state without Covid-19 test reports should be revoked at the earliest, as it stops many tourists from coming to Uttarakhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-without-ve-covid-report-sneaking-into-state-staying-at-unregistered-hotels-say-ukhand-hoteliers/articleshow/78003098.cms||Prashant Jha
September 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BMRCL faces flak for reducing validation time of smart cards||BENGALURU: Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited’s (BMRCL) move to reduce the time to validate recharge of smartcards from 60 days to seven has come in for severe criticism since passengers who fail to validate their cards in time will lose their money. “At present, passengers who top up online will have to present their cards at any Metro station entry gate within a period of 60 days on initiation of recharge to complete the transaction. Consequent to introduction of mobile app, this is now revised to seven days,” said a BMRCL statement. It went on to say, “Some commuters who had initiated recharge through BMRCL’s website have not been able to present their card for top-up within 60 days as Metro services were closed from March 22. BMRCL has transferred all such amounts to respective smartcard holders.” BL Yashwanth Chavan, BMRCL chief public relations officer, said: “We had to make this change due to technical requirements and RBI guidelines. Passengers must validate their cards within a week to avoid losing money. There is no possibility of a refund. Passengers should not recharge if they are not planning to travel.” He said money loaded on the card will remain for 10 years after a single use. However, Suryanarayana Murthy, vice-president, BMRCL Employees Union, said: “BMRCL is unilaterally taking these passenger-unfriendly decisions. First, they increased the minimum balance of smartcards to Rs 50 from the previous Rs 8.50. Then, they reduced the discount for smartcard users from 15% to 5% and now, this. These measures will only discourage people from taking Metro”. He said these changes are being made in preparation to launch the new app. “Why should passengers suffer if BMRCL is launching a new app?” Murthy wondered. Vijay Srinivas, a commuter, tweeted, “People have the right to travel by Namma Metro anytime, and any card holder cannot be forced to travel within seven days of recharge. And it's people's hard earned money (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmrcl-faces-flak-for-reducing-time-to-validate-smartcard-recharge/articleshow/78003515.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 9, 2020||Nashik||No of plasma donors crosses 100 in city||Nashik: More than 100 people have donated plasma at the Arpan blood bank since July 27 for the treatment of active patients in various hospitals across the city. According to Nandakishore Tated of Arpan Blood Bank, they have received tremendous response from the recovered patients for donating plasma. “We are trying to take this programme further by appealing to the people to come forward and donate the blood component so that the beneficiaries have a better chance of recovering faster from the infection,” he said. Plasmapheresis is a process in which only plasma is removed from the blood using a machine that on one side draws blood from the donor and after processing and segregating the plasma returns the rest of the blood back to the donor’s body. This plasma is then administered to the patients only after the doctors approve the therapy. Speaking further about the number of donors, Tated said the maximum number of donors were between the age group of 30 and 40 which also means that these people are aware about the treatment and ready to contribute in the fight against Covid-19. He, however, noted that most of the donors were called by the relatives of the patients. “It would still be better that if people came forth to donate their plasma so that it can be stored in the blood bank as the component which can be delivered to the needy person across the counter. At this time when there is no such availability of plasma in the bank the recipient has to search for donors who may be ready to give the plasma for a cause,” Tated said. At a time 500 ml of plasma can be retrieved from the person’s body and the person can donate the same after every 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-plasma-donors-crosses-100-in-city/articleshow/78006437.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, tribunals to come in place of revenue courts||HYDERABAD: After abolishing the VROs’ system, the state government is now all set to clip the wings of tahsildars at the mandal level. Taking another important step in this direction, official sources said the government has decided to scrap the revenue courts which are organised by the officials to resolve various revenue-related disputes. “Now, all these courts will be abolished and replaced with revenue tribunals at the district level,” a senior official involved in the drafting of the new Revenue Act said. The proposed tribunals will be headed by a retired district judge. Retired revenue officers will be part of the tribunals. “There are about 20,000 cases pending in various revenue courts, which will be shifted to the tribunals,” a revenue official said. In case of requirement of revenue records or field reports, the proposed tribunal will ask the tahsildars to provide information like any regular court. “Even if the government wants to set up revenue tribunals, dedicated courts will continue to deliver verdict in a time-bound manner,” an additional collector working in a north Telangana district said. Presently, a tahsildar at the mandal level, revenue divisional officer (RDO) at division level and additional collectors at the district level hold revenue courts on petitions and appeals every Saturday to resolve issues pertaining to the Record of Rights in Land Act, Tenancy Act, Inam Act and Tenancy Act. “If any party is not satisfied with this, they go to the regular courts,” a senior official explained. Official sources said the government was firm on reducing the discretionary powers of the tahsildars considerably, especially in altering the revenue records. These powers will now be given to higher-level authorities like district collectors and additional collectors. Sources said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been unhappy with the functioning of the tahsildars, especially after some of the tahsildars were caught collecting huge bribes and possessing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income. Meanwhile, officials pointed out that in some departments, tribunals and other regulatory mechanisms have become defunct since the government had failed to appoint members to the tribunals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-tribunals-to-come-in-place-of-revenue-courts/articleshow/78005696.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Youth Congress workers protest case against its chief||ROORKEE: Several members of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Tuesday burnt an effigy of state BJP government to protest the police case lodged against its national president Srinivas BV and other funcationaries, who have been booked for unlawful assembly and violating Covid-19 rules. The agitators said that the state government is trying to suppress protests over unemployment under the garb of Covid-19 guidelines. Earlier, police had registered a case against 10 IYC members, including Srinivas, by name and 500 other unidentified people for violating social distancing norms. “The BJP is trying to muzzle the voices of dissent in the name of distancing norms. When their legislators take out rallies, no case is lodged but when other organisations do it, they are booked,” said Parvez Ahmed, secretary of state wing of IYC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-congress-workers-protest-case-against-its-chief/articleshow/78003121.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Covid +ve BJP leader Gyan Singh Negi dies, US Nagar SSP found infected||DEHRADUN: Gyan Singh Negi, 75-year-old state BJP leader and state rural health advisory committee’s president, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. Negi, who was undergoing treatment at home after suffering a brain stroke in 2019, was tested positive for Covid on September 1. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat expressed grief over his demise. “I am deeply saddened to learn about the death of Gyan Singh Negi ji who previously held the post of minister of state in the state government. May God give strength to the bereaved family to bear this loss and may the departed soul rest in peace,” said the CM in a tweet. Meanwhile, 658 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from Uttarakhand on Tuesday, pushing the tally of positive cases in the state to 26,094. Among those found infected on the day were senior IPS officer Dilip Singh Kunwar, who is currently posted as SSP Udham Singh Nagar. In yet another worrying news, a doctor working at the Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) was tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time. He was first found infected on July 23. However, he tested positive via antigen test and the hospital authorities are awaiting his RT-PCR test reports. Among the 658 fresh cases reported on the day, the maximum of 248 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 112 from Nainital, 82 from Haridwar, 56 from Udham Singh Nagar, 33 from Tehri, 24 each from Almora and Uttarkashi, 23 from Champawat, 16 from Pithoragarh, 14 from Bageshwar, 11 from Rudraprayag, nine from Pauri, and six from Chamoli. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of the Covid-19 control room, also informed that 12 positive patients died on the day. “Four patients of Covid-19 died at GDMCH, three at Base Hospital in Srinagar, two at AIIMS Rishikesh, two at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and one at Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital.” Meanwhile, 427 people were reported to have recovered from the infection, including BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagar who was tested Covid-19 positive on August 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-ve-bjp-leader-gyan-singh-negi-dies-us-nagar-ssp-found-infected/articleshow/78003149.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Webinar at national level to mark Himalayan Day||DEHRADUN: The theme of the Himalayan Day this year is going to be “The Himalaya and Nature” which will be celebrated today. A national-level webinar will be organised to mark the day which will be attended by vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. “In the wake of current pandemic and likely threats, we need to understand this entity for our common future. This year’s Himalaya Divas is being celebrated at the national level on September 9. We will try to bring stakeholders, including government, environmentalists, scientists, politicians, faith leaders to this platform to sensitise people about the importance of the subject and to discover how everyone can support this initiative,” said Anil P Joshi, one of the founders of Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organisation (HESCO). The experts believe that climate change is one of the biggest threats facing the Himalayan ecosystems. The major challenges facing the Himalayas are increasing population, rampant urbanisation, unchecked deforestation, melting of glaciers, construction of roads, establishment of hydroelectric projects, etc. “The purpose of this event is to send a message to our future generation to create a sense of responsibility among them towards nature and Himalayas,” added Joshi. Himalaya Divas is an initiative that was started in 2010 by a group of noted environmentalists and activists, including Sunderlal Bahuguna, Anil Joshi and Radha Behan to spread the message that solutions for sustainable development and ecological stability for the Himalayas must be as unique as the Himalayan ecosystem itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/webinar-at-national-level-to-mark-himalayan-day/articleshow/78003144.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||Covid negative, symptoms positive||NAGPUR: If you have fever, breathlessness and low oxygen saturation, you may have Covid even if the swab tests come negative, say doctors. Doctors in Kamptee have come across cases of patients having telltale signs of Covid yet testing negative after rounds of both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests. The latter is considered the gold standard for Covid. For a person to be included in the official list of Covid patients, they must test positive in RT-PCR test. Doctors at Kamptee and also in the city involved in Covid treatment do not rule out there may be some negative cases who may be having the infection. Such persons need to be given the same treatment and are equally contagious like those testing positive. Dr Manish Dipani at Kamptee said a 50-year-old patient who later died in non-Covid ward of Government Medical College (GMC) had earlier called him complaining of breathlessness. His oxygen saturation was down to 73 as against the normal count of 95 or more. But both the rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests showed him negative. An X-ray showed high grade of infection based on which he was referred for treatment to GMC. The patient who died last Sunday remains a non-Covid death officially. Dipani, who saw him first, told TOI that the patient had the symptoms of the disease. He had no fever or cough but high degree of pneumonia, which developed suddenly. Rapid onset of pneumonia can happen in Covid. Regular pneumonia only develops gradually, he said. A 60-year-old man who has survived had a stronger indication that it could be Covid though in his case too, both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests were negative. The oxygen level had touched 92%. CAT scan of lungs showed a count of 11, which in terms of Covid protocol is moderate infection. Even the markers were high in the blood test — LDH was 247 as against normal count 135 to 225, ESR was at 43 and CRP was 60. The normal range of ESR and CRP markers are 15 and 0 to 6 respectively, he said. The patient was given the same medicines administered in Covid treatment like Remdesivir and is recovering, said Dipani Dr Prashant Joshi, who has been appointed nodal clinical expert for Covid management in the state, said it can be Covid, if clinical and radiological examination that includes CAT scan or X-ray give enough indications. The sensitivity of RT-PCR is around 70% and that of rapid antigen test around 40%. At times, the patient may not test positive after both the tests due to it. Joshi said even he had come across some cases and repeated swab tests needed to be done on these patients to get a final conclusion. Such patients are provided same drugs as for Covid treatment. However, contact tracing is done only if the patients test positive. Dr Vikram Rathi of Kingsway Hospital also accepted of such likelihood. He said lung CAT scan has 90% sensitivity and even such patients should be given Covid-treatment along with medicines for other possible causes. “Decline in oxygen is most likely due to lung involvement in Covid. Other reasons be cardiac problems, pulmonary embolism or other infections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-symptoms-ve/articleshow/78005702.cms||Shishir Arya
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Second electric crematorium to start from today||Lucknow: The city got its second electric crematorium located at Gulala Ghat. The crematorium was inaugurated by urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon and mayor Sanyukta Bhatia on Tuesday. According to Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials, the civic body has spent around Rs 3 crore on the project. The crematorium was supposed to start functioning from March but got delayed due to financial issues faced by the civic body. As per LMC records, two machines have been installed at the crematorium. About 18 bodies can be cremated in a day here. Till now, the city had only one electric crematorium at Baikunth Dham on Bandha Road. However, that is often non-functional due to its old machinery. TOI had also previously highlighted how a spike in Covid-19 deaths had increased the burden on the only electric crematorium in the city by nearly 60%. Many families from other districts as well preferred electric cremation for their loved ones lost to Covid-19, often because of lack of money. Electric cremation costs around Rs 400 compared to the traditional way of wooden pyre which costs over Rs 4,000. The electric process is of approximately 40 minutes while the traditional one takes nearly three hours. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The new electric crematorium will start functioning from Wednesday. The charges will be Rs 400.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/second-electric-crematorium-to-start-from-today/articleshow/78006446.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Construction, occupancy clearances nosedive, civic agency data shows||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has issued only 20 commencement certificates (CCs) and 28 occupancy certificates (OCs) since April 1, 2020, down from 146 CCs and 199 OCs issued during 2019-20, data accessed by TOI shows. BBMP officials attributed the decrease to a massive downturn in the realty sector due to the pandemic, but builders say several of their applications for CCs and OCs are pending with the civic body as employees are busy with Covid-19 work. Officials say the dip in CCs shows not many constructions projects are being executed and the fall in OCs implies projects nearing completion are hanging fire due to lack of funds. When the nationwide lockdown was announced, construction activities in Bengaluru ground to a halt. Migrant labourers headed back to their hometowns and villages in the thousands — many on foot — and their return is yet to match the scale of their departure. Only 13 building plans have been approved by the BBMP this financial year indicating that not many new projects are on the anvil and recovery is still some distance away, BBMP officials said. In the last financial year, 134 building plans were approved. However, construction companies told TOI BBMP officials are not approving applications for plans, CCs and OC citing pandemic workload. Nagaraju S, a builder, said he has spent a month, in vain, running from pillar to post to get a building plan cleared for his property in BTM Layout. Anand Gowda, who owns property in Arsikere, said, “BBMP has delayed construction of my house. If they had granted approval by early March, half the construction would have been over. I would have made arrangements for labourers’ board and lodging.” But a senior BBMP official said many property owners are hesitant to begin construction work. “The main problems we hear is that there is a shortage of labourers. This has affected our revenues,” the official said. The official, however, expected things to improve in fourth months. When contacted, N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, insisted pandemic work and ensuring the spread of Covid-19 is under control is the primary task of BBMP at this juncture. “Since cases are increasing, we have deputed all officials into Covid management. Yet, many officials have walked an extra mile and handled both Covid and administrative duties,” Prasad told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/construction-occupancy-clearances-nosedive-civic-agency-data-shows/articleshow/78003325.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||No request for award to PV Narasimha Rao, replies MHA||HYDERABAD: While the Telangana assembly passed a resolution asking the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, an RTI application, filed by a local activist to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), posed the question if there were any recommendations for awards to Narasimha Rao sent to the MHA. An RTI application by J Sudheer sought information if there were any recommendations from the Union government, Telangana government or individuals for Bharat Ratna or Padma awards for PV Narasimha Rao. The reply from MHA said that there was no recommendation needed for Bharat Ratna. “The Prime Minister makes the recommendation for Bharat Ratna to the President and names for Bharat Ratna award are announced by the President’s secretariat after obtaining approval of the President. No formal recommendation for this is necessary,” the reply said. For the query on Padma recommendation, instead of a direct reply, the applicant was asked to refer to the ministry website. Meanwhile, the state government is planning to mark PV Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebrations across many countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-request-for-award-to-pv-replies-mha/articleshow/78005686.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik registers 1,486 new cases, 20 deaths||Nashik: As many as 1,486 Covid-19 positive cases, including 1,134 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of cases to 46,325. The positive cases recorded in the city during last 24 hours were the highest number of cases so far in the city. With this, the tally of coronavirus patients in the city has reached 31,921. The district also registered 20 Covid-19 casualties, of which, 10 were from the city. The death toll of stands at 548 in the city and 973 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-registers-1486-new-cases-20-deaths/articleshow/78006441.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Classrooms to get extended reality||KOCHI: Imagine a class on changing weather patterns of earth or a guided tour of the solar system that places presenters in larger than life environments, the kind you see on TV studios. Immersion is set to be key in classroom learning with startups in the state developing extended reality (XR) applications that would help teachers imagine and create compelling content. Embright Infotech, a startup under the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has come up with an XR application Eduoskus XR that helps real-time content creation and collaborative learning. XR is considered a catch-all term for live immersive experience using technologies like augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR) and mixed reality (MR). “Suppose you want to explain how rain is caused, the application would allow you to drag and drop weather conditions that give an immersive experience. Just think about graphics created in TV studios,” says Satyanarayanan A R, co-founder and CEO of Embright Infotech which has developed several innovative products like Auticare-a therapy aid for autism and special needs. Embright defines Eduuoskus XR as a social community and academic management application that aims to enhance the skills of students by bridging them with technologies. The product would be virtually launched on September 12. iBoson Innovations, another startup based in Thiruvananthapuram, has also developed an application called United AR that allows people with no knowledge of coding to create augmented reality. “If a teacher wants to show something augmented, she can livestream any object in an augmented way using the application. We also have an editorial platform in which textbook images can be uploaded and provide a layered digital experience,” said Vishnu J P, CEO, iBoson Innovations. The application developed by them has also use in sectors like marketing, retail and branding apart from advertising. “We also launched another product called XR Meet last month. It’s a zero-code platform for self-service in installation, maintenance and remote assistance using AR,” said Vishnu. Remote assistance with AR functionality has also features like object recognition for product support. “This application has a lot of advantages in the pandemic situation when physical support is difficult,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/classrooms-to-get-extended-reality/articleshow/78004589.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 9, 2020||Bareilly||Physically disabled man caught selling illicit liquor on tricycle, cops release him after learning he had not received pension for three months||Bareilly: A 30-year-old man with physical disabilities was allegedly caught selling illicit liquor by police in Gola area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Monday night. The accused — the sole breadwinner for a family of five — was, however, released by police after they learnt that he had not received his disability pension for the past three months and had been selling liquor, pan masala, balloons and candies on his tricycle to meet both ends. Accused Amit Kumar is a resident of Baslipur village and his father had died eight years ago due to prolonged illness. Amit contracted poliomyelitis when he was just three, and one of his legs was paralysed. Amit said he used to earn somewhere between Rs 50 and Rs 100 each day by selling articles on his tricycle, but as the sale was hit by the lockdown, all his savings vanished. A policeman, who wished not to be named, told TOI, “We decided to release Amit after learning about his financial background. We even provided him with some money after he promised that he won’t do it again.” Gola police station SHO Anil Kumar said, “Amit was held with a few pouches of illicit liquor and booked under the Excise Act. He was, however, released after a warning that he would stay away from such activities.” According to a senior police officer, the pandemic has rendered many youths — who used to work for tent houses or as an electrician, painter, florist, etc — jobless and a few of them even get indulged in petty criminal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/physically-disabled-man-caught-selling-illicit-liquor-on-tricycle-cops-release-him-after-learning-he-had-not-received-pension-for-three-months/articleshow/78002191.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Power cuts affect oxygen productions||Nashik: Oxygen processing units in Nashik have demanded uninterrupted power supply as frequent power failures over the past two weeks have been hampering the production of oxygen, a crucial component in the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients. There are three oxygen manufacturers and four suppliers in Nashik. The manufacturers said it takes around two hours to restore the whole process to start production if there is a power failure of even a single minute. “We have to restart the process in case there is a power failure. We produce 15 cylinders of oxygen every hour. Each power failure can affect the production of around 35-40 cylinders of oxygen,” said Pravin Dhokane, the director of Akshay Oxygen & Industrial Gasses. “About 10 days ago, we could not operate for almost 12 hours, from 11pm to 9am, due to power failure and the MSEDCL took around 12 hours to restore the supply,” added Dhokane. Pravin Daroli, MSEDCL’s superintending engineer of the Nashik circle, said: “There had been some fault because of rain and tree branches falling on the power lines. But we have almost completed the maintenance works and have sorted out the issues. We will also check if there are any individual problems at the oxygen units.” “Before the outbreak, there was about 20% demand for medical oxygen and 80% for industrial oxygen. Now, we are supplying around 95% of oxygen supply for hospitals and medical purposes,” Dhokane said. “There has been a rise in demand for medical oxygen. Local oxygen manufacturers are running 24x7 to cater to demand. But frequent power failures are hampering the production,” said Shashikant Jadhav, president, Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (Nima). “We have been pursuing the issue with the MSEDCL, and the officials have assured us that there will be uninterrupted power supply in the industrial areas. In fact, they have started sorting out the problems,” added Jadhav. There was some technical snag in the feeders. Moreover, MSEDCL had not carried out the pre-monsoon works of trimming tree branches. Such branches have been causing short-circuits, said Jadhav. “We are also taking the help of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) for trimming of the branches,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/power-cuts-affect-oxygen-productions/articleshow/78006455.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 9, 2020||Agra||Uttarakhand governor’s kin dies under mysterious circumstances in Mathura||Agra: A relative of Uttarakhand governor died under mysterious circumstances in Mathura on Tuesday. Jagdish Prasad, 78, was found injured outside a clinic in Mathura’ Bajna area. He breathed his last while being shifted to Noida for treatment.Prasad is a relative of Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya. His post-mortem examination is being conducted by a panel of doctors, as his family suspected foul play behind the death. Local police after scanning the CCTV footage of the area said that two men had dropped him outside the clinic and left.On Monday, when Kumar did not return till 9pm, his family started searching for him and found him in a critical condition outside the clinic. They decided to shift him to a Noida hospital. But he died on the way. His son, Atul Kumar, said that his father may have been robbed and thrashed.SSP Guarav Grover said, “The matter is being investigated. However, no complaint has been filed by the family members so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/uttarakhand-governors-kin-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-mathura/articleshow/78003153.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||State govt employees observe fast in protest||Dehradun: Continuing the ongoing stir to oppose the probe ordered against Deepak Joshi, the president of Uttarakhand General-OBC Employees Association, the state government employees observed a day long fast on Tuesday. The employee association has also announced a one-day work boycott for Wednesday. The employee association members have claimed that the protests would continue till the probe against Joshi is withdrawn. To recall, Joshi has been accused of violating service manuals by criticising government policies. The state government had recently ordered a probe into the matter, which would be conducted by an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-employees-observe-fast-in-protest/articleshow/78003165.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 slows grievance redressal||DEHRADUN: Following closure of different offices, including collectorate office, on account of Covid-19, various grievance redressal mechanisms have been slowed down here. Most of the offices have placed a drop box to accept applications but the box will be opened every third day. According to the officials, the letters which are being received at the collectorate are kept safe for three days and are being sanitised before they are opened. For the public’s convenience, district magistrate Ashish Srivastava has also ordered to place a drop box at the state disaster management authority office. The entry of outsiders has been completely banned until further orders. A similar protocol is also being followed at the municipal corporation office where each letter is sprayed with disinfectant and kept aside for a day or two. In addition to the daily use items, registers and files are also being sanitised after every use and only important files are being sent to senior officials. At the Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) office, the entry of visitors has been stopped for a few days in order to avoid staff coming in direct contact with any outsiders. The entire department is on alert since an executive engineer tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, sanitisation activities have been initiated to facilitate its reopening after a week. The offices which have made alternative arrangements like dedicated email ID and drop box include collectorate office and municipal corporation office. The district administration has also issued a dedicated email ID dehradun.dm@gmail.com for receiving applications from the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-slows-grievance-redressal-in-capital/articleshow/78003157.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||TOI to honour education warriors for scripting ‘new normal’ in crisis||Lucknow: At a time when Covid-19 pandemic is proving to be a major roadblock for professionals, there are some who have shone and worked more hours than before in a challenging situation. To pay a tribute to such people, The Times of India will organise an online event called ‘Education Warriors’ to felicitate teachers and institutions. Wednesday’s event will be a tribute to educationists for championing the new normal in education. It will be live-streamed on NBT Lucknow’s Facebook page from 12pm. An online brainstorming session on ‘New Education Policies and Online Education’ will be held in which academicians like former CBSE chairman and former director of education, UP, Ashok Ganguly; Lucknow University vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai, president of the UP Unaided Private Schools Association Anil Agarwal and founder of Project Out Of School Children and trustee of St Paul’s School Amreesh A Chandra will participate. The event will have deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma as chief guest. TOI will honour 14 teachers for their contribution. These are Rakesh Kumar Chattree of Christ Church College, Prof Geeta Gandhi of City Montessori School, Brajendra Singh of Pioneer Montessori School, Jai Pal Singh, Mohinder Singh and Narender Pratap Singh of Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial Group of Schools, Pushpalata Agarwal of St Joseph Group of Institutions, SP Singh of Lucknow Public Collegiate, Promini Chopra of Seth MR Jaipuria schools, Harish Chandra Pandey of Central Academy, Deepak Madhok of Sunbeam Group Of Educational Institutions, Varanasi, Pawan Singh Chauhan of S R Global Institute, Umesh Gupta of The Indian Academy, Pushpa Gupta of Uma Devi Children’s Academy, Amreesh A Chandra of Online World School & Go Learn Guru and president of Unaided Private Schools Association Uttar Pradesh Anil Agarwal and its secretary Mala Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-to-honour-education-warriors-for-scripting-new-normal-in-crisis/articleshow/78006461.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Parsekar-led committee to examine nat’l edu policy||Panaji: A 27-member committee headed by former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar has been constituted by the state government to ‘examine’ the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The committee will ‘prepare the policy and roadmap for the state of Goa at higher education level’, states the order. Officials said that similarly two other committees for school education and technical education have also been formed. However, the move to appoint Parsekar as chairman of the committee for higher education drew flak from the opposition, with leader of opposition Digamber Kamat slamming the selection of a politician to head the panel. Kamat said that the report on medium of instruction for primary schooling, submitted by a panel formed when Parsekar was the CM, is still gathering dust. “Will the BJP government of Goa now make its stand clear on the report of Prof Bhaskar Nayak committee on medium of instruction? It is my firm belief that committees to decide on long term policy decisions of the state should be headed by the experts in the respective fields,” said Kamat. Kamat also said that the Vision-2035 document, prepared under scientist Dr. Raghunath Mashelkar, is yet to be implemented. “I hope the committee will take all the stakeholders into confidence and adopt an unbiased and neutral stand in the interest of the future generations of Goa,” he said. Meanwhile, the directorate of higher education has already called for suggestions on implementation of the NEP from stakeholders, including any citizens. The state committee on NEP for higher education will have among its members secretary for education, Goa University vice-chancellor Varun Sahni, former GU vice-chancellor Dr Satish Shetye, the directors of IIT Goa and NIT Goa, director of technical education Vivek Kamat, director of Goa Institute of Management Ajit Parulekar, former faculty-BARC- Mumbai Dr Prasad Naik, former professor GU Dr Erwin D’Sa, among others. Some other members include representatives of the industry, senior-most professors of Goa University, Goa Medical College professor Dr Wiseman Pinto, former GMC dean Dr V N Jindal, former principals of colleges and former chief scientist NIO Dr Murari Tapaswi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parsekar-led-committee-to-examine-natl-edu-policy/articleshow/78005726.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||MIM boycotts House over resolution on Ratna for PV||Hyderabad: When chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao introduced the resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao in the assembly on Tuesday, AIMIM, the second largest party in the House, boycotted the proceedings. The party tweeted, “AIMIM MLAs boycotted Telangana assembly proceedings following a resolution that proposed Bharat Ratna for PV Narasimha Rao. As Prime Minister, Rao failed to protect Babri Masjid from demolition & his communal politics is well known (sic).” On several occasions, AIMIM had accused Rao of failing to protect the masjid when he was the PM in 1992. Party MLA Syed Ahmed Pasha Quadri told reporters that Rao had not only failed to protect the masjid from being demolished but also failed to protect the lives of Sikhs during Delhi rites post former PM Indira Gandhi’s assassination. “He was also responsible for 300 innocent youth deaths and property loss during Telangana agitation in 1969,” Quadri said. AIMIM had even opposed naming of 11km PVNR Expressway. Then CM of united AP YS Rajasekhara Reddy convinced AIMIM leaders not to make it a big issue during its inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-boycotts-house-over-resolution-on-ratna-for-pv/articleshow/78005721.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt to decide on refund of pension cuts||Hyderabad: The state government on Tuesday informed the high court that a decision on refunding 50% of pensions which was cut during the lockdown is likely to be taken during the ongoing assembly session. Advocate general BS Prasad said this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy when the court took up the case that challenged the decision of the state government to impose a cut in the pensions when the lockdown was first imposed. For three months, the pension was slashed by 50%. The bench said that it would be better if all the cut portions are repaid int one go. The case was posted to October 1. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-decide-on-refund-of-pension-cuts/articleshow/78005712.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Plasma therapy doesn’t cut Covid mortality risk’||NEW DELHI: The results of the trial conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to assess the benefits of convalescent plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients are out and they indicate the therapy does not reduce death risk. The therapy – touted by some as a magic bullet against the disease with no known cure as yet – also did not reduce the progression to severe disease in patients who received the therapy, the ICMR study has concluded. It involved 464 Covid-19 patients admitted to 39 tertiary care hospitals across the country. According to the study, released on MedRXIV, 235 participants received the plasma therapy in addition to standard treatment while 229 others were treated with standard therapies. All of them were hospitalised, moderately-ill Covid-19 patients, the researchers said. “Mortality was documented in 34 (13.6%) and 31 (14.6%) participants in intervention and control arm respectively after 28 days post-enrolment,” they added. Intervention refers to participants who received plasma therapy while ‘control’ refers to those who received standard treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plasma-therapy-doesnt-cut-covid-mortality-risk/articleshow/78005733.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Newly-wed couple shot dead by woman’s kin in Kashipur||RUDRAPUR: In an alleged case of honour killing, a newly-wed couple was shot dead by the woman’s relatives in Alli Khan Colony of Kashipur town on Monday night, police officials said. According to Rajesh Bhatt, the additional superintendent of police (ASP), the woman’s father called the couple at his house on Monday night and then his accomplices, all members of the woman’s family, allegedly shot the two dead and thereafter, fled from the spot. Bhatt told TOI that Mohammad Rashid (24) and Naziya (23) had got married three months ago against the wishes of the woman’s family. The couple had eloped and were living in Akbarabad area of Rampur district (Uttar Pradesh) as the woman’s family was unhappy with an intercaste marriage. However, the woman’s kin managed to find their whereabouts. Later, the couple was sent a message by the accused family assuring them that they had accepted the alliance. Believing that their relationship has been accepted, the couple returned to Kashipur two weeks ago and started living in Rashid’s paternal house. Kamruddin, Rashid’s father, has told the police that on Monday night at around 9 pm, when Rashid and Naziya were returning home after visiting a doctor, Naziya’s father Muzammil called her and asked her to come to his house. As soon as the couple reached his house, Muzammil and his son Mohsin opened fire on them. Rashid received one bullet each in his head and his belly while Naziya was shot twice in her abdomen. Both of them died on the spot and the accused managed to flee the spot. Police have booked Mukammal, his son Mohsin, and Naziya’s maternal uncles Afsar Ali and Jauhar Ali for the killings. ASP Bhatt added that the postmortem examination has revealed that Naziya was two months pregnant. “We have added the relevant sections of the IPC. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to Kamruddin for the last rituals. Meanwhile, police have been deployed in Alli Khan Colony to avoid any untoward incident,” added Bhatt. The official assured that the accused, who are on the loose at present, will soon be nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/newly-wed-couple-shot-dead-by-womans-kin-in-kashipur/articleshow/78003162.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon activity to remain subdued in U’khand this week: Met||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued a weekly forecast claiming that rain activity will remain subdued throughout this week across Uttarakhand. According to the Met office, only light showers are likely to occur at a few places in Dehradun, Pauri, Pithoragarh, and Nainital districts. The rest of the areas are likely to experience dry weather. “Except spontaneous showers at isolated places, dry weather will prevail more or less across Uttarakhand during this week with very less chances of heavy rainfall. The weather is likely to remain the same till at least September 12,” according to Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. Meanwhile, state capital Dehradun was lashed by sudden downpour on Tuesday afternoon resulting in waterlogging at a few places. However, the weather got cleared by evening hours. Due to dry spell, the maximum temperatures are settling above normal in both the hill and the plain regions of Uttarakhand, For instance, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 33 degree Celsius, three notches above normal. While in Pantnagar, the maximum temperature remained at 35.2 degree Celsius, three degrees above normal. The maximum temperature in the hill town of Mukteshwar also settled above normal at 23.7 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-activity-to-remain-subdued-in-ukhand-this-week-met/articleshow/78003177.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 9, 2020||Goa||Engg, pharma aspirants get time till Friday to revise choice of course||Panaji: The directorate of technical education (DTE) has now given engineering and pharmacy seat aspirants time upto September 11 to revise their choice of course stated in their admission applications. “In view of the large number of requests received from applicants, for admissions to degree course in engineering and pharmacy, for revision in the choice of courses, it is informed that applicants who wish to revise their choice of courses in the ‘Form for Choice of Courses’ may revise their options by logging in to the website,” DTE has said. Students have to make the change by logging into the website www.goa-degree-admissions.in. DTE has said that this revised choice of course made by students will be considered as final and the allotment of seats to aspirants will be done accordingly. “In case applicants do not submit revised options, their earlier options exercised (by September 5) would be considered final, and allotment of seat done accordingly,” DTE has said. This year, due to the pandemic, no physical admission round will be held by DTE and allotment of seats will be done online. Once students are informed of the seats allotted to them, they have to go to the college directly and complete the admission process. Therefore, as the entire process is being done online, DTE had told students to submit their course preference in the ‘Form for Choice of Courses’ on the website www.goa-degree-admission.in. Seats will be allotted to students based on their merit and the course choices indicated by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/engg-pharma-aspirants-get-time-till-friday-to-revise-choice-of-course/articleshow/78005713.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 17 days after he was swabbed, test result says victim negative||BENGALURU: Seventeen days after a 66-year-old man submitted samples for an RT-PCR test for Covid-19, his family received a text message from the government saying: “You are negative. Stay safe.” That message came four days after the senior citizen had succumbed to the virus in a hospital where he was admitted for treatment after a rapid antigen test (RAT), taken at the same time samples were collected for the RT-PCR test, confirmed he was infected. The ordeal for the family began when Uttarahalli resident Nagaraj V complained of extreme fatigue over five days in mid-August. A family doctor suggested he undergo a Covid-19 test as his condition did no improve although he was put on medication for the fatigue. “The doctor suspected my father had contracted the virus,” recalls Murali N, Nagaraj’s son. “On August 20, I took my dad to the Uttarahalli PHC where BBMP healthcare workers took both our swab samples for RT-PCR tests. However, given my father’s age, staff said they will also do a RAT. Results of RAT showed both my father and I were infected. My father was immediately admitted in Victoria Hospital.” Subsequently, Nagaraj’s wife also tested positive through RAT and was admitted in Victoria Hospital a couple of days later. Murali and his wife, who was also infected, opted for home isolation. “The hospital took good care of my parents,” Murali said. “While my mother recovered and was discharged, my father’s condition deteriorated. He was administered plasma therapy and put on a ventilator. We spoke to him last on August 27 and he breathed his last on September 2.” Grief stricken, the family conducted Nagaraj’s last rites and was gradually coming to terms with his death when Murali received two messages on his phone on September 6 from the government, announcing Nagaraj and Murali were negative for Covid-19. Murali was shocked, angry and confused. “Why will it take 17 days to send out results on a test? What if they had not done the rapid test and we had not admitted my father and I had not isolated myself? How can the two tests give two different results for a sample drawn at the same time? What is true and what is false?” he wondered. BBMP officials at Uttarahalli PHC said some reports do get delayed, but were unable to say why. Captain P Manivannan, special officer, Bommahalli, admitted the RT-PCR test result was delayed. “In this case, it looks like he was symptomatic and hence admitted to hospital. So, I don't think the RAT result was a false positive. The problem may have been with the collection of the swab sample or dilution,” Manivannan said. He went on to say that around Ganesha festival (August 22), many lab technicians went on leave and samples had piled up resulting in a huge backlog. “The pendency was cleared subsequently over 10 days. It has all been streamlined now,” said Manivannan. Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer, Covid testing, said Nagaraj’s case was a very rare one where the result was delayed by 17 days. “Even now, there is a delay of 2-3 days from the time the specimen is withdrawn to the result being announced. During Ganesha festival, the delay was was 3-4 days,” Dr Manjunath said. However, he said if a person is infected, there cannot be a false positive on RAT. “Even if the virus was inactivated, the genetic material or the RNA of the virus should have been traced by RT-PCR. This case is rare,” Dr Manjunath said.  Captain P Manivannan, special officer, Bommahalli, said when test numbers go up and throat swab samples pile up — for example during the Ganesha festival (August 22) and on weekends — lab technicians may not have stored the samples at the required temperature in the refrigerator. “If swab samples had been kept out of the fridge during the Ganesha festival holidays when technicians went on leave, there are chances that the virus may have been inactivated at room temperature,” Manivannan said. The United States’ Centre for Diseases Control and Prevention, (US-CDC), says swab samples must be stored at 2-8 degree Celsius for up to 72 hours after collection. The CDC mandates that in case of further delay in testing or shipping, the specimens must be stored at -70 degree Celsius. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stipulates that samples should be maintained at 4 degree Celsius for up to five days and at -70 degree Celsius beyond that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/17-days-after-he-was-swabbed-test-result-says-victim-negative/articleshow/78003369.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 9, 2020||Goa||Man who rented out villa for party gets bail||Panaji: The sessions court has granted anticipatory bail to Rupesh Bora who rented out the villa where the alleged drug-fuelled rave party was held on August 16. Bora is into the business of taking luxury villas on lease and giving them out to third parties on rent for a limited period. Judge Irshad Agha granted bail after observing that the investigating agency has not specified the role played by Bora. “More over, 20 days have already passed since the time the raid was conducted. The agency cannot arrest a person and thereafter proceed to gather material. Such a practice cannot be allowed,” the court held. The court, however, observed that persons giving out premises would be bound to whatever wrong takes place in the premises during that particular time. Bora submitted that whenever customers come to him, he lets out the premises and the necessary documents are supplied by the tourist to the society in which the premises are situated. His advocate stated that he had never come into contact with Kapil Jhaverri, and that he was not at all involved in the party and was unaware that drugs would be supplied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-who-rented-out-villa-for-party-gets-bail/articleshow/78005732.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Stolen items worth over Rs 1 crore seized from gang of burglars||NEW DELHI: Cash and jewellery, worth over Rs 1 crore, have been recovered with police busting a gang of burglars that used a stolen Swift car to carry out heists in south and southeast Delhi. Five persons have been arrested from Ghaziabad. The cops are now looking for a popular feriwala named Sultan who allegedly used to frequent some upscale colonies in Kalkaji to gather information for this gang while selling stuff. Four of the arrested men — Amit Gupta, Aman Khan, Mohammed Rashid and Manoj — were burglars while Amit Verma was the receiver of stolen goods. Police have also seized Rs 8 lakh in cash and two cars, including the stolen Swift. The cops started tracking the gang after a burglary at a businessman’s house in Kalkaji. On August 30, the senior citizen stepped out of home for two hours when the gang had struck. “Our teams checked the CCTV cameras around the spot to get information about the gang’s routes before and after committing the crime,” said DCP R P Meena. The footage showed the gang using the Swift, which was found to be registered in the name of one Dharmesh from Khichdipur. Though Dharmesh doesn’t live there any more, the cops got his contact details from the current occupants. Dharmesh told police that he had sold the car to a man in Bhajanpura but the owner died in a car accident during the transfer of ownership. The car, he said, was then sold as scrap at Mayapuri. The owner, however, informed the investigators that Mumbai Police had also contacted him regarding criminals using the same car. Cops got in touch with their Mumbai counterparts and found that two men, Amit Gupta and Aman Khan, were arrested last year in Mumbai while using the same car while committing crimes. Delhi Police tracked the men to Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad and arrested them along with their associates. The accused divulged that they were tipped off by Sultan about probable targets whose houses would be empty for sometime. They also allegedly confessed about their activities in other metro cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stolen-items-worth-over-rs-1cr-seized-from-gang-of-burglars/articleshow/78005782.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar traders protest to demand for Covid-19 relief||HARIDWAR: Hit by economic losses due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, a group of local traders held a protest against the state government for not giving them any financial relief package. The agitators put black flags outside their shops and raised slogans. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of Pradesh Vyapar Mandal, told TOI, “All units associated with our group in Haridwar, Laksar, and Roorkee placed black flags outside their shops and anti-government slogans were raised. Despite being well aware of our economic losses due to subsequent lockdowns, the state government has not announced any relief package for us. The situation is such that we are not even able to pay taxes for water supply, property, and electricity, among others. How will we survive the pandemic without any help?” Earlier, the city’s tour and travels association had also staged similar protests to demand compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-traders-hold-protest-to-push-demand-for-covid-19-relief-package/articleshow/78003175.cms||MS Nawaz
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||PV Narsimha Rao kin: MIM should’ve backed decision||HYDERABAD: Former prime minister PV Narsimha Rao’s grandson, BJP spokesperson NV Subhash on Tuesday said the AIMIM should have supported the resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for the late PM. In a press statement here, Subhash said AIMIM members should have been present in the House to support the resolution. Welcoming the resolution adopted by the state legislative assembly, he said: “Leaders cutting across political affiliations and people from various sections have urged the central government to announce Bharat Ratna for Rao.” He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has great respect for his grandfather. “Rao will be honoured appropriately,” he said. Subhash recalled that Modi had called Rao as a ‘great son of India’ during his recent ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pv-kin-mim-shouldve-backed-decision/articleshow/78005734.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||NMC wants oxygen manufacturers to scale up their capacity||Nashik: The Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) authorities held a meeting with oxygen manufacturers and suppliers on Tuesday to check the possibility of increasing supply of medical oxygen to Covid hospitals in the city. The demand for oxygen has increased due to the rise in the number of coronavirus cases. The demand for oxygen may increase by two times by month end, worry civic authorities. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, along with divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, conducted separate meetings with oxygen suppliers. NMC officials said that at present, there is a demand of 50,000 litres of oxygen in Nashik district daily. This includes 45,000 litres oxygen for the city alone. The demand may double by month end if the number of coronavirus cases keep increasing by the day. During the meeting, Jadhav told oxygen suppliers to scale up their capacity when one of the manufacturers agreed to set up a new plant. “However, it will take around two months,” said an NMC official. Meanwhile, civic officials also held a meeting with Game, oxygen manufacturers and suppliers as well as officials from the FDA and Nashik district civil hospital. During the meeting, Game instructed the civic officials to send letters to liquid oxygen manufacturers in Pune, Raigad and other parts of the state to double the supply of oxygen for the district, said a senior NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-wants-oxygen-manufacturers-to-scale-up-their-capacity/articleshow/78006466.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 9, 2020||Goa||Six cops get GPSC nod for DySP post||Panaji: Goa public service commission (GPSC) has recommended to the government promotion of six police officers to the post of deputy superintendent of police (DySP). GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said the commission at its departmental promotion committee meeting held on Tuesday suggested the names of Prabodh Shirwaikar, Harishchandra Madkaikar, Santosh Desai, Uday Parab, Sandesh Chodankar and Shaikh Salim for promotion. Police inspectors with five years of regular service are eligible to be promoted as DySPs. The commission also lifted the probation period of five deputy directors of education and promoted two officers in the department of planning and statistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-cops-get-gpsc-nod-for-dysp-post/articleshow/78005737.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cracks whip on post-retirement extensions||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand has cracked the whip on the ‘tradition’ of post-retirement extensions in government jobs, saying that the department heads giving extensions will have to now declare that the “existing workforce is unable to perform duties of the man in question”, following which the state administration will “consider them for voluntary retirement”. In a strongly worded Government Order, Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that “despite a high number of posts and employees, there has been a tradition of doling out post-retirement jobs in Uttarakhand”. In a strict move, the state has now decided that any department recommending the service extension of a retired official/employee will also have to give it in writing to the personnel and vigilance department, “that its existing staff is unable to perform the duties, which the retired employee will perform after getting the extension”. The GO further mentions that the declaration would be forwarded to the departmental promotion committee to consider the track record of these employees during their promotion process and the state will thereafter “seriously” consider the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for all such officials and employees. “We need to discourage this concept as it adds to the burden on the state exchequer and we are unable to use the full potential of the existing staff,” the chief secretary told TOI. He pointed out that the previous service extensions would not be examined now “but we will ensure that only matters where a service extension is of utmost importance is given.” In the GO, Prakash further said that departments have been sending post-retirement extension requests to the personnel and vigilance department. Even if the personnel and vigilance department turned down the request, such persons were re-appointed through the orders of the finance department and chief minister’s office and there have been instances of four to five OSDs or officers on other ranks, he added. “Extensions have been given to class III and class IV employees who do not have any kind of technical expertise or any kind of special qualification,” the order said. The chief secretary has asked the department heads and other senior bureaucrats to impart the required training to other staff members six months before retirement of any such official with technical expertise “so that the need of job extension or on contract basis service does not arise”. Only in matters of utmost importance, the heads of departments have been directed to move requests for the service extension of “experts”. However, an extension would be given only after the approval of the personnel and vigilance department for six months or for maximum up to a year. Besides, no further extension would be given to any individual, who has crossed the age of 62 years, the GO said. In case of a re-appointment of a retired employee in violation of the set norms, the total expenditure would be taken from the appointing authorities and the appointment would be cancelled with the immediate effect, the GO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cracks-whip-on-post-retirement-extensions/articleshow/78003181.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Gangster Mukhtar Malik arrested from Madhya Pradesh's Goharganj||BHOPAL: City crime branch on Tuesday claimed to have arrested gangster Mukhtar Malik from Goharganj in Raisen district. Police recovered a pistol with two magazines and 25 live cartridges from his possession. Malik has 56 cases registered against him at various city police stations including Talaiya, Bilkhiria, MP Nagar, Shahjehanabad, Misrod, Jehangirabad, Crime Branch, Habibganj, Hanumanganj and Obedullaganj, Sultanpur and Umraoganj of Raisen district. A reward of Rs 20,000 was declared on his arrest in an extortion case registered against him at Hanumanganj police station and a reward of Rs 10,000 was declared in another case registered against him at Koh-e-Fiza police station. Crime branch registered another case against him under Arms Act and started investigations. ASP (Crime Branch) Gopal Singh Dhakad said that acting on a tip-off, a special team of police raided a hideout at a dhaba in Goharganj and arrested Mukhtar Malik (54). ASP Dhakad said that a pistol, two magazines and 25 live cartridges were seized from his possession. He was arrested and brought to Bhopal where the crime branch registered a case against him under Arms Act for possessing illegal firearms. The accused was being interrogated further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gangster-mukhtar-malik-arrested-from-goharganj/articleshow/78005728.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Friend’s mom booked for abetting minor’s suicide||BHOPAL: Shahpura police investigating the suicide case of 15-year-old boy, has on Tuesday booked the mother of the deceased’s friend for abetment to suicide. The minor boy had allegedly hanged himself at his house on August 26. Police said the woman has been booked for threatening the boy over phone, which apparently drove him to take the extreme step. The deceased boy and the son of accused and another friend, also a minor, were addicted to playing ‘Free Fire’ mobile game on their smartphones and they spent around Rs 50,000 on App purchases from the account of the accused woman’s father-in-law. When the woman learnt about it, she called the deceased and gave him a nice dressing-down. Police registered a case against the accused woman under relevant sections of IPC and The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Investigation officer, SI Rinku Jatav said the deceased Ayush Chadhar, 15, son of Dayaram Chadhar, a resident of Baba Nagar in Shahpura, was a student on class 8 and the only son of his parents. Dayaram works in a private company. Dayaram told police that he along with his wife had gone to their flat in Salaiya where some renovation work was in progress on August 26 and on return, found Ayush hanging in the room. Dayaram told police that his nephew told him that before taking extreme step, Ayush had told him that he received a threat call on his phone from his friend’s mother Sumanlata Rathore and he seemed depressed. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Police registered a case in the matter and started investigations. SHO Shahpura CK Patel said that during investigations it was learnt that Ayush along with his two friends including Sumanlata’s son used to play online ‘Free Fire’ mobile game on his smartphone. Sumanlata’s son knew about his grandfather Madanlal’s UPI account. So, the boys using Madanlal’s account spent around Rs 50,000 on in-App purchases on ‘Free Fire online App’. When Sumanlata learnt about it she got angry and reprimanded Ayush and the other friend. Ayush received her call himself, while the other boy’s parents received the call the same day. Patel said that Sumanlata admitted that she had called Ayush before the incident. So, police have registered a case against her and further investigations were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/friends-mom-booked-for-abetting-minors-suicide/articleshow/78005754.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Mining case hearing likely in SC today||Panaji: The crucial mining matter is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday in the Supreme Court (SC) which will decide on the resumption of mining activities. During the last hearing, the case was adjourned as the formal order was not passed by the Chief Justice of India on the application moved by the state government to tag the state’s review petition along with the mining companies’ special leave petition (SLP). Twenty six panchayats have approached the SC with an interlocutory application ) seeking impleadment in the case. In February 2018, the SC had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire mining industry to a halt. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The companies had filed a special leave petition in the SC after the high court dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-case-hearing-likely-in-sc-today/articleshow/78005759.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||Unnao tops UP again in ease of business survey||LUCKNOW: In the second district level ease of doing business rankings, Unnao retained its top position in the A category districts, which had received more than 2,000 applications on the Nivesh Mitra portal, while Kaushambi retained its first position in category B, which had less than 2,000 applications. The state started monthly district level ease of doing business rankings for all 75 districts from May this year in the attempt to increase its position in the national ratings. It released the first tally in June while its own ranking in the national ease of doing business report released earlier this week jumped from 12 last year to the second position.  ​​ Districts are being assessed each month on a set of parameters such as monthly disposal of applications, grievance resolution and user satisfaction feedback. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary, industrial development, said that in August, 64 districts improved their district level ease of doing business score. More than 15 districts, like Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Meerut, Lalitpur and Sitapur improved their rankings by more than four places. “Due to district level ease of doing business ranking, UP has witnessed user satisfaction rate increase up to 73% while grievance disposal rate increased from 72% to 75% in August. These are clear indicators of ground level changes in the state. I am sure that this monthly district level EODB ranking exercise shall be a game changer in next year’s ranking for UP,” he said. In May, chief secretary RK Tiwari had directed officials to improve the overall performance of the state in ease of doing business rankings by starting the district wise rankings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-tops-up-again-in-ease-of-biz-survey/articleshow/78006482.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Govt gives another push to get ST tag for Dhangar-Gouly||Panaji: The state government has appointed former civil servant N D Agarwal as advisor to prepare a report for the inclusion of the Dhangar-Gouly community in the list of scheduled tribes (ST) under Article 342 of the Constitution. The Dhangar-Gouly community — a shepherd tribe — is among the most backward in the state, and the Goa government’s efforts over the past decade to have it enlisted as an ST community have failed. A senior official said that several petitions submitted to the Centre in the past have failed to make any difference, and hence the present renewed effort. He also said that the Dhangar-Gouly population is miniscule compared to other tribes in the state. “Most Dhangar-Gouly communities continue to live in hilly pockets of the state, with cattle rearing as their main means of livelihood,” he said. However, the community is slowly moving to more developed areas in search of livelihood. A senior official said that stringent forest laws have made their survival challenging, since they’re under watch by forest department staff, who suspect they endanger wildlife. An official said that other ST groups in the state have immensely benefited once exposed to welfare schemes, and that concentrated efforts must be made to help this community too. He said that the government must reach out to the tribe rather than waiting for them to approach it for help. Agarwal’s appointment will be for a period of six months or till completion of the process of inclusion of the Dhangar-Gouly in the ST list, whichever is earlier. He will be paid a consolidated honorarium of Rs 50,000 a month with effect from the date of his joining. His job profile will include liaising with the Union ministry of tribal welfare as well as the registrar general of India (RGI) to pursue the task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-gives-another-push-to-get-st-tag-for-dhangar-gouly/articleshow/78005762.cms||---
September 9, 2020||India||RSS unlikely to take up Kashi, Mathura shrines||NEW DELHI: The RSS will not take up the demand for “restoration” of the Kashi and Mathura shrines after the Ayodhya Ram temple and also feels that public opinion should be prepared for implementation of a uniform civil code before a law is brought forward. The view in the RSS seems to be that it remains to be seen if there will be any public sentiment in favour of the Kashi Vishwanath and Krishna Janmabhoomi issues raised by some groups in the wake of the Supreme Court verdict on the Ram temple. But while not categorically ruling out support, RSS appears clearly disinclined to take up the issues. On the uniform civil code, the third in the Hindutva list after Article 370 and Ayodhya, RSS sources said the need for a common civil law for all citizens was self-evident. However, there was a need to prepare public opinion so that it could be understood in the correct perspective without creating a rift in society. The logic for a UCC is strong and it is not that only the minorities would be affected as several aspects of traditional norms and customs associated with other communities, including Hindus, would be impacted by a common law. The theoretical justification for the UCC was clearly understood but its implementation must not aggravate faultlines, achieving the opposite of what it was intended to deliver, the RSS believes. The Sangh also seems of the view that the storm over CAA may have largely blown over. On the claim that Muslims from neighbouring countries were excluded, the Sangh feels any section facing persecution can be considered as eligible to receive help. However, it was also true that the community did not face the kind of persecution as other sections. It also feels China’s aggression on borders has brought about a sense of unity that can be seen in a resolve to shun Chinese goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-unlikely-to-take-up-kashi-mathura-shrines/articleshow/78007476.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Two youth rescued from Valvonti river||Keri: Two youth from Poriem who had gone to catch crabs in the Valvonti river at Vitthalapur were rescued by Bicholim fire station officials on Tuesday night. Locals said that Babli Tulshidas Gaonkar and Pradesh Rama Gaonkar were catching crabs in the shallow waters along the bank of the river when a sudden rise in the river’s water level left them marooned. Heavy rain in the catchment area of the river in Karnataka and Maharashtra led to the sudden increase in water level. Locals called the Bicholim fire station after they heard the duo shouting for help. Shripad Gawas, Bicholim fire station’s officer, said, “Our fireman went to the spot after we received information at 7pm that two youth were trapped in the river. With the help of a boat and a rope the youths were rescued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-youth-rescued-from-valvonti-river/articleshow/78005788.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 9, 2020||Delhi||86-year-old raped by plumber in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An octogenarian was allegedly raped by a man at a farm in Najafgarh area of Delhi on Monday evening. The 37-year old accused who worked as a plumber in the area has been arrested. The accused, Sonu, was a resident of Rewla Khanpur area, said police. Investigations revealed that the 86-year-old woman was waiting for her milkman outside her house in Chhawla village when the accused approached her. The accused lied to her and told her that the milkman would not come but he knew a place where she could buy milk from. The accused then took her on his bike to a nearby farm and forced himself on her. When she resisted his attempts, he thrashed her. Locals heard the cries of the victim and caught hold of the accused and informed police. “A medical examination of the woman was conducted and a case under sections of rape and causing hurt was registered. The accused was immediately arrested,” said Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP, Dwarka. Delhi Commission for Women chief later met the survivor at her home and assured her of a speedy trial. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/86-yr-old-raped-by-plumber/articleshow/78005844.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Ruling, opposition members slam civic admin for poor Covid-19 mitigation efforts||Nashik: Cutting across the party lines, all the members of the standing committee of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday criticised the civic administration for its poor management of oxygen and ventilators beds for Covid-19 patients. They alleged that the NMC had prepared for 200 oxygen and ventilator beds at the Bytco hospital only after the Covid-19 cases had spiked in the city, whereas these measures should have been taken around four-five months back when the first few cases had emerged. They claimed the bed availability status was not being updated in the NMC system and patients were not getting beds immediately. They also alleged that the administration had failed to control the private hospitals that have been overcharging patients. Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite has called a special meeting of the panel on September 11 to discuss the Covid-19 infrastructural issues and take immediate decisions. “There has been a rise in the number of cases, but the NMC is facing a shortage of ventilators. It is unfortunate that the civic administration still does not have a proper plan to deal with the the oxygen and ventilator beds scenario,” said Sudhakar Badgujar of Shiv Sena. Badgujar also raised the issue of overcharging by private hospitals. He alleged one city hospital had made Rs 46 crore in just 39 days. “This is exploitation of patients and NMC administration has failed to curb overcharging by private hospitals,” he claimed. Varsha Bhalerao of the BJP, which is in power in the civic body, said there has been a scarcity of oxygen beds in the city and the patients have to wait for three hours in an ambulance. “The number of Covid-19 patients is expected double by the month-end. At this juncture, the civic administration should focus on increasing the number of oxygen and ventilators beds,” said Bhalerao. Satyabhama Gadekar of Sena said there is no coordination among health staff of Bytco hospital. No response to bid for oxygen tank NMC’s medical superintendent B Nagargoje said they have plans to set up 200 oxygen beds, including 24 with ventilators, at Bytco hospital and a centralized oxygen system has been set up. “We have not got a single bid for setting up a large oxygen tank, despite floating tenders twice. We have floated a fresh bid. All the 200 oxygen beds will be operational once we get a large oxygen tank,” said Nagargoje. Nagargoje said a centralized bed management system through the NMC portal was operational and all the updates about the beds are available on this system. He added that the auditors appointed at each private hospital were consulting expert doctors in case they have doubts about the bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ruling-opposition-members-slam-civic-admin-for-poor-covid-19-mitigation-efforts/articleshow/78006492.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 9, 2020||Nagpur||NU online exams prone to manipulation: Cyber experts||Nagpur: With Nagpur University deciding to conduct online examinations, students can appear for it from the comfort of their home anywhere in the country or abroad with help of a smartphone. However, chances of manipulation cannot be ruled out, fear cyber experts.“Mass copying is certainly a possibility in such online exams. I don’t think NU would be using very high-end software like the ones used by renowned institutions. Even a teacher or a family member can help out the examinees in such conditions. You need to track the IP address of all examinees while solving the papers to prevent any manipulation,” said cyber expert and lawyer Mahendra Limaye.Since this will be NU’s first tryst with online exams of traditional courses, that too in such big numbers, the administration is looking at it as trial mode forced on it due to Covid-19 pandemic.During Tuesday’s press conference, Board of Exam and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable admitted that NU wouldn’t be using very advanced software. Even the Proctor software, that is used for keeping track of students’ activities while they are solving papers, is not that advanced, he said.“We need to use software which consumes less data, as we’ve a big quantum of students. Even net connectivity is a major problem in rural areas and we can’t take any risks,” said the director.Endorsing Limaye’s views, a senior NU official told TOI that NU had granted an option to examinees to switch off net connectivity to save on data while solving papers. “They can adopt unfair means in such a situation during exam duration. Even if flying squads are formed, they can’t peek into students’ homes,” he said.Not just experts but even students are worried over prospects of solving papers online, which they never dreamt of. “Internet connectivity is still a big problem in some areas. It can pose a challenge for the smooth execution of exams. If net connectivity is erratic or fails, students may lose flow of responses which can affect their score,” said Aaisha Mushaf, an MBA student from Tirpude College.Agreeing with her, Shambhavi Pande, a law student from Dr Ambedkar College, said power failure could also pose a major challenge, apart from poor quality of software and inadequate server capacity. “It’s good that NU is conducting mock tests for us which will help in removing some discrepancies,” she said.(With inputs from Anchal Bhatia)# Chances Of Unfair Means In Online Exams* Many students sitting adjacent to each other & discussing questions* College teachers/experts help out students with answers* A family member can also help out examinees with answers* Since students can switch off connectivity, they can refer books for answers# Drawbacks Of In NU’s Online System* Students can download MCQ paper, shut net & open it while uploading paper* Since net connection would be put off, their activities can’t be tracked* Lack of facility to monitor GPS location of all examinees can be a hurdle* Failure to use high-level proctoring software as it will consume more data* Current software wouldn’t be able to record students interacting with others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-online-exams-prone-to-manipulation-cyber-experts/articleshow/78005847.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 9, 2020||Nashik||Covid is curable, panic only makes things worse: Experts||Nashik: Doctors have stressed that Covid-19 is curable, which is evident from the high number of recoveries across the country, and appealed to people to not panic if they find symptoms or even test positive for the contagion. Anand Taru, a medical officer of a CCC in Yeola, who has seen more than 400 patients admitted to the facility since the outbreak of the disease, said at least four in 10 patients are rattled when they are admitted to the centre. “Fear increases the pulse rate and blood sugar level, deteriorating the health further. Some patients weep continuously while others maintain a stony silence. Doctors have to keep a close watch and counsel them,” he added. A doctor from the city who has recovered from Covid-19 also said that fear is harmful to health. “Patients can recover fast if they shed fear. However, overconfidence is not good and people should wear masks and follow the social distancing norm.” Nilesh Jejurkar, head of the department of psychiatry at the Nashik civil hospital, said the team of psychiatrists in the hospital is constantly in dialogue with coronavirus patients, allaying fears about the disease. “Patients don’t keep a track of the high number of patients recovering from the disease and getting back to life,” he said, adding that they have started a helpline for Covid patients and their relatives to remove their fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-is-curable-panic-only-makes-things-worse-experts/articleshow/78006496.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 9, 2020||Hubballi||Self-medication on the rise in north Karnataka||HAVERI: Many Covid-19 positive patients in Haveri and other districts prefer home isolation but are resorting to self-medication. This is a big challenge for the health department and district administrations in North Karnataka. Patients are popping antibiotic pills and rush to hospital only if they don’t recover. Now, the Haveri district administration has formed Home Quarantine Watch Committee to tackle it. According to sources, most patients in home isolation take medicines prescribed by family doctors instead of following the instruction of Covid specialists. They hope for a speedy recovery, but this is not advisable. A doctor on duty in a Covid ward said self-medication by many patients in home isolation is a problem. “Most take some medicated liquid and hot water instead of medicines prescribed by doctors. Some use antibiotic pills unnecessarily. If they don’t recover, they rush to hospital when their condition becomes critical. In that condition, it’s very difficult to save their lives,” he said. District Health Officer Dr Rajnendra Doddamani said: “Most infected patients follow the advice of recovered Covid patients instead of listening to doctors. Different medications are prescribed depending on their problems. Patients should strictly follow doctors’ instructions during home isolation and quarantine period.” Additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said that they have received many complaints of self-medication. He said, “The Home Quarantine Watch Committees constantly monitor those in home isolation. We have instructed these committees to inform higher authorities if anyone violates rules during treatment at home and we’ll initiate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/self-medication-in-north-ktaka-poses-huge-challenge-for-doctors/articleshow/78003467.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 9, 2020||Lucknow||CM directs officials to bring more traders under GST||Lucknow: UP has collected Rs 5,329 crore as Goods & Services Tax (GST) in August as compared to Rs 5,126 crore during the corresponding month last year, a rise of 4% in collection. So far, Uttar Pradesh has collected Rs 23,790 crore as GST. As Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state’s spending, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure that GST collection is improved further, especially by bringing more traders under tax ambit. Commercial tax commissioner Amrita Soni held a video conference with zonal additional commissioners and additional commissioners of her department on Monday to discuss steps to increase GST collection in the state. Works undertaken by the department, new registrations, filing of returns, action against defaulters, scrutiny of returns, scrutiny of red-flagged dealers and VAT were reviewed in the meeting. Soni said high GST collection was crucial for undertaking development works in the state. “At a time when commercial activity had picked up again under Unlock-4, low GST collection will not be accepted,” she said and warned officials that action would be taken against those who fail to perform their duties. She directed all zonal officers that as the last dates for filing of returns for March and April was over, 100% collection for these months should be ensured. She said traders should be encouraged to file Value Added Tax (VAT) returns by October 31, the deadline set by the government for filing without interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-directs-officials-to-bring-more-traders-under-gst/articleshow/78006497.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||With 3,600 new Covid cases, tally close to 2 lakh in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded over 3,600 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, inching closer to its highest single-day figure of 3,947 recorded in June. The state health department said increase in cases was due to record testing and that the positivity rate remained eight per cent. In the last 24 hours, 45,797 people were tested of which 3,609 were found positive for Covid-19, officials said. They added that the total tally had now crossed 1.97 lakh while the death toll mounted to 4,618. Nineteen fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, the officials added. Health minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with medical directors of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing. The Delhi chief secretary also held a review meeting with all the district magistrates on Covid-19 management. Only 35% of the ICU beds for Covid-19 are vacant in Delhi's hospitals. Of the 915 ICU beds without ventilator support, 593 (65%) are occupied. Total 51% of ICU beds with ventilator support for Covid-19 patients are occupied. Many people from neighbouring states are rushing to Delhi to seek treatment for Covid-19 leading to scarcity of beds, doctors said. There are a total of 14,145 Covid beds across the capital. Of this, 5,464 (39%) are occupied, data shows. Total 11,742 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation. The active case tally has crossed 20,000 mark to reach 22,377.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-3600-new-covid-cases-tally-close-to-2-lakh-in-delhi/articleshow/78007504.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||14 deaths push toll near 500-mark, 10 districts report 100+ cases||RANCHI: With 14 Covid 19 casualties in 24 hours, the death toll in Jharkhand touched 496 on Tuesday. Going by the current trends, the toll is likely to surpass the 500-mark on Wednesday. Jharkhand last reported less than five fatalities in one day on August 10. Of the 14 deaths, five were in East Singhbhum district, four in Ranchi, two in West Singhbhum and one each in Khunti, Godda and Hazaribag on Tuesday. Meanwhile, ten of 24 districts reported three-digit figures in terms of new infections as the state recorded its second highest single-day spike of cases since the pandemic broke out on March 31. with 2,652 new infections. On August 31, 3,218 new infections were detected across the state. While a little over 11,000 cases were reported across the state in between March 31 and July 31, a total of 13,527 new infections have been reported in the first eight days of this month. The cumulative Covid caseload in Jharkhand now stands at 55,296, of which 15,438 are active and 39,362 have recovered (including 1,812 patients discharged from hospitals on Tuesday). East Singbhum, which has emerged as the worst affected district in terms of deaths, reported 475 new cases on Tuesday. Bokaro (335 new infections), Hazaribag (210), West Singhbhum (127) and Simdega (127) recoded their biggest one-day spikes in new infections. Among others, Koderma recorded 294 cases, Seraikela-Kharsawan reported 248, Ranchi 210 cases followed by Dhanbad (192) and Ramgarh (165). Jharkhand’s weekly growth rate stood at 3.36% on Tuesday, higher than the national average of 2.16%. The state integrated disease surveillance program cell said 84,398 samples were tested on Tuesday. The state’s testing on Tuesday was almost at par with the number of samples collected (86,937).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/14-deaths-push-states-covid-toll-near-500-mark-10-districts-report-100-cases/articleshow/78006507.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||We do not know how to convert: GEL Church on reports of cancellation of license||RANCHI: North Western Gossner Evangelical Lutheran (NW GEL), Church, Ranchi, one of the four churches whose foreign funding license has been suspended by the Union home ministry (MHA) for allegedly indulging in religious conversions, on Tuesday claimed they have not received any intimation in this regard. “We came to know through today’s edition of TOI. Other than that, we have not received any official intimation so far. In 2016, our Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) license was seized after NWGEL defaulted in submission of certain documents that were needed for its renewal. However, we soon complied with all the needed formalities after which our FCRA license was renewed for a period of five years,” Anoop Bakhla, chief secretary of the NWGEL Church, told TOI. “Work is on to compile the requisite documents for the renewal of our license, which will be due next year. We are also regularly submitting documents like Income Tax returns and audit reports on a regular basis under the various laws of the land,” he added. Pradeep Kujur, finance secretary of the church said, “The MHA FCRA website lists Northern Evangelical Lutheran Church and Ecreosoculis North Western Gossner Evangelical Church, both from Jharkhand, in addition to two other churches whose FCRA licenses have been suspended. GEL’s name is not included in the MHA list. We have also not received any intimation from the MHA.” “NWGEL, like other mainline churches in the country, does not engage in religious conversion through fraud or other allurements. One hundred seventy-five years ago, when four German missionaries landed at Ranchi to launch the GEL congregation, there had been conversions. Even my family had converted then. Barring those times, there has been no conversion by the church,” Bakhla said. “We do not know how to convert,” said Johan Dang, moderator (country head) of GEL Church. “GEL church does not have any record of conversions. Though we have been hounded for years by multiple agencies, we would like to put it on record that GEL does not indulge in religious conversions,” the GEL moderator said. When asked about the suspension of FCRA license, Dang said while he is stuck at his home state of Odisha due to lockdown restrictions, the GEL headquarters at Ranchi has not received any intimation in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/we-do-not-know-how-to-convert-gel-church-on-reports-of-cancellation-of-license/articleshow/78005241.cms||Tapas Biswas
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||This pitripaksha, Ranchiites go for online pind daan, tarpan||Ranchi: In the ongoing period of pitripaksha, people around Ranchi are preferring online ‘pind daans’ and ‘tarpan’ to pray to the departed souls in order to avoid social gatherings during a rise in the number of Covid cases. Till Monday, Ranchi clocked 11,138 cases (highest in state) of which, 3,688 are still active, 7,374 have recovered and 76 have succumbed to the viral infection. A priest, Surindra Sharma said, “Due to Covid, several people are taking part in online pujas through mobile phones. I list out the materials required and guide them how to arrange things over phone. Once everything is ready, I recite mantras and guide them through the puja.” Sharma stated that he generally avoids going to places where more cases of Covid-19 have been reported. He added his customers were also satisfied performing online pujas. Anand Sinha, a government official who lives in Kanke, said, “I offered tarpan at home. There was no one barring panditji and me during the ritual. The entire exercise was completed within one and a half hour.” Another devotee, Binod Sinha of Kokar, said that with everything over phone, maintaining social distancing is not a problem at all. Pankaj Kumar who offered his tarpan online, said, “ It was essential to perform the rituals,but safety was a concern. Since the rituals are not complex, I managed to perform them online under the guidance of a priest. The process was not difficult.” Another priest, Sidheswar Mishra said people have chosen to avoid river ghats due to the fear of Covid 19. “I have also come to know of many people opting for online pujas this time. I guess some of them may have also contacted pandits in Gaya for online rituals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/this-pitripaksha-ranchiites-go-for-online-pind-daan-tarpan/articleshow/78004533.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Accused can’t choose prosecution agency: AG||Vijayawada: Advocate-general S Sriram told the AP high court on Tuesday that the state government had written to the union government for an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged scam by the previous government. He sought the high court to make the Central government and the CBI as parties by impleading them in the petition moved challenging the constitution of Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged irregularities that took place in Amaravati during the TDP regime. TDP functionaries Varla Ramaiah and Alapati Rajendra Prasad moved the high court challenging the report submitted by the cabinet sub-committee and subsequent constitution of SIT to probe prima facie irregularities identified by the sub-committee. The advocate-general argued that the petitioners have no locus standi to file the petition as there is no violation of their fundamental rights or statutory rights. They did not demonstrate as to how they are personally aggrieved or prejudiced by the government orders. Sriram said that it is settled in law that the accused cannot choose who should be the prosecution agency and the high court does not have authority to give clean chit to any political party including TDP. He said the petition itself is abusing the process of law and it is not filed for any enforceable rights conferred by the constitution. The advocate-general further said that the state government constituted SIT in accordance with the provisions of CrPC and there is no violation of law. The elected government of the day has power to review its administrative policies and there is no constitutional bar to do the same, he said. In view of the fact that the SIT does not have a designated court, it could not register or investigate any cases so far. The state government has written to the high court to allot designated court for functioning of SIT and it is still waiting for the same. After hearing the advocate-general, the high court posted the matter to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/accused-cant-choose-prosecution-agency-ag/articleshow/78003280.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||Specially-abled girl gets pregnant at school||Daltonganj: A 14-year-old specially-abled girl, studying at a residential Divyang School under Sadar police station limits, became pregnant, her family members informed police. Sadar SDPO Sandip Kumar said, “A complaint was filed by the girl’s father where he mentioned his daughter is two months pregnant. A minor has been named in his complaint and accused of getting intimate with the girl in the washroom of the school. An FIR has been lodged on Tuesday.” The accused, also a minor and specially-abled, has been detained under Section 376 of the IPC and Pocso Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/specially-abled-girl-gets-pregnant-at-school/articleshow/78005160.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||Man washed away in Ranchi drain, no trace of body yet||RANCHI: A man was washed away by rainwater that sweeping through an open drain afte a two-hour downpour in Ranchi’s Kokar area late on Monday evening. A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team, deployed for the rescue operation on Tuesday, has so far failed to trace Umesh Rana, a carpenter by profession, so far. Sources said Rana was stuck in the middle of the drain with his motorcycle while he was returning from work. Locals asked him to abandon the two-wheeler and save himself, but he refused to pay heed to their advice. His bike was found about 200m away from the spot. On Tuesday morning, locals and Ranchi Municipal Corporation staff tried to look for Rana and they were later joined by 15 men from the NDRF as theyu expanded their search to the Subarnarekha river, where the drain water is discharged. The team also searched inside the bushes on the river banks. NDRF’s Saroj said, “The team searched for him all day till 6pm, but could not find him.” Police said Rana could have got stuck in the large dumps of refuse thrown into the drain by the locals and another attempt to trace the youngster will be made on Wednesday. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijayavargiya said, “Locals have dirtied the canal, causing frequent flooding. In addition, the bridge was built without help of experts and water flows above it after rains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-washed-away-in-ranchi-drain-no-trace-of-body/articleshow/78006464.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||Two teens, man held for gang-raping 14-year-old in Garhwa||GARHWA: Police on Tuesday detained two teenagers for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in Sarang village under Bishunpura police station area of Garhwa district last week on Saturday. “In her complaint, the survivor named the two teenagers along with one Ritesh Singh,” Chunwa Oraon, the officer in-charge of Bishunpura police station said. The girl said Singh and the two others abducted her from the fields when she was cutting grass to feed the cattle and took her to a nearby forest and allegedly raped her in turns. “Based on the complaint filed by the girl, a case has been registered against Singh and the two others under Section 342 and 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of Pocso Act. Singh is absconding and raids are on to arrest him,” Oraon added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-teens-man-held-for-gang-raping-14-year-old-in-garhwa/articleshow/78006534.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||New South Covid hospital to start on Friday, says Rane||Panaji: A day after announcing that the state would get its third Covid hospital, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said the government aims to make the South Goa district hospital operational as a 250-bedded Covid facility on Friday. In a meeting with health officials, Rane discussed how the state could fast-track the functioning of the new Covid hospital. The total bed capacity at the South Goa district hospital is 500. The state has been running short of beds for Covid-19 patients over the past two weeks due to a spike in infections. It has also come under attack from the opposition for failing to expand bed capacity despite cases soaring. Rane said the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, and the directorate of health services (DHS) will have an integrated team to work at the third Covid hospital. The team will comprise a pool of medical officers, expert doctors, nurses and multi-task workers (MTS). Two GVK EMRI ambulances will be deployed at the facility to shift critical patients to either the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao or to the GMC as and when the need arises, he said. “We shall continue to treat critical Covid patients at the GMC, moderately ill patients at the ESI-Covid hospital and mild Covid patients at the Ponda sub-district hospital,” Rane said, adding that a rotation time table for health workers shall jointly be decided upon by the GMC and DHS. The GMC has set-up a high-dependency unit to treat critically ill patients in addition to three other wards for treating Covid-19 patients who have comorbid conditions and run a high risk of developing complications. Last month, the health minister had announced that the new South Goa district hospital would be commissioned within 10 days and that the services of Hospicio, Margao, would be moved to the new facility. Hospicio will cater exclusively to Covid patients and neonatal and post-natal patients. In view of a shortage of beds, Rane had declared that all non-elective surgeries in Hospicio would be put on hold and that it would serve as a district hospital. At Tuesday’s meeting, it was also decided that final year nursing students would be deployed for non-Covid duties to enable experienced nurses to be posted for Covid duties. In accordance with the direction of the Medical Council of India (MCI), final year MBBS students will be deployed as residents, Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-south-covid-hospital-to-start-on-friday-says-rane/articleshow/78005918.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||Dhoni’s due has been settled, says JSCA secy||KOLKATA: The issue of Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s due of Rs 1800 to his parent organization, the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA), finally seems to have drawn to a close. While the former India skipper was levied with the money on account of the GST attached to his life membership of the association, the entire episode came into limelight after the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of JSCA on August 30. However, on Tuesday, association secretary Sanjay Sahay confirmed to TOI that the issue had been settled once and for all. “The matter has been closed. There is nothing more to add to it. That status existed till March 31. But after that the payment came in so the matter has been closed,” said Sahay. The secretary further added that since the annual report was dated till March 31 owing to the closure of the financial year 2019-20, Dhoni’s due had persisted till then, but later it had been resolved. “The audit report is supposed to run till 31st March of every year. So that is how it (Dhoni’s dues) came to light. The payment has already come in and we have accepted that, hence the matter is completely settled,” said Sahay. The secretary, however, did not mention when the association received the amount from the two-time World Cup winning captain and closed down the issue. Taking a dig at former cricketer and activist Sesh Nath Pathak, who had gone to JSCA’s registered office in Jamshedpur at the Keenan Stadium, along with four others to submit a draft of Rs 1800, Sahay said that such individuals were always on the lookout to defame the association and garner media attention at any cost. “Some people will do such things. They will do anything to try and get their name on newspapers. This is nothing new. There are certain individuals and groups who do such things in order to look after their own interest,” said Sahay. Whie Pathak claimed on Sunday that JSCA officials took the draft but did not issue any receipt, Sahay said nothing of that sort would be issued to the former. “When we don’t need the money, why should we issue a receipt in the first place? If we take money then it should be due to a cause or aid and in this case what aid should we show? I don’t know whether he has taken back the draft or not but if he doesn’t then we will put it up at the notice board, we are not going to use it,” stated the secretary. Apparently quite unhappy over the development, he further added: “Who is he to come and give money on Dhoni’s behalf? The draft has not yet been returned but it will be given back. We are not supposed to accept such drafts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhonis-due-has-been-settled-says-jsca-secy/articleshow/78006516.cms||Sam Chakraborty
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||JMM-lead government against tribals and poor: BJP||RANCHI: A day after chief minister Hemant Soren red-flagged the National Education Policy (NEP), which will be tabled in Parliament before its rollout in the country, the BJP state unit on Tuesday called the Jharkhand government under JMM as anti-tribal and anti-poor for opposing the policy. During the online deliberation on NEP with President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Soren had criticised the policy saying it will promote privatisation of education and will leave out students from families of tribals, Dalits, farmers and other marginalised people from its ambit. He also criticised the Centre on the lack of transparency during the policy drafting and said the draft did not have any provisions for arranging funds for its implementation. Rebutting Soren’s claims, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the CM is playing dirty politics over the future of poor and tribals in Jharkhand. Talking to newsmen, he said, “By opposing and criticizing NEP, Hemant Sorenji has shown himself as anti-tribal and anti-poor. The points that he raised during the meeting before the President is proof enough that the incumbent state government wants to oppose everything that the Union government does. But by doing so, he (Soren) is only putting the future of scores of tribals and the poor at stake.” Shahdeo said Soren’s jibe against the NEP that it doesn’t take into account of making a student employable is laughable. “For the first time, NEP prescribes vocational studies from Class VI itself, which in the long run will make students job-ready,” he said, adding that around 17,000 graduates of tribal and regional languages in Jharkhand are without jobs and they can be easily inducted for teaching students in local languages once the NEP is implemented. On Soren’s apprehension that the policy did not give much weightage to tribal languages as teaching, Shahdeo said, “The NEP has provisions for teaching in local and regional languages included in Schedule VIII of the Constitution. Santhali language, prominently spoken in the state, is included in the schedule. As far as other tribal languages are concerned, it is the responsibility of the state to pursue with the Centre for their inclusion in the schedule.” On CM’s key charge of the NEP promoting privatisation of education, the spokesperson said, “Every year, lakhs of students including from Jharkhand go abroad to pursue higher studies. With NEP, foreign varsities will be allowed to set up shops here. It will help Indians save on expenses and foreign reserves will also flow into our country. The policy also mandates for 20% admission for underprivileged students and 30% scholarships to other deserving students.” He added, “Most importantly, the policy also allows those who have dropped out to restart their studies from the point where they halted. A panel titled High Education Commission of India is also recommended for establishment by NEP and will act as the watchdog to all ensure all provisions of the education policy are followed.” Notably, Soren, who is running a coalition government along with Congress and RJD, has been at loggerheads with the Centre over various issues ever since he assumed office in January this year. Over a month ago, the state government challenged the Centre’s plan to commercialise coal mining blocks by filing a petition in the Supreme Court after the Union government didn’t acknowledge Soren’s letter requesting to defer the process owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre and the state weren’t also on the same page on the nationwide lockdown as the latter dubbed the Modi government for unilaterally taking decisions without consulting the states. Soren was critical of the Centre saying it did not provide enough financial assistance to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The spat further intensified after the Centre recently expressed its inability to clear GST dues, prompting the CM to write to the Prime Minister demanding Rs 2,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-govt-anti-tribal-anti-poor-says-bjp-for-criticism-on-nep/articleshow/78006491.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 9, 2020||Ranchi||Cabinet nod to food security scheme for 18 lakh beneficiaries||RANCHI: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the government’s proposal to conduct the monsoon session of the assembly from September 18 and gave its nod to a host of other proposals, including the launch of Jharkhand Rajya Khadya Suraksha Yojana (JRKSY), a separate scheme which will guarantee a monthly subsidized 5 kg foodgrains to 18 lakh people who are covered by the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Under JRKSY, beneficiaries will get each kilogram of foodgrains at Rs 1. “Applications can be made online. The beneficiaries will be segregated based on ward (in ULBs), district, block and panchayat levels and their names will be published online,” cabinet secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said. The scheme will cost Rs 213 crore annually to the state exchequer. There are currently 28 lakh people in Jharkhand who are out of NFSA’s ambit. Chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, cabinet meeting attended by all 11 members also approved a flurry of proposals ahead of the monsoon session. Among them is an amendment to the CrPC, enabling courts to try an accused even when he or she is absconding. Under the new regulations, the statements of witnesses can be recorded and documents examined even when the accused is not present during the court’s proceedings. Three courts in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad, which are prosecuting cases of economic offences, were also empowered to take up cases of GST violations. A proposal to rename Dhanbad’s Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) after late JMM leader Nirmal Mahto was also approved. Additionally, Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital was renamed after tribal revolutionary Sheikh Bhikhari while the medical colleges in Dumka and Palamu were renamed after tribal revolutionary Fulo Jhano and Medini Ray. The cabinet also gave its post-facto approval to the Jharkhand Mineral Bearing Land (Covid Pandemic Cess Rules 2020), which mandates an additional cess of Rs 100 per ton on mined minerals for accumulation in a special pandemic fund to meet the state’s efforts to combat the viral outbreak. The bill will be tabled in the upcoming assembly session. Two other key proposals — the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020 and a scheme to make government building barrier-free for movement of physically challenged visitors and employees — were also approved. While the land mutation bill aims at making ‘jamabandi’ claims online and setting up of competent authorities for settlement of the claims at district levels, the government will spend Rs 30 crore in the scheme for the disabled people to construct special toilets, ramps and signages at government buildings and complexes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cabinet-nod-to-food-security-scheme-for-18-lakh-beneficiaries/articleshow/78006481.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||14 deaths push toll near 500-mark, 10 districts report 100+ cases||RANCHI: With 14 Covid 19 casualties in 24 hours, the death toll in Jharkhand touched 496 on Tuesday. Going by the current trends, the toll is likely to surpass the 500-mark on Wednesday. Jharkhand last reported less than five fatalities in one day on August 10. Of the 14 deaths, five were in East Singhbhum district, four in Ranchi, two in West Singhbhum and one each in Khunti, Godda and Hazaribag on Tuesday. Meanwhile, ten of 24 districts reported three-digit figures in terms of new infections as the state recorded its second highest single-day spike of cases since the pandemic broke out on March 31. with 2,652 new infections. On August 31, 3,218 new infections were detected across the state. While a little over 11,000 cases were reported across the state in between March 31 and July 31, a total of 13,527 new infections have been reported in the first eight days of this month. The cumulative Covid caseload in Jharkhand now stands at 55,296, of which 15,438 are active and 39,362 have recovered (including 1,812 patients discharged from hospitals on Tuesday). East Singbhum, which has emerged as the worst affected district in terms of deaths, reported 475 new cases on Tuesday. Bokaro (335 new infections), Hazaribag (210), West Singhbhum (127) and Simdega (127) recoded their biggest one-day spikes in new infections. Among others, Koderma recorded 294 cases, Seraikela-Kharsawan reported 248, Ranchi 210 cases followed by Dhanbad (192) and Ramgarh (165). Jharkhand’s weekly growth rate stood at 3.36% on Tuesday, higher than the national average of 2.16%. The state integrated disease surveillance program cell said 84,398 samples were tested on Tuesday. The state’s testing on Tuesday was almost at par with the number of samples collected (86,937).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/14-deaths-push-states-covid-toll-near-500-mark-10-districts-report-100-cases/articleshow/78014955.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Car moving US$37,000 intercepted||Vijayawada: Commissioner’s taskforce (CTF) cops intercepted a car at Gollapudi on Tuesday and found Rs1.47 crore and US$ 34,000. Addressing a press conference, Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu said that the police had received a credible tip-off after which a trap was laid and the car intercepted. The Vijayawada commissioner said that the police have found that Praveen Jain, who runs a jewellery showroom in Narsapuram town in West Godavari district, was using his employees to move cash to his brother Keerthi Jain— a gold businessman based out of Hyderabad— allegedly for the purpose of buying gold in the black market. “Praveen Jain, the main accused in the case, had entrusted the job of sending money to his brother to his employees Chamakuri Hari Babu, Chamakuri Ananda Rao and four others,” the police commissioner said. He added that the main accused had initially given Rs 50 lakh and the dollars to his employees. The rest of the money was pooled in from four other accused— Valluri Sivanath, Bharat, Uttam and Diwakar. Police have handed over the seized amount to the Income Tax department and informed officials of the Enforcement Directorate for further investigation. All accused have been handed over to Bhavanipuram police and a case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/car-moving-us37000-intercepted/articleshow/78003300.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi bars can serve booze, but may face hiccups||NEW DELHI: Bars and pubs in the capital can serve liquor from Wednesday on a trial basis till September 30. What should have generally enthused the industry has evoked a cautious and mixed response from restaurant owners because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on their business. Restaurateur Umang Tewari of Liv Bar and Local describes the permission to serve alcohol as permission to breathe for an industry that's gasping for air. Vikrant Batra, founder of Cafe Delhi Heights, says that good things, at times, come with conditions. But his optimism is tinged with the fear that a review at the end of the month could lead to a reversal of the order in view of the rising number of corona cases. Restaurant owners would love to believe this is a lifeline thrown at them, but there are sceptics who wonder if this could be just a ploy by the state government to extract excise licence fee without any commitment for the long term. Battling highs & lows, eateries in city look at govt for supportMany are wondering if it makes any sense to renew their liquor licences because of the resurgence in Covid cases and uncertainty of business this financial year. Having paid the excise fee for serving alcohol in March for April-September, the outlets are hoping that the government would adjust the amount for the October-March period to support their business. Rahul Singh of The Beer Café says they are not comfortable with the word “trial”. He wants the government to come up with measures to support the industry. He points out that at most outlets, beer stocks are past their expiry dates. These outlets should be allowed to drain their stocks rather than wait for an officer to be present in line with the new norms. He expects beer supply to be augmented for outlets to present a wider range and the process of online ordering of stocks to be made better for restaurants. With social-distancing norms in place and seating capacity fixed at 50%, restaurateur Riyaaz Amlani of Social and Smokehouse says this financial year is all about minimising losses rather than expecting any profits. He says this is the time for them to gauge if the government has any intent to support the restaurant industry or will treat it as an avenue for extracting excise revenue. From allowing open spaces like terraces and patios for serving food, reducing the number of licences and easing existing norms such as age limits, Amlani expects a range of reliefs from the state and central governments. Amlani, who has shut one Smokehouse outlet at Khan Market and Social at CP, says he has requested a refund of the excise fee for both outlets that he had paid in advance in March. His outlets had remained closed due to the lockdown. Most restaurateurs explained that each outlet will need to pay an average of Rs 15 lakh for excise licence renewal and furnish VAT and GST NoCs. With each outlet incurring additional costs to procure alcohol, reopening will be a tough test for all. A restauranteur said they have invested extra in ensuring strict hygiene protocols. They would expect the government not to reverse this decision or announce another lockdown as such investments will then sink and destroy their resolve to bounce back. Singh and Amlani said many outlets may close down permanently or do without excise licences in case of uncertainty. Amit Bagga, co-founder of Daryaganj restaurant, says the move will help in generating more employment and bartenders and other support staff will get a chance to get their livelihood back now. Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds is hopeful because he feels the industry is finally returning to decent sales. Tandon, who has reopened all four of his outlets across the city, says occupancy and sales have already started showing a decent recovery and will only go higher as diners will be able to enjoy a complete experience. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle, that has popular outlets across the city, says his Bengaluru and Kolkata outlets have started achieving 50% pre-Covid sales and hopes that the decision to allow alcohol service on table would hold up the sagging restaurant industry in the city. Sukhija says people are more confident about stepping out now and expects the government to remain firm in its decision to let outlets remain open with all Covid safety measures in place. Watch Delhi: Bars can serve booze, may face hiccups in month-end review||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bars-can-serve-booze-but-may-face-hiccups-in-delhi/articleshow/78007509.cms||Amin Ali
September 9, 2020||Goa||No college to be allowed to add divisions for first year||Panaji: Every year, at the time of admissions to first year of general stream degree progammes, there is inevitably a long waiting list of students to get into select popular colleges. This year, when centralised admission process is being held online for all government and aided colleges in the state, the scene has been no different. A long list of students adamantly wait to get into one of these ‘popular choices’ even after the institute’s seats have been filled to capacity. Officials worry that if this continues through the next few admission rounds, such students may be left without being admitted to any institute. “Already, colleges have been permitted to increase their intake for the first year by 10% for BA and BCom programmes and the increase in seats is even higher for first year BSc,” an official of the directorate of higher education (DHE) said. The official said that perhaps in some cases the students are being given to believe that the ‘popular’ college of their choice has applied for additional division and that is leading to the students continuing in the waitlist in hope of getting in. “There is no way any college will be allowed to increase divisions, as long as there are seats available for the same programmes in other colleges. We cannot allow select institutes to continue to expand at the cost of other institutions,” the senior official said. The second round of the centralised admissions is currently on for general stream degree programme seats. “Once the directorate of technical education completes its first round of admissions to engineering and pharmacy programmes, we will hold the third round of admissions for the general stream seats. This is because students who do not get an engineering stream or other course of their choice want to then migrate to the BSc programme,” the DHE official said. He warned that if students, who have not got themselves admitted in a BA, BSc or BCom programme even after the third round of admissions, may be left high and dry once the admission process is declared as over. “We urge students not to wait in hope of getting into a particular college even after its seats are filled. They should get themselves admitted in other institutes before the admission rounds come to a close,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-college-to-be-allowed-to-add-divisions-for-first-year/articleshow/78006043.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||As Covid cases surge, Calangute, Candolim hotels put tourism on back burner||CALANGUTE: Resumption of tourism activities along the Calangute-Candolim belt has taken a hit after several Covid-19 cases were detected recently. Following 19 staffers of a five-star resort in Calangute testing positive for coronavirus, many hotels have decided to delay restarting business. Besides this, several members of the Calangute and Candolim panchayats have also contracted the disease. The Candolim panchayat office has been shut, while its Calangute counterpart is restricting entry only for ‘inward’ movement of applications. “We’re not allowing anybody to enter the office as a precautionary measure. We’ve asked senior citizens and those with health conditions against visiting the office,” Calangute panch Shawn Martins said. Speaking to TOI, medical officer of Candolim primary health centre (PHC), Dr Roshan Nazareth said that apart from the five-star resort’s staffers, there has not been any other major incident. “They were brought to commence operations at the resort and had quarantined themselves. After 5-6 days, they displayed symptoms. After tests, they were found to be positive,” Nazareth said. The resort’s opening has now been delayed by 17 days. Nazareth said the panchayat members have been infected as people are not taking precautions seriously. “When people visit the panchayat offices they don’t follow social distancing. We had asked the panchayats to place chairs where people could sit while awaiting their turn. But people push the chairs in their haste to move ahead,” he said. With the new tourism season commencing next month, people visit panchayats to renew trade licences, pay house taxes, etc during this period. That process has now been affected. “This season is a lost cause,” Joseph Sequeira, former Calangute sarpanch and a resort owner, said. “I’m thinking of opening my resort in November, but my priority is the health of my family and staff. If things improve we will open,” he said. There are others who are going ahead and restarting business. “I’m going to take a risk and start my shack,” Seby D’Souza, the Candolim-based vice-president of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-surge-calangute-candolim-hotels-put-tourism-on-back-burner/articleshow/78006092.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Russians hunt for Hyderabad pharma company to launch Sputnik V vaccine||HYDERABAD: Russia, which is looking to churn out large doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for global supply, is knocking on the doors of vaccine manufacturers in Hyderabad. Representatives of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which has been involved in Sputnik V's development, have approached top vaccine manufacturers in the city, according to industry sources. Hyderabad, which accounts for over a third of the global vaccine capacities, is home to players such as Biological Evans, Shantha Biotechnics, Indian Immunologicals Ltd and Bharat Biotech. According to sources, a couple of companies are considering manufacturing the Russian vaccine. However, the likes of Shantha Biotechnics and Bio E have not shown interest because they have their own vaccine candidates for which they would be requiring manufacturing capacities. "RDIF representatives shared some information regarding the collaboration which we are studying," said the top honcho of a Hyderabad-based vaccine maker. Scientists doubt Sputnik V’s efficacyThey want both the full finish capacities as well as bulk drug substance capacities. All the vaccine manufacturers want to see if the technology the Russians are using fits their capabilities.” Shantha Biotechnics, which is part of French pharma giant Sanofi-Aventis, is awaiting the recombinant DNA technology-based vaccine candidate that is being jointly developed by Sanofi and GSK. On the other hand, Biological E has already entered into a technology transfer agreement with Johnson & Johnson for the latter’s Ad26.COV2.S vaccine candidate that is currently undergoing Phase 1/2a clinical trials and has also inked a licencing pact with Baylor college of medicine, Texas, for development and commercialisation of the latter’s recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine. Russia has already been in parleys with the Indian government on the issue and is reportedly looking at manufacturing 30 crore doses of Sputnik V in India. Sputnik V, a human adenoviral vector vaccine candidate, is the world’s first registered Covid vaccine. It is reported to be getting into phase-3 trials in multiple countries from this month. Scientists have raised doubts about Sputnik V’s efficacy given Russian President Vladimir Putin announced its development to the world without its data being published. Recently, ‘Lancet’ said that two trials of the vaccine in June and July involving 76 participants showed that all the participants developed antibodies to the novel coronavirus without any serious side effects. Watch Russia approached India for manufacturing, phase 3 studies of Covid-19 vaccine: NITI Aayog||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/russians-hunt-for-hyderabad-pharma-company-to-launch-sputnik-v-vaccine/articleshow/78007532.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Business||PowerGrid to monetise 5 units worth Rs 7,000cr||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday allowed state-run transmission utility PowerGrid to monetise projects won through tariffbased competitive bidding through the InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trust) route, charting a new course for disinvestment amid the economic slowdown. A government statement said PowerGrid would be able to monetise five such projects worth Rs 7,164 crore, as on September 2019. The proceeds could be invested into new projects to expand the transmission network and other capital schemes of the company, it said. This will be the first InvIT offering from any public sector entity. PowerGrid may use funds for network expansionTypically, companies hive off projects to InvITs, or trusts formed to manage infrastructure assets, once they become operational and begin regular earning. This allows other investors in search of assured return to step in. This lets the promoter to move onto new projects and provides the funds. The move comes against the backdrop of the government's disinvestment target being stalled by the impact of Covid-19 raising doubts about its ability to raise a record Rs 2.1 lakh crore set for the current fiscal year. In fact, during presentations to PM Narendra Modi a few weeks ago, his economic advisers had suggested that assets monetisation could help the government cover a part of the higher spending needed for providing another economic stimulus to revive growth. The statement said Power-Grid could utilise the funds raised for network expansion or other capital projects. The premium generated during the monetisation will boost PowerGrid’s net worth but the Maharatna’s SPVs will lose their status as central public sector undertakings. The government had suggested the InvIT route to staterun entities as an alternative mechanism for raising funds to reduce dependence on government support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/powergrid-to-monetise-5-units-worth-rs-7000cr/articleshow/78007534.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||Bastora panchayat ghar reopens||Saligao: The Bastora panchayat building which was shut from September 1 onwards, reopened on Tuesday. It had been shut after an office staff tested positive. Sarpanch Ranjit Usgaonkar along with panchayat members and staffers had been under home isolation. Usgaonkar told TOI, “Although the premises were reopened not many came to the panchayat. As a precautionary measure, we are operating with only limited staff.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bastora-panchayat-ghar-reopens/articleshow/78006107.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Goa||After viral video, Caranzalem fishermen told to maintain social distance at boat landing site||Panaji: The North Goa collectorate has instructed fishermen at Caranzalem beach to carry out sale of fish at the landing point by maintaining social distance. Recent videos on social media showed how the fishermen had netted a bumper catch, shoals of which were being dragged to shore by fishermen, as eager buyers gathered around flouting social distancing norms. Fishermen from the area told TOI that police had arrived at the scene on Friday and stopped them from selling their fresh catch owing to the swelling crowd. “We had asked the police to intervene for safety measures so that people are responsible on their own and avoid crowding at the beach. There is already a separate area designated near the beach for selling the fish, despite which, people always huddle around the boat once we arrive. There is no way to control the public,” a fisherman, Caetano D’souza, said. Sources from the North Goa collectorate said that the fishermen have been warned in the meeting to ensure proper SOPs are followed. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that over 500 people had gathered on the beach on Friday, the visuals of which went viral on social media. “We have explained to the fishermen of the area to follow the social distancing norms while selling the fish or face suspension of fish sale for not following the SOPs,” Madkaikar said. The SOP released by the directorate of fisheries in April stated that the auctioning of fish at the landing centers/points shall be carried out systematically by marking the area and drawing a line at distance thus ensuring that social distance is maintained among the bidders and sellers as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-viral-video-caranzalem-fishermen-told-to-maintain-social-distance-at-boat-landing-site/articleshow/78006121.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Kolkata||City restaurant chain to go beyond Bengal||Kolkata: The 10th anniversary of city-based Chinese restaurant chain Chowman might have coincided with the Covid-19 pandemic this year but that has not deterred it from looking forward to expansion outside Bengal. In the next 10 years, the chain has set a target to start operations in other metro cities of the country. The Chinese food chain which had started its journey from a four-seater joint at Golf Green in 2010 currently has 13 outlets across the city. The first city in the current plan of expansion is Bengaluru where four outlets of the chain are set to come up. “We have already set up the first cloud kitchen in the city this year. But we have more concrete plans there before moving on to other cities. In Hyderabad, we are planning to open three outlets, then three in Delhi and two in Mumbai. We want to execute this plan between 2021 and 2024,” said Debaditya Chaudhury, MD of Chowman. Alongside the expansion of business, Chaudhury, who is also a member of the musical band Lakkhichhara, has also planned to promote Bengali music in their outlets across the city. Amid the leanest period for the dine-in business when all restaurants had to shut their operations for 70 days, Chowman has opened two new outlets — one at Barasat in May and the other at New Town — in August. “The lockdown has brought the restaurant business to its knees. But we have trust in our own brand. While the dine-in section of our chain has been hit by the present situation, the delivery section saw an exponential growth during the lockdown as people continued ordering online through various food delivery platforms like Swiggy, Zomato and the chain’s own app Chowman. There has been around 15% spike in our home delivery revenue along with multiple additions to our customer base,” said Chaudhury. Commenting on music at outlets, he added, “Oriental Chinese music is played in all our existing outlets across the city. I am keen on promoting the popular music of various Bengali genres including band in the outlets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-restaurant-chain-to-go-beyond-bengal/articleshow/78004933.cms||Sarthak.G
September 9, 2020||Goa||After 6 months, Se Cathedral opens its doors for few devotees||Panaji: The iconic Se Cathedral in the world heritage complex of Old Goa, along with several churches, opened its doors for the first time in almost six months to coincide with the feast of the Nativity on Tuesday. Parishioners, who until now have been watching Mass online, got the opportunity of returning to church on the special occasion. “It was so satisfying to attend Mass after more than five months. We are extremely happy and are thankful to our parish priest Fr Alfred Vaz and assistant Fr Seby Vaz, who took a lot of pains to open the church,” parishioner Edward Crasta said. “There were two Masses today. The 7am Mass was for the parishioners from only two wards as not more than 50 devotees can attend. At 5pm, a special Mass was celebrated for all the mothers from the parish,” Crasta said. Several volunteers have been roped in to ensure that the SOPs are followed. Special boxes were drawn outside and inside the cathedral to ensure social distancing . Volunteers indicated where each one should sit. Faithful were not allowed to touch or kiss statues. Holy water fonts were kept dry and communion was given to the devotees on their way out of the church. Regular Masses will now continue at the cathedral. Sundays will see three Masses at 7.30am, 10am and 4pm, which will only be open for a pre-decided group. Other churches in the complex, including the world-famous Basilica of Bom Jesus, will accommodate only a few preselected faithful for Mass from Sunday. All these iconic churches will continue to be shut for other devotees, the public and for tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-6-months-se-cathedral-opens-its-doors-for-few-devotees/articleshow/78006127.cms||---
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gaganyaan cosmonauts' trip forged by Midhani||HYDERABAD: India's first human spaceflight planned for next year by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will have three cosmonauts sitting in a titanium chamber, the specialised material for which has been provided by Hyderabad-based Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited (Midhani). The defence public sector enterprise has already supplied the first consignment of the material needed in the fabrication of the chamber. "In one stroke, we have met the requirement for Gaganyaan," Midhani chairman and managing director Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI. He said titanium alloy, light in weight and suitable for the manned mission, was supplied after passing stringent tests. "It was challenging and with the technology we have what was needed was provided," Jha said. Four IAF personnel have been selected for training in Russia for the journey. Midhani associated with Isro in all projects so farThree of them will be on board when Isro launches Gaganyaan, scheduled for December 2021. Their training began on February 10, just a month before the Covid-19 lockdown. Midhani has been associated with Isro in all its projects so far. The material for the rocket motor casing for PSLV and GSLV vehicles have also supplied by the PSE, apart from the material for the fuel tank and the engine from which they are fired. “One engine has 15-20 grades of steel, titanium, super alloys, and nickel-based alloys. All these material technologies are used for space applications,” Jha said about the specialised materials that are supplied for space programmes of Isro. Titanium is already in the product list of Midhani but what is being provided to Isro for fabrication of the chamber in which the astronauts will sit is of a grade that meets higher specifications. “The Gaganyaan mission will be a huge achievement for India, Isro and for us at Midhani,” Jha said. A spokesperson of Isro told TOI from Bengaluru that Gaganyaan was on schedule. “We have not revealed names of the astronauts-elect yet,” he said. Meanwhile, the Research, Development & Production Enterprise Zvezda under the contract of Glavkosmos with the Human Spaceflight Centre of Isro has started manufacturing personal flight equipment for the Indian cosmonauts. This was announced on September 7. Glavkosmos JSC is a subsidiary of the Russian space corporation Roscosmos. This is where the cosmonauts are trained. Zvezda produces spacesuits. “On September 3, Indian cosmonauts who have been training for a spaceflight in Russia under the contract of Glavkosmos visited Zvezda where anthropometric parameters were measured for subsequent production of spacesuits. Contract also provides for production of individual seats and custom-made couch liners,” CEO of Glavkosmos Dmitry Loskutov said on the company’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-gaganyaan-cosmonauts-trip-to-moon-forged-by-midhani/articleshow/78007545.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: All's fair in love of graft? Tahsildar courts divorce to outwit sleuths||HYDERABAD: A divorce usually ends in pain for both the parties involved. But in Keesara tahsildar EB Nagaraju's case, it was reportedly a separation of convenience for the couple and a gambit to fox Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths. ACB sleuths investigating the tahsildar's bribery case were stumped when Nagaraju's wife Swapna said they were divorced when a team went to search their Alwal house. ACB officials said divorce is a ploy sometimes used by corrupt officials to show less assets linked to the accused in Disproportionate Assets (DA) cases. Prior to his arrest by ACB on August 14 along with two realtors, Anji Reddy and Ch Srinath Yadav, and Rampally village revenue assistant (VRA) B Sai Raj with Rs 1.1 crore alleged bribe, tahsildar Nagaraju was booked in a DA case in 2011 too. But the government later dropped the charges. Accused misled us about locker key: ACBAfter seizing Rs 1.1crore from realtor Anji Reddy’s friend’s house in Kapra, ACB searched Nagaraju’s car and his house at Alwal seizing Rs 28 lakh unaccounted cash, about half kilo gold and a locker key on August 14 and August 15. But when ACB officials asked Swapna about the properties owned by her and family members, she claimed she was divorced. “When we asked for specifics, she could not give proper details or show divorce documents. Nagaraju too did not give any clear response about his wife’s statement. We told Swapna that even if she is divorced, since she has been co-habiting with Nagaraju along with their son, assets in her name will count as part of family assets,” an ACB investigator said. ACB officials recounted a similar case while investigating a former IAS officer’s DA case at Visakhapatnam in 2011. “The officer, who was arrested, showed the divorce certificate, but during the investigation, it was proved that he had been living with his wife even after obtaining divorce and the combined assets were taken into account while calculating the DA,” an ACB official said. In the probe against Nagaraju, ACB officials managed to identify a locker whose key they found during the raid and seized 1.5 kilo gold worth Rs 57 lakh. “Nagaraju and Swapna mislead us about the locker key, but we managed to identify the locker through our own investigation. She claimed about divorce, but no proof was shown,” ACB DSP Suryanarayana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-alls-fair-in-love-of-graft-tahsildar-courts-divorce-to-outwit-sleuths/articleshow/78007553.cms||---
