September 10, 2020||Kolkata||#KolkataBraveheart: Was a victim of domestic violence, had to protest||Two days after her surgery, we meet Nilanjana Chatterjee at a city hospital, where she is recuperating with the help of her doctors, physiotherapist and nurses and hoping to be back on her feet soon. “I must get well soon and start walking. I have to look after my elderly parents,” the braveheart tells us from the hospital bed, setting another example of her undying spirit. In a candid chat with CT, Nilanjana – who is making headlines for her awe-inspiring act of bravery on Saturday night when she came to the rescue of a 31-year-old woman who was molested and thrown out of a car that also left the saviour with a fractured shin bone – reveals the darkest secrets of her personal life and the reason why she never thinks twice before standing up for what’s right. Excerpts: I don’t see this as an act of bravery. I just did what any normal human being should do. I can only hope that this entire incident encourages more people to come forward and help others in need. My parents are very happy. My father, who suffers from Parkinson’s, told me, ‘Hats off to you, my child’. They deserve all the credit for my bravery. ‘Have a strong backbone and live with your head held high’ – this is what they have always taught me. Before Deep (Satpathi, husband), I was married to an Air Force doctor in 1996. That was an arranged marriage. In 1997, my daughter was born. I was subjected to domestic violence by my then husband. I was physically and mentally abused. My mom used to tell me, ‘If you do not come out of this marriage, you’ll have to stop calling me Ma’. That was the kind of support I got from my parents. After a long battle – for divorce and my daughter’s custody – I finally won freedom. I was tortured because my husband was in a relationship with someone else but could not go against his family to marry her. They got married after our divorce. When I married Deep, he held my hands and told me, ‘Let’s bring up Titli (daughter) together the way we want to’. For me, my ex-husband didn’t qualify as a human being, and I have the same views about Abhishek Kumar Pandey, who attacked me and abused that woman. I am happy that he has been arrested. I hope the law takes its course and he gets punished. I’d never want to meet him. I’ll protest every time I come across violence against women, and that is what I have taught my daughter too. The girl I tried to help on Saturday night called Deep to enquire about my health condition. I am told that she is too scared to speak the whole truth. I don’t blame her. I have a daughter and understand the trauma of this girl. But I did not save her just because I am a mother. I did it because it was the right thing to do. In such cases, the patriarchal society that we live in is quick to question the integrity of the women involved. Why was she out so late? Who was the man she went out with? What was she wearing? These are just some of the common questions on everyone’s mind, which become the talking point. After this incident, a lot of my friends and family members expressed disapproval for what we did. ‘Why did you get into this trouble?’ they asked. We told them that we’d do it again if we have to. For this is a question of right and wrong. I have received enough support from Kolkata Police, our government and media friends. This support means that in this city if you come forward to help, you are not going to be a lone fighter. The cops and administration will support you. May my kollolini Kolkata become a better and safer place. Beacon of hope, mentally strong, courageousI’ve told Nilanjana Chatterjee that she is a beacon of hope for women, as her act will inspire them to speak out against atrocities. We are always with them. She is the #TrueTejashwini and I salute her. I would request the citizens to dial 100 in time of crisis. We will respond swiftly to their needs as we did in this case.  — Anuj Sharma, CP, Kolkata PoliceNilanjana’s threshold for pain is unimaginable. Even an army man would lie low if he gets wounded by a bullet on his leg. But Nilanjana smiled all through. This comes from enormous mental strength. We had a plastic surgeon during the surgery so that we could minimise the scar. Usually, women are touchy about scars. But Nilanjana doesn’t seem to care much. She is brave! From today, we will give her walker support and see if she can walk.  — Dr Kunal Sengupta, who is treating NilanjanaI first saw Nilanjana in a video clip from an office party. She was performing a Rabindrasangeet. I immediately told my friends that I must meet her. We continue to be friends. When I proposed to marry her, she initially refused and we were out of touch for a year. Later, she agreed. I respect her courage and we are bringing up our daughter as a socially responsible,fearless woman. I know we are not alone in this journey. On the day of her surgery, which was a lockdown day, a septuagenarian man (Rabin Patra) cycled all the way from Beleghata to the hospital just to express solidarity with us after reading our story in the newspapers. He gave me a hand-written congratulatory note. He also alerted his son that he would need to come down if there’s any requirement for blood during Nilanjana’s surgery. That is the magic of Kolkata. I hope Nilanjana’s act and the cops’ cooperation keep this spirit alive.  — Deep Satpathi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatabraveheart-was-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-had-to-protest/articleshow/78025681.cms||Ruman Ganguly
September 10, 2020||Indore||Destination weddings trend in heart of Incredible India||INDORE: The coronavirus pandemic has squeezed the big fat Indian weddings into a small intimate affair though the love for destination marriages much affordable with an exclusive small guest list at exquisite sites has risen. Madhya Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (MPTDC) has booked around 100 destination weddings so far for winter months at different locations across the state including Orcha, Khajuraho, Gandhi Sagar, Maheshwar, Mandu and Hanuwantiya. Of these 15 weddings have been booked for various tourist destinations in Indore division. The excuse to chop off guests amid the outbreak of pandemic and the luxury to afford a destination wedding almost at the cost equivalent to a posh hotel is the key in driving the trend for destination marriages, said officials and wedding experts. MTDC MD S Vishwanathan said, “We have received around 100 bookings for destination weddings so far for different properties and enquiries are regularly pouring in. As the guests list has shortened and other expenses have come down, destination weddings are clicking in and it also adds to the experience of people. We are glad to see the confidence of people in our properties where we follow all laid safety protocols by the WHO and the health department.” Most of the enquiries for destination weddings in the state are coming for properties close to lake, water bodies, heritage properties and resorts situated in the lap of nature. Anubhav Verma, an IT professional working at Pune has booked a hotel in Maheswar for his younger brother’s wedding. Verma said, “Destination wedding was never on the cards but after the outbreak of pandemic we decided to keep the function a low key in the presence of dear ones and started exploring options. This place suited us and there was not much impact on the budget as well so we decided to go for it.” According to wedding experts, many middle class families are also making enquiries for hosting destination weddings. Some of the top preferred destinations out of state are Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Goa. Bhavna Jadon, a wedding planner said, “Instead of inviting 500-1,000 guests, host families are calling limited 100-150 guests and spending the money on their leisure. They are booking special charters and more exquisite destinations. Expenses are the same but due to less number of guests, they are adding more leisure to their wedding plans.” According to MPTDC, Indore region they had booked 5 destination weddings last year as against 15 so far for December and January months. Ajay Sharma, regional manager, MPTDC, Indore region said, “New places are being booked for weddings this year such as Sailani, Hanuwantiya and Gandhi Sagar. Until last year, we had booked resorts at Ujjain and Maheshwar for organizing weddings. With fewer guests people have to spend less on catering and rooms and this is making destination weddings more attractive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/destination-weddings-trend-in-heart-of-incredible-india/articleshow/78026636.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Red, Violet, Green lines to resume services on Thursday||NEW DELHI: Services on the Delhi Metro's Red, Violet and Green lines are set to resume on Thursday, officials said, after remaining suspended for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Delhi Metro opened its doors to commuters on Monday with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line. Metro services in Delhi-NCR were closed since March 22. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. As part of stage one, the Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Trains are operating in two batches -- from 7-11 AM and 4-8 PM -- in the first stage. On Wednesday, the Blue and Pink lines were made operational with the same schedule. The Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh); and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh) will resume services from September 10 with the same time schedule, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Wednesday. With services available on multiple lines (Yellow, Blue and Pink Lines), the total ridership on Wednesday was nearly 53,400 till 8 PM, the DMRC said in a statement. The Yellow Line saw an approximate ridership of 26,900, the Blue Line 22,600 and the Pink Line 3,900, it said. The DMRC said it "will be running 35 trains on the Red Line performing around 413 train trips during morning and evening hours on 10th September, 2020". "Similarly, 40 trains with approximately 344 trips will be put into service on the Violet Line," it said. On the Green Line, 20 trains with 268 trips will be put into service, it added. "The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11-12 with the opening of other lines in a graded manner," the DMRC said. The list of gates which will remain open for entry of passengers at each station along with all necessary updates are available on the home page of the Delhi Metro's official website, www.delhimetrorail.com. The entire metro network will be made operational throughout the day from September 12 onwards. Passengers will be required to follow all social distancing norms and guidelines during travel. Wearing masks is mandatory inside train coaches and on station premises. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the rapid transport only if urgently needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metros-red-violet-green-lines-to-resume-services-on-thursday/articleshow/78026732.cms||---
September 10, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: India, China hope to pull back from brink in likely meeting||NEW DELHI: India and China will look to pull back from the brink of a military conflict in a likely meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of SCO in Moscow Thursday. While the Chinese foreign ministry didn't confirm the meeting in its press briefing, despite being repeatedly asked about it, Chinese sources here said it was expected, even if there was "no confirmed information". There was not much to inspire confidence though about the overall situation with Chinese sources Wednesday repeating PLA claims that Indian soldiers "provoked" the Chinese by crossing LAC in the southern bank area of Pangong Tso and opening fire. Indian officials here didn't hazard any guess about the outcome of the meeting on Thursday. Jaishankar will also join Wang and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov for a luncheon meeting before the proposed bilateral with Wang. The trilateral meeting was first announced by the Chinese foreign ministry and later confirmed by Indian and Russian diplomatic sources. While Russia had said this week that it will encourage any effort for dialogue between India and China, official sources said there was no question of Moscow mediating in the eastern Ladakh border standoff. "RIC (Russia-India-China) foreign ministers even in the past have had separate meetings on the margins of multilateral fora like BRICS and SCO," said a government source. While bilateral disputes can't be raised at SCO, diplomatic sources said one of the aims of the Eurasian group is to promote "good neighborly ties" between the member-states and the platform can always be used to build mutual trust between them. As the host nation, Russia had the main role in organising the meeting. The trilateral could help break the ice ahead of what will be the first in-person bilateral meeting between Jaishankar and Wang after the ongoing military standoff was reported in May. Jaishankar is likely to insist on China restoring the pre-April status quo at LAC and on early and complete disengagement by implementing the understandings arrived at in the meetings of the senior commanders since June 6. The government has been trying to drive home the point that the behaviour of the Chinese troops, which led to another flare-up in the southern bank area of Pangong Tso this week, will seriously damage bilateral ties. Before thinking in terms of a breakthrough though, the 2 leaders will have to first address the situation that led to, as the Indian army said, shots being fired at LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years. India has strongly denied claims that Indian soldiers crossed the LAC. The situation at Pangong seemed to have changed recently with Indian soldiers taking control of strategic peaks on the southern bank. The PLA has protested bitterly what government sources have described as "readjustment" in deployment of Indian troops in the area and Wang is likely to raise the same in the meeting. Watch LAC row: India, China hope to avoid military conflict, foreign ministers likely to meet at SCO today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-india-china-hope-to-pull-back-from-brink-in-likely-meeting/articleshow/78027119.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 10, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: India will retaliate in case China breaches red lines, says top official||NEW DELHI: Warning China that there will be requisite retaliation if any red-lines are now breached in eastern Ladakh, a top government official on Wednesday said India has further reinforced its forward positions to counter fresh Chinese military build-ups and threatening moves in the high-altitude region. The warning comes after bullets were fired for the first time in 45 years near the Mukhpari Top in the Chushul sector on Monday, and ahead of an expected meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Thursday. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has taken to parading tanks and troops in the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area on a daily basis in a bid to intimidate Indian troops after they occupied multiple tactical heights there in a proactive military manoeuvre on August 29-30. “The dispute is being directed from the very top of the political-military hierarchy in China, not by the exuberance of local PLA commanders. It can take any trajectory. But if China wants to start a war, it will also have to pay a heavy price,” the official said, pointing out that the events at the LAC were not just an action-reaction sequence. The PLA might even try to grab heights elsewhere in a tit-for-tat move but the Indian commanders on the ground have been given “full freedom” to respond as they deem appropriate. “Our soldiers on the heights are well-armed and fully-prepared. We have even driven tanks up the ridgeline near Rechin La (Reqin mountain pass),” said the official. The message has been strongly conveyed to the PLA to not try to breach Indian perimeter defences, which includes barbed wire, established on the heights. “They constitute a red-line. In fact, nowhere are we under-prepared now," he added. The Indian security establishment’s assessment is that while China may have positioned around 50,000 soldiers along the frontier in eastern Ladakh as well as around 150 fighters, bombers and other aircraft at airbases in Xinjiang and Tibet, the deployments have not yet reached the threshold of a full-blown conflict. The official said “PLA troop deployments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh are not tactically geared for war as of now. But yes, the pinpricks will continue”. India has sought another meeting of the rival corps commanders, who have met five times earlier, to defuse the tensions in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area. But the Indian Army, which has matched the Chinese force-levels, are now also prepared for all contingencies after initially being surprised by the PLA move to occupy the 8-km stretch from ‘Finger-4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs) on the north bank of Pangong Tso in early-May. The PLA was paid back in its own coin when Indian soldiers seized heights on the ridge line stretching from the southern bank of Pangong Tso at Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La on August 29-30. As earlier reported by TOI, Indian soldiers also simultaneously occupied heights overlooking the PLA deployments on the ridgeline over `Finger-4’ on the north bank of Pangong Tso. “We have applied counter-pressure points now,” he said. In the `Finger-4’ area, PLA troops will now have to deploy to an altitude of over 17,000-feet if they want to gain a tactical advantage over the Indian soldiers there. “The distance between the rival troops on the heights is just 100-200 meters, while it is around 2-km at the level of the lake,” said the official. On the southern bank of Pangong Tso, the PLA holds the Helmet Top, Yellow Bump and Black Top features along the LAC. The PLA, in fact, has installed cameras on the heights to monitor the activities of the Indian soldiers in the region. “But we are also watching them closely. From the heights we occupy, the PLA’s Moldo garrison is clearly visible,” said another officer. Watch LAC row: India will retaliate in case China breaches red lines, says top govt official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-india-will-retaliate-in-case-china-breaches-red-lines-top-official/articleshow/78028598.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 10, 2020||India||76% of patents filed in India in last 13 years were by foreign companies||BENGALURU: Nearly eight out of every ten patent applications filed in India in more than a decade have been by foreigners residing abroad. A majority are by foreign firms, even as the number of Indian applications is slowly increasing. More than 5.1 lakh patent applications were filed in the country between 2005-06 and 2017-18 according to the data compiled by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) as part of the latest Science & Technology Indicators (STI 2019-20) released last month. And, an analysis of the data shows that more than 76% of these applications were filed by "foreigners resident abroad", as the government classifies them and the rest were by "Indians." This is a trend experts say India must arrest. “We have to be more innovative,” Biocon Ltd executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said. A senior defence scientist told TOI that India does not lack talent and that even investments are improving, especially in the private sector. He said India lacked the right ecosystem. The TOI had reported last month about how R&D investments by the private sector has been growing at twice the rate of public/government investment. In March 2016, noted scientist Prof CNR Rao, who has consistently batted for increased funding for science and had remarked: “Researchers are relaxing with too much furniture!” Among the patents filed by foreigners, most are individuals or companies from the US, Japan and Germany, accounting for more than 45% of the patents in the said period, while the UK, France, Switzerland, Russia, Netherlands and Italy also had hundreds of applications filed. With nearly 1.4 lakh applications, patents filed by those from the US alone accounted for more than 27% of total applications filed in the said period. Former Isro chairman K Kasturirangan, who also headed India’s committee on new education policy told TOI: “...We need to really improve research content at major institutions and particularly at the 900-odd universities in the country. We have to make sure that pure research becomes part of applied research, which goes into translational and industrial research. Unless this four-pronged attack is made on research to create more innovation and ideas, the question of patent doesn’t arise.” In fact, the proposal for the National Research Foundation (NRF) in the education policy, he said, is the reflection of concerns about some of these outcomes of research. “I hope that we improve research as fast as we can and create an environment that leads to an ecosystem of more innovation and products that are patentable,” he added. Qualcomm, Huawei Top Foreign CosThe STI-2019-20 also provides data on top foreign companies filing patents in the five years between 2013-14 and 2017-18. Analysis shows that most of the top 19 companies were tech and telecom firms, including Chinese MNC Huawei Technologies. Qualcomm Incorporated—an American semiconductor and telecommunications equipment firm — tops the table with 6,960 applications, followed by Dutch multinational firm Koninklijke Philips, which had 3,670 applications. The TOI had reported in July 2018 on how Qualcomm alone had filed more than twice the number of patents than the collective number of applications from 50 labs under the DRDO, 38 labs under CSIR, 23 IITs, 31 NITs, more than 40 labs in the IISc and six major research facilities under Isro, in 2016-17. Aside from these two firms, Huawei had filed 1,393 patents in the said period, while other big firms like Google, Microsoft Technology Licencing, Siemens, Robert Bosch and others also filed hundreds of applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/76-of-patents-filed-in-india-in-last-13-years-were-by-foreign-companies/articleshow/78028763.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 10, 2020||Pune||Youth held on charge of raping minor||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Tuesday arrested a 20-year-old youth for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl and making her pregnant. The girl’s mother registered an FIR against the youth, accusing him of repeatedly raping her daughter since January 10. Police said the girl is a student of standard VII, while the boy is a college dropout. Her mother stated in the complaint that the youth had been pursuing her daughter for a relationship, despite her repeated refusal. He then started harassing and threatening her, saying that he would defame her. The youth also threatened to end his life for refusing his overtures, the mother stated. The youth forced the girl into a physical relationship with him, the complaint stated. Sub-inspector, Yerawada police, Shubangi Magdum, said, “The girl initially feared reporting the boy’s act to her parents, but after realising that she was pregnant, she eventually confided in her mother and narrated the details.” Magdum said, “We have arrested the youth after the survivor’s mother registered a complaint under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. We have admitted the girl in a government hospital for medical examination. The suspect has been remanded in police custody till Friday,” she added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-on-rape-charge/articleshow/78028421.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi asks bankers to give more loans||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday asked the bankers to increase loaning activities under the state’s annual credit plan (ACP) in the 10 districts where loan disbursement has been less than 10% of the target. The 10 districts include Banka (6.29%), Arwal (6.29%), Madhubani (7.28%) and Siwan (8.01%). Modi, who is also the state finance minister, asked the bankers to review the situation within the next 15 days. Addressing the 73rd state level bankers’ committee meeting, he said the state government has provided to pay 15-35% of the capital and interest as subsidy in the handicraft sector and in the commercial farming sector like makhana, fruits and vegetables, honey, maize and seeds that require processing, but the bankers have shown reluctance to provide loans to the farmers. He also noted the poor loaning activities for the footpath vendors, who have to be given Rs10,000 each as loan under Atmanirbhar Bharat programme of the Centre. Of the 14,917 applications submitted, only 3,974 were accepted and the bankers processed only 45 of them. The urban development department has asked the bankers to provide loans to 1 lakh footpath vendors. Similarly, Modi said 2.5 crore farmers with kisan credit cards (KCCs) had to be given Rs2 lakh loan each, but only 69,689 had been given the facility. In the micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, Rs2,051 crore had been disbursed among 1.17 lakh applicants. Finance department principal secretary S Siddharth also addressed the bankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-asks-bankers-to-give-more-loans/articleshow/78024873.cms||Abhay Singh
September 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress talks about Madhubani issues||PATNA: Congress leaders raised local issues while attacking the NDA government at the virtual rally for Madhubani and Supaul districts on Wednesday. Local Congress leaders talked about migrant labourers, closed sugar mills, the ongoing row over the GI tag for makhana and teaching of Maithili in schools. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said changing the GI tag of Mithila Makhana to that of Bihar was a controversy and a way to destroy the identity of the region. “We will never let this happen. Can Hajipur bananas be called that of Bihar, or khaja of silao and Bhagalpuri silk for instance are named after the region. Also, the present government had intentionally removed Maithili teaching from schools as they did not want students to study this language. They are afraid that the students from this region will become IAS and IPS officers,” said Mishra. Former MP Shakeel Ahmad, MLA from Benipatti in Madhubani, Bhawana Jha, former Haryana minister Captain Ajay Yadav and Alka Lamba talked about the plights of migrant labourers. Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari hit out at CM Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-talks-about-madhubani-issues/articleshow/78024899.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 10, 2020||Pune||Pimpri grade separator to stay shut for Metro work||Pune: The grade separator at Pimpri, on the old Pune-Mumbai highway, will stay shut to vehicular traffic for the next few days to facilitate Metro work. Traffic will be diverted via service roads on both sides of the road. MahaMetro is constructing pillars for the Metro’s viaduct at the site. Traffic on Pune-Mumbai lane has been diverted for last few days and vehicles using Mumbai-Pune lane have to travel through the service road via diverted route. Diversions will remain in place mainly during night. Traffic will be diverted during daytime as per requirement. The ongoing Metro work in Pimpri stretch is part of the Metro’s Pimpri-Civil Court-Swargate corridor. Work related to construction of pillars, launching of segments, construction of station is currently under way. The BRTS route has also been closed to traffic. MahaMetro officials and traffic police visited the stretch to chalk out traffic diversion plan. A detailed plan of work has been submitted by MahaMetro to the police. Steps are being taken to complete the work at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-grade-separator-to-stay-shut-for-metro-work/articleshow/78027627.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Govt divests 13% in Bharat Dynamics||TNN Mumbai: The government mobilised Rs 776 crore by divesting nearly 13% in Bharat Dynamics (BDL) through an offer-for-sale (OFS) that closed on Wednesday. The government, which initially offered a little over 1.8 crore shares or 10% in the company at a floor price of Rs 330 per share, enhanced the offer size by another 5% to a combined offering of about 2.7 crore shares. According to the OFS data on the BSE website, a little over 2.3 crore shares were subscribed. A tweet by the secretary, Dipam, the government department responsible for its divestment process, also confirmed the fund mobilisation. The Dipam secretary said the divestment was mainly aimed at meeting the Sebi’s minimum public shareholding (MPS) norm. After the OFS, the public shareholding in BDL will fall from the current level of 87.75% to just a bit less than the 75% limit to meet Sebi norms. Since the OFS was launched, BDL stock on BSE slid to close the day’s session at Rs 314, down 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-divests-13-in-bharat-dynamics/articleshow/78026291.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Patna||J P Nadda to visit Bihar on Friday||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda’s two-day poll-related visit to the state will begin on Friday. He will interact with party’s top brass, besides traditional professional caste groups from the countryside and women kisans (farmers), including Padma Shri award winner Rajkumari Devi, who is popular as Kisan Chachi. After reaching Patna on Friday evening, Nadda will hold organizational meetings, BJP state general secretary Dewesh Kumar said. He will also interact with the 70-member steering committee headed by Union minister Nityanand Rai, and might also meet the core committee members. Nadda is supposed to goad the steering committee members to reach out to people in a novel way. Nadda will fly to Darbhanga on Saturday to have sessions with fishermen’s community and the makhana growers. From Darbhanga, he will visit Muzaffarpur to meet the women ‘kisans’ from Sitamarhi and Samastipur besides Muzaffarpur at Paru. He will return to Delhi on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nadda-to-visit-state-tomorrow/articleshow/78024806.cms||Abhay Singh
September 10, 2020||Business||YC Continuity leads $30m Groww round||BENGALURU: Famed Silicon Valley accelerator Y Combinator’s $700-million growth fund — YC Continuity — is leading a funding round in an Indian startup for the first time. YC Continuity, which invests in growth-stage startups, has led a $30-million round in online investment platform Groww. Started in 2017, the Bengaluru-based firm offers mutual funds-to-stock investments through its platform, while it expands into other financial services products on the back of new funding. Groww’s existing investors Sequoia India, Ribbit Capital and Propel Ventures have also participated in this round. YC Continuity partner Anu Hariharan will join the board of the company as part of the investment. Previously, YC Continuity had participated in a funding round for payments startup Razorpay in 2018. While the fund largely invests in Y Combinator or YC alumni firms, it has backed non-YC firms like UK’s Monzo. In the US, it has also backed some of the most valued companies like Stripe, DoorDash and Coinbase. Groww co-founder and CEO Lalit Keshre said the company will invest the new capital in its technology infrastructure, expand its product suite and hire across product and growth divisions in the firm. “We have seen mutual fund inflows doubling to around Rs 500 crore through our platform in August compared to January. We have just started enabling investing in US stocks like Amazon, Google, Apple, and would also introduce investment in derivatives,” he added. Groww also sells gold digitally and about 60% of its users are from tier-2 and -3 cities. The online financial services space has been seeing increased action from startups like Zerodha, Paytm, PhonePe and ETMoney, which is part of the group which publishes TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yc-continuity-leads-30m-groww-round/articleshow/78026343.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 10, 2020||Pune||Senior citizen from Pune gives up gold chain for mud||PUNE: Two women, who had worn masks, stole a gold chain worth Rs45,000 from a 65-year-old woman by diverting her attention on the pretext of offering her gold beads packed in a small cloth pouch. Shantabai Kamble from Solapur Bazaar realized she was tricked after she found mud in the cloth pouch, police said. The incident occurred between Mahatma Gandhi bus terminus and Hazrat Babajan Dargah chowk in Camp between 11.45am and 1.30pm on Tuesday. Sub-inspector Akshay Sonawane from Cantonment police station said, “Kamble reached the bus terminus from Golibar Maidan in an autorickshaw. The two women at the terminus requested her to take them to a jewellery store to sell nine gold beads.” Sonawane said, “The trio went to a jewellery store. The suspects showed the beads to the jeweller but he valued them at Rs2,000. They decided not to sell the beads. The women then lured her to keep the beads in exchange for her gold chain. Kamble offered her chain to the suspects but they diverted her attention and handed her a green pouch with beads and fled. On reaching home, Kamble opened the pouch filled with mud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sr-citizen-gives-up-gold-chain-for-mud/articleshow/78027624.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Inclusion of startups in priority sector no guarantee for funding||CHENNAI: Stung by its inability to lend to startups due to legacy view on lending which asks for personal guarantee or collaterals, state run banks are chalking up products and processes, to fulfill a new regulator diktat — including disbursals to startups. For instance, Indian Bank is working on a product which would provide loans upto Rs 50 crore in installments. While this is welcome, the catch comes with the condition that loans can be availed against collateral only — an uncomfortable area for startupreneurs. Cross section of people in the startup ecosystem believe that RBI’s nudge will not make it easier for all startups to obtain bank credit but will lead to favourable terms for profit-making late stage ventures who were already making the cut for bank finance. Startups mentor and evangelist Vijay Anand said the typical requirements such as three years of financials, business projections, and some collateral security do not fit startups. “We would need a massive overhaul of current lending systems to start lending to startups,” he said. Though, the apex bank’s move to bring in startup funding into the banking system is a good move, extending term loans to a startup does not fit into a risk profile meant for banks, analysts said. Vinod Murali, managing partner of venture debt firm Alteria Capital, said, “Most players in the startup ecosystem, who were earlier not eligible for bank loans, will still not be eligible. However, it will result in better commercial terms and pricing for companies that have always been eligible for bank financing.” “There will also be more collaboration between banks and venture debt firms as there will be more interest from banks' side to participate in special debt vehicles,” Murali added. According to research firm Venture Intelligence, in the absence of adequate bank financing for startups, the total amount of venture debt deals in the ecosystem have gone up almost four times from 2016 to 2019 from $63 million to $215 million. Companies like ZoomCar, Dunzo, BigBasket and others are a few top players in the startup space that have raised venture debt. Neel Juriasingani, co-founder and CEO, Datacultr said startups are more comfortable looking toward equity financing as the interest cost is a burden on ventures that are still figuring out profitability. We have to also go through tedious procedures just to open a bank account, and hence the lending process needs to be simplified for the move to have impact, he said. “It is also a matter of perception; the investment from a PE or VC firm may involve equity dilution but brings in validation of the business idea,” he added. On the other hand, banks who felt directionless in developing loans for startups so far, laud RBI’s move to allow lending under the priority sector category. “Since, the upper limit is set at Rs 50 crore which will be disbursed in smaller parts, and gives us enough time to evaluate their business performance. Initial fund requirement for startups could be as low as Rs 10 lakh,” said Indian Bank’s general manager for MSME, Sudhakara Rao KS. “It is impossible to provide loans, even under priority sector lending, without any minimal guarantee or collateral. Especially, with startups who have college graduates as promoters, who are new to business and new to credit. This poses a higher risk factor on lending,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/inclusion-of-startups-in-priority-sector-no-guarantee-for-funding/articleshow/78026042.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 10, 2020||Patna||16,000 visit city parks on Day 1||PATNA: Over 16,000 people visited different city parks and 450 residents went to the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as the Patna zoo, for a morning walk after they reopened on Wednesday. According to zoo director Amit Kumar, the footfall of visitors was slightly higher than the last time it had opened on June 8. “All the 450 visitors got their body temperatures measured and used a hand-free sanitizer machine before entering the zoo. They were only allowed in the botanical section from 5.30am to 11.30am. The zoological section was shut and activities like boating, golf cart riding, toy train, interpretation centre and children’s park were also not allowed,” Amit said. Barricades have been put up at several locations on the zoo premises, security personnel deputed and markings made so that people follow social distancing norms. Environment, forest and climate change department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper, “We have reduced the opening hours of the zoo to avoid overcrowding. Once the Covid situation improves, we will also restart other activities.” Meanwhile, city parks witnessed a footfall of 10,000 people in the morning hours (5.30am-11.30am) and 6,000 visitors in the evening (4pm to 7pm). Patna DFO (parks) Shashikant Kumar said, “There are around 72 parks in the city. Thermal screening was done at most of them and people were asked to carry sanitizers and water bottles.” Many Patnaites hailed the reopening of the zoo and parks. Kundan Kumar (43), a resident of Sheikhpura Mor, felt “happy and refreshed” after an hourlong morning walk. Indrapuri resident Rashmi Singh also walked for 15 minutes at a park near her house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16000-visit-city-parks-on-day-1/articleshow/78024691.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: CCTV footage shows ‘blast’ in ‘Dhaman’ ventilator||VADODARA: A day after Central Gujarat’s biggest public hospital witnessed fire inside the intensive care unit (ICU) of Covid hospital, CCTV footage of the incident emerged on Wednesday revealing that the fire was not from a short-circuit, but because of a ventilator placed inside the ICU-1 unit located on the first floor of the SSG building. The footage which was widely in circulation clearly shows that there was a kind of blast inside a ventilator after which the fire started resulting in panic among the staff and patients present inside the ICU. TOI has also learnt that there was no short circuit in the plug or the electric installation. Some visuals which TOI is in possession of, point out to the logo of ‘Dhaman’ ventilator. “It was provided to us as an upgraded version, but the same ventilator caused this incident,” said a source close to the development. The CCTV footage shows how the staffers bravely rescued the patients one by one even as fire had started spreading inside the unit. “It is a possibility that the ventilator caught fire due to heating. But the exact reason can be known only after the forensic investigation is done. We have sought forensic experts’ help for that,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. He said that the casualty/trauma centre of SSG Hospital which houses the Covid-19 hospital had provisional no-objection certificate of Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services as the fire fighting equipment was intact and in working condition. Officials maintained that a four member committee appointed by Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal is probing the reasons behind the fire. When asked about controversial Dhaman ventilator being the reason behind the fire, Agrawal said that she had no such information. “We have asked the committee to visit the premises and submit the report as soon as possible,” she said. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao too gave a similar response. “I will not speculate on this stage. We would rather wait for the committee to submit its report,” said Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara. Meanwhile, the four member committee headed by Sudhir Patel, deputy municipal commissioner (administration) visited the hospital where it met the staff. Watch Watch: CCTV footage shows ventilator blast in Gujarat hospital ICU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cctv-footage-shows-blast-in-dhaman-ventilator/articleshow/78024202.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Patna||No social distancing at centres, say examinees||PATNA: Altogether 20,150 candidates took re-examination of the Secondary Teachers’ Eligibility Test (STET) conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) on the first day on Wednesday. The exam was conducted in three shifts from 8am to 10.30am, 12pm to 2.30pm and 4pm to 6.30pm at 60 centres in Patna, Bhojpur, Purnea, Nalanda, Gaya, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Aurangabad, Darbhanga, Samastipur and Bhagalpur. Meanwhile, many examinees alleged that social distancing norms were not followed at various centres. One of them, Manas Jha, told this newspaper, “People were pushing each other and defying social distancing norms. Also, no security personnel were deployed at my centre.” While some covered long distances to reach their centres in other districts, many candidates skipped the exam. Bhagalpur resident Ashish Ranjan reached Patna in nine hours after changing “two buses and three autos”. Krishna Kumar, who hails from Purnea, said many of his friends did not write the exam because they had been allotted centres at far-off places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-social-distancing-at-centres-say-examinees/articleshow/78024707.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Chhapra water projects ready||CHHAPRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the water supply projects in Chhapra through videoconference on September 15. Four water towers, 9 tube wells and 9 pump houses have been constructed by BUIDCo under the AMRUT Scheme of central government. The projects will benefit the residents of Chhapra Municipal Corporation area, said S S Pandit, the executive engineer of BUIDCo (Saran), on Wednesday. He said 670 dwellings have been provided connections and the residents of Rouza, Police Lines, Shyam Chak and Gandak Colony would be benefited in the first phase of this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhapra-water-projects-ready/articleshow/78024783.cms||H K Verma
September 10, 2020||Patna||Patna civic body workers to go on indefinite strike from Thursday||PATNA: Employees of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), belonging to groups C and D, have decided to go on an indefinite strike from Thursday. They will stage a protest for fulfilment of their 18-chartered demands that include regularization of daily wagers, promotion of employees, pension benefits and salary increment. Patna Nagar Nigam Staff Union president Chandra Prakash Singh told this newspaper on Wednesday that activities like door-to-door trash collection, sweeping of roads and work at pump stations would be suspended from September 10 “if our demands are not met”. The civic body employees, including sanitation workers, pump operators, masons, drivers of auto-tippers and outsourced staff, will demonstrate under the banner of Patna Municipal Corporation Joint Staff Coordination Committee (PMCJSCC). The body has already submitted a letter with all the demands to PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma and the urban development and housing department. “The PMC passed a proposal to regularize 400 sanitation workers, who had completed 10 years of their service. However, only 112 employees have been regularized so far. We want regularization of the other staff, who have been working with the civic body for a long time,” said Singh, who is also the president of the PMCJSCC. The PMC commissioner, who interacted with the representatives of the PMCJSCC, said, “The PMC always considers the genuine demands of its employees. We have, therefore, asked them not to disrupt any work. If they do so, action will be taken against them.” Sources claimed that nothing fruitful happened after the meeting and the PMCJSCC asked the employees to stage a protest in all the six circles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-workers-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-from-today/articleshow/78024919.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 10, 2020||Surat||CCTV DVR missing from farmhouse||Surat: In a fresh twist to the quarry owner’s suicide case, the digital video recorder (DVR) in which CCTV footage was stored of the farmhouse on Bhesan-Malgama road near the city where absconding police inspector of Rander police station, L P Bodana, was quarantined after being tested positive, has gone missing. During his quarantine period Bodana is said to have called the victims at the farmhouse and also threatened them ‘several times’. A team of Surat rural police visited the farmhouse of Ajit Patel on Wednesday to get the DVR but found it missing. Preliminary investigation revealed that the DVR was collected by constable of Rander police station and one of the accused in the case, Ajay Bhopala. Bhopala had taken the DVR on August 3, said police, also adding that that footage of around 15 days is missing from the hard disk. “It is possible that multiple meetings may have taken place at the farmhouse due to which the accused deleted footage of 15 days and also took the DVR in their custody. We got inputs that the PI used to call many people at the farmhouse during his quarantine period,” said a police officer. Police, meanwhile, took custody of many incriminating documents from Rander police station in connection with the case. Bodana had started harassing the deceased Durlabh Patel, 73, and his son Dharmesh, 45, based on an application that was filed by the other accused in the case. No formal FIR was registered by police but the duo was being harassed in order to grab the land at a cheaper price. In his complaint Dharmesh alleged that on July 30, 2020 Bodana had sent him location through WhatsApp asking him to meet him there. Dharmesh went to the farm house with his brother where they were asked to hand over ownership of the disputed land at a much cheaper rate. They were threatened of dire consequences otherwise. Bodana was involved in the dispute between Patel and other accused since January 2020 and issued threats during multiple meetings with the intention of getting the Rs 24 crore worth of land sold at a cheaper price. Bodana was accompanied by the other accused including Hetal Desai, Raju Lakha Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani at the farm house. The two other accused cops of Rander police station, Ajay Bopala and Kiransinh Parmar, too were present. “We are doing thorough investigation in the case and the investigation officer is working on multiple angles. Police are collecting evidence like CCTV footage and call details,” said Usha Rada, superintendent of police, Surat. The 73-year-old quarry owner had killed himself by jumping in a water-filled pit at his quarry at Khanjroli village within Mandvi police station limits of Surat district during early hours on Monday. Later, based on Dharmesh’s complaint, police booked Bodana, Vijay Shinde, a police constable currently posted in Udhna police station, Ajay Bhopala and Kiran Sinh, both police constables in Rander police station. Among private persons Raju Lakha Bharwad, of Laskana, Hetal Natward Desai, Vesu, Bhavesh Karamshi Savani, Katargam, Kanaiyalal Narola, Katargam, Kishore Bhura Kosiya, Athwalines and Mukesh Kulkarni were booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cctv-dvr-missing-from-farmhouse/articleshow/78024825.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 10, 2020||Business||Silver Lake acquires 1.8% in Reliance Retail for Rs 7,500 crore||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Private equity firm Silver Lake will pay Rs 7,500 crore (just over $1 billion) to acquire a 1.8% stake in the retail business of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, making the Silicon Valley fund the first external investor in the consumer-focused unit. The transaction, which is Silver Lake’s third investment in India this year after education technology startup Byju’s and digital services company Jio Platforms, values Reliance Industries’ retail unit at Rs 4.2 lakh crore ($57 billion). This valuation, when compared with listed companies, ranks the retail unit at the fifth spot in India after HUL, HDFC Bank, TCS and RIL itself. The American fund’s investment in Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL), a subsidiary of RIL and the holding company of its retail business, sets the pricing benchmark for the consumer-focused unit that is expected to see more external investors in the coming weeks. In July, Ambani said that he had received strong interest from strategic and financial investors in the retail unit and would be finalising deals in the coming quarters. While Ambani did not specify the total quantum of stake he intends to sell in the retail unit to external parties, he has reportedly offered existing financial investors of Jio Platforms an opportunity to back the retail business. Besides Silver Lake, 10 other US and Middle Eastern asset management firms — including consumer-focused fund L Catterton, Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund Mubadala and New York-based KKR — have invested in Jio Platforms, which also runs India’s largest wireless network. Bloomberg reported that KKR and L Catterton are weighing investments in RIL’s retail unit. KKR is looking to invest at least $1 billion in RRVL. Between May and June, Silver Lake ploughed Rs 10,203 crore (for a stake of over 2% in Jio Platforms), while KKR invested Rs 11,367 crore (2.3%) and L Catterton put in Rs 1,895 crore (0.4%) in the digital services company of RIL. The potential deals in RRVL form part of Ambani’s broader plan to take the unit public in the future. Ambani has been ramping up his consumer-focused business, moving beyond the mainstay refining and petrochemical business. In May, he launched online grocery service JioMart and later signed deals to purchase online pharmacy retailer Netmeds and Future Retail. The Silver Lake investment will be used by RRVL to finance the Rs 24,713-crore acquisition of Future Retail. According to several brokerages, the US fund has valued RRVL lower than their estimates. CLSA said the deal is 12% lower than the value it assigned to the retail unit. Established in 2006, RIL’s retail unit is India’s largest and most profitable retail business, spanning everything from groceries to electronics. It reported a profit of Rs 5,448 crore ($726 million) on a turnover of Rs 1.62 lakh crore (about $22 billion) in fiscal 2020. The Future Retail acquisition, once completed, will further widen RIL’s lead as India’s biggest retailer. “Retail will always remain a capital-hungry business and what separates winners from the losers is how deep your pockets are. Capital helps you to create a huge barrier in the digital area and widens your moat,” said Devangshu Dutta, chief executive of consulting firm Third Eyesight. “In the e-commerce space dominated by Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart, if anybody can create a dent, it will be Reliance. And since they have a blend of physical and digital presence, unlike other retailers who are not omnichannel, they will be able to increase their scale. They have the backbone and the app layer on it which puts them in a unique position,” Dutta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/silver-lake-acquires-1-8-in-reliance-retail-for-rs-7500cr/articleshow/78026627.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 10, 2020||Business||Govt finalises advisers for LIC IPO, fixing legal issue||MUMBAI: As LIC prepares for the mega IPO, the positivity around the life insurance business amid the pandemic is seen to be working in favour of the insurer. While GDP is expected to shrink, the share of LIC in savings is rising. Also, the corporation has made record profits of over Rs 12,000 crore from the volatility in the stock markets. Speaking to TOI, LIC chairman M R Kumar said, “The first quarter we spent only on buying, and after July we started selling. As on date, we have made a profit of Rs 12,000 crore. Whenever there were major dips, we bought. The family jewels — we keep them. But even if we have sold some companies where we have core investments, our holdings are at pre-lockdown levels.” Kumar added: “As on March 31, 2020, we had 69% and 76% market share in composite first-year premium income and number of policies. In August, the share was 71% and 73% respectively. We shall definitely finish this year with better numbers.” LIC is seeing progress on three fronts despite the pandemic as it gears up for the IPO. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) has finalised Deloitte and SBI Caps as transaction advisers. Additionally, the department of financial services is working on legal amendments required to facilitate the IPO. The corporation has set up a team under a managing director to lead the entire process. Kumar said, “The second request for proposals would be for an actuarial firm who will help us to determine the embedded value. Once that is in place, the work on valuation will start.” Embedded value refers to the present valuation from future profits — a parameter used by life insurance companies since their expenses are upfront, while income from policies comes over the years. “The valuation will be on several fronts — products, assets & liabilities, investments, and real estate. The totality of all that plus the brand value,” Kumar added. According to him, the equity profits will make up for a dip in the yields. The bulk of LIC’s investments is in G-secs, with the corporation owning 20% of all outstanding government bonds. For the year, its investment in debt of states and the Centre stands at Rs 1.7 lakh crore, of which central government bonds are Rs 1.2 lakh crore. According to rating agency Care, the life insurance business has witnessed a fall in Q1FY21 due to the lockdown and business disruption. However, growth seems to be returning in Q2FY21. The industry could return to growth in the second or third quarter of FY21. Overall, the outlook is expected to be stable in the medium term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-finalises-advisers-for-lic-ipo-fixing-legal-issue/articleshow/78026510.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 10, 2020||Varanasi||Artisans make masks, devotees to recite Ramcharitmanas in Ramnagar||VARANASI: As the cloud of uncertainty hovers over staging of even the symbolic Ramlila of Ramnagar due to Covid-19 pandemic, the devotees have explored a new way to become a part of this world-famous event and skilled artisans have even started preparing masks of Ramlila characters for the same. This year, a small group of devotees will go to Ramnagar and recite Ramcharitmanas just to maintain the centuries old tradition of Ramlila in Ramanagar. The idea of making masks was conceived by a Ramlila devotee and neurologist at Banaras Hindu University Prof Vijay Nath Mishra, who also belongs to the family of the mahant of famous Sankat Mochan temple established by the poet saint and author of Ramcharitmanas Goswami Tulsidas in 16th century. “The Ramlila is in our soul. Even if the Ramlila is not staged this year, we will go there (Ramnagar) and recite Ramcharitmanas to maintain the centuries old tradition,” said Mishra adding that the masks will be used to play Ramlila characters by the devotees themselves. He further added that the masks would also be sent to the Ramlila groups in foreign countries like Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, Russia and others. These colourful masks are being made of paper pulp by a group of artisans led by Rajendra Kumar Srivastava. A set of masks consists of masks of Ramlila characters —Ram, Sita, Laxman, Bharat Shatrughna, Hanuman, Jamvant, Angad, Sugriva, Ravan, Kumbhkarna, and Vibhishan. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the month-long Ramnagar Ramlila, patronized by the erstwhile royalties of Kashi, will not be held this year. “It is also not clear whether it would be possible to stage a symbolic Ramlila in the fort, as Maharaj Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh is in Delhi after being tested positive for coronavirus infection. Any decision in this regard would be taken by him only after his return from Delhi,” said a senior member of Ramlila committee. Traditionally, the Ramlila begins on the Anant Chaturdashi and continues for 31 days. It is staged under the open sky with Ramnagar fort in the backdrop using only traditional lamps and no sound system. The characters of Lord Ram and his siblings are played by young boys. Preparations for the traditional event begins weeks before the commencement. The opening day of the Ramlila witnesses the jhanki of Kshir Sagar in Ramnagar Pokhra (pond), where Lord Vishnu is shown lying on Sheshnaag Shaiiya with Goddess Laxmi sitting near him. The Ramlila draws a large number of devotees from the city and nearby areas as well as foreigners. The Ramlila is not confined to a place, but the entire Ramnagar town turns into a big theatre with a number of stages named after the major sites of the Ramayana like Ashok Vatika, Panchavati, Janakpuri, and Lanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/artisans-make-masks-devotees-to-recite-ramcharitmanas-in-ramnagar/articleshow/78046807.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Startup@77: Ashok Soota scores in 2nd innings||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: It’s rare for entrepreneurs to succeed a second time. To do that in their 70s — almost never. Ashok Soota, 77, is one of those exceptional ones. The Rs 700-crore initial public offer (IPO) of his IT services company Happiest Minds, which concluded on Wednesday, has been oversubscribed 150 times. About 13 years ago, he took his previous company, Mindtree, to an IPO, and that issue was oversubscribed 103 times. “People thought we were crazy to file for an IPO in the middle of a lockdown,” Soota told TOI last week. But he said he was confident, given the nature of his business. He said almost 76% of his revenue is not affected by the pandemic and lockdown. More than half of that revenue comes from edutech and hi-tech sectors. He said the company’s focus on digital services also puts it on a very different footing from traditional IT companies. This is what enables, he said, Happiest Minds to grow at nearly 21% (last three years’ compounded annual growth rate, or CAGR), when the IT industry has slowed down to 8-10%. The Happiest Minds IPO raised Rs 316 crore from anchor investors last week, before the issue opened. The IPO closed with a book size of nearly Rs 58,300 crore. The institutional part has been subscribed over 77 times, the non-institutional part — also called the HNI or the high net worth investors’ portion — 352 times, and the retail portion 71 times. This is the second IPO since the lockdown started in March. The first, of Rossari Biotech in July, was oversubscribed 79 times. Soota did engineering from IIT-Roorkee, and was in Shriram Refrigeration Industries when Azim Premji, in 1985, hired him to build Wipro’s then nascent IT business. Over the next 14 years, Soota became almost the face of Wipro, given Premji’s proclivity to stay in the background, and rose to be vice-chairman of the company. In 1999, Soota led a group of 10 senior executives, from Wipro and other companies, to found Mindtree. The going was good for the next decade, and the successful IPO in 2007 only increased the optimism. But then there emerged differences between the founders, and it looked like it was Soota on one side and all the rest on the other. It’s still not very clear what the differences were. Some attribute it to Soota’s push for an entry into the mobile handset business, which ended up losing a lot of money. Some say there were differences around the allocation of responsibilities among the founders. Eventually, Soota quit Mindtree. He sold off all his shares in the company, and in 2011, at the age of 68, in a remarkable display of grit and perseverance, he founded Happiest Minds. Soota told TOI in an earlier interview that he named the company Happiest Minds to suggest that they are in the business of making customers happy through happy employees. But since Happiest Minds did not quite indicate what the company did, Soota added the tagline — The Mindful IT Company, which conveyed that it was an IT company that would be mindful in its approach to its people, customers and community. The company’s biggest differentiator, Soota said, was its focus on digital — while most of the big IT services companies today categorise about 30% to 50% of their business as digital, for Happiest Minds, it’s 100%. Soota believes there are only four firms in the world that can be called 100% digital — Happiest Minds, Epam Systems, Endava and Globant. Soota said last week that he had always preferred to run public companies. He said there’s pressure to improve corporate governance when a company goes public. Depending too much on private capital, he said, doesn’t help. He points to the experience of heavily funded companies like Uber and Lyft. “They have been trading below their IPO price,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup77-soota-scores-in-2nd-innings/articleshow/78026537.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
September 10, 2020||Delhi||JNU, IIT-Delhi don new hat to take care of strays||NEW DELHI: When students had to leave the JNU and IIT-D campuses due to Covid-19, many were worried about food and care of the strays on the premises. But both institutions are taking good care of them by allowing volunteers, NGOs and animal experts to help with these animals’ food, medicines and other hygiene issues. According to P K Joshi of School of Environmental Sciences, the university campus has over 20 feeding spots where animals like dogs, nilgais and peacocks are fed by students. Joshi said Jawaharlal Nehru University always had an animal cell and an animal ethics committee. “We already had provisions for animal experts to come to the campus. This is approved by the campus development committee, which has members from School of Life Sciences and School of Environmental Sciences.” The professor said JNU had never felt any need to hire any expert animal caretaker. “The man-animal conflict is limited here as we always have had a close interaction with the animals.” IIT-Delhi, on the other hand, sought a consultant on August 6 to take proper care of a large number of stray dogs on the premises — providing them medical aid like vaccination, medicines and drip, and food. Handling stray-related issues and liaison with the campus community, local government bodies and NGOs are also part of the job profile. IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao said, “We used our NSS volunteers and faculty to help the dogs. We even trained our guards to deal with such issues and ensure that dogs are fed properly.” Though students took care of the animals, Rao said, it is difficult to sustain such voluntary services. “We want to put in place a system, and ensure sterilization is taken care of and the stray population does not increase much”. Gauri Maulekhi, a trustee at NGO People for Animals, said while most campuses had self-sustaining ecosystems through student organisations and individuals who often fed strays, the pandemic lockdown meant students had to leave the premises, leaving these animals with no fixed source of food. “IIT-Delhi approached us and we told them to make use of the guards to feed the strays at fixed points. An animal must not be disturbed during feeding as that makes it aggressive. Feeding points should also be away from teaching areas so that dogs don’t bother students either,” said Maulekhi. Wasim Akram of the NGO Wildlife SOS, who has been working on a project to train stray dogs in Nirvana Country in Gurgaon, said conditioning could take time. “You have to fix feeding points at different locations for each pack to avoid conflicts. Activities like sterilisation go hand in hand and over time, you can work on aggressive dogs too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-iit-d-don-new-hat-to-take-care-of-strays/articleshow/78027666.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 10, 2020||Business||FMCG companies launch online only products||New Delhi: Prompted by the Covid-19 induced lockdown, several FMCG companies from Dabur and ITC to Mondelez and Marico are using e-commerce platforms to launch products before making them available in traditional retail shops. While this has resulted in the increase of e-commerce share of FMCG sales, marketers said the online-only or online-first strategy work well for slightly niche or premium brands which may not find much traction in offline shops. E-commerce, which accounts for 3% of overall FMCG sales in India, however, is the fastest growing channel and witnessed a growth of 56% in the first quarter (January, February & May) and 38% in June, showed data from market research company, Nielsen. Homegrown FMCG major, Dabur, for instance, has launched an entire Ayurveda baby care range, which will be sold only on e-commerce platforms. Others, such as, Marico are also launching products meant for online sales. The recent Amazon Prime Day sale saw 100 brands launch thousand products online first. “We have already seen our e-commerce business more than doubling,” said Mohit Malhotra, CEO at Dabur India. “In Q1 of 2020-21 fiscal alone, our e-commerce business has grown to almost 3.5 times as compared to the base quarter and today has a saliency of 5.6% as compared to 1.5% in Q1 FY 2019-20.” Sanjiv Puri, chairman and MD at cigarettes-to-biscuits conglomerate, ITC, said the Kolkata-headquartered company’s e-commerce sales has witnessed 100% growth and currently accounts for over 4% of its overall sales compared to only 2% in 2019. Others, such as, Marico, too, witnessed something similar. Since March 2020, the company rolled out new products, including Veggie Clean, the KeepSafe personal care range and the Protect range of disinfectant sprays—all of which are widely available across e-commerce platforms along with modern trade. “We have consistently focused on e-commerce as a channel of growth and it grew by 43% in FY20. In Q1, e-commerce grew 37% as the channel gained salience at an even faster pace,” a Marico India spokesperson told TOI. Mondelez, maker of Cadbury chocolate and Oreo cookies, launched Cadbury Chocobakes Choc Layered Cakes, which debuted on Grofers before being made available across traditional channels. “We have been making significant strides in changing the nature of our product launches and further consolidating our pathway through a slew of digital-first introductions by leveraging our long-standing relations with online platforms such as Amazon and Grofers,” said Parveen Dalal, sales director at Mondelez India. For e-commerce platforms, such as, Amazon, Flipkart, Grofers and BigBasket, this has meant a wider net for customers looking for niche products. “Since the last several years, sellers & brands have been leveraging our reach, national customer base and fulfillment infrastructure to launch new products. Our focus continues to remain on enabling sellers to sell & accelerate their growth,” said Saurabh Srivastava, director–category management at Amazon India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fmcg-companies-launch-online-only-products/articleshow/78025801.cms||John Sarkar
September 10, 2020||Patna||RJD netas light lanterns against ‘unemployment’||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his mother Rabri Devi and elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav lit lanterns after switching off the lights of their residence for 9 minutes at 9pm on Wednesday as a symbolic protest against unemployment and privatization of government institutions. Later, Tejashwi said, “Nitish Kumar has never talked about issues like unemployment, migration, poverty or industrialization. Even in his virtual rally, he kept abusing and accusing us. I will suggest that he should meet the unemployed youths and listen to their grievances.” He said though Nitish talks of the end of the lantern era, even arrow — JD(U) election symbol — is not used. “Now what is the use of the arrow in the era of missiles,” he asked and alleged that candidates of a particular caste and region were given employment. RJD workers also lit candles at party offices and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-netas-light-lanterns-against-unemployment/articleshow/78024845.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 10, 2020||Business||AstraZeneca dives 12% on vaccine snag||Mumbai: The news that global pharma major AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial faced a hurdle in the UK led to a sharp sell-off in the stock globally on Tuesday night, which had its impact in India too. In Wednesday’s early trades, the AstraZeneca Pharma India stock on the BSE crashed over 12% but recovered to close 3% lower at Rs 4,074. The stock crashed on reports that the vaccine trial was suspended in the UK due to a serious adverse event with one of its volunteers. The recovery in the stock came after analysts said it was a “suspension”, which is temporary in nature and was not a “total stoppage” of the trial. According to WHO, the vaccine, developed by Oxford University and being put into trial by AstraZeneca, is the front-runner in a field with about seven others in the third and final phase of the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/astrazeneca-dives-12-on-vaccine-snag/articleshow/78026375.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Equity fund outflow jumps to Rs 4k cr in Aug||TNN Mumbai: Despite a relatively flat market in August, outflow from equity mutual funds, which has a predominant retail investor base, increased for the second consecutive month — after recording net inflows for over four years — with the net outflow at Rs 4,000 crore. According to industry analysts, historically it has been observed that after a sharp dip in the market, investors usually book profits during the recovery phase. A similar trend is being observed now, which could reverse in a few months, they said. Data from industry body Amfi showed that in August, it lost Rs 1,554 crore in large-cap equity funds, while another Rs 1,157 crore in multi-cap funds. Hybrid funds too, which have a large portion of its assets in equities, recorded a net outflow of Rs 4,819 crore, while debt funds as a whole lost Rs 3,908 crore. The overall mutual fund industry lost assets worth Rs 14,533 crore in August, according to Amfi data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equity-fund-outflow-jumps-to-rs-4k-cr-in-aug/articleshow/78026414.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Indians buy electronic gold despite volatile price||Chennai: Investments in Gold exchange-traded fund (ETF) remained in positive territory with net inflows at Rs 908 crore in August, despite volatility seen in gold rates, showed data from The Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). This raises the net asset under management of the gold ETF basket toRs 13,503 crore at the end of August.AMFI chief executive NS Venkatesh said, “Gold investment is continuing to be seen as a haven for investors. Despite persistent volatility and challenging economic scenario, retail investors continue to exhibit mature investment behavior, reflected from record high retail assets under management (AUM)s, continued rise in SIP AUMs, SIP folios, and significantly higher quantum of flows towards multi asset allocation schemes during the month.”However, the new Gold ETF folios added were lower at 53,572 folios in August compared to 61,338 new folios last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indians-buy-electronic-gold-despite-volatile-price/articleshow/78025934.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 10, 2020||Business||Royal Enfield to assemble bikes in Argentina||Chennai: Motorcycle maker Royal Enfield will assemble motorcycles in Argentina in partnership with Grupo Simpa, Royal Enfield’s (RE) local distributor in the country from 2018. This is the first time the company’s motorcycles will be assembled and produced outside Royal Enfield’s factories. Just a month ago, RE’s management had announced that the company would look for new markets. CEO Vinod Dasari had told analysts that the company was focusing on 3 areas — developed markets (US and Europe), emerging markets of APAC and LATAM and long-shot territories like Africa where it has picked 2-3 countries to focus on. Long term goal is to have 20% of sales coming from outside India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/royal-enfield-to-assemble-bikes-in-argentina/articleshow/78026123.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,329 cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Wednesday added 1,329 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total of the positive cases to 1.08 lakh. After a day of less than 1,300 cases on Tuesday after a week of 1,300-plus daily cases, the cases again reached 1,300 for the state. The new cases in Gujarat include 266 from Surat, 171 from Ahmedabad, 154 from Rajkot, 126 from Vadodara, and 113 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot crossed 33,000, 23,000 and 6,000 respectively. The state also recorded the deaths of 16 positive patients, taking the total to 3,152. The deaths in Gujarat include four each from Ahmedabad and Surat, two each from Rajkot, Gandhinagar and Vadodara, and one each from Mahisagar and Surendranagar. The cumulative cases in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 1,744 and 672. A total of 1,336 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total of the discharged patients to 88,815. The discharges include 276 from Surat, 231 from Rajkot, 145 from Vadodara, 121 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Jamnagar. With the update, the active cases in Gujarat reached 16,328, which is 15% of the total positive cases in the state. The share of discharged and deceased patients reached 82% and 3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 75,936 tests, taking the total to 30.01 lakh. The health department claimed that it was 1,168 tests per day per million people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-adds-1329-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78027668.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Guv Mishra’s 15-point agenda for state||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday shared his 15-point agenda of works to be done with the support of Centre, state and civil society in the next four years of his tenure for Rajasthan’s progress. Making the state child marriage free, ensuring mandatory education for girls up to 18-years in tribal regions and taking mother and child mortality rates in tribal areas to national average would be part of the agenda, Mishra said while virtually interacting with the media on completing one year in the Raj Bhavan. The governor said corona cases were on the rise due to negligence of people even though the state government was doing enough to spread awareness. Mishra rebutted allegations that he acted under the Centre’s pressure during the recent political crisis in Rajasthan. “The only pressure I was under, was that of the Constitution,” Mishra said. On the falling quality of higher education in the state, the governor said a task force constituted by him has been submitting reports on how to turn the universities into smart institutes, taking into consideration what their needs are and what can be done to meet the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-mishras-15-point-agenda-for-state/articleshow/78027631.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||IMA warns Rajkot doctors to be extra cautious||Rajkot: The Rajkot branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) issued a red alert warning its member doctors to remain extra cautious looking at the current spike in Covid-19 cases in Rajkot. More than 120 doctors have tested positive so far of whom nearly 20 are currently under treatment. In a circular, the association said, “The situation is very gloomy and depressive in the city. Rajkot has become new hotspot of the state with maximum rise (population wise) in number of cases. Mortality too is making new highs everyday. Member doctors are advised not to be complacent and to practice utmost precaution and use proper and standard masks, face, shield, gloves, cap and apron and spend minimum necessary time with patients and their relatives.” According to sources, with the rise in cases, doctors are falling prey to the deadly virus. More than 70 doctors from other parts of the state have been deputed in Rajkot. Dr Hiren Kothari, vice president of IMA Gujarat chapter, said, “We have warned paediatricians to be extra careful as at least two relatives come with the minor. Also, as the patient cannot explain their condition to the doctors verbally, the doctors have to physically examine these patients.” He also added that many patients gather in the OPD of a general physician thereby increasing the risk and possibility of the doctor getting infected in there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ima-warns-rajkot-doctors-to-be-extra-cautious/articleshow/78046240.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Announcement of second FYJC merit list stands deferred for now||PUNE: Students seeking admission to the first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI) under the Maratha reservation quota have been dejected after the Supreme Court ruling as the second merit list, scheduled to be announced on Thursday at 10am, has been deferred. The centralized admissions process (CAP) committee overlooking FYJC admissions decided to postpone the merit list after a meeting with officials of the state education department late on Wednesday. Students, who secured admissions before Wednesday, will not face any reversal. Admissions to other diploma, graduation and post-graduation courses were also being reworked by the respective implementing agencies. Director of secondary education Dinkar Patil said, “There will be a change in the schedule of admissions due to the seat matrix. Once it is discussed, the new schedule will be announced. However, the second merit list scheduled on Thursday remains stayed.” The first merit list for admission to industrial training institutes (ITI) was announced by the state Directorate of Vocational Education (DVET). Director of DVET Yogesh Patil said, “Our next list is scheduled around September 15 so we still have time to rework the reserved and open seats. We shall soon make an announcement regarding the same.” Further, admissions to the post-SSC diploma course are also underway and the seats would be reworked and announced accordingly. Meanwhile, the CAP round for the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course will start in the second week of October, minister of higher education Uday Samant said on Wednesday. The CET for MBA was conducted on March 14 and 15 and the result was declared on May 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fyjc-second-merit-list-announcement-postponed/articleshow/78028437.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Students, teachers welcome holidays for online classes||Coimbatore: Private school students and school representatives here welcomed the five-day break for online classes announced by the state government on Wednesday. School education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced that the classes will not be held from September 21 to 25 to help students beat stress. Private school students here said they attend three one-hour classes and also regular tests. “We have three sessions from10am to 11am, from 11.30am to 12.30pm, and from 3.30pm to 4.30pm. There are also internal exams every month. Five days of leave will help us unwind. But we have to prepare for the internal test next month,” said S Sree Vishnu, a Class XII student at a private school. Representatives of private schools said online classes proved to be a supportive tool for them to cover portions, especially for Classes IX to XII. “We are engaging students in classes and also giving them homework, project work, assignments and tests, based on which we have mapped their performance. We are giving them leave on weekends, except for students of higher classes who might have half-day classes on Saturdays. If the state declares five-day holidays for students, it is fine with us. We think it is a good move, we will follow it,” said C S Manoharan, president of the CBSE Schools Management Association. However, government schoolteachers said the short break would not have much impact on their students. Only those students who have connectivity are able to log in to the classes they have been conducting, a teacher said. A Class III teacher said each of them are using different methods, such as Zoom meetings or sharing videos and PDF files in WhatsApp. “Not all students can get connected as not all homes have gadgets. So, the leave for online classes would not have much impact on government school students,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-teachers-welcome-holidays-for-online-classes/articleshow/78027663.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Announcement of second FYJC merit list stands deferred for now||PUNE: Students seeking admission to the first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI) under the Maratha reservation quota have been dejected after the Supreme Court ruling as the second merit list, scheduled to be announced on Thursday at 10am, has been deferred. The centralized admissions process (CAP) committee overlooking FYJC admissions decided to postpone the merit list after a meeting with officials of the state education department late on Wednesday. Students, who secured admissions before Wednesday, will not face any reversal. Admissions to other diploma, graduation and post-graduation courses were also being reworked by the respective implementing agencies. Director of secondary education Dinkar Patil said, “There will be a change in the schedule of admissions due to the seat matrix. Once it is discussed, the new schedule will be announced. However, the second merit list scheduled on Thursday remains stayed.” The first merit list for admission to industrial training institutes (ITI) was announced by the state Directorate of Vocational Education (DVET). Director of DVET Yogesh Patil said, “Our next list is scheduled around September 15 so we still have time to rework the reserved and open seats. We shall soon make an announcement regarding the same.” Further, admissions to the post-SSC diploma course are also underway and the seats would be reworked and announced accordingly. Meanwhile, the CAP round for the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course will start in the second week of October, minister of higher education Uday Samant said on Wednesday. The CET for MBA was conducted on March 14 and 15 and the result was declared on May 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fyjc-second-merit-list-announcement-postponed/articleshow/78033247.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Announcement of second FYJC merit list stands deferred for now||PUNE: Students seeking admission to the first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI) under the Maratha reservation quota have been dejected after the Supreme Court ruling as the second merit list, scheduled to be announced on Thursday at 10am, has been deferred. The centralized admissions process (CAP) committee overlooking FYJC admissions decided to postpone the merit list after a meeting with officials of the state education department late on Wednesday. Students, who secured admissions before Wednesday, will not face any reversal. Admissions to other diploma, graduation and post-graduation courses were also being reworked by the respective implementing agencies. Director of secondary education Dinkar Patil said, “There will be a change in the schedule of admissions due to the seat matrix. Once it is discussed, the new schedule will be announced. However, the second merit list scheduled on Thursday remains stayed.” The first merit list for admission to industrial training institutes (ITI) was announced by the state Directorate of Vocational Education (DVET). Director of DVET Yogesh Patil said, “Our next list is scheduled around September 15 so we still have time to rework the reserved and open seats. We shall soon make an announcement regarding the same.” Further, admissions to the post-SSC diploma course are also underway and the seats would be reworked and announced accordingly. Meanwhile, the CAP round for the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course will start in the second week of October, minister of higher education Uday Samant said on Wednesday. The CET for MBA was conducted on March 14 and 15 and the result was declared on May 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fyjc-second-merit-list-announcement-postponed/articleshow/78033248.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Saddled with edu loan & no jobs, students on edge||By: Godhooli Sharma & Raghav Duggal LUCKNOW: When Mansi Jain, 25, took an education loan little did she know what future had in store. All hell broke loose after Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent job losses, which brought her plans to a standstill. “I am a final year student of masters in business administration at a private college in Bengaluru. Due to the pandemic, final exams and placements have been stalled. My father is retired from his services and my mother is a housewife. Since we couldn’t bear the expenses of my college, we decided to take an education loan,” said Jain, who is currently juggling between giving tuition classes and doing a content writing internship. Now, with no sustainable job in her hands, she is worried about her EMIs. “I am looking for a job in Lucknow itself to repay my education loan. The possibility of bagging a highly paid job during these times seems low,” she added. Many other students and their families are also facing serious financial constraints to pay back their loans and have sought the government’s help. Gomtinagar resident Abhishek Shukla’s family had to liquidate its investments to pay the loan he had taken during his four-year engineering course in Delhi. “Since I couldn’t secure a job or an internship, my father used the sum of money from his hard earned investments,” added Shukla. Devashish Mukherjee, who took an education loan in August 2018 for a two-year masters program in journalism and mass communication, has been taking help from his relatives, as he couldn’t acquire a placement due to paucity of jobs. Mukherjee, who is the single child of a single mother, demands the state government to extend the moratorium on loans for over a year and not impose a fine on defaulters. RBI had announced a moratarium on repayment of debt for six months from March 1,2020, to help businesses and individuals undergoing financial problems due to coronavirus, which ended on August 31, 2020. “My mother is a single parent and runs a boutique. I had secured a placement in Bengaluru and was soon to join in May. But due to the pandemic, all vacant posts were cancelled by the company and I couldn’t start with my job,” said Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saddled-with-edu-loan-no-jobs-students-on-edge/articleshow/78027901.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Announcement of second FYJC merit list stands deferred for now||PUNE: Students seeking admission to the first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI) under the Maratha reservation quota have been dejected after the Supreme Court ruling as the second merit list, scheduled to be announced on Thursday at 10am, has been deferred. The centralized admissions process (CAP) committee overlooking FYJC admissions decided to postpone the merit list after a meeting with officials of the state education department late on Wednesday. Students, who secured admissions before Wednesday, will not face any reversal. Admissions to other diploma, graduation and post-graduation courses were also being reworked by the respective implementing agencies. Director of secondary education Dinkar Patil said, “There will be a change in the schedule of admissions due to the seat matrix. Once it is discussed, the new schedule will be announced. However, the second merit list scheduled on Thursday remains stayed.” The first merit list for admission to industrial training institutes (ITI) was announced by the state Directorate of Vocational Education (DVET). Director of DVET Yogesh Patil said, “Our next list is scheduled around September 15 so we still have time to rework the reserved and open seats. We shall soon make an announcement regarding the same.” Further, admissions to the post-SSC diploma course are also underway and the seats would be reworked and announced accordingly. Meanwhile, the CAP round for the Masters in Business Administration (MBA) course will start in the second week of October, minister of higher education Uday Samant said on Wednesday. The CET for MBA was conducted on March 14 and 15 and the result was declared on May 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fyjc-second-merit-list-announcement-postponed/articleshow/78033246.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||State unemployment rate third highest in country for Aug: CMIE||Jaipur: Rajasthan has third highest rate of unemployment in the country after Haryana and Tripura in August, according to CMIE data. While Haryana topped the states with 33.5% followed by Tripura at 27.5%, Rajasthan’s rate continued to remain high at 17.5% compared to 17.7% in April when all economic activities ground to a halt. But even before the lockdown was imposed, the state’s joblessness rate remained at elevated rates indicating that the all was not well in the state’s economy. But analysing the data in the past couple of months, experts in the field pointed that one of the reasons for the high joblessness in the impact on the pandemic on tourism and hospitality sector. “Rajasthan, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand which have high unemployment rates are all dependent on tourism and hospitality. Unless the tourism sector recovers, large-scale job creation will not take place,” said N K Jain, president of Employers Association of Rajasthan. The fact that tourism contributes 23% to the state’s GDP pretty much explains how the state is overly dependent on the sector and why it is necessary for the state diversify its economy and de-risk it. However, industry feels that economic activity in the state went into a slump couple of years ago and the revival has remained elusive since then. They attribute to partly to the general slowdown in the country which was aggravated by the state’s own problems. After tourism, real estate has a big impact on job creation and the sector’s underperformance contributed to the joblessness in a major way. Digvijay Dhabriya, which employs about 600 people in his PVC and UPVC manufacturing unit, said, “If the real estate industry does not do well, it will have a huge bearing on a host of other industries. If it does well, it will not create job opportunities in the sector itself but also in the industries that depend on it. But sadly, the market has been in limbo for a long time.” Dhabriya said that after the new Congress government came to power, it got saddled with its own problems and there was much less scope to tide over the general slowdown the country was undergoing. The high unemployment figures may have the imprint of Covid-19 pandemic but the crisis was prevalent since a couple of years ago. However, labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan, said that the figures indicate that the unemployment rate has not declined during the lockdown. “The data shows that unemployment rate in Rajasthan has not shot up during lockdown period like it did in other states. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-unemployment-rate-third-highest-in-country-for-aug-cmie/articleshow/78027675.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Bengaluru firm under scanner in investment fraud case||Pune:The Kothrud police on Tuesday booked a Bengaluru-based real estate firm and 10 people associated with it after a 45-year-old Baner resident accused them of cheating him, his three relatives and four others of Rs75 lakh. The complainant claimed that the firm, which has an office on Paud Road in Pune, had offered them developed plots near Pune and in Raigad and Sangli districts on maturity of term deposits taken in 2012. The company promised the investors that they would either get developed plots on maturity of their term deposits or a refund of their invested amount with interest and a 2% surcharge. The complainant and his relatives did not get either the plots or their invested amount with interest and surcharge as promised, the police added. “We have registered offence against 10 people, including directors and officials of the company,” senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police told TOI. The complainant, his wife and relatives had invested about Rs36 lakh. The others invested the remaining amount in the scheme, police said. “The projects of the developed plots were located in Purandar near Pune or at places in Sangli and Raigad districts. If anyone was not interested in plots, s/he was promised to return the amount with the interest within six years,” Joshi said. “We have so far received complaints from eight people and the amount of the alleged fraud is over Rs75 lakh. We are suspecting that more people have been cheated by the company. Our probe is on.” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bengaluru-firm-under-scanner-in-investment-fraud-case/articleshow/78028438.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Salem||We’re recovering money from people not eligible for scheme: Collectors||Salem/Dharmapuri: District collectors across Salem region are in the process of reversing the money which was disbursed under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) scheme to ineligible people. The collectors said they were conducting meetings with bank officials to collect money from such people’s bank accounts, in which sufficient money was not there for reversal. Following irregularities in the scheme, CBCID police officials have begun inquiries across the state. They have arrested 16 persons in this issue, including two from Salem district. CBCID officials have blocked 21,000 bank accounts in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. “We have blocked 14,000 bank accounts in Salem, 350 in Namakkal, 1,200 in Dharmapuri and 5,500 in Krishnagiri districts,” a top official said. Salem collector S A Raman told TOI that the bank officials have collected nearly Rs 1.57 crore till date. “As of now, Rs 6 crore has been deposited into ineligible people's bank account,” he said, adding that, the remaining Rs 4.43 crore will be reversed at the earliest. Dharmapuri collector D Malarvizhi said nearly Rs 2.5 crore money has been reversed from ineligible people who had joined the scheme. “We're digging up further to check the exact money that had gone to ineligible people's bank accounts," she said.Namakkal collector K Megraj said nearly 570 people were found ineligible for the scheme in the district. "We have blocked Rs 30 lakh money from these people's bank accounts," he said, adding that the money will be reversed from these account if they found ineligible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/were-recovering-money-from-people-not-eligible-for-scheme-collectors/articleshow/78027688.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Autorickshaw driver feted for returning couple’s bag||Pune: An autorickshaw driver returned a bag containing ornaments and cash left behind by a couple on Wednesday. He handed over the bag to the police who returned it to passengers Kuddus Shaikh (63) and his wife Shenaz (53). Police later felicitated driver Vitthal Mapare (60) from Ghorpadi for his honesty. The Shaikh couple boarded the autorickshaw from Gadital but forgot to collect the bag, containing gold and silver ornaments and cash Rs20,000, while getting down on B T Kawade Road. Senior inspector Sampat Bhosale from Mundhwa police in a statement said, “Mapare returned the bag to Ghorpadi police chowkey after the passengers did not return to the spot. We handed over the bag to the passengers and felicitated Mapare for his honesty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autorickshaw-driver-feted-for-returning-couples-bag/articleshow/78028440.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Laxminagar man loses Rs 1.41 lakh to e-wallet fraud||PUNE: A 32-year-old building material supplier from Laxminagar registered a complaint with the Yerawada police station on Tuesday stating that cyber criminals transferred over Rs1.41 lakh from his bank account to two e-wallet accounts via netbanking on June 26. The victim Hamid Shaikh had filed a complaint application with the Pune cyber police soon after the incident. The cyber police team conducted a preliminary inquiry and recently transferred the matter to the Yerawada police station to register the FIR and investigate further. The fraud came to light after Shaikh received text messages informing him that money had been debited from his bank account. In his FIR, Shaikh stated that he was at his residence when he received a text message that Rs45,000 had been debited from his account. He later received two more messages stating further cash had been debited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-loses-rs-1-41l-to-e-wallet-fraud/articleshow/78028439.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||SPPU to conduct written exam from October 1, practicals start from September 15||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University will conduct all its written examinations between October 1 and 30 in both online and offline format. The practical examinations would be held between September 15 and 25, in an online format. The notification was uploaded on the official website by the board of examination and evaluation on Wednesday. “The final year practical/oral examinations would now be held online via Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Webex, Telephone, among others. It is compulsory for colleges to keep a recording of these examinations. Once the examination ends, the colleges need to submit the marks obtained by each of their students in the university’s internal marks web portal before October 5,” Mahesh Kakade, director, board of examination and evaluation, said. The notification added that the backlog examinations for final year students would be held between October 1 and 9 in an online as well as offline mode. The examination would be of one hour duration and would consist of multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for total marks of 50, that the student needs to answer. An independent date-sheet would be published by the university for students detailing the subject of the examination on each day or session. The regular final-year students would appear for their examination between October 10 and October 30. This too would be an MCQ-based online as well as an offline examination of one-hour duration for a total of 50 marks, details of which will be published by the university. “Students have been told to fill an option form using their login id to choose between online and offline mode of examination. Colleges have been told to make students aware of these options so that the university can understand the requirements of students and arrange the logistics accordingly,” Kakade added. A final-year MCom student Kamalakar Shete said, “For our entire degree and then postgraduate course, we have been trained to appear for descriptive questions. Here, we need to understand the concepts and then write about it in our own words. The moment it becomes an objective type, multiple-choice questions, the emphasis is more on memorising the names, dates, and the final answer and less on the process or the concept. Many of us are yet to take books and solving MCQs requires deep study which none of the students have done. Lastly, if the university is only conducting an online exam without any proctor, how can they ensure a fair process? They are conducting exams just for the sake of it.” Dayanand Shinde, a final-year MA Hindi student said students want the indecision to end. “We are fine with appearing for examinations. We can’t perpetually stay in this state. We need to get our results as soon as possible so that we can apply for further studies or jobs. Our future is at stake here and we just want our results out and to move on,” Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-to-conduct-written-exam-from-oct-1-practicals-start-from-sept-15/articleshow/78028442.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Under construction building collapses in Muhana, 7 hurt||JAIPUR: A two-storey under-construction house collapsed in Muhana area here on Wednesday. At least seven labourers out of 10 who were working at the site were critically injured. The owner was adding two floors above the already constructed house. According to officials, the building caved in because of additional weight. SDM (civil defence) Manish Fauzdar said, “The building was hanging in the middle due to the collapse of the pillar and debris was all over the road. Around 10 people were stuck inside who were rescued by the civil defence team. Out of them, seven were severely injured and taken to hospital. Rest of them are safe.” Two teams of civil defence were sent for rescue operations. Earthmovers were pressed into service to clear the debris. Police were called for on the spot inspection. Although old and dilapidated buildings have collapsed in the past, this building was relatively new and the way it crumbled down means that the structure was not strong enough to hold the building. “The owner is being questioned by the administration. He would have to pay for the debris clearing expense. It will be seen whether he had the permission to add more floors,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/under-construction-building-collapses-in-muhana-7-hurt/articleshow/78027702.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Mothers know best: Launch initiative to secure clean air for kids||Nagpur: In a first-of-its-kind effort, a group of concerned mothers have come together to fight the increasing toxicity in air, which is having severe implications on the health of children. Coming under the aegis of ‘Warrior Moms’, the group was officially launched pan-India on September 7, as the world observed the first International Day of Clean Air. The initiative has also been launched in the city by Leena Buddhe, director of Centre for Sustainable Development. This mother of a 13-year-old is planning various awareness campaigns here. “We plan to include more parents in this movement by conducting local level interactions with citizen forums, resident groups and schools. We will create local chapters and take up air quality issues pertinent to respective areas. The ultimate goal is to ensure that the city action plan mandated under the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) is duly implemented,” said Buddhe. As it is a national movement, the campaigns will be decided at the national level and then disseminated at the local level. “Our first step is to educate mothers through webinars, for which we will be seeking help from experts on air pollution and health. Another priority is to create awareness about NCAP and city’s air action plan so that a pressure group is created to ensure effective implementation,” added Buddhe. Stating that the rising air pollution in Nagpur has always been a cause of concern, Buddhe said, “We can’t just sit and watch our children suffer.” Appreciating the efforts taken by these mothers, renowned chest surgeon and founder of Delhi-based Lung Care Foundation Dr Arvind Kumar said, “The launch of Warrior Moms will fill a much-needed vacuum in our efforts to secure clean air for kids. Air pollution is an invisible killer and I hope that this mothers’ led movement spreads across the country and brings every stakeholder together to ensure clean air for all.” The World Health Organization (WHO) has pointed out that children, especially below five years, are more vulnerable than ever to the harmful effects of air pollution. “Policymakers don’t realize how this menacing threat affects children on a huge scale but I know that my child suffers daily due to air pollution. It’s high time the government takes action,” said Hema Madabhushu, another member of Warrior Moms, and a Pune resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mothers-know-best-launch-initiative-to-secure-clean-air-for-kids/articleshow/78027726.cms||Manka Behl
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||NIA team in Moga to probe ‘Khalistan’ flag hoisting case||Bathinda: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the investigations into the case pertaining to hoisting of a saffron flag with Khalistan written on it at the Moga deputy commissioner’s office on August 14. A four-member team of the NIA reached Moga on Tuesday to take over the probe, following the orders issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). The NIA had registered a fresh FIR on September 5 on the orders of the MHA, even though it was the reproduction of the case registered by Moga police on August 14, said sources. It is learnt that the MHA in its orders on September 4 had directed the NIA to take over the case and thoroughly probe it as national interest was attached to it. A member of the NIA team confirmed that they were in Moga to probe the case, but declined to give further details. Meanwhile, the special judge of the NIA court in Mohali, Karunesh Garg, in his order on September 7, ordered that the case property and records should be transferred to the NIA court from the Moga court. Moga police had arrested five persons out of seven accused named in the case. US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannun was nominated in the case on August 20 when two main accused Inderjit Singh and Jaspal Singh were arrested. A person named Rana, also from the SFJ, was nominated in the case on August 31. The five arrested in the case are Inderjit and Jaspal, both from Rauli village in Moga district, Akashdeep Singh of Sadhuwala village in Ferozepur district, Jagwinder Singh of Pakhowal village in Ludhiana district and Ram Tirath of Kapoore village in Moga district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nia-team-in-moga-to-probe-khalistan-flag-hoisting-case/articleshow/78026293.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Strict action against repeat offenders: Civic chiefs||Aurangabad: Intensifying the ongoing drive against those not wearing face masks during the current pandemic, the authorities concerned have announced that repeated offenders would face a criminal action. Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey and newly appointed commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta on Wednesday held a joint meeting which saw resolve for dealing with iron hands to those throwing caution to wind. “Even if the drive against those not wearing face masks is on currently, it is found that many people are still not taking necessary precaution while leaving out of their homes. Such lapse in the safety is one of the reasons behind rising number of fresh cases of Covid-19. The civic administration and police now onwards will take joint action such offenders,” an official release said, quoting Pandey. While Rs 500 fine is charged for not wearing face masks at present, authorities have announced that repeated offenders would be subjected to criminal action under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Police Act 1951. Among other instructions, all commercial establishments have been asked to keep thermal gun and pulse oximeter on a mandatory basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/strict-action-against-repeat-offenders-civic-chiefs/articleshow/78027671.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Four wild dogs found dead in MTR||Udhagamandalam: Four wild dogs were found dead near Vibhuthi Malai area in Bokkapuram in the Singara range of forests falling under the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone on Wednesday. L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, said, the wild dogs were found dead close to each other near Vibbhuthi Malai in Bokkapuram, prompting them to go for a postmortem. According to him, there were no external injuries found on their bodies. A postmortem revealed that all the four dogs had eaten the meat of a spotted deer and that they had died only 8 hours ago. “Based on the postmortem report, we suspect secondary poisoning. The spotted deer must have strayed out to graze in a field where pesticides were used,” said Srikanth. Samples of the carcasses were collected for forensic tests. “A set of samples has been sent to a forensic lab in Coimbatore and another for histopathological analysis at Chennai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-wild-dogs-found-dead-in-mtr/articleshow/78027705.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||SMS-based Covid test report mechanism hits tech hurdle||JAIPUR: The new system launched by the health authorities to provide Covid-19 test reports through SMS is facing technical glitches. To resolve the issue, the health department on Wednesday held a video conference to identify the problem areas. The system was launched on Monday on a trial basis, but has not been launched fully yet. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora held the video conference to streamline the entire process from sample collection till the dispatch of test reports. The new automatic system of informing test reports has been designed with an aim to provide relief to suspected cases as they have to collect the report from the CMHO office. It was also designed to provide some relief to CMHO office staff who have to distribute hundreds of reports daily. Also, scores of people call the CMHO office to know the results of the tests. Under the new system, laboratories have been directed to login in the portal health.rajasthan.gov.in/RTPCR and at ICMR portal and submit results of tests against the ID generated for each individual sample. The system is not fully automatic as the laboratory employee will have to click on the result- positive/negative/under process and invalid. After the entry of the results, a message generated automatically is delivered to the registered phone number of the patient or suspected case to whom the sample belongs. It the technician or laboratory staff press the wrong key, the message delivered to the patient’s contact number will show negative, even though the patient was positive. “The health department officials discussed the issue and have taken measures to correct it before it is launched in full-fledged manner,” said a health department official. However, the health department has now taken it on priority to improve the entire system and to fill the gaps from sample collection, timely testing and timely dispatch of test reports from laboratories and also sending correct information to the people about their Covid test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-based-covid-test-report-mechanism-hits-tech-hurdle/articleshow/78027721.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||NEP offers life coaching with education for students’ transformation, says LU VC||Lucknow: The New Education Policy (NEP) is “LIFES-changing”, provides flexibility, focuses on the overall development of students, will provide greater employability and sets a solid education foundation from the school level itself. These were the views of academics during an online brainstorming session on ‘New Education Policies and Online Education’ during TOI’s ‘Education Warriors’ event held on Wednesday. The event was organized to pay tribute to educationists for championing the new normal in education at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. From the perspective of higher education institutions, vice-chancellor of Lucknow University Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “The new education policy is ‘LIFES-changing’. Here, ‘L’ stands for life coaching, I for international integration, F for flexibility, E for providing employability and ‘S’ for structural changes.” The life coaching approach offered in this policy, he said, would result in complete transformation of a student—which is the real meaning of education. “The flexibility this policy offers is worth appreciating as students are not confined to a stream and can take an exit in different years of a course. At LU, we are offering flexibility through the choice-based credit system,” he added. Former CBSE coordinator Ashok Ganguly said, “The policy will set a solid foundation. It has transformed pre-school system which was unorganised and unregulated. Now it will come under a regulatory framework as the quality of content and teachers will be looked into.” Ganguly said NEP talks about interdisciplinary approach, conceptualized learning, innovative pedagogy, experimental learning, creative thinking and technology in class—which was unheard of in the earlier schooling system, he said. “In our schooling system, a student has to study set subjects in a stream like physics, chemistry and mathematics together. Nowhere in the world does such a restriction exist,” he added. President of Unaided Private School Association, Uttar Pradesh, Anil Agarwal said that for successful implementation of NEP, it is essential to involve educationists from private sector in the core committees made for implementation since they have a major stake in the schooling system. “Seamless teaching should be promoted where virtual classes should give students a feel of real classrooms. Online education should be free from YouTube and WhatsApp,” said the founder of Project Out-of-School Children and trustee of St Paul School Amreesh A Chandra. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, the chief guest, awarded educationists from various institutions for their extraordinary contribution. “The new education policy will reduce tension for students about future and job prospects; right from pre-school, a strong foundation will be laid.” He said good education and teachers pave way for a good society that helps in the nation’s development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nep-offers-life-coaching-with-education-for-students-transformation-says-lu-vc/articleshow/78027918.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Health dept issues SoPs for exams to check Covid spread||Jaipur: Keeping examinations in mind, the health department has issued standard operating procedure on preventive measures making it mandatory to keep a physical distance of at least six feet between examinees and use of masks. Frisking of examinees, if needed, will be undertaken after thermal screening. The staff involved in frisking will have to wear triple layered medical mask in addition to gloves. Proper hand hygiene will have to be maintained by such staff every time they change their gloves, a health department official said. Besides, the health department clarified that institutions should adopt contactless processes like QR code, online forms, digital signitures for the examination. Seating arrangements in the examination hall will be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. Official said for pen and paper-based tests, the invigilator will sanitise his hands prior to distribution of question papers and answer sheets. The examinees will also sanitise their hands before receiving such papers and handing them back to invigilators. The collection and packing of the answer sheets at every stage will involve sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-dept-issues-sops-for-exams-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/78027704.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Akbar raises doubt on oxygen beds||Hyderabad: AIMIM MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi pointed out that the daily bulletin on Covid-19, which is also submitted to the high court, mentioned that there are around 5,000 oxygen beds in the state whereas the statement of health minister Eatala Rajender said there are 10,000 oxygen beds in the state. He said this confusion was because of negligence of officials who did not mention the numbers correctly. He added CM K Chandrasekhar Rao should meet with Bharat Biotech regarding Covid vaccine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akbar-raises-doubt-on-oxygen-beds/articleshow/78027706.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ludhiana||I’m dissatisfied with Punjab’s 19th EODB ranking: CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing dissatisfaction with Punjab’s 19th rank in the ease of doing business survey, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said his government aims to put the state in the top five next year, with a new system of deemed approvals to be implemented soon to further promote business ease. Amarinder was chairing a virtual round-table conference with some industry leaders on the job landscape and required skill-set for the post-Covid world. He said Punjab was working on implementing a system of deemed approvals wherein online automatic clearances will be issued on the expiry of stipulated time period. The process of setting up new industrial parks to attract investments from foreign and domestic companies was also on, he said, citing the upcoming state-of-the-art mega parks in Ludhiana, Rajpura, Bathinda and Mohali. Amarinder invited industry to be a part of the government’s efforts to help the state regain its pre-eminent position. Reiterating his government’s commitment to fully supporting investors, as they strive for normalcy in the post-Covid environment in the coming year, he said his team of officers would do everything possible to help and facilitate the industry in Punjab. Underlining his vision to provide employment in every household in the state, he said the government’s flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ programme had been successful in increasing employment and employability of youth. Mohali was being developed as a major education hub, with Plaksha University coming up there, he added. The pandemic had hit the industrial development process adversely, and caused the economy to suffer immensely, said Amarinder, adding that even amid the crisis, the state had received an investment of about Rs 2,500 crore, which is a strong sign of investor confidence in Punjab. Overall, the state had received investments worth over Rs 64,000 crore on ground in the last three-and-a-half years in response to the new industrial policy launched by his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/im-dissatisfied-with-states-19th-eodb-ranking-amarinder/articleshow/78033064.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Taps run dry in most Aliganj households, no water to drink||LUCKNOW: Over 20,000 people in Vishnupuri Colony and adjoining areas in Aliganj are facing drinking water crisis for last one week as the tubewell installed in a park is unable to draw water due to depletion of groundwater level. According to residents, they lodged a complaint with civic authorities but it was not redressed, following which they decided to get re-boring done on their own. However, the work of re-boring was stopped by a man with the help of police. He claimed that the land belongs to him and he had secured a stay order from the court on any activity on the land. Residents said as they depend on water from the tubewell, they are forced to spend huge amount on purchasing water from the market. They have also met the municipal commissioner, mayor and urban development minister to seek redressal of their problem. General secretary of Vishnupuri Vistaar Kalyan Samiti SK Srivastava said, “We have been getting supply from the tubewell for the last 15 years. If there is a court stay on any activity, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation and Jal Sansthan should make alternate arrangement for us. We all pay taxes and have a right to basic facilities.” Aditya Agarwal, a resident, said: “The water that we are getting from the tubewell is muddy and not fit for drinking. We are buying water from a private company which sends its tankers daily. Residents have to make a beeline to collect water.” Jal Sansthan secretary OP Sharma said, “No one has the right to stop basic facilities. If there is a legal dispute, we will approach the court. In the meantime, re-boring will be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/taps-run-dry-in-most-aliganj-households-no-water-to-drink/articleshow/78027925.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Event management companies go virtual, conduct e-shows amid Covid -19 outbreak||PUNE: The ban on large gatherings due to the Covid-19 pandemic has forced event management companies to organise events online. Nishant Ranadive, a project manager at an event management company known to have organised concerts by popular artists across the country, said, “Though organising events on the ground is where my true passion lies, going online also has its perks. There are many ideas that are costly to implement on ground but are cheaper online with the help of animation.” He added that it has become essential for everyone in the industry to brush up on their skills and acquire new expertise to keep up with the ever-changing world. Ashley Lobo, a freelance event manager, said that updating one’s knowledge is important to adapt to the changing requirements of the profession. “Events such as sangeet ceremonies, weddings and private parties are happening online, albeit on a smaller scale. Companies that are cash rich are spending on bigger events, such as music events and corporate shows. But income is far from what it used to be for event organisers. To adapt to changing times, event managers must look at other avenues, such as branding, marketing and social media management for their clients,” he said. Chirag Dante, an event organiser, said that though virtual events have taken off, the event industry in the country is in a serious financial crisis. “The event management industry in India was expected to cross Rs10,000 crore mark by 2021 before the pandemic broke out, but it has suffered 75 % loss this year,” he said. Sampat Mathur, an avid music festival goer, said, “I don’t think I want to attend music festivals, such as NH7 or Supersonic, online. The decor, the installations, the food and the sheer experience of watching your favourite artists perform live cannot be replaced by virtual shows.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/event-management-companies-take-shows-online-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78028443.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||SDMC to outsource parts of two of its hospitals for funds||NEW DELHI: The cash-strapped South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to outsource portions of its 157-bedded Purnima Sethi Multispecialty Hospital at Kalkaji and another 100-bedded hospital at Tilak Nagar to private entities for running healthcare services. A proposal to rent out individual rooms in upper floors to private practitioners, laboratories and other health-related service providers was approved at a standing committee meeting on Tuesday and bids will be invited as soon as the plan receives the House nod. The 60-year-old Purnima Sethi hospital was inaugurated in 2015 but SDMC has failed to run any service other than OPD and a few minor ones due to lack of funds. The Tilak Nagar hospital, inaugurated this January, also doesn’t have adequate equipment and staff for the same reason. In 2017, SDMC decided to sign an MoU with Safdarjung Hospital for transferring the multispecialty hospital complex. “We calculated the cost of transferring at Rs 89 crore. The government hospital was supposed to spend another Rs 27 crore on infrastructure. But Safdarjung Hospital was not ready to spend that much. Talks failed in May too,” said an official. No prominent private hospital was ready to share the premises, he added. Out of the eight floors at the Kalkaji hospital, three floors — ground, first and second — are used by SDMC — and the rest are lying vacant. The status is the same at the seven-floor Tilak Nagar hospital. “We have plans to start a mother and child care centre after hiring staff considering the footfall is quite high at both hospitals,” said the official. At both places, around 1,000 patients daily visit the OPD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-outsource-parts-of-two-of-its-hospitals-for-funds/articleshow/78027732.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Govt’s move to change colour of school uniform sparks row||JAIPUR: The state government’s decision to change the colour of school uniform has sparked a political debate. The move is likely to put financial burden on parents of 77 lakh students as they have to buy new uniform. In a review meeting on Tuesday, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra decided that colour of school uniform will be changed soon. Officials have been asked to take necessary steps in this direction. TimesViewThe education department seems to have got its priorities wrong. At a time when government school students are worried about missing classes because of lack of infrastructure for online education, even a discussion on the colour of uniforms is untimely and inappropriate. The government must rather focus on strengthening infrastructure, enhancing the quality of education and improving the literacy rate of girls, which is the worst-ever in the country as per the recent NSO report.Meanwhile, former education minister Vasudev Devnani alleged that the Congress government is politicizing education. Last time, uniform was changed in 2017 during the time of Vasundhara Raje’s BJP government. It was done after 40 years in the state, but the Khaki colour of the uniform raised objections from opposition for implementing RSS pattern in education. This move by Congress government is seen as reversing that effect. Devnani said, “Just to please their high command, ministers in Congress party in Rajasthan are taking political decisions amidst pandemic. When the uniform’s colour was changed only three years back, what is the point of changing it again. During our time we had invited suggestions from teachers, students and parents for changing the colour. It was a rational decision, but this move by the state government is a political one.” There are about 77 lakh students studying in government schools in the state. Parents have to purchase their wards’ uniform at the time when most of the parents are already suffering from economic losses in pandemic. School education expert K B Kothari said that politicizing the education is different but if the government wants to change the uniforms, they must do to rationally and scientific approach. “A committee should be formed for deciding the uniforms looking at the climatic condition of the state. Opinions of parents and teachers must also be taken into consideration,” said Kotahri. Vipin Sharma, vice-president, Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Union said that government must provide the uniforms to students. “Sometime, we arrange for philanthropists to donate uniforms but that is given only to 40% students and other have to purchase. If government provides for uniforms then it will be helpful for the parents,” said Sharma. Last year, Congress government changed the colours of the bicycle distributed amongst students – from orange to black. Cycles were distributed in orange colour by BJP government which was changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-move-to-change-colour-of-school-uniform-sparks-row/articleshow/78027720.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||At Khankot, Pannun’s native village, residents say have never met him||Khankot: No one has met the designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, legal adviser of the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), at his native village Khankot, situated on the outskirts of Amritsar. Even farmer Bikramjit Singh, who works on Pannun family’s fields, which will now be attached by the NIA, claims he was not in touch with them. The residents feel that US-based Pannun had brought disgrace to the village. “Children often bring pride to their village or towns, but Gurpatwant has besmirched its reputation with a tag of a terrorists village and brought us shame,” said Sarjan Singh, a local resident. “I came to know that he is a terrorist only today, when mediapersons came looking for his property,” he added. On Tuesday, NIA had ordered to attach Pannun’s 46-kanal land in Khankot and 11 kanal 13.5 marla land in Sultanwind under Section 51 A of the Unlawful (Prevention) Activities Act (UAPA), 1967. Bikramjit said he had earlier been dealing with Pannun’s mother Amarjit Kaur and was in touch with Gurpatwant’s brother Magwant Singh after her death. “I deposit annual contract money in the bank account,” he said “Earlier, some people from different agencies came to inquire about Pannun, but I didn’t know he was a terrorist until mediapersons told me,” he said. Recalling his conversation with Gurpatwant’s mother, he said she once told him that her son was an ‘attorney’ in America and enjoyed good influence. He said Gurpatwant’s father had retired from Mandi Board and later shifted to Ludhiana. When asked whether anyone asked him to stop tiling the fields, he replied, “Till now, no one has. But if the government does, I will request them to at least allow me to harvest the standing crop,” he said. Sukhdev Singh, husband of the village sarpanch, refused to comment on Pannun’s terrorist tag, saying: “If government has declared him a terrorist, then there must be a reason for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-khankot-pannuns-native-village-residents-say-have-never-met-him/articleshow/78026295.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 10, 2020||Erode||It’s not conducive to reopen schools now, says govt||Erode: The state government on Wednesday said the situation was not yet conducive for reopening campuses. State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan told reporters here that the state government was yet to take a decision on reopening schools. “Only after the situation improves in the state, we will have a consultation meeting on reopening schools.” Hours later, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami aired the same view underling the point that safety of children was of paramount importance. “After Covid comes under control, we will seek the opinion of parents. Based on their feedback, we will take a call on reopening campuses,” he told reporters at Villupuram. Sengottaiyan, meanwhile, likened the five-day break from the online classes to quarterly and half yearly vacations and said the same would destress the students and enable them to relax for a few days. “We have ordered that no online classes should be conducted for five days from Monday to Friday . The order has been issued with the approval of the chief minister.” The order was applicable for all schools in the state, he said adding that block level teams would monitor if the schools were violating the order. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/its-not-conducive-to-reopen-schools-now-says-govt/articleshow/78027728.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||I’m dissatisfied with Punjab’s 19th EODB ranking: CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing dissatisfaction with Punjab’s 19th rank in the ease of doing business survey, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said his government aims to put the state in the top five next year, with a new system of deemed approvals to be implemented soon to further promote business ease. Amarinder was chairing a virtual round-table conference with some industry leaders on the job landscape and required skill-set for the post-Covid world. He said Punjab was working on implementing a system of deemed approvals wherein online automatic clearances will be issued on the expiry of stipulated time period. The process of setting up new industrial parks to attract investments from foreign and domestic companies was also on, he said, citing the upcoming state-of-the-art mega parks in Ludhiana, Rajpura, Bathinda and Mohali. Amarinder invited industry to be a part of the government’s efforts to help the state regain its pre-eminent position. Reiterating his government’s commitment to fully supporting investors, as they strive for normalcy in the post-Covid environment in the coming year, he said his team of officers would do everything possible to help and facilitate the industry in Punjab. Underlining his vision to provide employment in every household in the state, he said the government’s flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ programme had been successful in increasing employment and employability of youth. Mohali was being developed as a major education hub, with Plaksha University coming up there, he added. The pandemic had hit the industrial development process adversely, and caused the economy to suffer immensely, said Amarinder, adding that even amid the crisis, the state had received an investment of about Rs 2,500 crore, which is a strong sign of investor confidence in Punjab. Overall, the state had received investments worth over Rs 64,000 crore on ground in the last three-and-a-half years in response to the new industrial policy launched by his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/im-dissatisfied-with-states-19th-eodb-ranking-amarinder/articleshow/78026299.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Amritsar||I’m dissatisfied with Punjab’s 19th EODB ranking: CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing dissatisfaction with Punjab’s 19th rank in the ease of doing business survey, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said his government aims to put the state in the top five next year, with a new system of deemed approvals to be implemented soon to further promote business ease. Amarinder was chairing a virtual round-table conference with some industry leaders on the job landscape and required skill-set for the post-Covid world. He said Punjab was working on implementing a system of deemed approvals wherein online automatic clearances will be issued on the expiry of stipulated time period. The process of setting up new industrial parks to attract investments from foreign and domestic companies was also on, he said, citing the upcoming state-of-the-art mega parks in Ludhiana, Rajpura, Bathinda and Mohali. Amarinder invited industry to be a part of the government’s efforts to help the state regain its pre-eminent position. Reiterating his government’s commitment to fully supporting investors, as they strive for normalcy in the post-Covid environment in the coming year, he said his team of officers would do everything possible to help and facilitate the industry in Punjab. Underlining his vision to provide employment in every household in the state, he said the government’s flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ programme had been successful in increasing employment and employability of youth. Mohali was being developed as a major education hub, with Plaksha University coming up there, he added. The pandemic had hit the industrial development process adversely, and caused the economy to suffer immensely, said Amarinder, adding that even amid the crisis, the state had received an investment of about Rs 2,500 crore, which is a strong sign of investor confidence in Punjab. Overall, the state had received investments worth over Rs 64,000 crore on ground in the last three-and-a-half years in response to the new industrial policy launched by his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/im-dissatisfied-with-states-19th-eodb-ranking-amarinder/articleshow/78033066.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Agra baby with rare Pompe disease admitted to JK Lon||JAIPUR: A 44-day-old boy from Agra who has been diagnosed with two rare ailments — Pompe disease and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA-type I) — has been admitted to the government-run JK Lon’s rare disease centre. Having being diagnosed early, the baby started receiving enzyme replacement therapy for pompe disease, which costs around Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh per year. But he is lucky to have been selected under charitable access programme of the company manufacting the enzyme, which is providing the medicine free. Doctors at the hospital achieved success after they diagnosed the pompe disease within 44 days of his birth. “Parents brought the child when he was 20 days old with complaints of breathing. His parents also noticed that the child was having decreased movements and tone of lower limbs. On examination, we found that the patient had enlarged heart, breathing difficulties and muscle weakness. We also found decreased levels of enzyme lysosomal acid alpha glucosidase which resulted in infantile onset of pompe disease,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, incharge of the rare disease centre. Since the boy had decreased movements and reflexes in lower limbs, the doctors also evaluated the baby for SMA type 1 and diagnostic tests confirmed that he is also suffering from it. Doctors have started treatment for pompe disease and waiting for his improvement before starting treatment for SMA-1. Gupta said, “The drug for pompe Disease costs around Rs 25-30 lakhs per year, which needs to be given lifelong. ERT (myozyme) was made available through compassionate use programme to this patient and we already applied for charitable access for Evrysdi (Risdiplam) - a new drug for SMA.” Without treatment, these patients doesn’t survive. It is expected that with this enzyme replacement therapy, these patients can lead a normal life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agra-baby-with-rare-pompe-disease-admitted-to-jk-lon/articleshow/78027737.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||Covid-19, infections take toll on mental health||Surat: Ninety one-year-old Ramanbhai (name changed) cried inconsolably when resident doctors from the department of psychiatry at SMIMER Hospital in Surat were interviewing him during a routine mental health screening in the Covid-19 ward.He felt betrayed by his own family, who were not willing to take him back home from the hospital even though he had fully recovered from the infection. They said they were worried that Ramanbhai may transmit the virus to other family members. It was only after the doctors intervened, that Ramanbhai’s family took him home.“Surprisingly, Ramanbhai shared cordial relations with his family members before he tested positive. Appropriate interventions helped discharge of the patient from the hospital and reunion with the family. A follow-up call from the hospital was made after a month to assure his well-being,” said Dr Parag Shah, professor and head, psychiatric department, SMIMER Hospital.“We conducted Mental Health Screening of more than 2,300 Covid-19 patients within 24 hours of their admission in Covid-19 wards. Around 5% of them were found to have depression and 0.5% had suicidal thoughts. All of them were given psychological care,” added Dr Shah. Ramanbhai’s case is just an example of how the Covid-19 pandemic has had psychological impact on people leading to depression and suicidal tendencies. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER attended to around 250 suicide attempt patients over the last three months. The figure during the same period last year was 210. Which is an increase of 19%.“The pandemic has a profound psychological and social impact on people. The psychological effect will probably persist for months and years to come. Social isolation, anxiety, fear of contagion, uncertainty, chronic stress and economic difficulties may lead to depression, anxiety, substance use and other psychiatric disorders,” Dr Shah told TOI.“Normal functions of the brain are known to be affected for months after many viral infections, leading to symptoms of depression and suicide,” he added “Reports have also started coming from various parts of India about increasing suicide incidences associated with Covid-19 related issues both social and economic. We have observed rise in suicide cases which are linked to Covid-19. Most common factors are job loss, income loss, interpersonal conflict or quarrels,” said Dr Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-infections-take-toll-on-mental-health/articleshow/78024898.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctor’s note not needed for RT-PCR tests from today||NEW DELHI: You can now get yourself tested for Covid-19 infection through RT-PCR from Thursday without the prescription of a registered medical practitioner by walking into any testing centre. RT-PCR tests are carried out at Covid-designated government and private hospitals, besides polyclinics in all 11 districts, while rapid antigen tests are carried out at local healthcare centres, hospitals and camps organised at various places. An order by the health department read: “Test-track-treat strategy has been adopted to ensure early detection and containment of Covid-19. In continuation of various measures undertaken by the government to augment Covid-19 testing and ensuring greater accessibility, it has been decided that there will be no requirement of a prescription from a qualified medical practitioner.” “However, the tests will be conducted in accordance with the strategy issued by Indian Council of Medical Research and according to the order issued by Delhi government,” the order added. The order has been sent to the chiefs of all government and private hospitals, district magistrates, chief district medical officer and heads of all the laboratories. “We have received the order from the health department to carry out the tests without a prescription. Since the order came late, the tests will start being conducted from Thursday. Earlier, suspected patients were required to visit a doctor for the RT-PCR tests, but now they just need to submit a copy of their Aadhaar card,” said a government source.The way for tests “on demand” was cleared by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, who directed health minister Satyendar Jain to start the process. Delhi High Court had also given an order the same day stating that a doctor’s prescription was not mandatory from now for people who voluntarily wanted to undergo RT-PCR test. Delhi government has doubled the number of Covid tests over the past one week from 20,000 every day to more than 40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-note-not-needed-for-rt-pcr-tests-from-today/articleshow/78027772.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||PM-Kisan scheme: Dist recovers Rs 11.75L issued to ineligible farmers||Coimbatore: The district has recovered Rs 11.75 lakh of the Rs 30.48 lakh, which was disbursed under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) scheme to ineligible beneficiaries, through banks as on Tuesday, said collector K Rajamani. He said the remaining amount would be recovered soon.The collector said amounts were credited to the ineligible people’s accounts as a result of misinterpretation of the government’s guidelines for the scheme.Rajamani said of the 66,647 beneficiaries in the district, 762 were found to be ineligible after verifications. They were paid a total of Rs 30.48 lakh - Rs 2,000 each in two instalments.According to him, 550 of the ineligible candidates were farmers who were either income tax payers, local body representatives, government officials, two people under the same ration card or those who held non-agricultural land. “Of the Rs 22 lakh credited to them, we have recovered Rs 11.75 lakh so far.”The remaining were the farmers who owned lands here and bank accounts in other districts. “To recover the amount credited to these people, we have been writing to the respective district administrations and asking them to credit back the amount,” the collector said.The recoveries, he said, were happening through banks and a team of agriculture and revenue officials were working on the same based on the state’s direction.Meanwhile, G K Nagaraj, the state president of BJP’s agricultural wing, said they were independently verifying details of beneficiaries in the district using the data they had accessed online to find whether there were any irregularities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-kisan-scheme-dist-recovers-rs-11-75l-issued-to-ineligible-farmers/articleshow/78027736.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Communication is key, say counsellors||Ahmedabad: Sudhir Mankodi, a counsellor with city-based Saath suicide prevention helpline, attended a call in the initial phase of Covid-19 lockdown. “The caller was an engineer who had lost his job during epidemic. On top of it, he was pained by the bickering between his parents. He had made a call when he had already made up his mind to end life,” Mankodi recounted. “It took him over half an hour to vent his ire. I then reasoned with him about various aspects of his life and family, asked him to talk about his issues with his family frankly and with an open mind. By the end of an hour, he agreed to give another shot to life.” Sanjay Gamit, a counsellor with Jeevan Aastha helpline, has a similar tale to share. “A middle-aged woman from Gandhinagar had called when she was already atop a highrise, poised to jump over the parapet. The call lasted for about three and a half hours, but in the end, she got down from the terrace and was ready to face her problems again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/communication-is-key-say-counsellors/articleshow/78027746.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Even WHO, ICMR faltered on Covid: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said the entire world is in a state of confusion because of coronavius. In the initial days, there were no clear Covid-19 treatment protocols even from premier institutes like WHO and ICMR, he said. During a discussion in the assembly on Covid-19, he said: “A host of diseases and virus have come and gone, but coronavirus is a strange infection...no one knows what is happening.. There is no clarity on treatment or testing. Some say the virus will stay for 10 years, while others say it will be for a lifetime. Some say Russian vaccine will be out in three months, others says how can it (vaccine) be created so quickly,” he said. The CM said even ICMR was revising guidelines, including on testing kits, regularly. KCR said the state government is ready to spend Rs 10,000 crore for Covid- 19 management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/even-who-icmr-faltered-on-covid-kcr/articleshow/78027743.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar police bust crude oil theft gang, two held||ALWAR: Police have busted a gang involved in theft of crude oil from tankers from Mathura and Panipat refinery, operating at Bhiwadi industrial area in Alwar district. The police arrested the two gang members and seized Rs 4.13 lakh from their possession. Police have also seized two tankers, tractors and tank drums. The accused, after theft of crude oil from the tankers, used to refill the tankers with used, brunt out oil. About 20,000 litre of used oil (black oil) has been seized from the spot. The gang members confessed that the network had been running since 2016. The police team, led by Tijara DSP Kushal Singh and police inspector Vinod Samaria, arrested the two accused operatives, Abdul Khan, a resident of Nanakheri under Sheikhpur police station, and his relative Juned, from Bhiwadi industrial area, late on Tuesday night. Police said Abdul Khan is the kingpin of the gang. Before the police action, others working in the factory managed to escape. Police have registered a case and started investigation. More than 20,000 litre of black, burnt out oil has been found on the spot. Police inquiry has revealed that the factory was rented by the accused at Rs 21,000 per month since 2016, and since then, they were indulged in the illegal business. A similar gang that would steal crude oil and mix black oil in a factory, was busted by Phulbag police of Bhiwadi in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-police-bust-crude-oil-theft-gang-two-held/articleshow/78027745.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Grandma, father held for burning baby alive in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: The grandmother and father of a newborn male baby were arrested for burning it alive in Sankarankovil town in Tenkasi district in the wee hours of Wednesday. Passersby were shocked to see the half-burnt body of a baby on the premises of a theatre on Railway Feeder Road after they put out flames they saw there around 4 am. Sankarankovil town police sent the body to the government hospital for autopsy. A police sniffer dog ran about 300 metres from the spot to a house where a woman named Sankaragomathi, 22, resided. Police initially suspected the burnt body might have been that of a stillborn. However, inquiries revealed that the baby was born alive to the woman. “She became pregnant due to an affair with a man called Shankar of the locality and the two tried to abort the foetus twice by taking tablets, but in vain. She delivered the baby in the house around 2 am on Wednesday,” Tenkasi district superintendent of police G Suguna Singh told TOI. The grandmother Indra wrapped the baby in pieces of cloth, took it to the theatre and set it ablaze. The police booked Indra under section 315 (act done with intent to prevent a child being born alive, or cause it to die after birth), and Shankar under section 109 (abetment of an offence) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them. Sankaragomathi, who was weak due to the delivery without proper medical attention, was getting treated in the Sankarankovil government hospital. The police said she will be quizzed after she recovers and further course of action will be decided based on her statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grandma-father-held-for-burning-baby-alive/articleshow/78027742.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||HC closes pleas to relax rules for typewriting institutes||Madurai: The Madras high court has closed two public interest litigations (PIL), which sought to grant relaxation for the functioning of typewriting institutions in the state, after it was informed that a notification was issued by the government for functioning of institutions imparting skill and industrial training.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam said the matter in issue pertains to permission to reopen the typewriting, shorthand and computer institutes across the state which were ordered to close due to Covid-19 pandemic.The judges observed that it was brought to the attention of the court a statement by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on August 30, which stated that institutions imparting skill and industrial training are allowed to open subject to following of standard operating procedures.The judges further observed that so far as to the claim of ex-gratia to the members of the petitioners’ associations during the lockdown is concerned, they are at liberty to pursue the said remedy in the form of reminders to the representations already made.The judges said that in light of the notification issued by the government, nothing remains for consideration and hence closed the petitions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-pleas-to-relax-rules-for-typewriting-institutes/articleshow/78027733.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||In 53% of suicides in city, cause unknown||Ahmedabad: The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) publication ‘Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India’ for the year 2019 highlighted the fact dreaded by many experts – 53% of 763 suicide cases in Ahmedabad were listed as ‘cause not known’ by police investigators. It was the highest share of the category in suicide cases in at least past five years. To put the figure in perspective, the share of ‘cause not known’ cases in Gujarat were 22.6%. For Ahmedabad, the share of such cases in the total number of suicides was 47% in 2018, 43.6% in 2017, 30% in 2016 and 45.2% in 2015. “In such cases, the victims don’t leave behind notes or give an indication of distress to their nears and dears. It’s also possible that the families don’t want to discuss it,” said a senior state police official. Experts said that it’s a major trauma for relatives and friends when they don’t even get the closure of learning what gnawed the victim so much that drove him/her to take the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-53-of-suicides-in-city-cause-unknown/articleshow/78027747.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||2 held, 1 detained for killing Maha taxi driver||JAIPUR: Two persons have been arrested and a minor has been detained for the murder of Vijay Kishan Ghadge (49), a taxi driver from Maharashtra, whose body was recovered from Shivdaspura area on August 31, police said. According to police, the motive behind the murder was robbing the car. The accused have been identified as Vikram Singh Shekhawat (20), a resident of Sawai Madhopur; Vijay Kumar Singh (20), a resident of Hoshiarpur, Punjab, and the third person is a juvenile (17). Police are yet to arrest the fourth accused. Vikram was sent to police remand for 6 days by the court. Police said on August 22, Vikram and Vijay booked the taxi (MH04JK1845) from Thane for a trip to Chiplun in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra. As per plan, on August 28 they again started from Chiplun and reached Jaipur on August 30. According to police, the other two were already staying at a hotel at Sindhi camp here. “They left the hotel around 10 pm on August 30 and went towards Shivdaspura area. Once they reached there, he was strangulated to death using shoe laces and the seat belt. They left the body under Kilkipura bridge near the railway line and fled with the car,” said an official at Shivdaspura police station. “An unidentified body was recovered under the railway line bridge at Shivdaspura police station area on August 31. After the recovery, a team of police officials got into action to identify the person by informing all the SPs in the state and control rooms in the other states and also by issuing advertisements,” said Manoj Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Jaipur south. “Later, the body was identified after the family members, who live in Thane, got in touch with us and shared the deceased’s photograph. The family members came here and identified the deceased as Vijay Kishan Ghadge (who is taxi union leader),” he added. Kumar said, “In the meantime, Jalupura ASI Sunil Kumar got a tip-off that a person was trying to contact some buyers to sell a car. A team of police officials from Jalupura PS apprehended that person. After interrogation, it was found out that the person, Vikram Singh Shekhawat, was involved in this case. A juvenile has also been arrested from Morena.” “One Vijay Kumar, who was also involved in the murder, has been held from Hoshiarpur in Punjab. Our team has brought him back to Jaipur. We have recovered Vijay’s mobile phone as well. We will also recover the vehicle soon. We are trying to ascertain the role of each of them.” Police said, no criminal record of the accused has been found so far. The juvenile has been sent to juvenile home for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-held-1-detained-for-killing-maha-taxi-driver/articleshow/78027734.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University BA final exams from Oct 1, engineering papers from Oct 5||NAGPUR: Nagpur University has planned to start final year examinations with BA course from October 1, while engineering and other faculties’ papers would commence from October 5. The decision was taken in view of large number of subjects in arts faculty which would continue till October 18, the last day of exams. The timetable would be posted on the university website in a couple of days. “We have decided to conduct papers where students’ strength is less. Therefore, some subjects in BA such as statistics are scheduled from October 1. The idea is if any technical snag takes place, fewer students will be affected. We would also come to know the kind of problems we would be facing,” Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Since this will be the first time both examining body and examinees are undergoing online multiple choice questions (MCQ) paper in NU for regular courses, the administration is treading cautiously. “We have kept papers of subjects where over 5,000 students would appear, in later phase from October 5, so we are in a better position to tackle problems,” the director said. On Wednesday, NU conducted the demonstration of its software for teachers who will set the question paper and also for moderators, who will check those. The software is developed by Promarc, which is already working with NU for its examination and results. It was attended by vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and chairmen of various Boards of Studies (BOS). On Thursday, NU has scheduled online meetings for all its BOS and moderation committee members for familiarising them with software. Promarc’s representatives would give demonstrations. “The participants would be trained on how to upload their questions directly into software and give options for answers. Moreover, they will also be taught on how to upload questions on mathematics equations, accounts and other subjects. They can log in only through their verified mobile numbers and OTP,” Sable said, adding that entire data would be in encrypted form and nobody can read it. On Friday and Saturday, NU has organized meetings with the principals of colleges in Bhandara, Gondia, and Wardha, besides Nagpur city and rural areas, for training them in online MCQ exams. Promarc has been entrusted with the task of developing students’ app for exams, which will be launched by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-ba-final-exams-from-oct-1-engg-papers-from-oct-5/articleshow/78027740.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 10, 2020||Chennai||P K Muthusamy: A lyricist who did not get his due||By R RangarajChennai: As a struggling lyricist in 1958, P K Muthusamy had the ambitious idea of trying his hand at making a film. Shooting began for ‘Thai Pirandhaal Vazhi Pirakkum’, but soon he had to give it up as he ran into heavy financial problems. A K Velan, who was handling the story, dialogue and direction, took over the production and the film turned out to be a success. Velan raked in huge profits, enough to build Arunachalam Studios in Saligramam. Muthusamy's contribution to the film was one song — "Mannukku Maram Bhaaramaa" (Will a tree be a burden to Mother Earth). The philosophical ‘pallavi’ translates to: "Will a tree be a burden to Mother Earth, Will a leaf be a burden to a tree, Will a fruit be a burden to a tree twig, will a child ever be a burden to its mother". Sung by M S Rajeswari, it was one of her best numbers and was composed by K V Mahadevan, the song game Muthuswamy, who passed away last month at the age of 100, eternal fame.Despite the song’s popularity, Muthusamy continued to languish in poverty. A school dropout, he had written 60 film songs, plays, short stories, and ‘venba’ verses. His songs "Veettukkaariyaa Kootti Vandhu", "Chinna Chinna Nadai Nadandhu" in ‘Kaveriyin Kanavan’ (1959) and the songs "Yen Sirithaay Ennai Paarthu" and "Kannum Kannum" in ‘Ponnith Thirunal’ in 1960, came in for considerable praise.However, it was his plagiarism charge against M Karunanidhi that about five years ago that made people take notice of the lyricist. Muthusamy claimed he had mentioned the storyline of the movie to Karunanidhi in 1949, which was made into ‘Marudhanaattu Ilavarasi’ in 1950, without his knowledge with Karunanidhi as the story writer. Muthusamy had said he had picked up a quarrel with Karunanidhi over the issue in 1950 too. Though there was no response from the DMK patriarch on this, in his autobiography ‘Nenjukku Needhi’, where he talks about his works as a script writer, he doesn’t mention this film. Interestingly, MGR through his autobiography ‘Naan Yen Pirandhen’ throws some light on the matter. He refers to ‘Kaali Dasi’, with singer M S Anuradha from Thanjavur as heroine, as the earlier version of ‘Marudhanaattu Ilavarasi’. T V Chari, a shareholder of the production company, was responsible for story, script and direction. "Due to conflict of interest between him (Chari) and the producer, the company was dissolved. Later, Govinda Company took charge and used a portion of the earlier film to prepare a revised story," MGR wrote. The new team was Karunanidhi as script writer, A Kasilingam as director and V N Janaki as heroine, hinting at a redrafting of the earlier story. Though Karunanidhi was silent about this accusation, it was welcomed by J Jayalalithaa, who as chief minister in 2015 announced relief for Muthusamy — a grant of `5 lakh for his works and `5,000 monthly pension.While this controversy created quite a stir, Muthuswamy was a lover of solitude. In 2003, he had handed over the rights of his works to a publisher in Chennai and left for Pudupatti, his village in Namakkal. No one else took notice of him. Though he wrote "Mannukku Maram Bharaamaa", he made it clear that he did not wish to be a burden to Mother Earth. (The writer is president of Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/p-k-muthusamy-a-lyricist-who-did-not-get-his-due/articleshow/78026302.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Pvt hospital staff to be trained in handling crisis||Vadodara: Training imparted to the staff of SSG Hospital last week to handle emergencies averted a major tragedy on Tuesday night.Now, the fire department has planned to train staff of other Covid-19 hospitals in the city in batches so that they can also act in time, in case an emergency takes place.On Wednesday, fire officials got in touch with administrators of around 88 private hospitals treating coronavirus patients to send their staff for training from September 11 to 13 in batches. “The staff will be trained in prevention, separation, evacuation and evacuation drill,” said fire officer Amit Chaudhari. He added that staff will undergo a two-hour long theoretical training on response to emergencies.“We will be calling 20 to 30% staff of all private Covid-19 hospitals and train in batches at auditorium of Baroda Medical College,” said Parth Brahmbhatt, in-charge chief fire officer. Incidentally, on Tuesday night before the first batch of fire fighters arrived at SSG Hospital, the staff had managed to control the fire and evacuated the patients. “The staff handled the situation well as they did not let the fire spread further through the electric plug board,” added Brahmbhatt.Interestingly, when the 400 staff were being trained, none of them had any knowledge of the firefighting equipment. “They were aware of the fact that fire extinguishers are present in the building, but they were under the impression that these were for firemen. The staff members told us that they just have to run out when fire takes place and firemen after entering the scene will use these extinguishers to douse the fire,” said a fire department source.“The drill that took place last week has been effective as the staff used their presence of mind and evacuated patients in time. It also played role in ensuring that fire did not spread in other parts of the building,” said senior IAS officer, Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty for Covid-19. Sources said that had tragedy on Tuesday night escalated, it would have been a massive task to shift the patients to other buildings within SSGH or other hospitals. On Tuesday night, 280 patients were undergoing treatment in the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pvt-hospital-staff-to-be-trained-in-handling-crisis/articleshow/78024243.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 10, 2020||Goa||Goa health secretary Mohanan transferred to Delhi||PANAJI: State health secretary Nila Mohanan has been transferred to New Delhi following her selection for appointment as deputy secretary in the department of personnel and training under the central staffing scheme for a period of four years. The order issued by the department of personnel and training on Wednesday stated that Mohanan may be relieved of her duties immediately to facilitate her to take up her new assignment. Mohanan, a 2007 IAS officer, was posted in Goa in July 2014. During her tenure in the state, she has been posted as secretary of education, industries and health. She served as North Goa collector during the initial period of her posting. She was appointed health secretary in September 2019 and has been the frontal officer in Covid management in the state. She was instrumental in fast-tracking the setting-up of infrastructure for Covid management. Health minister Vishwajit Rane has applauded Mohanan’s work in Covid management more than once from public platforms. Known as an upright and approachable officer, her colleagues said she was open to new ideas. Sources said she had expressed her displeasure after the government overnight removed Dr Ira Almeida from the post of nodal officer of ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-secy-mohanan-transferred-to-delhi/articleshow/78028310.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: SGPGI to add 100 ventilator beds||LUCKNOW: Days after CM Yogi Adityanath told medical institutions in Lucknow to add more ICU beds, SGPGI announced on Wednesday that it will add 100 ventilator beds over the next two weeks. “We are in the process of adding 100 ICU beds at the Rajdhani Covid-19 Hospital. The bed strength will be increased in two batches of 40 each and one batch of 20,” said SGPGI director Prof RK Dhiman, adding, “25 isolation beds and 10 dialysis beds were also being added.” At present, Rajdhani Covid Hospital has 236 beds, including a well-equipped 200-bed intensive care high dependency unit, 26 isolation beds, 10 private rooms, 10 dialysis rooms besides a dedicated 10-bed emergency area. “The possibility of adding more beds is being explored as per instructions from the government,” he said. Prof Dhiman said the hospital has attended to over 1,000 patients so far, of whom 71% were males. Adding that of the total patients, 13% died, he said: “The institute’s mortality rate may appear high but it can be explained from the fact that we are a tertiary care centre where the bulk of the patients are extremely serious.” Earlier, SGPGI authorities had stated that diabetes, blood pressure, renal ailments and lung infections were the commonest comorbid conditions in patients coming to the institute. Officials said the median age of patients recovered at the center was 45 years while the median age of those who died was 63. “The oldest patient to recover from here was a 90 year old woman while the youngest to beat the infection was an eight month old baby boy,” Prof Dhiman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sgpgi-to-add-100-ventilator-beds/articleshow/78027944.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Big delay in tur payments to farmers: CAG||NAGPUR: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) rapped the state government machinery for mismanagement in procuring tur from farmers in 2017. Farmers had to wait for long periods — 200 days from the date of cheque issue in some cases — to get the funds credited into their accounts, said the report. There was a glut of tur in the state, leading to rates falling by Rs1000. This brought the market rates down to Rs4000-4500 as against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs5050 a quintal. However, only 37% of the total tur produced in the state was purchased under the market intervention scheme, which the report attributes to the time consuming process, including delayed payments to farmers. As per the CAG report, analysis shows that in 66% of the 2336 cases studied, the time taken from the date of issue of the cheque to crediting the amount into farmers’ accounts ranged from 15 to 201 days. In 62 cases out of the 66%, the delay was more than 90 days. The report was tabled in the state legislature on Tuesday. Despite enough information that tur production had gone up by five times in the season, the procurement was delayed. Even after the decision to start a market intervention scheme was taken, there was a delay in starting the procurement despite farmers getting registered to sell their produce. “To add to the distress, the payment to farmers was delayed. Payment was done through cheque instead of RTGS or NEFT,” said the report. It took time in further disposing of the tur procured at MSP, which in turn delayed the payment to farmers, the report added. The report says production of tur in the state had increased to 20.9 lakh metric tons (MT) during 2016-17, as against 4.4 lakh MT in the previous year. Each year tur is procured at MSP by the central government, which is however limited to 25% of the total output in the state. The Maharashtra government introduced the scheme in April 2017. Maharashtra state cooperative marketing federation (MARKEF), Vidarbha cooperative marketing federation (VCMF) and Maharashtra state tribal development corporation (MSTDC) were made nodal agencies. Under the scheme, tur was purchased from the farmers, who were given tokens after verification of their land records and Aadhar-linked bank accounts. The guidelines called for payment directly into farmers’ Aadhar-linked accounts through NEFT/RTGS. Test checks shows that almost 98% of the sampled farmers got money through cheques instead of direct transfer. There was no periodical review to assess reasons for poor procurement under the scheme, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/big-delay-in-tur-payments-to-farmers-cag/articleshow/78027749.cms||Shishir Arya
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel of IAS officers to monitor hospital Covid rates: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Telangana government on Wednesday constituted a three-member task force committee of IAS officers to look into complaints against private hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients. Rahul Bojja, Sarfaraz Ahmed and D Divya are the members of the committee. Officials sources said the committee would monitor the private hospitals on their fee structure and see if they are following the protocols and rates fixed by the state government. “The committee will also look into safety parameters being maintained by the private hospitals,” sources said. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued a GO in this regard.  KCR announced in the assembly that a task force committee of IAS officers would be constituted. He also said his government is considering Aarogyasri scheme for Covid patients who are under the BPL category. Reacting to a suggestion from CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka that private hospitals’ excessive billing should be monitored, the CM said he had anticipated that these hospitals would exploit the pandemic situation, the CM recalled. He, ruled out implementing the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the state. “The governor had also told me to implement the central scheme, which is inferior to Aarogyasri. Centre wants us to implement its scheme, which is useless,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-panel-of-ias-officers-to-monitor-hosp-covid-rates/articleshow/78027753.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||69 new cases take Nilgiris’ tally to 2,059||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 69 new cases of novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,059. The number of active cases stands at 417 and they are getting treatment in government hospitals and covid care centres. At least 1,627 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. The new cases were spread across the district. While Ketti Palada reported 21 cases, Ithalar and Nunthala villages reported five cases each. Seven people were tested positive for the virus from Manihatti village. Five of the new cases had contracted the virus after visiting Mettupalayam and another one was tested positive after returning from Chennai. The remaining 63 cases were secondary and tertiary contacts of earlier positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/69-new-cases-take-nilgiris-tally-to-2059/articleshow/78027750.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Taluka courts to open with plexiglass screens||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday took a decision to permit all taluka level courts across the state to resume physical functioning from September 14, at half of their judicial strengths with installation of plexiglass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. The HC’s Standing Committee decided to open courtrooms in taluka level courts along with a few courtrooms in HC’s Sola campus on the same day with various precautions in place against spread of Covid-19. The courtrooms were shut on March 24. All taluka courts will resume functioning physically with 50% of working strength of judicial officers in each cadre. The 50% working strength will be arranged by weekly rotation. The high court has ordered all principal judges to order PWD and R&B departments to install plexiglass/acrylic sheets between the dais of judges and sitting places for lawyers and litigants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/taluka-courts-to-open-with-plexiglass-screens/articleshow/78027779.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Bhiwadi murder: Woman’s head found in drain after 29 days||Alwar: Bhiwadi police have collected substantial clues in the case where a woman was killed by her husband in Bhiwadi area of Alwar district. Following directions by accused (husband) Amit Gupta, the police managed to find a part of the deceased woman’s head on Wednesday from a drain at the Bhiwadi Industrial area after 29 days. The cops launched a search operation to find the deceased’s missing body parts, while the lower half of the body was found two days ago. Police are yet to find the feet. DSP Bhiwadi Hariram Kumawat said that accused Amit Gupta had murdered his wife, Komal Gupta, on August 12 and had then chopped her body and threw the parts at different locations. They had found some parts of the severed body on August 14. Police said a DNA test will be carried out on the head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhiwadi-murder-womans-head-found-in-drain-after-29-days/articleshow/78027751.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Ghagra-clad mahant held for attempting to murder devotee||Jaipur: Mahant of Udaishwar Mahadev Mandir at Kothun in Chaksu, Satish Giri Maharaj, was arrested on Tuesday for attempting to murder one of the devotees, Ramnarayan (50). He was held when he tried to escape in the garb of a woman by wearing a ‘ghagra’. The mahant was drunk when he attacked the devotee, said police.“He went to the temple around 10 am. There was an argument between the two and the accused attacked the victim with an axe. An FIR has been lodged at Chaksu police station on charges of attempt to murder,” said Manoj Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Jaipur south.Ramnarayan was seriously injured and was admitted to SMS hospital. “After the attack, he escaped through the farmlands. The Mahant was arrested from a forest area near Lalsot-Kothun road. He hid behind Bajra and Jowar crops so that he could escape the eyes of the police. We are yet to ascertain the motive of the attempt to murder. We are investigating the matter. We will also find out if there is any criminal record,” he added.It is learnt that the motive for the attack was related to construction of the temple building, for which the villagers were not ready to cooperate. Chaksu SHO Brajmohan Kavia said, “He was in an inebriated stated when the accused attack the victim. We are interrogating the Mahant. We will produce him the court tomorrow (Thursday) or day after (Wednesday). The victim is in a serious condition. He was admitted to the emergency ward of SMS hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ghagra-clad-mahant-held-for-attempting-to-murder-devotee/articleshow/78027778.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||AI-based search to track distressed people online||Surat: The Vandrevala Foundation’s suicide prevention helpline and Twitter India have officially joined hands to track mentally distressed people using artificial intelligence (AI). The new feature to be launched on World Suicide Prevention Day on September 10, will help track users searching for the terms associated with suicide or self-harm and direct him to the helpline.The micro-blogging site has partnered globally with the International Association of Suicide Prevention around the theme of working together to prevent suicide is launching a special emoji for the World Suicide Prevention Day, which will be activated when someone tweets on the subject. In India, Twitter will be rolling out ‘ThereIsHelp’ proactive search prompt for suicide prevention in partnership with Vandrevala Foundation. “The initiative by Twitter India will provide a big support to those looking for help and they will act as a catalyst in connecting such users with our 24x7 suicide prevention helpline for the prompt support,” said Dr Arun John, executive president of the Mumbai-based Vandrevala Foundation Mental Health India Initiative. Dr John said, “There are lots of software companies seeking the Foundation’s Helpline experience about the nature of calls to fine-tune their artificial intelligence software and we are actively helping them. But our association with Twitter will add a human angle to the software wherein either it will pick up the distress caller and assist in transferring the call directly to the helpline or send a message with the helpline numbers and email to the user suggesting that they can contact the helpline immediately.” Vandrevala Foundation has been running a mental health crisis intervention helpline since 2009 and has answered more than 5 lakh distressed callers including many on the verge of suicide. According to the foundation, due to Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a 30-40% escalation in calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ai-based-search-to-track-distressed-people-online/articleshow/78025003.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist resumes testing Covid patients for -ve report||Coimbatore: Covid-19 tally in the district zoomed past the 20,000-mark on Wednesday, when it logged 445 new cases, even as the health department quietly started testing patients for a negative report before being discharged from treatment centres, especially from the Covid care centre at the Codissia trade fair complex. The move comes in the wake of growing reports of reinfection and many patients flouting home quarantine rules after getting discharged from treatment centres. On Tuesday, of the 400 patients tested after seven days of treatment, 22 were found to be still positive. Officials said it was based on the health secretary’s instructions that they have resumed testing patients before discharge for a negative report. A health official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “It is to ensure they don’t infect their family members and then contract the virus again.” The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 20,393. With 580 patients getting discharged, the number of active cases fell to 3,891 on the day. At least 16,164 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 338 with the state including six more deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. Six new cases were reported from Selvapuram, seven from Telungupalayam, 10 from Ganapathy and three from Mettupalayam. The covid-19 nodal officer for Coimbatore, Harminder Singh, and team, was in the city on the day. They met health department and city corporation officials, and representatives of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and the ESI Hospital who made presentations on the current scenario. Health officials said they had managed to bring down the number of new cases consistently for more than a week, without reducing the number of people being tested per day. They said positivity rate has begun reducing to 9.54% from 10%, while doubling time of cases has increased to 23 days from 18 days. The civic body and health department have also identified Covid-19 hotspots in corporation, municipalities and rural areas. While there are 56 hotspots in city corporation limits, they have found 13 at Thondamuthur and eight at Sulur. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While we are conducting fever camps and door-to-door surveillance with oximeter in these areas to identify people with flu-like symptoms and senior citizens with comorbidities, we will further analyse strategies to reduce cases.” The official said they were testing 4,700 to 6,000 people for Covid-19 a day. “We have tested 2,51,806 people for the virus at 9,000-odd fever camps so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-resumes-testing-covid-patients-for-ve-report/articleshow/78027789.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pathologists’ assn writes to DyCM||Ahmedabad: The officials of Gujarat Association of Pathologists and Microbiologists (GAPM) sent a letter to Nitin Patel, state deputy chief minister and health minister, requesting the state government to open up Covid-19 testing for all licensed laboratories. ‘In Gujarat we have more than 1,500 qualified pathologists and many good-quality laboratories are run by them. But they are deprived of Covid testing because of rigid requirements of NABL... Most of the states have allowed private labs to carry out antibody testing,’ read the letter. Dr Rajendra Lalani, president of GAPM, said that they are ready to address any concerns related to safety protocols, pricing or lab specifications. “If a practitioner is recognized by a professional medical body, why shouldn’t he/ she be allowed to carry out the tests? Improving the lab coverage – including carrying out CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests for Covid-19 – will only help in finding cases more quickly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pathologists-assn-writes-to-dycm/articleshow/78027793.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Schools’ body alleges blackmail by Nagpur edu officials||Nagpur: A pan-Maharashtra schools’ association has alleged ‘blackmail’ at the hands of Nagpur education officials and has threatened legal action if the ‘harassment’ did not stop. Unaided Schools Forum (USF), a Mumbai-based organization, wrote to not only Maharashtra government but also to senior politicians Sharad Pawar and Sonia Gandhi about the controversy related to fees. Subhash Chandra Kedia, honorary secretary of USF, said, “A few of our member schools in Nagpur have been asked by the education department to submit certain records of last few years. This is being done with the ulterior motives and at the behest of some politicians to blackmail the schools and compel them to reduce fee as demanded by the politicians having vested interests.” He added schools had not increased fee for 2020-21 session due to the economic slowdown caused by Covid-19. Maharashtra government had issued a GR in May, prohibiting schools from increasing fees. Kedia said, “That GR has already been stayed by Bombay High Court on June 26. Then state filed SLP in Supreme Court but that too was disposed of on September 4 and state government was directed to approach the Bombay High Court. So from a legal point of view, Supreme Court has also not given any relief to state government regarding fee.” Kedia said pressure was being put on schools in indirect ways. “They want fees to be set lower than the fee of 2019-20, otherwise schools will be subjected to raids conducted by agencies like Income Tax and CBI etc,” said Kedia. He added state government itself had failed to pay up dues to schools. “Reimbursement of about Rs400 crore to schools towards RTE is still pending. State is not releasing this amount inspite of order of Bombay High Court (Aurangabad Bench). So while it fails in fulfilling its duties, state wants schools to go follow its diktats,” said Kedia. USF has warned of legal action against Nagpur education officials if they did not cease ‘their illegal actions’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-body-alleges-blackmail-by-nagpur-edu-officials/articleshow/78027787.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Follow distancing, wear masks: Religious leaders||Lucknow: Over 250 faith leaders and civil society members from 47 districts of UP appealed to people to use masks and practice social distancing. The social influencers came together at a webinar organized jointly by Sphere India, UNICEF, WHO, World Vision India and USAID on Wednesday. “Diseases do not discriminate. It is an enemy which can be defeated through use of right tools and only through united efforts,” said Maulana Abdul Khaliq Madrasi, deputy vice chancellor, Darul Uloom, Deoband. Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imaam, Aisghbagh Eidgah said the community could play a key role in checking the spread of the virus. Stating that religious places had a deep impact on the minds of people, Tek Narayan Upadhyaye, priest, Kashi Vishwanath temple said, “If we follow all Covid preventive behaviours, people will naturally follow.” Father Varghese Kunnath, regional director, Interfaith Dialogue and functionary Archdiocese of Agra drew attention towards discrimination faced by Covid-19 patients despite recovery. Baba Pritam Singh, Granthi, Guru Ka Taal Gurudwara in Agra explained how the Gurudwara has been serving people in need. Mahant Devya Giri from Mankameshwar Math suggested that religious leaders may felicitate Covid-19 warriors through social media platforms. Sister Radha from Brahma Kumaris appealed to people to maintain positivity during these pandemic times. The leaders also expressed solidarity for Covid Vijetas (survivors) who have overcome the disease and appealed to people to stand up against any form of discrimination against them. They also acknowledged the contribution of all frontline workers in this battle against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/follow-distancing-wear-masks-religious-leaders/articleshow/78027966.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Gear up for revolutionary changes, Bamu V-C to students||Aurangabad: Vice-chancellor of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) Pramod Yeole has appealed to students to gear up for revolutionary changes in the conduct of exams and teaching-learning process in view of Covid 19. “The conduct of exams will remain no longer as it was in the past and so will be the teaching-learning process. These academic activities would undergo a sea-change now due to the pandemic by witnessing penetration of information and technology,” he said. Addressing students through Facebook Live on Wednesday evening, Yeole also appealed to students of last-year to face the forthcoming online exams with calm and composed mind with positive attitude. “The new system of examination is being made highly student-friendly in nature and, therefore, students should not keep any fear about exams in their mind,” he said. The V-C also said that those who are not able to take the exam in online format can appear for the same using offline mode. In keeping with the directives from the government, BAMU has scheduled its examinations for final-year from October to October 15. Yeole said the new academic year 2020-21 would begin in online mode immediately after examinations are over. The virtual interaction of almost half-an-hour by Yeole was attended by over 10,000 students, parents and teachers among others, a release issued by Bamu said. Earlier, the V-C held a virtual meeting with head of the departments and principals of affiliated colleges to discuss different academic and administrative issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gear-up-for-revolutionary-changes-bamu-v-c-to-students/articleshow/78027782.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||5-day int’l virtual exhibition in Oct to promote ODOP||Lucknow: A five-day international virtual exhibition will be held in October to provide a marketplace for one district-one product (ODOP) industries and artisans who have been affected by the economic slowdown following the Covid-19 pandemic. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that this is the first of its kind ODOP promotional event which will take place online. More than 50 countries will be linked with this exhibition. “The five-day long exhibition will bring together buyers and sellers in a B2B and B2C format with 25,000 online stalls available. Buyers will be able to directly contact sellers and artisans. The exhibition will also be open to retail buyers,” Sehgal said. The event will be organised with assistance from FICCI and Handicraft Export Promotion Council. Sehgal has directed officials to link the maximum number of ODOP vendors and artisans with this exhibition. Sehgal, who interacted with artisans and vendors directly on Wednesday to encourage them to participate in the exhibition, said that footwear from Agra and Kanpur, chikan work from Lucknow, ittar from Kannauj, terracotta from Gorakhpur, silk from Varanasi and carpets from Bhadohi, along with several other products, will be promoted strongly through the exhibition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-day-intl-virtual-exhibition-in-oct-to-promote-odop/articleshow/78027994.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Women MLAs point out lapses in sop||HYDERABAD: Nearly six years after the Kalyana Lakshmi-Shaadi Mubarak scheme was launched to financially help the poor parents to conduct the marriage of their daughters, several instances of parents incurring debts due to delay in getting the Kalyana Lakshmi cheques have come to the fore. Replying to questions of TRS members — Haripriya Banoth, Padma Devender Reddy, Ajmera Rekha and Ravishanker Sunke — in the assembly on Wednesday, BC welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar said the cheques were supposed to be given on the marriage day itself but was getting delayed due to time taken for verification of the applicants by the field officers. To the request from Padma Devender Reddy to consider issuing the cheques in the name of the girl going for a love marriage against the wishes of her family, the minister said the government will look into the request as normally the cheque is issued in favour of the mother of the bride. The government has so far handed over Rs 1,100 crore to beneficiaries during the lockdown period. Some women legislators of TRS brought the issue to the notice of the House and urged the government to ensure that the cheque for Rs 1,00,116 is given to the mother of the bride on the day of the marriage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/women-mlas-point-out-lapses-in-sop/articleshow/78027786.cms||Roushan Ali
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic body administrator initiates action against stalls, shops||Aurangabad: Taking serious cognizance of heavy rush as well as rampant violation of social distancing and mask-related norms at stalls and shops outside the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s office, civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey initiated action against violators on Wednesday. As a result, three shops and one stall have been sealed while proprietors of nine shops were slapped with Rs 500 fine for not wearing masks. One shop owner was slapped with Rs 5000 fine for storing plastic bags in his shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-body-administrator-initiates-action-against-stalls-shops/articleshow/78027776.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Now, loudspeakers power learning for rural students||Lucknow: Everyday at 10am, Pragya sits on the steps outside her house, eagerly waiting for a signature tune which alerts her about the start of ‘virtual classes’ through loudspeakers. A student of class 2 at a government primary school at Manikapur village in Sitapur district, Pragya does not have a smartphone but her determination to learn amid challenges of coronavirus pandemic remains strong. Like Pragya, over 1,000 kids from 10 villages of Sitapur are taking lessons in basic mathematics and language through loudspeakers as, unlike children in urban areas, they do not have computers, laptops or mobile phones to attend virtual classes. “It’s almost six months now that we haven’t been to our school. I am happy to open my books and study again,” Pragya says. Taking a cue from a Jharkhand-based teacher, Shyam Kishore Singh Gandhi, who uses loudspeakers to hold virtual classes, the Shiv Nadar Foundation started similar classes a month ago in 10 villages of Sitapur district, covering 450 households. “The programme makes learning exciting for underprivileged children who otherwise don’t have access to online classes during pandemic. The initiative is enabling them continue their education,” says Preeti M Shah who is associated with the project. Loudspeakers for virtual classes have been set up at places where the number of students is high. They are put up on trees and walls in different locations to help students attend the classes. After the introductory jingle which helps children gather learning material, interesting stories, songs and poems are played over the loudspeaker. The 90-minute fun-filled learning session also captivates villagers who are otherwise busy with daily chores. “It’s good to see children studying despite closure of schools. The programme has connected the children with their books again,” says Bandevi, head of Manpara village, who took to the broadcasting centre to create awareness among villagers to allow children to attend classes. According to project head Mayank Sinha, lessons through loudspeakers have generated enthusiasm. “Children are eagerly waiting to get back to classes as soon as schools reopen,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-loudspeakers-power-learning-for-rural-students/articleshow/78027976.cms||Isha Jain
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Garment maker receives orders from abroad for anti-Hindi slogan t-shirts||Coimbatore: Following photos of politicians, film stars and musicians wearing t-shirts with anti-Hindi slogans went viral on social media three days ago, orders for the t-shirts have been flooding the Tirupur garment maker even from the US, Singapore, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. At the same time, B Karthikeyan, 35, of Veerapandi in Tirupur, has been receiving anonymous calls, abusing him for printing the t-shirts with anti-Hindi slogans.Karthikeyan has been engaged with garment business for the last four years. He used to sell t- shirts to corporate and event management companies. “I received a call from the office of Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi and was asked to print t-shirts with the anti-Hindi slogans. The slogan was very powerful against Hindi imposition,” Karthikeyan said.He printed t-shirts with the slogans ‘Hindi Theriyathu Poda’ (I don’t know Hindi, go) and ‘I am a Tamil Pesum Indian’ (I am a Tamil Speaking Indian). A photo of a group of youths sporting the t-shirts standing next to DMK MP Kanimozhi went viral on social media. Photographs of DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, Tamil cinema music director Yuvan Shankar Raja and few actors sporting the t-shirt were also shared on social media, particularly on twitter and Instagram. “I received orders from Chennai and across the state. It made me proud to see photographs of cinema celebrities sporting anti-Hindi t-shirts,” Karthikeyan said.He said he had printed around 6,000 t-shirts so far. “I have received orders for 500 t-shirts from the US and around 100 t-shirts each from Singapore, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia,” Karthikeyan said.He had posted the pictures and details of anti-Hindi slogan t-shirts on social media with his mobile number. “I have been receiving threat phone calls from unknown people. I explain to them that I’m not against Hindi language but only of it on others. I am just a garment maker. However, they abused me through phone calls,” Karthikeyan added. He said he won’t approach police against those threaten him over the phone. “I would face the threats on my own,” he said.He is the deputy organiser of DMK students wing in Tirupur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/garment-maker-receives-orders-from-abroad-for-anti-hindi-slogan-t-shirts/articleshow/78027774.cms||A Subburaj
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai city gets cams for auto scan of number plates||Madurai: Madurai city police are introducing automatic number plate recognition cameras covering all major entry and exit points in the city. The cameras, which capture and record number plates, have been introduced to improve the safety of residents and to help the police detect crimes. City police commissioner S Prem Anand Sinha said that there are 22 entry and exit points, out of which 19 are major ones. The cameras will be installed in the 19 roads, and work has already been completed at four junctions - Ramnad Road, Chinthamani Junction in Ring Road, Theni Road and Alagarkovil Road. The commissioner said that when a crime is committed, the storage device can be scanned for the registration numbers of vehicles crossing the point in the particular time range and zero in on the vehicle used by the suspects. A pair of cameras will cost around Rs 60,000 along with the required software and storage equipment. “We are confident of getting adequate sponsors to install the automatic number plate recognition cameras,” he said. A traffic police officer said the number plate recognition cameras will help solve accident cases as well. The commissioner also said that efforts are underway to increase CCTV cameras at important junctions and to improve their quality, as they are lately providing vital clues in identifying suspects and solving the crimes. “All the bridges, which connect the southern part with the northern part of the city will be brought under CCTV coverage. They are strategic areas to cover, as people will have to use at least one bridge to travel across the city,” he said. Also, since it is equally important to maintain the cameras installed by them, they will be checked periodically, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-city-gets-cams-for-auto-scan-of-number-plates/articleshow/78027777.cms||V Devanathan
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Infant sold for Rs 80K, three held||Coimbatore: A couple and a woman were arrested on Tuesday night for buying an infant boy for Rs 80,000 from a poor woman at Angalakurichi near Pollachi. The accused were identified as Gokila, 42, her husband Rajeshkumar, 43, and Nirmala, 41, a social worker from Puliyankandi near Aliyar. The couple from Annapuram near Podanur decided to buy a baby as they did not have a child. Nirmala helped them in the process, police said. Police said Nirmala approached Karuppthal, of Angalakurichi, who delivered a baby boy on August 15 at Aliyar primary health centre. With three children and an ailing husband, she was finding it impossible to make ends meet. The woman agreed to sell her child to the couple for Rs 80,000. On September 6, Nirmala paid her the money and took away the baby to be handed over to the couple. The next day, some people from Angalakurichi informed Child Line officials. Following this, I Angeline, counsellor, Child Line, held an inquiry with Karuppathal, who accepted that she had sold her newborn. Based on a complaint, Aliyar police registered a case of child trafficking and arrested the trio. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infant-sold-for-rs-80k-three-held/articleshow/78027798.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Action against forest guard for leaving rifle with watcher who shot self||Pilibhit: The field director (FD) of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), H Rajamohan, has begun departmental action against a forest guard, Prakash Veer, posted at Dhakka Chat forest post of Haripur forest range, for leaving his 0.315 bore departmental rifle with a forest watcher, Sandeep Singh, who accidentally shot himself with the rifle inside their quarter on Tuesday.As per the forest officials, Veer was on casual leave on the day when Sandeep shot himself. Veer had left his rifle with the latter, who was a cohabitant in Veer’s departmental flat.“As per assigned departmental rules, any member of the armed forest force may leave his firearm in his flat if he avails casual leave for 1-2 days. In case of long leave, it is mandatory for forest cops to deposit their departmental firearms with the office, before going on leave,” Rajamohan said.“Prakash Veer has been held as defaulter, as firstly he left his rifle along with bullets with a forest watcher, who is not authorised to keep a firearm, and secondly, no one has been permitted to leave the issued departmental firearm in custody of any person other than at the departmental office,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/action-against-forest-guard-for-leaving-rifle-with-watcher-who-shot-self/articleshow/78021585.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Fuel pump owner’s murder: 5 accused sent to remand||Jaipur: In the petrol pump owner murder case, the five accused, who were arrested on Tuesday, have been sent to police remand on Wednesday for five days (till September 14), said police. Police are searching for the sixth accused .Police on Tuesday arrested five persons, including a private bank employee, in connection with the murder of petrol pump owner Nishant Jain.“The five accused have been sent to five-day police remand till September 14. They were produced before the sessions court today (Wednesday) and it ordered a police custody for five days. We are searching for the sixth accused in the case. We will start the process of recovering weapons, money and other items from them and based on the information we collect, we will take further action,” said said ASP Bajrang Singh.The accused have been identified as Vinit Singh Gaur, Abhay Singh, Gautam Singh, Aydan Singh and Chetan Singh. Police said, Gaur was the key conspirator who leaked information about his bank client Jain to the other accused. Chetan Singh and Abhay Singh brought a pistol from UP to commit the crime, police had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fuel-pump-owners-murder-5-accused-sent-to-remand/articleshow/78027788.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Church will also be built in new secretariat: CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said a church would be built along with a temple and mosques in the new secretariat building. He said several leaders from the Christian community met him and asked for a site on the secretariat premises so that a church could be constructed. Responding to AIMIM legislator Akbaruddin Owaisi’s remarks that he had immense faith in his assurances over constructing the mosques, the CM said: “I am an ardent devotee of god. Any devotee will respect god of any religion. Two mosques will be constructed in a large space. The new secretariat premises will have a temple, a church and the mosques as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/church-will-also-be-built-in-new-sectt-cm/articleshow/78027812.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC has tough time penalising those not wearing masks||Hubballi: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) staff who are tasked with penalising the public who are not wearing a mask, is facing difficulties in discharging their duties effectively. The reason is that the violators abuse the staff and argue with them, when they try to penalise them. According to the sources in the corporation, the staff are repeatedly being abused, and the violators behave rudely. In one such case a woman HDMC official registered a police complaint against violators for behaving rudely with her and obstructing her from discharging her duties with the APMC/ Navanagar police. In the complaint, the official mentioned that two persons behaved rudely with her when she asked to pay a penalty for not wearing a mask in public. The incident took place in the APMC Yard, the complaint stated. This incident is just the tip of the iceberg, and came to light as the official went to the police station to register a case, but many officials, especially health inspectors, never approached the police, and most of the arguments were settled on the spot, with the intervention of locals, said an official. Even police department staff have been given the task of penalising violators who are not wearing masks. They say that the people argue with them, but they do not pay heed to such people, and go ahead and discharge their duty. A personnel attached to the North traffic police station said every day he penalises such violators, but that the numbers are not big. “People should understand that wearing a mask is for their safety as well as for others, but the people roam about without wearing a mask,” said the police. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that they had come across incidents of misbehaviour by some people, and that they will seek police protection in order to continue the work, but so far no decision has been taken in this regard. “The HDMC will continue to fine the violators, and there is no question of backtracking from the job due to some stray incidents,” he said. According to the data sourced by the HDMC, by August 5 evening, 3,575 violators who were roaming around without wearing a mask in public places were fined, and the total fine collected stood at Rs 7.2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-has-tough-time-penalising-those-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/78024959.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nod to attach assets of IMS scamsters sought||HYDERABAD: In the Insurance Medical Services (IMS) fraud case, Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officers have written to the government seeking permission to file a petition in court seeking to attach properties of prime accused in Disproportionate Assets (DA) and misappropriation of government money cases. So far, the government has granted permission against three accused for Rs 173 crore worth properties. However, ACB is yet to get permission from the government to attach properties of former IMS director Devika Rani. In response to letters of ACB director-general pertaining to the IMS fraud accused since August first week, the government has granted permission to ACB to file an application in the ACB court for attachment of Rs 173 crore worth properties belonging to three of the accused in the IMS scam. Citing letters from ACB director-general between 2019 and 2020 to the government in relation to the assets amassed by IMS scam accused, labour employment training & factories department has issued three separate orders permitting the agency to file an application in ACB special court for attachment of Rs 162.12 crore properties belonging to Srihari Babu, proprietor of Omni Medi company, his family members, including wife Sujatha and two daughters, co-accused Krupasagar Reddy and the firms represented by them, Rs 8.55 crore worth properties belonging to Dr K Padma, joint director, IMS, her family members and suspected benamis, Rs 2.7 crore worth properties belonging to K Nagalakshmi, pharmacist, ESI Hospital, and her family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nod-to-attach-assets-of-ims-scamsters-sought/articleshow/78027797.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 10, 2020||Goa||No stirs, petitions: Goa government warns employees||PANAJI: The state government has warned its employees of “disciplinary action” if they get involved in any agitation or campaign critical of the government “bypassing higher authorities”. Director of vigilance Sanjeev Gauns Dessai said that it has come to light that many government employees have signed petitions against government policies and submitted them directly to the chief minister or governor. There is a “proper channel” by which government servants can convey their opinions to the administration, and such prescribed channel should be “scrupulously” adhered to, employees have been told. An order issued by Dessai on the subject is not just applicable to those working in state government departments, the governor’s office and state secretariat, but also those employed in government undertakings, cooperations, local self-governing bodies and autonomous bodies. Employees have been told that there are restrictions on such actions under the Central Civil Service (Conduct) Rules, 1964. “The Central Civil Service (Conduct) Rules, 1964, provide the process by which a government servant can express his/her opinion for consideration of the government,” Gauns said, adding that “violation of the same will attract disciplinary action”. “It is enjoined upon all government servants to stick to the rules and not get themselves involved in any agitations or campaigns which would amount to criticism of the government, or sign and submit representations without routing (them) through proper channels,” the order, issued on September 3, reads. Meanwhile, the Goa government employees’ association said the order is an injustice against state employees. “I protest this order,” said president Prashant Devidas. This is an injustice against government employees who may want to raise their concerns over some injustice taking place. They cannot be stopped from raising their concerns. The government should rethink this order and withdraw it.” He said that one of the reasons for the gag order could be the extensive petitions signed and submitted by government employees recently against the change in House Building Advance (HBA) norms. “The interest rate was directly increased to the prevailing rates in banks, and this affected numerous government employees,” he said. “From Canacona to Pernem, they petitioned their local MLAs. We also sought an appointment with the CM, but he has not granted it to us. The employees signed these petitions because it is a question of a shelter over their heads.” In a recent case, employees of the state secretariat too briefly halted their work to protest insufficient safety precautions put in place by the state for them during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-stirs-petitions-goa-govt-warns-employees/articleshow/78028327.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Fine for not wearing masks hiked to Rs 500||BHOPAL: In a fresh order, district collector, Avinash Lavania, on Wednesday raised the fine on persons not wearing mask at a public place to Rs 500. Using powers vested in him under the provisions of Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and Covid-19 regulations based on guidelines of the Union ministry for health, Lavania revised the spot fine on a person not wearing mask to Rs 500. For those, not observing social distancing norms, spot fine will also be Rs 500 and for those spitting in public, it would be Rs 1,000. If someone is found violating the protocol of home quarantine, he would be fined Rs 2,000. And, if Covid-19 protocol is violated in an office or an institution or a commercial establishment, the person in-charge of the premises would be fined Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fine-for-not-wearing-masks-hiked-to-rs-500/articleshow/78026373.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||BATU relaxes transfer norms||Aurangabad: Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (Batu) has announced temporary relaxation in norms for transfer and re-admission of students. As per new rules, all desired students can opt for the required process irrespective of results, provided that they have to appear for university exam of equivalent subjects in case having any backlog subjects. “In view of Covid-19 pandemic, backlog exams have not been conducted at any university and, hence, earlier rules related to re-admission or transfer will not be applicable for academic year 2020-21 only,” a latest notification issued by Batu acting registrar B F Jogi read. Batu has clarified that relaxed norms will be in place for academic year 2020-21 only due to the outbreak of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/batu-relaxes-transfer-norms/articleshow/78027792.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai city gets cams for auto scan of number plates||Madurai: Madurai city police are introducing automatic number plate recognition cameras covering all major entry and exit points in the city. The cameras, which capture and record number plates, have been introduced to improve the safety of residents and to help the police detect crimes.City police commissioner S Prem Anand Sinha said that there are 22 entry and exit points, out of which 19 are major ones. The cameras will be installed in the 19 roads, and work has already been completed at four junctions - Ramnad Road, Chinthamani Junction in Ring Road, Theni Road and Alagarkovil Road.The commissioner said that when a crime is committed, the storage device can be scanned for the registration numbers of vehicles crossing the point in the particular time range and zero in on the vehicle used by the suspects. A pair of cameras will cost around Rs 60,000 along with the required software and storage equipment. “We are confident of getting adequate sponsors to install the automatic number plate recognition cameras,” he said. A traffic police officer said the number plate recognition cameras will help solve accident cases as well. The commissioner also said that efforts are underway to increase CCTV cameras at important junctions and to improve their quality, as they are lately providing vital clues in identifying suspects and solving the crimes. “All the bridges, which connect the southern part with the northern part of the city will be brought under CCTV coverage. They are strategic areas to cover, as people will have to use at least one bridge to travel across the city,” he said. Also, since it is equally important to maintain the cameras installed by them, they will be checked periodically, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-city-gets-cams-for-auto-scan-of-number-plates/articleshow/78027801.cms||V Devanathan
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Central prison staff beat female inmate||Udaipur: Irregularities and misconduct have been reported in the women’s jail at the Central Prison here. During a sudden inspection by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Tuesday night, a judicial team was told about the plight of female prisoners there. One of the inmates complained that she was badly beaten up by the jail staff because she had complained about the irregularities there to the authorities who had inspected the jail a week ago.DLSA secretary Ridhhima Sharma told TOI that on August 31, the team had held an inspection of the women jail when one of the inmates had complained them about some irregularities. On September 5, the DLSA received a letter about a prisoner been thrashed by the jail staff. “On the complaint, we againt held a sudden inspection on Tuesday night and spoke to the inmates. It was known that the woman who had on the first occasion spoken up against the jail affairs was beaten up by the staff. She also told us that in April too she was beaten up by the jailer and one of the guards,” Sharma told TOI. tnnThe team was also told that a prisoner from Nagaur was the incharge of the inmates and she grossly misbehaved with all ofthem. She even thrashed their children. “There are 10 CCTV cameras fitted inside the cell but none of them is in working condition. We have drafted a detailed report on the irregularities and misconduct of the jail management and have forwarded a copy for further action to the DGP, jails,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-prison-staff-beat-female-inmate/articleshow/78027794.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||Amid privacy concern, govt may curb collection of data by apps||NEW DELHI: The government is understood to be looking at prohibiting mobile applications from collecting user information beyond their area of functioning, the move coming in the backdrop of concerns around data handling and user privacy, including at the hands of American internet giants Facebook and WhatsApp and scores of top international and Chinese apps, reports Pankaj Doval. Sources told TOI the Centre has begun work on a policy that would stop mobile and internet apps to collect information that is “not necessary” for their functioning. The government is going to have a “policy on preburning/pre-loading of apps on mobile phones”, sources said, adding that the concerns arose as “many of these apps are installed on mobile phones without the consent of the user”. In fact, the importance of user consent and illegal harvesting of data is something that has increasingly been getting resonance within various echelons of the government, including finding prominent positions in the data protection bill, which is currently tabled in Parliament. Sources said like push email, the government is also working on areas to stop push apps which are advertised by handset manufacturers. Most of the measures, sources say, are being taken in view of concerns around the data protection of millions of users. The unauthorised collection of data has been flagged off even previously by the government, especially as many apps tend to take data which is not even remotely connected to their utility. The government feels that after the Covid outbreak and work and study from home situations, humongous amount of data is moving online, right from education of students, to businesses and offices, to social media and internet conversations. “There are increasing number of instances of cyber-attacks, phishing, and even data thefts at the hands of some of the well-known and larger internet apps,” a source said. Watch Government mulls curbing collection of data by apps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amid-privacy-concern-govt-may-curb-collection-of-data-by-apps/articleshow/78028993.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Former corporators booked for molestation||Aurangabad: A corporator, who recently completed his term, along with another former corporator have been booked in cross complaints registered against them. In one complaint lodged in the wee hours of Tuesday, the wife of a former corporator alleged that the other one, along with his accomplice, allegedly abused her and tried getting physical as the duo were upset over her husband lodging a complaint against them. While a cross complaint (molestation) was also filed against the woman’s husband by the sister of the former corporator. The complaint was filed on Monday. Police suspect that the complaints are the result of on-going tussle between the political rivals from the same locality. It all started about a couple of days with registration of a non-cognizable offence and the same were followed by two cross complaints against former corporators. Jinsi police station inspector Vyankat Kendre told TOI, “Following the registration of non-cognizable offence on Monday morning, a former corporator and his friend allegedly molested complainant’s wife.” Police said that a former MIM corporator recently joining NCP has become a cause of concern for the NCP loyalists and former corporator from the area, resulting into frequent friction between them. “Prima facie it appears to be nothing but one-upmanship, as the party workers are upset with the new entrant,” said a senior police officer. Police sub inspector Poonam Patil, who has been appointed as investigation officer in the two cases said that the process of verifying contents of the complaint as well as recording independent witnesses’ account, is underway. “It will be too early to comment on the case. However, connecting the dots in the two cases may bring out the facts,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-corporators-booked-for-molestation/articleshow/78027802.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot gets new 200-bed Covid hospital||Rajkot: A 200-bed covid hospital commenced at Saurashtra Cancer Hospital in Rajkot on Wednesday. Chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel inaugurated this hospital along with a Covid autopsy center at PDU Medical College. They inaugurated the hospital diggitally from Gandhinagar. According to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) 4,000 people have tested positive in the city till date. Rupani, after inaugurating he hosptial claimed that Gujarat had become a role model in the country in fighting against the virus. “Gujarat has been successful in the fight against Covid-19 because of the hard work of the doctors and cooperation of the people.” The CM assured the people of Rajkot that despite the pandemic, AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Science) at Rajkot will start functioning by 2022 and the people of Saurashtra will be able to get the best medical care.Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that the autopsy to be done at Rajkot medical college will be very useful for the research and help treatment of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-gets-new-200-bed-covid-hospital/articleshow/78025038.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||No shared lunch, one student per bench as schools in Chennai chalk out unlock plan||CHENNAI: Students crowding a bench to share food, goofing around in the canteen, rushing to the assembly or sneaking into the playground are part of a normal school day. This year, however, when schools reopen, students will have to be ready for a new normal. Now that the Centre has allowed schools to partially reopen for Classes IX to XII after September 21, it is only a matter of time before Tamil Nadu comes out with a date to reopen schools. School managements, however, are not waiting for the announcement to make preparations. Many in the city have upped safety measures and have created a blueprint of what in-person learning will be like when they reopen. A few schools have been sending survey forms to parents seeking suggestions and if they will send their children once schools reopen. “About 85% said they would only send their children once the vaccine is available,” said C Bharathi Lakshmi, principal of Hindustan International School. “We have to be prepared well in advance since we don’t know when the authorities will ask us to reopen,” said Shobha Raman, principal of Vidya Mandir. She said the number of students per classroom will be reduced and classes will be held in shifts or on alternate days. Before entering the building, students will be checked for their temperature and any symptoms by a school nurse. Inside classrooms, they will be seated individually. School officials said they have been spending more on keeping the campus, especially the hallways and toilets, disinfected and clean. Schools are setting up live-streaming facilities in every classroom so students who do not want to come to school can take lessons from home. The recent order by the Centre said online classes must continue. Shyamala Subbu, principal of Velammal Vidyalaya, called this the most challenging time in education and said teaching has evolved during the pandemic. “We have reduced the number of classes, but at the same time we have to make learning more interesting and collaborative,” she said. Dr B S Virudhagirinathan, a neuropsychologist, advised teachers to explain the seriousness of the pandemic to the children once they return. “Children in their early and mid-teens are adventurous. They might not follow the safety measures. But instead of punishing or putting negative pressure on them, teachers must explain and set an example themselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-shared-lunch-one-student-per-bench-as-schools-in-city-chalk-out-unlock-plan/articleshow/78026377.cms||Aditi R
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP to take a call on over 650 laws||Lucknow: In line with Niti Aayog directions to reduce the number of unnecessary laws and rules in each state, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon has directed all departments to prepare a list of all redundant laws, those which can be combined, amended rules and those which are currently being imposed or used so that these can be discussed and then submitted to Niti Aayog. On Wednesday, Tandon held a meeting with officials of 74 departments to discuss about 659 rules and regulations. Tandon said that some of the laws were made during the British times which have no relevance in the current times. “After discussion on such laws and rules, which are now redundant, we will present a list to Niti Aayog,” he said. The infrastructure and industrial development commissioner directed all departments to immediately identify such laws and regulations which can be done away with in order to make work and matters for the common man simpler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-take-a-call-on-over-650-laws/articleshow/78027986.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||T-Hub success stories soon in education institutes||HYDERABAD: The success stories of T-Hub will be showcased in schools and colleges even in the rural areas to encourage students to come up with innovations, as part of “intinta innovation programme” of the government. The IT department will also extend internet connection to all the rythu vedikas and educate farmers on using various technologies and latest practices to enhance the quality and quantity of crop production. Information Technology minister KT Rama Rao said this during the question hour in the Assembly on Wednesday.  As part of the Innovation-Hub programme with ICRISAT, all rythu vedikas being constructed in the state would be connected with internet, thereby extending benefits of IT to agriculture sector too. Technology will be used to disseminate information such as pest control through the rythu vedikas, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hub-success-stories-soon-in-edu-institutes/articleshow/78027825.cms||Roushan Ali
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||PM-led panel ayed diversion of 4.35 sq km tiger habitat in 7 mths||NAGPUR: In the last 7 months, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved 59 proposals diverting 435 hectares (4.35sq km) of tiger habitat forest in the country falling within the protected areas (PAs) and outside. The NBWL is a statutory body created under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The 47-member committee is tasked with promoting conservation and development of wildlife and forests. It is responsible for regulating activities within the protected areas. This area diverted equals to the size of world famous Lonar Wildlife Sanctuary in Maharashtra. An analysis of the proposals by Legal Initiative for Forest & Environment (LIFE), which promotes environment democracy through creative use of law and science, states that of the 59 proposals, 28 were for diversion of forest within wildlife sanctuaries and national parks, one involved denotification (deletion) of areas within a wildlife sanctuary for boundary alteration, while 30 were tiger habitats within 10km radius from the boundary of PAs. These forest lands serve as important corridors for dispersal of tigers and other wildlife. Out of 28 proposals that sought diversion within PAs, 21 were approved by the standing committee and remaining seven were deferred for later consideration. Not a single proposal was rejected by the committee. These 21 proposals will entail diversion of 212.23 hectares within the PAs. Of this, 74% were for linear projects, 16% for defence facilities and 10% for irrigation. The analysis also finds that of the 10 proposals spread over 222.67 hectares that were approved for diversion outside PAs but within tiger habitats, six were for linear infrastructure, three for setting up defence facilities and one for airport construction. The maximum diversion (44 hectares) due to linear projects took place within Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park in Goa. Over 17,000 trees of high density will be chopped for the project. Besides, maximum diversion (107 hectares) took place within Dampa Tiger Reserve (Mizoram) for construction of 132 KV transmission line. The tiger reserves that will be hit by the forest diversion include Nagarjuna, Pakke, Pilibhit, Dudhwa, Kawal, and Dampa. “The report is based on review and analysis of approvals granted during January-July 2020. Such information would assist conservationists, wildlife managers and decision-makers to have a comprehensive overview of threats to the PA network in the country,” says RK Singh, scientific adviser, LIFE, Delhi. Singh said the standing committee has approved all proposals coming before it. In this context, it is significant to note that PAs are created to ensure inviolate areas for wildlife conservation. This is expressed in the Wildlife (Protection) Act as well. The statute prohibits damage, destruction or diversion of wildlife sanctuaries and national parks unless it is for improvement and better management of wildlife. “However, the review of minutes of the meeting of the committee shows that not even a single approval is backed by reasons on how it benefits wildlife. Therefore, it is clear that approvals for diversion within PAs are not in sync with the provisions of the WPA, 1972,” he said. “A cause of concern is that the standing committee does not always mention the area within a tiger reserve which will be affected due to the proposed diversion,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pm-led-panel-ayed-diversion-of-4-35-sq-km-tiger-habitat-in-7-mths/articleshow/78026388.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Students told to take self-assessment tests||CHENNAI: With quarterly examinations ruled out and half-yearly exams unlikely, city schools are giving self-assessment tests and worksheets to prepare students slated to appear for Class X and Class XII board exams in 2020-21. Students can take these tests at their convenient time. However, there are grades for these tests. The questions are from within the syllabus and of the standard of National Talent Search Examination for Class X and Joint Entrance Exam-level for Class XII students. Zion Matriculation School has prepared a question bank for the Class X and XII students from the textbooks. “Out of 10 chapters, we have completed four. Our teachers have prepared multiple choice questions to the level of CBSE and uploaded it on the website. Only if they know the concept, students can answer them,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion and Alwin group of schools in Chennai.Everwin group of schools gives daily worksheets and weekly tests to students. “Learning will be ineffective without assessment. Students will not have interest to learn further if they don’t know where they are standing in terms of understanding,” said B Purushothoman, senior principal of Everwin group of schools. Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School is one of the few government-aided schools conducting online classes for students. It is also conducting monthly tests for students of Classes X and XII. “Students appearing for board exams need to practice writing tests. So we ask them to write the tests and upload the answer sheets on WhatsApp,” said V Shanthi, headmistress of the school. “Even if there is no quarterly exams and half-yearly exams, I think the students will have enough time to prepare themselves for the boards. Whenever the school reopens, we can conduct multiple revision tests,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/students-told-to-take-self-assessment-tests/articleshow/78026371.cms||A Ragu Raman
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Ensure no false cases are registered: CP||Aurangabad: Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has issued directives to police station chiefs to consult with respective assistant and deputy commissioner of police while registering sensitive body as well as property offences. The decision in this regard has been taken after the CP personally reviewed pending cases, studied crime pattern and learnt unique challenges of each of the 17 police stations in the city. The move is aimed at ensuring that there is no misuse of law. “Registration of false offence is abuse of the process of law and often results into harassment of the person named as suspect. We have a policy of ‘free registration of offences,’ however, there will be filters to ensure no false offence gets registered,” Gupta told TOI. He said that efforts are on to ensure transparency in all aspects of policing in the city. “If complaints of commoners are not addressed at the police station level, they may directly turn up at my office,” said Gupta citing that he has reserved majority of office schedule for meeting the commoners directly reaching out to him. Senior police officers unanimously said that the directives will prevent wasting of precious man-hours of the police department. Moreover, it will ensure quality probe and water tight charge sheet resulting in conviction of the cases. The preserved man-hours can be used to constructively address other issues. The Jinsi police recently faced serious allegations of registering false offence of molestation against two scribes. Taking cognizance of the same, the then commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad had to order a probe into the matter. Aurangabad city police follows the policy of consulting assistant and deputy commissioners of police ahead of registering all the cheating offences. It is only after consent from these senior officers, the due process is followed. An officer with the economic offences wing said, “In cheating cases, all evidences are collected, and the seniors are briefed about them, before the suspect is arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ensure-no-false-cases-are-registered-cp/articleshow/78027816.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Online classes: HC wants cyber safety of kids ensured||Chennai: In a reprieve to parents, and schoolchildren who are stuck in front of computer screens for long hours of online classes, the Madras high court has directed institutions to strictly adhere to prescribed time restrictions or face action. “The guidelines issued by the central and state governments are to be treated as mandatory and, thus, to be adopted and followed by all stakeholders, particularly the schools,” a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said on Wednesday. For children who might need special attention, the court said, “Schools can allow groups of students identified by them requiring special attendance in view of the difficulties faced in online and digital education to attend physical classes while following social distance.” In a single class, a small group of students may be permitted to attend the schools by taking all the safety measures. Schools can also explore the possibility of sending teachers to the students and imparting lessons, the bench said. The court made it clear that the guidelines issued with respect to the attendance, test and examination will have to be strictly complied with, particularly for pre-primary students. “Schools will have to explore the possibility of having end-to-end encryption,” the bench said, to protect the privacy and data of children attending online classes. On the allegations of children being exposed to adult content during such classes, the court said any complaints given to the support and helpline numbers will have to be investigated by the cybercrime cell and other authorities at the earliest. “The complaints to the police will have to be registered immediately if offence is made out and investigation will have to be completed at the earliest. Complaints made to other authorities will have to be looked into and the process of the investigation will have to be completed within a period of three months,” the court said. For students whose parents cannot afford gadgets and internet connection to attend such classes, the court said, to tide over this problem, institutions are required to make a thorough inspection and find out the difficulties. “In the government schools which are maximum in number, classes can be conducted in community halls and for those who cannot afford, steps may be taken either to provide the device, or make them attend physical classes, if they are few in numbers, while maintaining the social distancing,” the court said. “After all, the idea is a child shall not be made to lose the class because of any other consideration. We may note, teachers are now fully available, and class rooms are empty with the lockdown eased considerably,” the judges added. The court passed the directions while disposing of a batch of pleas seeking to regulate online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-classes-hc-wants-cyber-safety-of-kids-ensured/articleshow/78026385.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Pan state emergency response no. on the cards: DG&IGP||Mangaluru: Namma 100 of Bengaluru City Police is moving towards a pan-Karnataka Dial 112 project. This is also in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for 112 as a unified emergency response number across India, says director general and inspector general of police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood. The Karnataka state police has launched Dial 112 on a pilot basis in Haveri, Bagalkot and Davanagere district policing units, Sood said. In an exclusive chat with TOI here on Wednesday, Sood said fire and emergency services and ambulance services will be integrated with Dial 112 in the next phase. “The project in the above policing units will help us identify and iron out flaws before it is rolled out statewide,” he said. “We need a single point contact for all emergency needs of people, just as the USA has 911 or United Kingdom 999, and 112 should be a similar number for India,” he said. Noting that the ‘Dial 100’ project he had launched in Mangaluru city police limits as ADGP (communication, logistics and modernisation) has not worked the way it should have in this coastal city, Sood said it is not as professional as Namma 100. “It was one of the 15 promises I made to the residents of Bengaluru as commissioner of police there, and the same standards will be ushered in Dial 100 in Mangaluru, and the Dial 112 project going forward,” Sood assured. A few salient points of the 15 promises he made are to ensure that a distress call is attended to within 15 seconds (Bengaluru does so in 3-4 seconds), dispatch an emergency response system (ERS) vehicle to the trouble spot within 15 minutes; revamped Dial 100 project for Mangaluru will be integrated with a professionally managed call centre in Bengaluru and calls routed to ERS vehicles as per the charter enshrined in the promises, he said. Having a robust independent emergency response system that Dial 112 project introduces will do away with the need for people to remember or call numbers of individual or jurisdictional police officers in an emergency. A study carried out with Namma 100 has pointed out that 85% of the cases have been solved on their own, with calls made to 100, 10% required intervention of senior police officials and only 5% of cases required paperwork. To make the above possible, Karnataka state police is spending about Rs 30 crore during the current fiscal for upgrading the police IT system, he said. “We will also try to internalise success that UP 112 or Uttar Pradesh Police Emergency Management System has achieved in this regard,” Sood said, making no bones about the fact that UP 112 was the best in India, and for which the government there has spent around Rs 4,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pan-state-emergency-response-no-on-the-cards-dgigp/articleshow/78025032.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||New organic food processing unit to benefit 5k farmers||Lucknow: Union minister for food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal inaugurated an organic food processing unit in Barabanki on Wednesday. The plant is expected to benefit 5,000 farmers and brought in an investment of Rs 50.33 crore. A government spokesperson said that the unit, Organic India Private Ltd is likely to generate direct employment for 100 and indirect employment for 250 persons. It has been set up at a cost of Rs 55.13 crore of which a grant-in-aid of Rs 4.80 crore has been provided by the ministry. It has a processing capacity of three tonnes per day and it will process agro produce worth Rs 350 crore. It is spread over an area of 12,903 sqm in the Agro Park Phase-II of the UPSIDC Industrial Area. It will be manufacturing tulsi green tea, sweet lemon green tea, lemon ginger green tea, pomegranate green tea, sweet rose and tulsi masala. Badal said that that UP has a diverse set of agricultural raw material and agro-climate which provides the state with a platform to develop a vibrant food processing industry. She added that the food processing sector can become an important link between two main sectors of the state economy, agriculture and industry and added that the sector can address major challenges in agriculture such as post-harvest losses, lack of marketing options and low income of farmers along with providing employment to the rural population. The company is expected to export an array of tea products to about 30 countries. Badal said that this project would be a boost to India’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat and Make in India campaign. Since 2014, the food processing ministry has approved 51 projects in UP with a total project cost of Rs 1,109.30 crore, grants-in-aid of Rs 293.40 crore and private investment of Rs 815.90 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-organic-food-processing-unit-to-benefit-5k-farmers/articleshow/78028007.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||80 Ramayana trees to adorn temple vicinity||Lucknow: At least 80 species of trees which are vividly mentioned in the Ramayana and also have some folklores from the life of Lord Ram and Sita woven around them, will make a comeback to recreate the aura of ‘Treta Yug’ around the upcoming Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. These trees are likely to be planted in the buffer area of Ram Temple which is currently protected with double fencing. The forest department plans to plant trees like Deodar, Mango, Rakt Chandan, Chandan, Saal, Nagkesar, Dhaak, Peepal, Banyan, Ashok, Parijaat, Sita Ashok, Lodh and Agar in between the two fencing. Divisional forest officer (DFO), Ayodhya, Manoj Khare has identified at least 89 tree species which find mention in the Ramayana. “Though there are more than a hundred plants mentioned in the epic, we found that 89 of them are trees while others are medium height species and shrubs,” Manoj Khare said. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will finally approve the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/80-ramayana-trees-to-adorn-temple-vicinity/articleshow/78028038.cms||Neha Shukla
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||‘Party is united and there’s no groupism’||Ajmer: Congress general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken on Wednesday said there was no grouping or division in the party. Maken said he talked to more than 65 senior leaders from Ajmer, Bhilwara, Tonk and Nagaur. He added that coordination between the Congress government and party will be improved at the ground level.Maken said on October 2, Congress will make public its report card and show that they have fulfilled the promises that were made in the party manifesto before state elections. He added that in order to improve communication and coordination between the government and the party, the minister in-charge of the district will meet Congress workers every month and will provide feedback to party. “The main motto is that Congress workers should take the government schemes to village and block levels so that people can get benefits,” added Maken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/party-is-united-and-theres-no-groupism/articleshow/78027832.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha leaders slam state ‘failure’||Pune: The main petitioner in the Maratha quota case and prominent leaders from the community accused the state government of failing to effectively defend the reservation in the Supreme Court. Reacting to the interim stay on the quota bill by the apex court on Wednesday, the Maratha leaders vowed to continue with the legal battle while the Maratha Kranti Morcha threatened to boycott all electoral process in the state until a favourable decision comes in. Vinod Patil from Aurangabad, one of the main petitioners in the case, alleged that the state government was not serious about keeping Maratha reservation intact. “However, we, as petitioner, will fight the judicial battle in an effective way till the end. We will decide our future course of action after carefully reading the court order,” he said. Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje of Kolhapur, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP and BJP member, said the government will have to pay a heavy price if people feel they are being taken for granted. Vasantrao Mulik, senior leader of Sakal Maratha Samaj, echoed similar sentiments over the issue. He blamed the government for not strongly arguing the case in the apex court. “We are upset as this decision has come even after recommendation from the Backward Class Commission, which is the constitutional authority,” he said. Karan Gaikar, a member of the state coordinating committee of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, which held state-wide agitations to push for the quota, said they were sceptical about the progress given the manner in which the current state government handled the issue. “We are at loss to understand why the state government did not allow the advocates who fought the case in high court to defend the reservation in the SC. All the leaders TOI spoke to blamed former CM Ashok Chavan, who is chief of a cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. Some leaders had recently demanded his removal from the panel. Tushar Jagtap, director of Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal (state corporation for backward classes), said the sub-committee under Ashok Chavan never met and the members of Maratha Kranti Morcha did not have any idea about the proceedings of the court. Chavan said the SC order was unexpected and shocking. “It is wrong to say that the SC has stayed the reservation. We will be moving an application on Monday to bring a stay on this order. Tomorrow, there is a meeting with the CM and the future course of action will be decided,” he said. Leader of opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis, under whose government the quota bill was passed, said the current government was never serious about the issue. “It was possible for the government to retain the reservation had it taken all the stakeholders into confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-leaders-slam-state-failure/articleshow/78027828.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid hosp under German Hanger in just five days||Lucknow: Proving the saying ‘necessity is the mother of invention’ right, a private hospital in the state capital started a makeshift dedicated Covid-19 facility on Wednesday. The structure came up under a high end water proof German hanger tent – which came to Lucknow at the time of first investors’ summit and then became a part of a number of conferences. Also, the hospital which has 25 beds, including ventilators, dialysis and isolation beds along with all the medical paraphernalia, needed to run a level-2-cum-level-3 facility came up in just five days. “When cases in Lucknow started surging, the state government asked us to pitch in for management of serious covid-19 patients. But our challenge was that we did not have a separate block or building inside our hospital which we could re-design to make a covid-19 hospital,” said Dr Mayank Somani, MD and CEO, Apollo Medics Super Specialty Hospital. “So we approached several private hospitals and also tried to get a government facility to do the needful. When the tie-up strategy didn’t work, we decided to evolve and came up with this option,” he added. Other corporate hospitals in the city — Medanta Medicity and Sahara Hospital — have turned buildings outside their main hospital structure into covid-19 hospitals. The hospital has invested about Rs 2.5 crore in the building the temporary infrastructure. The amount includes contributions through the CSR head as well. In addition to this, the hospital will spend about Rs 85-90 lakh for fixed and variable overheads every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-hosp-under-german-hanger-in-just-five-days/articleshow/78028018.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||70% compensatory afforestation data incorrect, says MoEFCC||NAGPUR: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has said that 70% of the data available with it in respect of compensatory afforestation is incorrect — indicating that either it is not being implemented properly or the staff is not trained to upload the data. Last month, MoEFCC’s inspector general of forest (IGF) AK Mohanty drew the attention of all states and Union Territories to strengthen Integrated Concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation System (i- CCMES) or e-Green Watch in consultation with the Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun. The e-Green Watch scheme of the MoEFCC is being implemented by the states in consultation with FSI since 2012. This initiative was conceived with a view to ensure automation, streamlining and effective management of processes related to utilization of CAMPA and all other funds earmarked by states under various central or state government schemes for plantation and other forestry related works. “The success of the above endeavour is based on correct uploading of data on e-Green Watch portal by state forest departments. One of the most critical data that is to be uploaded is in the form of digital polygon of the place where a work has been undertaken,” says Mohanty. The forest land diversion proposals are submitted through states. If clearance is given, compensation for the lost forest land is decided by the environment ministry and regulators. However, due to discrepancies in implementation of compensatory afforestation, Supreme Court on July 10, 2009 ordered a Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management & Planning Authority (CAMPA) as the national advisory council under MoEFCC. Its aim was to monitor technical assistance and evaluate compensatory afforestation activities. The same was institutionalized under the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act, 2016. The SC in its order also talked about need for an information system to monitor compensatory afforestation activities, following which e-Green Watch was created in 2012. The portal ensures automation, streamlining and effective management of processes related to utilization of CAMPA and other funds earmarked by states and Union Territories. Data is uploaded on the portal by states where compensatory afforestation works have taken place. “However, despite repeated requests from FSI, a significant percentage of data being uploaded, particularly the polygons, is either incorrect or incomplete. For example, only 30% of the uploaded polygons have been found to be correct as of now,” said Mohanty. Mohanty said states have been asked to strengthen units responsible for uploading data on e-Green Watch. An e-Green Watch cell may be created for collection, digitization and hosting of information in an effective manner. The MoEFCC has also called to establish a system for robust scrutiny of polygons before these are uploaded on e-Green Watch by working plan divisions. Forest departments have been asked to do capacity-building of staff to generate and analyse information yielding credible output in public domain. In Maharashtra, over 10 lakh hectares of forest land has been diverted through 500 projects from all sectors since 1980 when Forest Conservation Act (FCA) 1980 came into force. On the issue, MK Rao, PCCF (IT & Planning), said, “We are planning to make an integrated GIS mobile app to prevent the errors pointed out by MoEFCC. GIS cell and working plan offices can recheck each and every polygon before they are uploaded. We are also planning to provide basic GIS skills to our circle-level NIC coordinator to take up this job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/70-compensatory-afforestation-data-incorrect-says-moefcc/articleshow/78026413.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Is it even possible to hide Covid-19 deaths? Telangana CM to Opposition||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said he will not meet the opposition leaders whose only intention was to attack his government instead of providing constructive suggestions. Replying to CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka during a short discussion on Covid-19, the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said: “I am telling you this clearly. I have been seeing what you (opposition leaders) are saying against the government. There is no question of meeting you.” Asserting that no government can hide Covid-19 deaths, he asked: “Is it possible to hide the deaths? When the family members and others are involved, it is our bounden duty to be with the people.” The chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao suddenly turned towards All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi and said even he was also criticising the government unnecessarily. At this, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) floor leader Akbaruddin got up to say they had always complimented the government for its good work. “We have always been friends with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government and will remain friends with it,” he said. KCR said his party members were not getting enough time to speak in the assembly. He said: “TRS has numbers in the house and its members are expected to speak in the assembly by their constituents.” AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi complained that he was given more time in the House when the state was united. To this, KCR shot back saying, “In the united AP assembly, I was the lone TRS member. Then Speaker said I would be given 14 minutes in the entire session to speak. This is not a public arena. The assembly has certain rules and regulations, which were set long time ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-it-even-possible-to-hide-covid-19-deaths-cm-to-oppn/articleshow/78027831.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 10, 2020||Goa||Goa police form 3 teams to pursue robbery, stolen gold, supari angles||MARGAO: Goa police on Wednesday constituted three teams to probe the various leads that have come up in the investigation so far — robbery, stolen gold, and contract killing. Several more senior officers from across all divisions have been drafted in for the investigations. DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena on Wednesday held a closed-door meeting with select senior officers and reviewed the progress of the investigation so far. He told them that all angles need to be meticulously probed by the respective teams, and progress supervised by senior cops.  Sources said that the police have narrowed down the investigation to three angles, all of which have earlier been reported by TOI. Police sources aware of the development told TOI that each of the three teams is tasked with independently investigating only one particular lead. The mandate given to each is to analyse and decode all clues relevant to the particular line of investigation. The purpose, sources said, is to ensure that not a single relevant lead with regards to the motive behind the murder gets overlooked, and that the investigation reaches its fair and logical conclusion. Apart from the robbery angle, which police have already explained as a probable motive of the killers — and which is being further investigated by a team headed by crime branch PI CL Patil — another team constitutes officials from North Goa police, while a third team has officers from South Goa. TOI’s report on Wednesday raised questions about the perceived change in tack of investigations, as crime branch officers maintained that the motive behind the killing was pure robbery “and nothing more”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-form-3-teams-to-pursue-robbery-stolen-gold-supari-angles/articleshow/78028333.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||16 die in south TN, cases spike in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 805 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths on Wednesday. The deaths include a 46-year-old woman from Madurai who did not have any comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the central region recorded a spike for the second consecutive day with 743 fresh cases taking the tally to 38,171 on Wednesday, which include 5,461 active cases. The region also recorded ten Covid-19 deaths taking the toll to 575. By adding four deaths, Kanyakumari became the 3rd southern district and 8th in the state to cross the 200-mark mark. Madurai has recorded 369 deaths and is followed by Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari that have 201 deaths each. Death rate in Kanyakumari is 1.91% against 10,541 positive cases so far and 1.48% in Virudhunagar against 13,548 cases. Other deaths in the region include three in Dindigul, two in Tenkasi and one each in Madurai, Theni, Virudhunagar, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin. Except for Tirunelveli (139) and Kanyakumari (136) the eight other districts in the south recorded less than 100 fresh cases. Sivagangai (37) and Ramanathapuram (4) have recorded less than 50 cases. Except for Tirunelveli (1,093) and Madurai (1,060) other districts have less than 1,000 active cases. The central region crossed the 38,000-mark a day after recording 37,000 cases. The fresh cases saw an increase from 667 on Tuesday to 743 on Wednesday. The bulletin showed deaths in five districts in the central region except Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai. Nagappattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur recorded 172, 131 and 127 cases. Trichy recorded 98 cases, Pudukottai 118, Ariyalur 44, and Perambalur 15 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-die-in-south-tn-cases-spike-in-central-dists/articleshow/78027833.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Covid protocol not followed in function||Congress leaders claimed that they called few people to meet just to maintain Covid-19 protocol, but there was no protocol seen when Ajya Maken and Dotasra reached Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-protocol-not-followed-in-function/articleshow/78027827.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Centre’s booster dose of Rs 3,000-crore to NREGS job engine||LUCKNOW: In a big boost to rural employment in the state, the Centre sanctioned an additional budget of Rs 3,000 crore for Uttar Pradesh under its flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The allocation would generate additional employment of nine crore person days and this alone translates to Rs 1,800-crore aid to the state in coming days, reports Pankaj Shah. Confirming the job booster dose, additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said, the state would get an additional Rs 1,200 crore for purchase of construction material. Job cards under MNREGS more than doubled to 76 lakh in a yearThe Central bonanza would help mobilise employment in the rural heartland, which is otherwise hit by the Covid pandemic, he said. The state government has already exhausted Rs 4,500 crore in creating 22 crore person days of employment under MNREGS since April, when the scheme was restarted amid the lockdown. Rural development data accessed by TOI, shows person days over a four-month span (around 22 crore) was almost double of what was created in last few years. At least 12.12 crore person days were created in first six months of 2019-20, while in next six months till March this year, another 12.33 crore person days of employment were generated. In contrast, 10.18 crore person days of employment were created in the first six months of 2018-19, followed by 11.03 crore person days in the next six months. Data further shows the number of households provided job cards under MNREGS more than doubled from 33.48 lakh in 2019-20 to 76.14 lakh this year. In 2018-19 and 2017-18, employment could be given to 33.98 lakh and 31.28 lakh households. Officials said, community works accounted for 79% works taken up under MNREGS, while only 21% work was meant for individual benefit. Experts said the MNREGS became the job engine essentially because of augmented wages, which was raised from Rs 188 to Rs 201 earlier this year. Also, swift implementation of the scheme by the rural development department helped provide jobs to thousands of migrants who returned to UP following the nationwide lockdown. Officials said, despite the graded opening of the economy, there is uncertainty in various states which are sourcing manpower from UP. Kumar said, under the revised budget more than 3 crore person days would be created for construction of around 57,000 community sanitary complexes and more than 24,000 panchayat bhawans. The department, he said, has already zeroed in on 20 rivers, which would be revived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centre-gives-rs-3k-cr-booster-dose-to-nregs-job-engine/articleshow/78028058.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 10, 2020||Ajmer||Congress workers clash during Ajay Maken’s Ajmer meet||AJMER: There was commotion within the Congress party in Ajmer on Wednesday when new general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken and state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra came to meet division level public representatives and party workers. Dozens of Congress workers were detained and in protest Masuda Congress MLA Rakesh Pareek along with some local leaders sat on a dharna at the police station demanding action against police officials. Youths from the Gujjar community also came to the spot and tore some posters. There were two groups supporting chief minister Ashok Gehlot while another group was in support of Sachin Pilot and demanding that he be made the chief minister. Police had to use light power to control the situation. Maken and Dotasra came to Ajmer by road and when they reached Dudu, supporters of independent MLA Babu Lal Nagar shouted slogans in support of Ashok Gehlot. By the time the two leaders reached Ajmer, Congress workers were divided into two groups shouting slogans for their leaders. The leaders then went to a hotel to discuss the situation of the party at the grassroots level. Outside the hotel, MLA Rakesh Pareek and former mayor Bakoliya had a tussle with policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cong-workers-clash-during-makens-ajmer-meet/articleshow/78035922.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Scrapping 70:30 needed a scientific study: Mishra||Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, a senior academic and committee member of Medical Council of India, headed a study task force in 1994-95 to look into inequity in medical education. Constituted by the Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (VDB), the study found that local students were missing out on admissions in medical colleges in Vidarbha and Marathwada. The state then came up with the 70:30 formula which was done away with on Tuesday. TOI speaks to Dr Mishra on the importance of the decision and the implications of its withdrawal now. Excerpts ... What were the conditions which led to the 70:30 formula being implemented? It started with the formation of Vidarbha Statutory Development Board around 1994-95 as per provisions of the Constitution. Its premise was that in every region there are bound to be inequities in development and hence modalities need to be worked out to correct it. Following this, under my chairmanship a task force was constituted to look into inequity in medical education. After some months of research, it became clear that there was a glaring imbalance in the number of admissions done at medical colleges from their native region. How did you reach that conclusion? We divided the state into three zones — Vidarbha, Marathwada and rest of Maharashtra. This excluded Mumbai, Pune and Nashik where development was not an issue. In each zone we looked at first the number of medical colleges and number of seats available. Then we worked out the ratio of each seat to the population of that zone. Next was the ‘rate of eligibility’, which is how many students cleared their HSC under the local regional board. At that time, there were no entrance tests for medical seats. This gave us an idea of how many local students are eligible for admissions. Then we looked at number of students from native geographical region, finally getting admissions. All these computations gave us a clear picture on how many seats are going to those from ‘rest of Maharashtra’ vis-à-vis local students. And statistics showed that bulk of the seats were not going to native students. Was this problem compounded as there were fewer seats back then? In the mid-90s, there were roughly 650 seats in Vidarbha (currently it’s almost double). Some colleges like NKP Salve and the one at Sawangi had barely started a year or two prior. From these seats first you deduct the 15% all-India quota. Then there are seats fixed under reservation. So it was very tough for regional students to get into medical colleges while competing with those from Mumbai and Pune who had access to better facilities and quality of education. Why 70:30, why not more or less? The backlog of inequity cannot be cleared in one year. Also, you can’t reserve 100% seats too. So the Board, based on our report, proposed the 70:30 formula which would gradually increase till years of backlog is cleared. It will decrease too once its purpose is met. But is it not good that merit triumphs rather than regional consideration? The Constitution allows for reasonable restrictions to ensure equitable development. The quota was to make sure that students from remote Gadchiroli too stand a change of getting admission while competing with someone from Mumbai. I can’t race you if my legs are tied. Did the regional quota achieve its goal? Substantially. With 70% seats for native students, we have been able to produce more doctors from the region. But has it been effective to the extent that the formula is no more required, is subject to a scientific study. Because if implementation of the formula was backed by a scientific study, ideally removal should follow the same formula. There are fears that this will lead to Mumbai and Pune students hogging majority of seats here. At this stage I don’t want to comment on this till I go through some scientific study about position of merit students of various boards. If the numbers prove that the backlog has been cleared and 70:30 is no more required, I will gladly stand by it. My information is based on the data collected between 1991-94, following which I prepared the report that showed the inequity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scrapping-7030-needed-a-scientific-study-mishra/articleshow/78027838.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||ICU-2 and 3 functioning, 1 from tonight||Vadodara: The condition of all the patients, who were evacuated from the Covid hospital at the state-run SSG Hospital after Tuesday’s fire incident, is stable. Altogether 40 patients had been evacuated from the first floor of the Covid hospital in the incident. The floor houses three intensive care units (ICUs). “The fire had affected ICU-1 but all the 40 patients including those in ICU-2 and ICU-3 were evacuated,” said Dr Minoo Patel, advisor for Covid-19 at both SSG and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. Of the six patients who were shifted to Gotri hospital on Tuesday night, only three were from the affected ICU, while three others were from casualty ward on the ground floor. “ICU 2 and 3 on the first floor started immediately with 27 patients,” said Patel. Officials said that ICU-1 will resume operations from Wednesday night itself after the fire and civil department, which visited the hospital premises on Wednesday, checked the connections of the units thoroughly and gave its nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/icu-2-and-3-functioning-1-from-tonight/articleshow/78024260.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Now, 12 contacts of Covid patients to be traced instead of 8||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj together accounted for more than 26% of UP’s total Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to increase contact tracing in these cities. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that against the current protocol of tracing about eight contacts of a Covid-positive person, the CM has said that at least 12 persons should be tracked. On Wednesday, Lucknow reported 869 cases, Kanpur 473 and Prayagraj 459 cases. With Lucknow reporting the highest number of cases in the state and also getting patients referred from other districts, the CM has said that the number of Covid beds here should also be increased. “The CM has said that more beds in L-2 and L-3 hospitals should be added on priority. Beds under L-1 and L-2 categories should also be increased in other districts. Simultaneously, staff in hospitals should also be increased after providing necessary training to doctors and paramedics in view of Covid,” Awasthi said. ‘PPE kits for all med staff’He added that PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves and sanitizers will be provided to all medical staff to protect them from infection. The CM has also directed that the CM helpline maintains communication with home-isolated patients at least twice a day to get feedback on their condition. CM has asked officials to convene a meeting of Udyog Bandhu and dispose of all problems raised by investors and entrepreneurs. He will personally interact with entrepreneurs for feedback. He asked the commercial tax department to make an action plan to increase GST collection and he will hold a virtual meeting with trade tax officers. He said all formalities regarding the construction of UP Police Forensic University should be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-12-contacts-of-covid-patients-to-be-traced-instead-of-8/articleshow/78028065.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Now, 12 contacts of Covid patients to be traced instead of 8||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj together accounted for more than 26% of UP’s total Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to increase contact tracing in these cities. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that against the current protocol of tracing about eight contacts of a Covid-positive person, the CM has said that at least 12 persons should be tracked. On Wednesday, Lucknow reported 869 cases, Kanpur 473 and Prayagraj 459 cases. With Lucknow reporting the highest number of cases in the state and also getting patients referred from other districts, the CM has said that the number of Covid beds here should also be increased. “The CM has said that more beds in L-2 and L-3 hospitals should be added on priority. Beds under L-1 and L-2 categories should also be increased in other districts. Simultaneously, staff in hospitals should also be increased after providing necessary training to doctors and paramedics in view of Covid,” Awasthi said. ‘PPE kits for all med staff’He added that PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves and sanitizers will be provided to all medical staff to protect them from infection. The CM has also directed that the CM helpline maintains communication with home-isolated patients at least twice a day to get feedback on their condition. CM has asked officials to convene a meeting of Udyog Bandhu and dispose of all problems raised by investors and entrepreneurs. He will personally interact with entrepreneurs for feedback. He asked the commercial tax department to make an action plan to increase GST collection and he will hold a virtual meeting with trade tax officers. He said all formalities regarding the construction of UP Police Forensic University should be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/now-12-contacts-of-covid-patients-to-be-traced-instead-of-8/articleshow/78029651.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Akbaruddin Owaisi leaves House after K Chandrasekhar Rao’s barb||HYDERABAD: AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi was involved in a verbal joust with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on the statement made by the government on the pandemic. When KCR reacted sharply to his speech, Akbaruddin abruptly ended it and left the House. During the discussion on Covid-19 cases, Akbaruddin said the government had issued the statement like a routine health bulletin which did not make no mention about health workers like doctors, nurses who have been working tirelessly risking their lives. “The government did not mention about donations to CMRF and PMRF by individuals, firms and NGOs. It is most unfortunate that the government did not talk about the impact of the pandemic on sectors like economy, industries, agriculture and other sectors,” he said. While praising health minister Eatala Rajender for his hard work, he said the government blamed the Tablighis for the spread of the disease in the city. KCR interrupted Akbaruddin, saying the government did not give a detailed note on impact so as not to turn into a ‘Mahaharat’. “If the member wants, the government will provide information,” he said. On saluting Covid warriors, he said the government provided incentives to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akbar-leaves-houseafter-kcrs-barb/articleshow/78027850.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Congress workers clash during Ajay Maken’s Ajmer meet||AJMER: There was commotion within the Congress party in Ajmer on Wednesday when new general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken and state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra came to meet division level public representatives and party workers. Dozens of Congress workers were detained and in protest Masuda Congress MLA Rakesh Pareek along with some local leaders sat on a dharna at the police station demanding action against police officials. Youths from the Gujjar community also came to the spot and tore some posters. There were two groups supporting chief minister Ashok Gehlot while another group was in support of Sachin Pilot and demanding that he be made the chief minister. Police had to use light power to control the situation. Maken and Dotasra came to Ajmer by road and when they reached Dudu, supporters of independent MLA Babu Lal Nagar shouted slogans in support of Ashok Gehlot. By the time the two leaders reached Ajmer, Congress workers were divided into two groups shouting slogans for their leaders. The leaders then went to a hotel to discuss the situation of the party at the grassroots level. Outside the hotel, MLA Rakesh Pareek and former mayor Bakoliya had a tussle with policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-workers-clash-during-makens-ajmer-meet/articleshow/78027836.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Covid mother’s twin joys: Successful IVF and a healthy boy!||Rajkot: It was double joy for the family of the woman from Rajkot who had conceived through IVF and tested Covid-19 positive after she successfully delivered a baby boy through C-section on September 5 and the infant testing negative on Tuesday.Vidhi Shah had tested positive of the virus just a few days from the date of delivery during routine checking. She was admitted to Rajkot Covid hospital. “Vidhi could conceive the child after the third cycle of IVF technology. She was tested positive and admitted in hospital on September 4. We also found the need to perform a C section but she gave birth to a three KG boy successfully,” said Dr Sheetal Prajapati.The baby’s report was sent for testing on Monday and it tested negative on Tuesday. According to doctors, the mother is also improving. The new mother was all thankful of the doctors here for their continuous efforts. “I wanted to feel my baby after birth but it was not possible. However, I was happy to know that he was healthy and did not get infected,” gushed the mother, who will be discharged only after she tests negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-covid-mothers-twin-joys-successful-ivf-and-a-healthy-boy/articleshow/78025071.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||5 die in Jaisalmer accident||Jaisalmer: Five persons including a minor died after the SUV in which they were travelling collided with an army truck under Mohangarh police station area in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday. The minor, who sustained critical injuries, died in hospital during treatment. The deceased were residents of Barmer district and had to come to take stock of crops in the fields in Mohangarh area. Mohangarh SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi said Moolaram Jat, retired forest officer and resident of Baytoo area, along with three other farmers — Sataram Jat, Khetaram Jat and a minor— all residents of Barmer, were returning home after taking care of their fields in PTM area when their vehicle collided with an army truck near 105RD on Buili Road. While four people died on the spot, the minor died during treatment in a hospital. Villagers from nearby areas came and took them out of the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-die-in-jaisalmer-accident/articleshow/78027840.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Now, 12 contacts of Covid patients to be traced instead of 8||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj together accounted for more than 26% of UP’s total Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to increase contact tracing in these cities. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that against the current protocol of tracing about eight contacts of a Covid-positive person, the CM has said that at least 12 persons should be tracked. On Wednesday, Lucknow reported 869 cases, Kanpur 473 and Prayagraj 459 cases. With Lucknow reporting the highest number of cases in the state and also getting patients referred from other districts, the CM has said that the number of Covid beds here should also be increased. “The CM has said that more beds in L-2 and L-3 hospitals should be added on priority. Beds under L-1 and L-2 categories should also be increased in other districts. Simultaneously, staff in hospitals should also be increased after providing necessary training to doctors and paramedics in view of Covid,” Awasthi said. ‘PPE kits for all med staff’He added that PPE kits, N-95 masks, gloves and sanitizers will be provided to all medical staff to protect them from infection. The CM has also directed that the CM helpline maintains communication with home-isolated patients at least twice a day to get feedback on their condition. CM has asked officials to convene a meeting of Udyog Bandhu and dispose of all problems raised by investors and entrepreneurs. He will personally interact with entrepreneurs for feedback. He asked the commercial tax department to make an action plan to increase GST collection and he will hold a virtual meeting with trade tax officers. He said all formalities regarding the construction of UP Police Forensic University should be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/now-12-contacts-of-covid-patients-to-be-traced-instead-of-8/articleshow/78029652.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Three road projects in Vidarbha hit as contractor commits fraud||NAGPUR: Three road projects in Vidarbha have been adversely affected as their contractor has committed fraud and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has lodged a police complaint against the firm owners. The contractor has stopped work since then. The works include upgradation of the national highways from Seldoh to Paonar in Wardha district, Sakoli to Bhandara district border in Bhandara district and Digras-Darwha-Karanja road in Yavatmal district. The total cost of the works is around Rs 700 crore. The contractor is Pune-based Patil Constructions and executing agency is state Public Works Department (PWD). Patil Constructions had bagged nine projects in the state in 2011-12. It missed the deadline for three projects – a 40-km stretch in Yavatmal, a 48.62-km project in Wardha, and a 59-km road in Raigad district. The Union ministry of surface transport and highways (MoRTH) headed by Nitin Gadkari conducted a review of projects in June 2020. It decided to terminate Patil Constructions’ contract for these three projects. On August 11 this year, Anshumali Srivastava, chief engineer of NHAI received a WhatsApp message from the contractor MB Patil with a picture of two letters. First was dated July 31 and signed by joint secretary of MoRTH Amit Kumar Ghosh. The second letter was dated August 10 and signed by superintending engineer, director general office (road development) Sanjay Garg. Both stated there was a rethink on taking the three projects away from Patil Constructions and a committee had been set up to review the decision. Srivastava was puzzled that the letters should have come from the contractor and not from his head office. The CE contacted Ghosh and Garg and sent them the two letters on WhatsApp. Both responded that they had not issued any such letter. The two officers told Srivastava not to follow the instructions issued in the letter and lodge a police complaint against Patil. Srivastava then lodged a complaint against Patil and his business development manager S Dashetwar with Navi Mumbai police. The cops are investigating the case and are searching for the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-road-projects-in-vidarbha-hit-as-contractor-commits-fraud/articleshow/78026494.cms||Ashish Roy
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Suggestions to make TN top in ease of business||Madurai: Expressing concern at the 14th place secured by Tamil Nadu in ease of doing business in the ‘State Business Reform Action Plant 2019 (BARP)’, Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has come up with suggestions to the government to take the state to the top spot. “Our state with facilities such as enough infrastructure like electricity, water, labour force and peace looks good for starting any industry. However, due to delay in issuing licences, many investors are moving to other states,” association president S P Jeyapragasam said. The association said that the licensing procedure has to be simplified and entrepreneurs and investors should not have to bear extra expenditure other than the determined fees by the government for licensing, power connections, waste water disposal and for clearances from departments such as the pollution control board. They also sought guidance from the district industries centre to help stakeholders get financial assistance to set up businesses. Committees comprising senior IAS officers, district collectors and officials from the line departments should be formed to redress hardships faced by entrepreneurs from time to time. The association noted that in selecting industrial or factory site, plots adjacent to the city are classified as ‘mixed residential use zone’ and converting them as commercial, takes up to a year. The local planning authority (LPA) under the district collector should convert classification within a month, they suggested.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/suggestions-to-make-tn-top-in-ease-of-business/articleshow/78027870.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Main accused in gang-rape case arrested||Jodhpur: Police on Wednesday arrested the main accused of the gangrape of a minor girl in Jalore’s Bagoda. The girl had been abducted form near her house in Sewari village on August 29 when she was on her way to answer nature’s call by Barkat Khan and others in their vehicle.According to victim’s father, his daughter was kidnapped and raped by the accused for two days. They found their daughter on August 31 and filed a complaint with police against Barkat Khan, Bhagwanaram, Gangaram, Somtaram and Sunil. According to report, one of the accused had called up victim’s father stating that they had dropped their daughter in the village on next day of her abduction but she was not found. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/main-accused-in-gang-rape-case-arrested/articleshow/78027869.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||CM suspends Mahoba SP for graft, 2nd IPS in 24 hrs||Lucknow/Jhansi: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suspended another IPS officer, Mahoba superintendent of police Mani Lal Patidar, on Wednesday after receiving complaints of corruption. On Tuesday, he had suspended Prayagraj SSP for corruption and failure to control crime. Patidar is the sixth IPS officer to be suspended in Uttar Pradesh this year. “SP Mani Lal Patidar had been illegally demanding money for the running of vehicles engaged in transportation of stone chips. When his demand was not met, vehicle owners were harassed through the police,” a home department statement said on Wednesday. “On the CM’s order, he has been suspended with immediate effect,” the order said. Lucknow DCP Arun Kumar Srivastava has been posted as the new Mahoba SP. Patidar has been attached to the office of the UP DGP for the period of his suspension. The issue came to light on Monday when a Mahoba-based crusher dealer, Indrakant Tripathi, who is also into transportation of stone chips, alleged in a video that Mahoba SP Patidar was demanding Rs 6 lakh to allow him to continue with his business. He also sent a written complaint to the CM. Tripathi was shot at by unknown assailants on Tuesday when he was going to Banda. He is recuperating in a Kanpur hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-suspends-mahoba-sp-for-graft-2nd-ips-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78028084.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks relaxation for payment of tax, insurance for cabs||Madurai: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the state government on a plea which sought relaxation from payment of tax and insurance for cab owners and drivers, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Gopalakrishnan, who is the Kanyakumari district coordinator of Democratic Corruption Liberation Front. The petitioner stated that due to restrictions imposed on transportation, the cab owners and drivers were affected as they had lost their only source of income. Though the state government had distributed monetary assistance to unorganised sector workers periodically, no such assistance was given to the cab owners and drivers and sought relaxation from payment of tax and insurance for their vehicles. Since there was no response to the representations submitted to the authorities, the petitioner moved the HC bench seeking relief. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice to the state government and adjourned the case to October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-relaxation-for-payment-of-tax-insurance-for-cabs/articleshow/78027867.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP gets 1,700 ventilators via PM CARES||Lucknow: Tertiary level Covid-19 medical care in UP is set to get a shot in the arm with a bounty of over 1,700 ventilators provided by the Union government. Of these, 1,100 have been delivered to districts, while the process for dispatching the remaining is underway. Officials at the state medical education department revealed that around 750 of these ventilators have been installed. “Manufactured by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), the ventilators have been provided through the PM CARES. Nine units from the company are supervising installation of the ventilators,” said additional chief secretary medical education Dr Rajneesh Dube. He added that ventilators were being set up at level-2 hospitals in 43 districts. The number per district has been decided after a thorough need assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gets-1700-ventilators-via-pm-cares/articleshow/78028073.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 10, 2020||Hubballi||Covid audit report uploaded||Ballari: The Ballari district administration has now taken measures to keep everyone updated and informed about the funds spent by the district administration under various schemes to tackle Covid-19 in the district. The district administration has uploaded the complete audit report on Covid-19 expenditure till August, 25, 2020, on its official website for transparency, on Wednesday. According to the report, a total Rs 16, 23, 53,747 has been spent till August 25 under different categories, of which, Rs 10,42,89,772 has been spent from the district mineral fund (DMFT), Rs 3,08,88,975 spent under the state disaster response fund (SDRF) and Rs 2,71,75,000 from the CSR fund. Ballari deputy commissioner S S Nakul told TOI that Ballari is the first district in the state to upload the audit report in order to give clarity and maintain transparency in utilisation of funds to tackle Covid-19 under different categories. Now, anyone can have access to this audit report on Covid-19 expenditure, he said. Though it is not mandatory for the district administration to upload the audit report on Covid-19 expenditure in the public domain, we have uploaded the audit report to inform the public about how much has been spent for tackling the pandemic in the district. There should not be any misunderstanding among the public about the utilisation of government funds by the district administration, he said. He said that they have adequate funds under DMFT, SDRF and CRF, and we are utilising it effectively to make the district free of Covid. We have spent maximum funds for upgrading some taluk hospitals to equip them with all the facilities to treat Covid patients like setting up Covid wards, construction of oxygen tanks in hospitals, procuring masks, PPE kits, medicines and medical equipment, and establishing fever clinics, swab collection centres and other works related to Covid-19 in the district, he informed. “There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases, but as a result of our concerted efforts, the number of cured and discharged patients is also increasing by the day, and the recovery rate is very encouraging in the district. We have stepped up all measures to conduct tests and give timely treatment to the infected people in the district by utilising funds in a proper way,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-audit-report-uploaded/articleshow/78025091.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Newly married couples seek protection from relatives in Barmer||Jaisalmer: Two newly married couples from Barmer have sought help of police against their families, who are allegedly threatening them over their love marriage. The couples, in two different cases of love marriage, had approached SP Barmer for help, as their family members were allegedly threatening them. A woman, a resident of Gudamalani town of Barmer district, had married a youth of Chitalwana in Jalore district. They met the SP and gave a memorandum asking for security. The SP later sent the couple back to the youth’s village under strict police protection. The couple had eloped to marry each other but after the marriage, the girl’s family were allegedly threatening them and they got scared. Similarly, in another incident, a newly married couple from Samdadi area of Barmer district met the SP and demanded security as their family members were threatening them. Mamta and Mafaram reached the SP office and said that they were engaged for last 10 years and the family members of Mamta were planning to get her married somewhere else. After getting to know this, the couple decided to get married. Mamta ran away from her home and reached Ranodar where she married Mafaram in Sheetalamata temple on August 31. They got their marriage registered on September 2. The couple said that Mamta’s family had sent a few persons behind them, due to which they feel threatened for their life. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that a youth from Jalore district and a woman from Gudamalani in Barmer district came to him and asked for security. Both are adults and consensually married and even produced the marriage registration. In such a situation their marriage is legally valid, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newly-married-couples-seek-protection-from-relatives-in-barmer/articleshow/78027864.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||Two rescued from fire in Vesu||Surat: Two persons were rescued from the second floor of a commercial complex in Vesu after a major fire broke out in the cable duct of the complex on Wednesday evening. Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department officials said that the incident occurred at Canal Walk Shoppers Complex located on Canal Road at about 6pm. Premises houses about 200 shops, offices and a marriage hall. There was a fire in the cable duct following a short circuit in the meter box on the ground floor. The fire spread in the duct till the fourth floor. A boy and a girl, whose identities could not be ascertained, were stuck on the second floor. Firemen rescued them using turntable ladders. Chief fire officer Basant Pareek said: “Five fire tenders were deployed. We had to use turntable ladder to rescue victims stuck on the second floor after breaking front elevation window.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-rescued-from-fire-in-vesu/articleshow/78025172.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Patna||Civil court lawyers abstain from work||PATNA: The functioning in Patna civil court was hit on Wednesday as lawyers abstained from routine legal work to protest the murder of their colleague Harendra Rai (55) near Sarari under Naubatpur police station area in western Patna on Tuesday. The lawyers would abstain from work till Friday. Harendra was shot dead on way to the court from his village at Alipur. Patna civil court bar association president Ashok Kumar Sinha said, “We will abstain from routine legal work till Friday. Further decision would be taken on Monday.” He said the bar demands Rs 50 lakh compensation from the government to Rai’s family. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said Santosh Kumar, one of the three named accused, was arrested on Wednesday. He said intensive raids were going on to nab the other accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civil-court-lawyers-abstain-from-work/articleshow/78024757.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Man,40, killed by wife and her paramour||PILIBHIT: The police on Wednesday arrested a woman and her paramour for allegedly killing her husband. Nanhi Devi, 35, belonged to village Suhas under Gajraula police station and her paramour, Banwari Lal, is a native of village Umassar under Jahanabad police station. Body of Ram Das, 40, had been found lying inside his house on Tuesday morning. The body bore marks of strangulation on trachea. Gajraula police station SHO Jai Prakash Singh said, “An FIR had been lodged against unidentified accused under IPC section 302 (murder) on Tuesday evening following a written complaint filed by deceased’s father Laljeet.” However, after the police came to know about Nanhi Devi’s illicit relations with Banwari Lal, who is also her cousin, a police team was constituted to arrest her. Devi, who had been absconding ever since her husband’s murder, was about to leave the district along with her paramour. They were likely to leave the district when the police arrested them from Agyari crossing on Gajraula-Deoria road on Wednesday. “Nanhi Devi had sent her three children to sleep with their grandfather in another house on Monday night so that there is no witness to the murder,” he said. The accused confessed to their crime and said that they strangled Ramdas by fastening his trachea with a noose of nylon cord as he was an hindrance in their illicit relationship. Their names have been added to the FIR lodged earlier, SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-killed-by-wife-paramour/articleshow/78022818.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||Contractor held for 2 labourers’ deaths||Surat: Police detained Jogaram Sen, a contractor, on Tuesday in the death of two labourers who died of suffocation after they were made to enter a manhole without safety gears. The accused will be arrested after Covid-19 test. In the incident, Momsing alias Jumsing Ratna Amaliyar (45) and Jayendra Khuna Amaliyar (28) died due to suffocation on Monday afternoon. They had entered 15 feet in the storm water drainage manhole and fainted. The complaint was lodged by Anil Amliyar, son of Momsing. The accused has been booked for culpable homicide under Indian Penal Code along with sections of The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. The investigation has been handed over to R K Zala, assistant commissioner of police, SC/ST Cell. “The accused has been detained and he will be arrested after Covid-19 test. So far the role of no other accused has been found in the incident,” said a police officer. Suffocation is confirmed as the reason in the preliminary post-mortem report. Police are investigating that under what circumstances the accused did not provide safety gears to the deceased. It is also a matter of investigation whether the work was being done under the supervision of civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/contractor-held-for-2-labourers-deaths/articleshow/78025122.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 10 lakh cr worth waqf properties encroached||Hyderabad: Over Rs 10 lakh crore worth waqf properties were either encroached due to the delay on the part of the state government to publish a gazette about the ownership and extent of land and properties belonging to the Telangana State Waqf Board. Raising the issue during question hour in the Assembly, MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi said that no one can claim ownership of waqf land once the property is listed in the gazette. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-10-lakh-cr-worth-waqf-properties-encroached/articleshow/78027868.cms||Roushan Ali
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Length of national highways trebled in Maharashtra, claims Gadkari||NAGPUR: Maharashtra tremendously benefited from Nitin Gadkari getting the surface transport and highways ministry. The length of national highways in the state more than trebled in the last six years. A press communiqué issued by Gadkari’s office stated that the length of national highways in Maharashtra was 5,700km when the minister took charge. At the end of August 2020, the figure has reached 17,749km, an increase of 211%. All the districts in the state are now connected with national highways, it added. The release further said 520 works were sanctioned in the last six years. “The total length covered was 14,450km and the cost of these works was Rs1.28 lakh crore. Of the total length, about 1,100km are cement roads. The maintenance cost of these roads is very less as compared to tar roads,” it added. So far, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and public works department (PWD) have completed 9,281km roads in the state. Work on 5,260km is under progress. Of the completed length, 3,433km are concrete roads while remaining are tar roads. The central government has spent Rs70,388 crore on national highways in the state so far. The Centre has sanctioned Rs3,232 crore for national highways in Maharashtra in 2020-21. Work will start after the detailed project reports (DPRs) are approved. NHAI and PWD have finalized 14 tenders. The length of the roads is 87km and cost is Rs532 crore. Tenders process for five works is in progress and their cost is Rs221 crore. Moreover, nine tenders for a total length of 400km at a cost of about Rs7,000 crore have been finalized. Other than this, works worth Rs9,000 crore will be sanctioned under Bharatmala project. NHAI has proposed another seven works having total length of 305km. Some Rs4,500 crore will be required for it. NHAI is preparing DPR of 25 works while PWD is doing for 18 roads. Gadkari also sanctioned Rs7,420 crore through Central Road Fund (CRF) on various projects. Some 166 works worth Rs3,820 crore have been completed. Centre has provided Rs674 crore to Maharashtra under CRF in 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/length-of-national-highways-trebled-in-state-claims-gadkari/articleshow/78026508.cms||Ashish Roy
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||UP minor girl sold to Chittorgarh man for marriage, rescued||Udaipur: A 13-year-old girl from Sonbadhr a district in Uttar Pradesh was allegedly sold to a 30-year-old man in Chittorgarh's Babrana, who forcibly married her seven months ago and abused her. The girl, who managed to get the childline number, sought help and was lucky enough to be rescued after months of sufferings.The girl is presently in a state aided shelter home in Chittorgarh. On Wednesday, Dr Shailendra Pandya, member of Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in a visit to Chittorgarh inspected shelter homes and the girl narrated her moving story to him.Bhojraj Singh, in-charge of the shelter home, said that the girl lived with her parents, two sisters and a brother in Shakti Nagar of Sonbhadra. She was studying in Class 6. On February 14, their neighbour Lakshmi Dadeech, wife of Satyanarayan, a resident of Bhilwara, took her from home on the pretext of a tour and brought her to Chittorgarh. They kept her in a home at Akola for few days and called one Basanti Lal Dadeech. The girl was told that she was going to be married to Lal and despite her protests, the marriage was held at a mass gathering in Kota on February 25. Lakshmi took Rs 2.70 lakh from Lal for the bride and the man took her to his home in Babrana in Chittorgarh and forced her into sexual activities, Singh said.The girl said she was beaten up and abused by her husband and his elder brother and when she told about it to her parents on telephone, her parents said they could not travel due to the lockdown and once it’s over, they would take her back home. Later, Lal did not allow her to speak to her family.Pandya said the matter would be thoroughly investigated and asked the police to lodge the case under provisions of POCSO Act, child trafficking, child marriage and domestic violence. He also said that the commission would take action on gangs working to sell children and marrying them to old men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/up-minor-girl-sold-to-chittorgarh-man-for-marriage-rescued/articleshow/78027891.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Worker’s burnt body found at burial ground||Madurai: A man allegedly killed himself by jumping on top of a burning body that was being cremated at a burial ground in Rajapalayam on Wednesday. At the burial ground in Kayakudiyaru in Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district, a man aged about 50, from Avarampatti in the region, who had succumbed to a heart attack, was being cremated manually using firewood on Tuesday evening. Some of his relatives had gone to the burial ground on Wednesday morning to collect the ashes for further rituals, where they found a partially burned body lying on top of the cremated body.They informed the Rajapalayam police following which Rajapalayam North police station inspector Parthiban went to the spot. Investigations revealed that the partially burnt body belonged to Ramsingh, 26, of Sevalpatti, a construction worker. His family told the police that he had been disturbed for the past few days and had been talking of suicide. A postmortem was performed at the site and handed over to the family, who performed the funeral in the same place.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/workers-burnt-body-found-at-burial-ground/articleshow/78027893.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||‘Stone killer’ killed for revenge||Rajkot: Mahesh Sunara (44), the notorious stone killer, who too was stoned to death was a victim of his wayward sexual behaviour, said the police, who arrested two of his killers on Wednesday. Cops are hunting for the third murder accomplice, all three victims of Sunara’s sexual predation. Sunara was found stoned to death on the terrace of a factory in Navrangpara Lane number-11 in Rajkot on Monday. “Our investigation revealed that Sunara was last seen with Ajit Babar, Vijay Dholi, both aged 21, and a third accomplice Farman Nepali. While Dholi was arrested from Rajkot, Babar was nabbed from Sajadiyari village of Bhanwad taluka. However, Nepali remains at large,” said V K Zala, sub-inspector with Malaviyanagar police station, adding that the accused trio were friends. During interrogation, the duo confessed to stoning Sunara to death with the help of Nepali. According to police, Sunara had befriended Babar five years ago in Jetpur where he forced the latter into having physical relation with him in a hotel. Thereafter, he would blackmail and threaten Babar of exposing him and exploit him sexually. After some time, Babar went to Dubai for two years to work. Upon returning to India on March 10 this year, he went to Sajadiyari village where he reconnected with Sunara, who again forced him into the same murky rigmarole. About the same time, in a fight with Dholi, Sunara allegedly threatened Dholi with a knife and said that he had “stoned a man to death in Rajkot 10 years ago and would not deter from doing the same with him”. Even while fighting with Nepali, Sunara allegedly threatened him with the same words. Fed up with his sexual assaults, the friends decided to kill him in the same way he committed the two murders of beggars in 2009 — with a stone. “On September 3, Sunara called Babar to the terrace of a factory and when they were sleeping, Dholi and Nepali came with the intention of killing Sunara as pre-planned. Dholi hit Sunara’s head with a brick and before he could get up, Dholi and Babar grabbed him from behind and Nepali picked up a stone and hit Sunara on his head. Then both Dholi and Nepali stoned Sunara till he died,” said Zala. After committing the crime, Babar and Dholi asked a factory labourer to lend them his mobile phone. They inserted Sunara’s SIM card and dialled 100. But failing to connect, they dialled 108 and informed about the murder in Navrangpara. After that the duo destroyed the SIM card and left. On Monday, after stench emanated from the decomposed body, the labourers from nearby factories informed the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stone-killer-killed-for-revenge/articleshow/78025138.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Banswara inspector among 4 killed in mishap on NH-113||Udaipur: A circle inspector (CI), his wife and another couple were killed in a head-on collision between the car in which they were travelling and a trolla on the Pratapgarh-Banswara road near Padliya village on the National Highway 113 in the wee hours of Wednesday.According to sources, police officer Akhilesh Singh and his wife, their friend Vinay Yadav and his wife were travelling from Jaipur to Banswara in the car which collided with the trolla. Singh was posted as in-charge of the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit at Banswara, while he originally hails from Behroad in Alwar. Singh was off duty for few days and was returning to Banswara with his wife, sources said. A highway patrol team is said to have reportedly stopped the car to know details of the late night travellers and Singh showed them his identity car. They met with the fatal accident some miles ahead. The collision was so hard that the car was completely crushed and the passengers died on the spot. Ambulances carried them to the district hospital where they were pronounced dead.Himmat Singh, SHO of Suhagpura police station, visited the spot. The SHO said the trolla driver, who had fled after the accident, has been arrested. The car was removed from the road with the help of a earth moving machine. A case has been registered and an investigation to know the cause of accident is underway. A liquor and cold drink bottles were found from the car, sources claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banswara-inspector-among-4-killed-in-mishap-on-nh-113/articleshow/78027875.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard kills 10 year old boy out on morning walk||CHANDRAPUR: A 10-year-old boy out on a morning walk with friends on the state highway was captured by a leopard and killed in Samda forest under Saoli range in the early hours of Wednesday. According to sources, the incident took place at around 5am. The victim, identified as Sanskar Burle from Kapsi village in Saoli tehsil, was with his friends when the leopard hiding in thicket along the road pounced on him. Terrified friends and others out for a morning walk fled to the village and raised alarm. Hundreds of villagers rushed to the forest in search of the boy, only to find his body inside the forest a few metres from the road. On getting information, forest officials of Saoli range reached the spot and sent the body for post mortem after inquest formalities. Forest department has increased patrolling in the area and people have been warned not to venture out during dawn and dusk. Officials claimed that they have installed seven camera traps to identify the leopard responsible for the kill. The officials provided an aid of Rs25,000 to the parents of the boy and assured them of providing remaining compensation after completing formalities. Predators have killed 22 people in Chandrapur district this year so far. A total of 19 people have been killed in tiger attacks, while three others by leopards. Predators had killed 23 people in the district last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-kills-10-yr-old-out-on-morning-walk/articleshow/78027927.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Two arrested for threatening min’s PRO for extortion||Lucknow: The Gonda police arrested two persons on Wednesday in connection with Rs 1 crore extortion threat to the public relations officer of a cabinet minister. Police said the accused, Manish Maurya and Luvkush Yadav, threatened Ved Prakash Dubey, the PRO of social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri, in an attempt to frame their rivals in the extortion case. Dubey had received threat message in the last week of August and lodged an FIR on September 6. Superintendent of police, Gonda, Raj Karan Nayyar told TOI that Luvkush Yadav, who also had criminal antecedents, was the mastermind of the case. He said Yadav’s aide Manish Maurya owned a small mobile repair shop in Ayodhya who provided him the SIM card. “Yadav sent threat message to the minister’s PRO as he wanted to implicate his rivals who were also listed criminals and had served jail term. Police thwarted his design before he could succeed,” the SP said. “Yadav used the names of his rivals to send extortion messages to several people, including the minister’s PRO. Yadav’s friend Maurya used the valid proof of one of his customer from Maharajganj to issue a SIM card,” Nayyar added. “The customer did not know the nuances of SIM card purchase. Taking advantage of the situation, Maurya used the customer’s ID proof to issue a new SIM card but gave it to Yadav and handed over a rejected SIM to the customer,” he said. Initially, the police arrested the man on whose name the SIM card was issued. On the basis of his statement, cops nabbed Maurya and Yadav. Police have added the charges of forgery of genuine document, forgery for the purpose of cheating, and dishonesty, to the original FIR which charged the accused with extortion, criminal intimidation, intimidation by anonymous communication, and the Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-arrested-for-threatening-mins-pro-for-extortion/articleshow/78027885.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Varanasi||Youth caught with lover, beaten to death in UP's Azamgarh||VARANASI: A 25-year-old youth was allegedly lynched by his lover’s family members at a village in Kaptanganj police station area of Azamgarh district on Tuesday night. The police have detained five persons including the lover for interrogation. According to reports, Manish Ram, a resident of Dalit basti of the village, had an affair with a girl of the same basti but their families opposed this relationship. Manish’s family had sent him to Mumbai for earning to keep him away from girl. Recently, he had returned from Mumbai and started meeting the girl. On Tuesday night, he had gone to meet the girl when her family members caught him and made him captive. They tied his hands and legs and thrashed him. Meanwhile, Manish’s family members came to know of the incident and informed the police. But by the time police arrived, the accused fled the scene. The police rescued the youth and rushed him to the hospital where he was declared dead. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that five persons including the girl have been detained for interrogation. The investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-caught-with-lover-beaten-to-death-in-azamgarh/articleshow/78023858.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||LMC funds crunch may hit road repair||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Municipal Corporation has been reeling under financial crisis for months and that is now affecting development works like road construction, too. The hope of revival in the near future seems bleak as LMC has failed to meet its property tax collection target for the third straight month in the financial year 2020-21. LMC had set a target of Rs 127 crore to be collected from 2.47 lakh properties under its jurisdiction in August, but only around Rs 82 crore was collected from about 2 lakh owners. No tax collection was done in April and May due to lockdown, while in June, July and August, collection has been low . This means it will be difficult for LMC to achieve the annual target of Rs 410 crore. A majority of this tax revenue goes to corporators’ development fund through which they carry out development activities. Due to loss of Rs 50 crore during the lockdown, LMC was left with little money in the account meant for road repair. It had decided to ask corporators to carry out road repair in their wards. However, now with limited money to be distributed among corporators due to poor tax collection, development will take a major hit. LMC has already stopped over 50 projects. LMC chief tax collection officer Ashok Singh said, “We have extended our offer of 10% discount on property tax till September. Property tax collection is our main source of income and we will take strict action against defaulters as soon as the scheme ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-funds-crunch-may-hit-road-repair/articleshow/78028091.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur takes a leap in ease ofdoing biz ranking||Gorakhpur: The impetus on infrastructure development and focused efforts for drawing investors for industrialization of east UP have started reflecting in results as Gorakhpur district has taken a leap in district-wise ease of doing business rankings to claim the 14th position. The sustained efforts of the state industry department and Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA) have pushed the district six ranks above from the 20th spot in the last rankings. GIDA CEO Sanjeev Ranjan said, “In the A category list, only those districts have secured a spot which received more than 2,000 applications on the Nivesh Mitra portal, the single window clearance facility. We assigned time limits for the disposal of each application according to the nature of business. We ensured the industrialists and entrepreneurs didn’t have to run around and their application was cleared within a fixed time limit.” There has been substantial improvement in each service, from timely disposal of various applications to prompt redressal of complaints because of which investment has started coming to the district. The application disposal rate was 82.03% in July and it increased to 92.68% in August. The complaint redressal rate was also adequate and the feedback was also good. Earlier industrialists used to hesitate in investing in Gorakhpur district but now the situation has changed. We have already got investment of Rs 300 crore on 68 plots of GIDA through which more than 2,000 employment opportunities will be created, the CEO said. “We have two big investment proposals, one is a Rs 8.5 crore proposal for expansion of Gallantt Ispat Limited and the other is a Rs 200 crore proposal from Coca Cola bottling plant,” Ranjan added. The Chamber of Industries Gorakhpur president, Vishnu Ajit Saria said, “GIDA is making all efforts to make sure that no industrialist faces difficulties. The authority is talking to professionals for providing better facilities like making land available in less time.” “We are aiming to improve the rank further next time by targeting 100% disposal of applications to help investors,” the GIDA CEO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-takes-a-leap-in-ease-ofdoing-biz-ranking/articleshow/78023875.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Lallu meets kin of farmers who committed suicide||Jhansi: UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu arrived in Jhansi on Wednesday without giving any prior information and met the kin of farmers who committed suicide or died unnaturally in past few months. Lallu reached Chirgaon and proceeded to Berbai village in Tehroli tehsil and met the family of Premnarayan Raikwar, 45. Raikwar was a migrant labourer who arrived on foot during lockdown and committed suicide later. UPCC president then went to Sehpura village in Garotha tehsil to attend ‘Shradh’ ceremony of Lokendra who had committed suicide a fortnight ago. He was accompanied by former Union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya and local party leaders. Shiv Narayan Singh Parihar who accompanied Lallu said Lokendra had bought a tractor in 2006 which met an accident a year later. Since the driver did not have a driving licence, Lokendra was slapped a penalty of Rs 4.5 lakh which he could not pay and committed suicide under pressure. The Congress leaders then went to Burgapur village in Mauranipur where a farmer Brijlal Ahirwar had died a couple of days ago as he could not repay a loan of Rs 11 lakh. Lallu announced that he would take the responsibility of the studies of one son of the deceased and said suicide is not a solution to problems and assured the party will help them in every way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lallu-meets-kin-of-farmers-who-committed-suicide/articleshow/78026504.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Govt nod to civic body plan to construct 100 MIG flats||Lucknow: LMC will soon start the construction of housing apartments and commercial buildings on its vacant land, with the project receiving green signal from the state government. Additional municipal commissioner, Amit Kumar said, "The state government has approved LMC's proposal to build and sell apartments as well as commercial units. It will help the corporation increase its revenue in the coming years. Though construction of the flats and its occupancy after sale will take time, we have already identified the land for constructing the apartments." LMC has identified a vacant space in Indiranagar, where it will construct around 100 middle income group (MIG) flats. The 500sq metre land was taken into LMC custody after conducting an anti-encroachment drive to remove the illegal occupants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-nod-to-civic-body-plan-to-construct-100-mig-flats/articleshow/78028094.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,400 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 2,479 new cases of Covid-19 and 10 deaths as the government increased testing in the districts. While total number of patients testing positive in the state rose to 1,47,642, the overall death toll went up to 916. State health authorities said they are focusing on increasing testing in districts with more and more districts seeing a surge. “Testing has already been increased in districts with each district having a target of per day tests. These are being reviewed every day,” said a health official. On Tuesday, 62,649 samples were tested for the virus, taking samples tested per million population to 50,922. The total number of samples tested for Covid so far have crossed 18.90 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-reports-2400-new-covid-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/78027916.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||PI accused in Surat quarry owner’s suicide on the run||Surat: Police inspector L P Bodana of Rander police station, who is named as an accused in the abatement of suicide case of a quarry owner, is on the run.He was named as an accused for abetting suicide of quarry owner and businessman Durlabh Patel (74). Patel had ended life by jumping into a water-filled quarry on Monday morning. Patel had alleged in a suicide note that he was being harassed over a land dispute by cops and other people and because of that he was killing himself.The investigation in the case on Tuesday was handed over to deputy superintendent of police, Bardoli, Rupal Solanki. Earlier the case was being investigated by police sub-inspector of Mandvi police station, D R Rao.Besides Bodana, other booked for Patel suicide are constables Vijay Shinde, Ajay Bopala and Kiran Sinh; Raju Bharwad, Hetal Desai; Bhavesh Savani; Kanaiyalal Narola; Kishore Kosiya; and Mukesh Kulkarni. The complaint against the accused was lodged by Patel’s son Dharmesh (45). “We will collect evidence first and later the accused will be called to register their statement. They will be arrested only if necessary,” Solanki told TOI. Police recovered CCTV footage from the residence of the complainant where some accused had gone to threaten him earlier this year. Police have also asked for details from Rander police station about Bodana. City police commissioner, Ajay Tomar, ordered a preliminary inquiry against role of city police officials in the suicide based on media report. The inquiry has been handed over to Panna Momaya, deputy commissioner of police, zone IV.Since Bodana is on the run D V Baldaniya was given charge of Rander police station. Bodana enjoys trust of top police officials since he was sent to New Delhi to bring back Shailesh Bhatt, a key accused in an extortion case even when the case was being investigated by detection of crime branch (DCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pi-accused-in-surat-quarry-owners-suicide-on-the-run/articleshow/78003573.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Two passenger trains to resume operations||Rajkot: After six months of lockdown, two passenger trains will commence operation from Saurashtra and Kutch for the first time from September 16. According to railway officials, the weekly trains, Gandhidham to Khurda road in Odisha and Okha to Khurda road will commence operation. These trains will be 100 percent reserved and bookings will be opened from Thursday from PRS counters and IRCTC. The Okha-Khurda road train will depart at 8:30 am from Okha every Wednesday from September 16. The Gandhidham Khurda road train too will depart at 11pm from Gandhidham every Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-passenger-trains-to-resume-operations/articleshow/78025156.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Lucknow||Cracker unit blast: DySP, 5 cops suspended for laxity||Lucknow: The deputy superintendent of police (DySP), station house officer (SHO), Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) inspector in-charge, a sub-inspector and two constables were suspended on Wednesday in connection with the blast at an illegal cracker unit in Balrampur district on Monday. A youth was killed in the blast. The cops were suspended for failure to check hoarding of explosives. Superintendent of police, Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma said, “Action was initiated against the policemen for negligence due to which the accused Mohammed Raza managed to illegally hoard such large quantities of explosives for manufacturing crackers in a congested residential area. The blast in the basement of his house was so strong that its concrete roof was blown off killing one Nankan Ali (19), besides damaging several houses.” “Samples were collected from the blast site and sent to forensic laboratory for examination. An FIR has also been registered against Raza’s relative Mohammed Akram on charges of negligent conduct with respect to explosive substances, causing grievous injury and endangering personal safety of others,” said Verma. Police will conduct a drive for verification of all fire cracker manufactures in the district to see their status and check if they have stashed explosives or crackers. Last month also, five cops, including SHO Utraula, were suspended after 15kg explosives were recovered from the residence of ISIS suspect Abdul Yusuf Khan in Balrampur after his arrest from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cracker-unit-blast-dysp-5-cops-suspended-for-laxity/articleshow/78028099.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Additional collector in ACB net over Rs 1 crore bribe in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Medak additional collector G Nagesh, three revenue officials and a benamidar were arrested on Wednesday for accepting Rs 1.1 crore alleged bribe from a property owner to issue no objection certificate (NOC) for 112 acre land in Medak district. Ironically, the high-profile arrests happened on a day the government introduced a bill in the assembly to bring revenue reforms to “bring relief to people and usher in a corruption-free revenue administration”. Searches were conducted at 12 places in the state, including the houses and offices of Nagesh, his subordinates, including Narsapur revenue divisional officer (RDO) B Aruna Reddy and Chilipiched tahsildar Abdul Sattar, enabling Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) teams to seize Rs 28 lakh cash, half kilo gold and other incriminating evidence. On August 22, K Linga Murthy of Serilingampally lodged a complaint with ACB stating that on February 29, 2020, he along with four others had entered into an agreement of sale for purchase of 112.21 acres of land in Chippalaturthi village of Narsapur mandal in Medak district. In support of his complaint, Murthy gave ACB audio recordings of the conversations about the land deal between him and Nagesh. Based on the complaint lodged by Murthy, ACB sleuths had registered a case and obtained warrants from court to conduct searches at the houses and offices of Nagesh and other revenue officials involved. During the searches conducted at the house of Nagesh in Medak, ACB seized eight cheques issued by the complainant, agreement of sale of the five acres of land made in favour of Nagesh’s benamidar, K Jeeva Goud, in addition to other incriminating evidence. At Aruna Reddy’s houses in Ghatkersar and Narsapur, Rs 28 lakh cash and half-kilo gold were found. “As NOC from the revenue department is required for registration of the 112.21 acres of land, which is in the list of 22-A prohibitory land, the complainant gave an application to Chilipiched tahsildar Abdul Sattar to issue NOC for registration of land,” ACB deputy director M Ramana Kumar said. On July 23, Sattar forwarded the application to RDO Aruna Reddy. On July 25, she forwarded the file to the then collector Dharma Reddy’s office. On July 31, Nagesh demanded Rs 1.1 crore bribe from Murthy for expediting the NOC issue process and took Rs 19.5 lakh cash from the complainant as initial instalment on the same day. On August 7, Nagesh had obtained the second instalment of Rs 20.5 lakh cash. For the remaining Rs 72 lakh bribe, instead of cash, Nagesh had obtained agreement of sale in the name of his benami, K Jeevan Goud, from Secunderabad on August 21, of five acres of land out of the property purchased by the complainant. Nagesh also took eight blank signed cheques. Subsequently, on July 31, junior assistant Md Waseem Ahmed obtained Rs 5 lakh bribe from the complainant as instructed by Nagesh to share among the staff. ACB arrested Nagesh, Aruna Reddy, Abdul Sattar, Md Wasim Ahmed and K Jeevan Goud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/addl-collector-in-acb-net-over-rs-1cr-bribe/articleshow/78027958.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Sweet welcome’ for same-sex couple||BETTIAH: A year after the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality in India, a same-gender couple has returned home from Punjab— where both work at a factory— to Bihar’s West Champaran to opposite degrees of reaction from their families. “My abba refused to accept us when we reached his house in Bettiah,” Ishrat Jahan (22) told this newspaper on Wednesday. “We went to the police station in Bettiah on Tuesday evening and the police escorted us to Ramnagar where ‘inke abbu ne mithai baant kar hamey accept kiya’,” she said, referring to her 24-year-old husband Nagma. Neighbours not only partook sweets. A few even filmed the occasion. Fard Hussain, the ‘groom’ Nagma’s father stood with a box of laddoos outside his mud and thatched homestead as Nagma, in blue denims and a white printed shirt comes out sporting a bob-cut hairstyle. Her partner Ishrat followed in a black salwar and bridal-red kurta. The happy couple also fed laddoos to each other. Nagma introduced Ishrat to this reporter as her wife. Ishrat said she ‘married’ Nagma at Jalandhar, where the couple earns a decent living working in the footwear industry, two months ago. “My father tried his best to dissuade me,” Ishrat said, announcing her commitment to the relationship: “Ab hamey saath rahna hai...Jeena-marna saath hai.” Qazi Nessar Ahmad, the Sheher Qazi-Darul-qaza of the Emarat-e-Sharia at Bettiah said that this relationship is against both nature and the Shariat. “ Islam ne isey haraam karaar diya hai. Medical science too does not accept it. Such (same-sex) relationships are ingrained with the threat of diseases like HIV-Aids,” he said, adding, “Man-woman relationships are natural as they populate the earth and work towards propagating one’s ‘nasl’. “The Qazi further condemned the relationship to be anti-social and against the country’s culture.” Interestingly, the couple claimed to have solemnized a marriage. “There is no way to regularize a same-gender marriage in court,” Anjali Gopalan, executive director of Naz Foundation (India) Trust, the organisation that successfully led the legal battle towards decriminalization of Section 377 in the Supreme Court, told this reporter over the phone from New Delhi. “It is unfortunate that though Section 377 has been done away with, same-sex marriages are still unacceptable in the eyes of law, something that needs to happen,” she said. The Couple later shared the fax of an affidavit sworn by Nagma before a notary public at Jalandhar wherein she avers: “I am living in a relationship with Ishrat Khatoon......I fulfil my obligations and duties as a husband towards my spouse.... My family members have no objection if I am lives (sic) with Ishrat Khatoon...in a relationship.” Thus, though the couple claim to be husband and wife, the affidavit portrays crafty legal drafting by stressing on the term ‘relationship’. Naz foundation’s Anjali Goplan, meanwhile, debunked the Qazi’s apprehensions of such relationships leading to HIV-Aids. “There is no way for HIV to happen through the sexual route of transmission amongst lesbians,” she reiterated. Gopalan welcomed the news of the couple’s acceptance. “If the family is accepting, it is a wonderful thing to have happened,” she said. Watch Bihar: Same-sex couple returns home, gets opposing reactions from their families||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sweet-welcome-for-same-sex-couple/articleshow/78025608.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||From Gita to Upanishads, importance of Himalayas is everywhere: Vice-President on Himalayan Day||DEHRADUN: Addressing the audience on the occasion of Himalayan Day on Wednesday through a webinar, Vice-President (V-P) M Venkaiah Naidu said that “from the story of Lord Shiva and Parvati to Bhagavad Gita and almost all Indian cultural and traditional books, there is mention of the importance of Himalayas whose conservation and protection is the need of the hour.” Naidu added that “a people’s movement is required to be initiated for the conservation of Himalayas that provides water, food, and employment to millions of people of India.” The webinar was also attended by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Union minister (PMO) Jitendra Singh, Union minister of youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur among others. Speaking at the event, Kiren Rijiju said that unscientific disposal of plastic and other human activities were harming the Himalayas and hence, there should be a ‘Swachh Himalaya Mission’ on the lines of Swachh Bharat Mission. “I am ready with all the workforce of my ministry to start a campaign to clean the Himalayas. Youth’s participation is a must in this task and I would like the young population of the country to participate in the campaign, which we will start very soon,” he added. Hailing the Himalayas as part of the world’s heritage, Union education minister Nishank said, “I welcome the suggestions of all the NGOs, self-help groups, environmentalists, and conservationists to come together at one platform and start a movement aimed at the conservation of the Himalayas.” Doon-based environmentalist Anil Prakash Joshi who has spearheaded the initiative of celebrating Himalayan Day, said that it is heartening that awareness regarding the importance of conserving the Himalayas was being spread through the participation of several distinguished people who took part in the webinar. He added that he hoped the message would percolate to maximum number of people. Notably, Himalayan Day was first observed in Uttarakhand in 2010 as an initiative of a group of noted environmentalists including Sunderlal Bahuguna, Anil Prakash Joshi and Radha Behen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/from-gita-to-upanishads-importance-of-himalayas-is-everywhere-vice-president-on-himalayan-day/articleshow/78023902.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 blast: Only 19% people plan to undertake festive travel in Oct-Nov||NAGPUR: With Durga puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath festival — all typically falling in October-November, people in many parts of the country plan their travel back home or vacations during this time. This year, however, looks drastically different with only 19% citizens saying they will undertake festive travel this year. India crossed the 4 million case mark with daily caseload approximately rising to 90,000. Due to the fast spreading Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns people have been cautious about travel. A latest survey by LocalCircles, which was conducted in 239 districts getting 25,000 responses from people, reveals only 19% citizens are keen to undertake festive travel this year. Of those who travel, only 23% say they will travel by a flight while others said car/taxi is expected to be most preferred mode of travel. Most of them do not want to make bookings till their travel date. Though India opened domestic air and train travel in June, the daily caseload has grown 10 times during this period. Even as Unlock 4 came into effect on September 1, with quarantine restrictions now removed by most states, many are unwilling to travel. On kind of travel people plan to undertake in the coming festive season (Oct-Nov-Dec 2020), 69% respondents said they will not be travelling this year and would stay at home while 3% said they will travel to a holiday destination, 13% said they will visit family and friends. Another 3% said they will do both and 12% were unsure about what they would do. “This means that only 19% citizens say they will travel during the festive season. Many people have either been confined to their homes or have been working from home for the past 6 months and are desperate to get out and travel, but the fear of contracting the virus is pulling them back,” says Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles, Delhi. When asked about their preferred mode of travel, 23% said their primary mode of travel will be flights, 6% said trains and 38% said they will travel by road and take a car or taxi while 18% said they will take multiple modes in the same or different trips and 15% were unsure. “Given the Covid-19 pandemic, it looks like car/taxi would be the most preferred mode of travel in the months when the country sees highest number of travellers. Scheduled international commercial passenger flights have been banned by the government further till September 30 and many states within India also have been restricting the daily number of flights or flights coming in from certain states to contain the spread of the infection,” says Gupta. When asked if they had booked their travel for this festive season, a majority 68% said ‘no’ and said they will not book till “closer to the travel date” while 16% said “no but will book soon” and 16% were still unsure about it. Train booking is opened 120 days prior to departure and in normal times tickets are usually sold out within a couple of days during this time before the festive season. But given Covid-19, many want to stay put in their homes and avoid travel as much as possible. Based on the survey findings, service providers in the road transportation sector may want to build capacity to seize the festival demand uptick. Similarly, online travel portals may want to consider more providers for outstation rental cars and taxi services. Airlines and Indian Railways may need to carefully evaluate any capacity increases they may be planning, keeping in mind the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-blast-only-19-people-plan-to-undertake-festive-travel-in-oct-nov/articleshow/78026517.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 10, 2020||Mangaluru||MU takes prof to task over FB post||Mangaluru: A Facebook post on Teachers’ Day has put Govindaraju B M, associate professor in the post-graduate department of sociology, Mangalore University, on the mat. Govindaraju reported post, “I am proud to be a teacher, because drawing good salary without work” earned him the wrath of the teaching community most of whom are suffering the economic fallout of the pandemic. With screenshots of the post going viral and coming to the attention of the university authorities, vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya stepped in and a memo was issued to Govindaraju on Tuesday. He has seven days to reply to the same, Yadapadithaya told TOI. “Govindaraju has expressed unconditional regret for this post and also deleted the same,” the VC said adding he has been served the memo as per the service and conduct rules. Yadapadithaya said it is all the more important for teachers to be sensitive to the needs of society and people around them, especially in these times. “Many deemed the comment an insult to the teaching community in general,” Yadapadithaya said, adding that Govindaraju who understood the import of his action once the post went viral, met him in person and offered an unequivocal apology and also assured not to repeat the same in future. The comment comes at a time when lecturers of unaided courses in colleges and those on management scales are taking deep pay cuts thanks to inability of institutions to pay their salaries as their source of income has dried up and new admissions too are not happening. Even minister for primary education Suresh Kumar had appealed to government teachers to create a fund and come to the aid of teachers of aided and private schools facing the same issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mu-takes-prof-to-task-over-fb-post/articleshow/78025178.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Cop beaten up, hand fractured||Rajkot: A cop was beaten up so badly that he received a fracture injury on his hand in Khorana village of Rajkot taluka on Monday evening. In his complaint, Nirmalsinh Zala (35), who serves as a constable with the University Police Station in Rajkot, alleged that Bhupat Shiyal, his son Ranchhod Shiyal, Oghad Shiyal and their two unidentified aides attacked him with iron pipes and sticks. “Apart from attacking Zala, the accused also allegedly hurled casteist abuses at Pravin Ubhadia (44) and beat him up, subsequent of which they have also been booked under the Atrocity Act,” said an official from Kuvadawa Road police station. According to the police, the attack was the result of a scuffle between the accused and the victims. “The accused released their cattle in the farm of Zala. When Ubhadia protested, the accused allegedly beat him up and hurled casteist slurs at him. When Zala intervened, the accused allegedly attacked him with iron pipes and sticks, causing him a fracture in the hand,” added the official. Meanwhile, the cops have launched a manhunt for the accused who have gone absconding ever since the complaint was lodged against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-beaten-up-hand-fractured/articleshow/78025185.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two more docs at GCRI re-infected||Ahmedabad: After three doctors and a homemaker were confirmed by AMC to be re-infected with Covid-19 recently, two more cases of re-infection emerged from Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) in Civil Hospital campus. Officials pointed at the worrisome trend that out of six, five cases of re-infection are among doctors. Top sources at GCRI confirmed that the two doctors – a man and a woman – who had returned to the city after their trips outside had tested positive. Both of them had got infected for the first time in the initial phase of the epidemic and the re-infection has taken place after a gap of about four months. “Both of them are under medical observation as they were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms,” said an official. “From the start, the focus is thus on viral load instead of positive status alone – in the initial phase, the duo was asymptomatic. One of them had undergone antibody testing and it was revealed that the antibodies against Covid-19 were not formed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-more-docs-at-gcri-re-infected/articleshow/78027963.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Second lion attack in Gir Somnath in 48 hours||Rajkot: A second attack on humans by lion within 48 hours has sent shockwaves among Gir forest officials. While this time around the victims are safe and stated to be out of danger, the rising instances of man-animal conflict has become the biggest challenge for conservation. In Wednesday’s incident, two cattle breeders in Gir Gadhada taluka of Gir Somnath district were mauled by a fully grown male lion when they had gone to graze their cattle in the morning. While both Govind Vagad (46) and Hamir Kalotara (40) received minor injuries in the sudden attack, they are safe, said forest department sources. They received injuries on hand and shoulders and were sent to government hospital in Una for treatment at around 8:45am. Vaghod and Kalotara were grazing their buffaloes in their village Mohabatpara which falls in Jasadhar range of forest department. Suddenly the lion tried to prey on their herd and the duo tried to scare it away. The lion turned its attention on the humans and attacked them. Anshuman Sharma deputy conservator of forest Gir (east) said, “Generally lions don’t attack humans but it seems these two men were attacked as they were trying to to save their cattle, which the lion sensed as danger.” This is the second lion attack on humans in two days. On Tuesday, a lioness killed a seven-year-old boy in Visavadar range when he was playing in a farm where his labourer parents were working. A member of state wildlife board Priyavrat Gadhvi said “There are three four conditions which trigger lions’ anger like being disturbed when they are eating, or mating or are with their cubs.” The forest department compensates cattle breeders in case they are killed by wild animals. But according to sources, the compensation amount is insufficient in case of milking animals. In many cases, conflicts arise when the breeders are emotionally attached with their animals and try to save them from the predators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/second-lion-attack-in-gir-somnath-in-48-hours/articleshow/78025217.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||ACB arrests PSI for taking Rs 10k bribe||Vadodara: A sub-inspector of Wadi police station was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on late Tuesday night for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a medical store owner. Cop Rahul Parmar had initially demanded Rs 50,000 from the complainant in order not to conduct any inquiry in a complaint of atrocity against him. The ACB officials said that the medical store owner had first given a complaint against a woman who was into the illicit liquor business near the medical store on Pratapnagar Road. As part of the investigation, Parmar took the medical store owner’s statement and also took the statement of the woman. Later, the woman gave a complaint at Wadi police station against the medical store owner alleging atrocity. The complaint of atrocity was also given to Parmar to investigate it. Instead of following the procedure, Parmar asked for the bribe amount from the medical store owner and showed prejudice for the woman. The medical store owner told Parmar that he could not pay such a big amount and they agreed at Rs 10,000. The medical store owner then approached the ACB informing them about Parmar’s demand for the bribe. On Tuesday, the ACB sleuths laid a trap. When the medical store owner handed over the cash to Parmar at Dabhoiya police chowki, where he is posted, the ACB officials raided the place and nabbed Parmar. ACB sources said that Parmar’s father is also a cop in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/acb-arrests-psi-for-taking-rs-10k-bribe/articleshow/78024294.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Spa owner held for running sex racket in Rajkot, four women rescued||Rajkot: A spa owner on Pedak Road in Rajkot was arrested on Wednesday for running a prostitution racket in his spa. Four women— three from Delhi and one from Rajkot — were rescued from the spot. Police detained Sunny Bhojani after a tip-off was received about him running a sex racket in his spa. “We had sent a cop decoyed as a customer to Bhojani’s spa and had busted the racket. Bhojani would charge each customer Rs 2,000, of which he used to give Rs 800 to the women and keep the remaining amount with him,” said an official from Rajkot B division police station.“The rescued women would be made witnesses in the case,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/spa-owner-held-for-running-sex-racket-in-rajkot-four-women-rescued/articleshow/78025197.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Surat||Two prisoners escape from Bharuch civil||Surat: Two undertrials of Bharuch sub-jail, who were undergoing treatment at the prisoner’s ward of the civil hospital in Bharuch, escaped from the ventilator of the guardroom early Wednesday morning. Arjun Jayanti Parmar (25), facing charges under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for eloping with a minor girl in Ankleshwar, was lodged at the Bharuch sub-jail for the offence. He was brought to the hospital with the complaint of fever and other ailments on September 3.The second absconder, Akash Sanjay Vasava (28), who is accused in a murder case, had swallowed soap and had to be rushed to the hospital on September 5 after he complained of severe stomach pain.Sources said that the duo could have escaped between 3am to 4am on Wednesday morning. Both the accused were in the same room, which was guarded by a policeman. They were not handcuffed while in the room. Sub-inspector of Bharuch A-division police, A K Bharwad said, “The ventilator in the guardroom where the prisoners were kept had glass window. There was no iron grill in the ventilator (3ft x 6ft), which made it easy for the prisoners to escape.”Bharwad added, “We have begun search operation to nab the escaped prisoners and all the police stations in the region have been alerted. Their pictures also have been circulated across the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-prisoners-escape-from-bharuch-civil/articleshow/78025263.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Driver of Lalitpur CMO hangs self, accuses minister of extortion in video||Jhansi: The suicide of the driver of Lalitpur CMO on the intermittent night of Sunday and Monday took a different angle after a video went viral on Tuesday evening in which he claimed that he had to pay Rs 20 lakh to the minister of state for labour and employment exchange Mannu Kori in exchange of saving himself from a sex racket case. In the viral video, he also said that apart from Kori, who is also the MLA from Mehroni seat of Lalitpur district, few more persons were trying to extort money from him. After the video went viral, Lalitpur DM Yogesh Kumar Shukla ordered a magisterial inquiry under SDM Pali Avinash Tripathi into the entire incident on Tuesday night. As per details, Rajkumar Dubey, 55, worked as a driver of Lalitpur CMO. A few years ago, he was implicated in a sex scandal and served a year in jail for the same. He was set free in January 2019. On the intermittent night of Sunday and Monday, Dubey died by suicide at his house. On Tuesday, the matter took a new turn after a video, which was shot by Dubey himself hours before he hanged himself, went viral. In the 1.43 minute video, Dubey is seen saying that he was going to take the extreme step as he was falsely implicated in the sex racket case by Chandrapal Singh and Rajendra Singh. To save him from the case, state minister Mannu Kori had demanded Rs 20 lakh from Dubey, which he had paid but still had to go to jail. He is seen further saying that two more persons Brijesh and Manoj are demanding Rs 50,000 from him which he is unable to pay. Apart from this, one Pappu Khan, along with Rajendra Singh, is constantly pressuring him to pay Rs 4.5 lakh, and has got his house forcibly registered in his wife’s name. After the video went viral, the DM issued a statement that he has ordered a magisterial enquiry into the incident and that based on the findings, further action would be taken. Later, a video statement of minister Kori was also issued in which he said that the allegations against him are completely false and baseless and this is an attempt to malign his clean image. He also said that he never met Dubey, nor does he know him. Meanwhile, AAP leader Sanjay Singh, in his tweet on Wednesday, demanded action against Kori. Activist Nutan Thakur on Wednesday demanded an FIR against all the accused including Kori and said that magisterial enquiry was not sufficient in this case. She wrote to ACS (home), DGP and other officers for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/driver-of-lalitpur-cmo-hangs-self-accuses-minister-of-extortion-in-video/articleshow/78026559.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Varanasi||Youth thrashed, forced to lick spit, 2 detained in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A youth was thrashed ruthlessly and forced him to lick his spit by a group of men in Badhalganj area of Gorakhpur. The incident came to light when a video of the incident was posted on social media and went viral on Wednsday. Police took cognizance of the video and started probe, following which the victim gave a written complaint against two named and four unidentified assailants at Badhalganj police station. Gorakhpur SP South, Vipul Srivastav said, “We took cognizance of a viral video in which some people are seen beating a youth of Khutbhar village in Badhalganj area. The case will be investigated and stern action will be taken against the culprits.” “They stopped our bike, started abusing and then thrashed me badly and made me lick my spit. Later, they called me and threatened not to report to police but on Wednesday they themselves posted the video of the assault on social media,” the victim said. “The two named accused, Narad, son of Rajendra Sahni, a resident of Bahsua village, and Nagendra, son of Nawal Sahni, a resident of Dadri village, have been detained. A case will be registered under appropriate sections after their interrogation. ,” said SO Badhalganj police station, Rana Devendra Pratap Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-thrashed-forced-to-lick-spit-2-detained/articleshow/78023909.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chennithala says sorry for ‘inadvertent’ remark||T’puram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala expressed ‘sincere regret’ for his ‘sexist remark’ during a news conference on Tuesday. The remark, which he later termed as an inadvertent one, had ignited a torrent of criticism. “I have never made anti-women statements in my public life. Later, I watched how I reacted to a question during the news conference. I am convinced that the comment I made was not in sync with my thought process. Throughout my career, I worked with a conviction against such comments. I withdraw my words and sincerely regret for having made such a comment," he wrote on his Facebook page. While answering a question on the political connections of a junior health officer – accused of sexual harassment of a woman who visited him for collecting Covid-negative certificate – Chennithala had asked whether only DYFI activists were supposed to harass women. He then came up with an explanation that his words were distorted and taken out of context. But, his political opponents had by criticized him and sought an unconditional apology. "I’m very particular that my words shouldn’t hurt any woman, even if they are taken out of context and misplaced. Two women were sexually assaulted in Kerala due to the lapses by the government. Heath department alone is responsible for the harassment of a young woman in an ambulance in Aranmula and the harassment of another in Thiruvananthapuram. Department should take responsibility for both incidents that sullied Kerala’s image," he said. Chennithala said the culprits- an ambulance driver and a junior health inspector – should be given exemplary punishment. Also, government should take steps to rectify the lapses in Covid resistance and put an end to nepotism and corruption, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chennithala-says-sorry-for-inadvertent-remark/articleshow/78025241.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Tourists allowed into Kodaikanal after 5 months, hoteliers want e-pass system to go||Madurai: Tourists were allowed to visit the Kodaikanal Hills on Tuesday after a gap of five-and-a-half months with valid e-passes from the respective district administration. A few hundred tourists visited Kodaikanal on day one to enjoy the chill weather, and they also visited Bryant Park, Chettiyar Park and Rose Park. Boating in the star-shaped lake, the main attraction in the hill station, has not been allowed. Tourist places such as Pillar Rock, Pine Forest and Guna Cave, which come under the control of the forest department, have also not been opened so far. People in buses, two-wheelers, cars and other vehicles were checked for e-passes at the toll gate located next the Silver Falls. Those who came without e-passes were sent back. The officials had stated that no e-pass is required for people from the same district and they can proceed to the hills with their address proof. An official from the horticulture department, which maintains the parks, said that only around 170 people visited the park on Tuesday. On a weekend there would be a minimum of 2,000 visitors a day, which will go up to 4,500 during summer vacation. “As per the standard operating procedure, it was ensured that people wear masks, sanitise their hands and follow social distance. Water and food should not be offered on the premises as per the instructions,” the official said. People dependent of tourism industry for their livelihood felt happy about the development as they are struggling for months without income. Shopkeepers and hoteliers said that there has not been much business on day one. Decent restaurants are yet to open and are waiting to see the visitor flow for the next few days. S Abdul Kani Raja, secretary of the hoteliers association, said, “All tourist places should be opened to encourage people to visit the hill station. E-pass system should be cancelled so that footfall will increase. If these restrictions are not removed, tourism industry will not return to normal. Instead of restriction with e-passes, the number of people at each tourist place can be regualated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tourists-allowed-into-kodaikanal-after-5-months-hoteliers-want-e-pass-system-to-go/articleshow/78027990.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: ‘Murdered’ man returns to village after five months||PALANPUR: He was presumed to be dead and cremated at his village in Aravalli district in February this year. But the villagers couldn’t believe their eyes when they recently saw Ishvar Manat, a labourer, walking back to his home in Kharpada village. Manat was alive and he too was surprised when the villagers told him about the body that was believed to be his and cremated. Interestingly, the police had arrested Manat’s brothers for murdering him. But after Manat resurfaced, an inquiry was ordered into the major lapse and IG, Gandhinagar, Abhay Chudasama suspended police inspector, R R Tabiyad of Isri police station on Tuesday. According to the police, the dead body of a man was found wrapped in a sheet at Moti Mori village in Aravalli in February. The cops investigated the case and after confirmation from the locals as well as a post-mortem report, the investigators declared that the body was of Manat. The police made the decision on the basis of an iron rod that was found from the body’s leg as Manat too reportedly had a similar rod in his leg. After some days, the cops arrested Manat’s two brothers who reportedly confessed to the murder. The brothers were sent to a sub-jail. Manat said that his brothers were tortured and forced to confess the murder they never committed. When asked where he was for five months, Manat said that he was stuck in Junagadh due to lockdown. The cops are now in a dilemma as they would have to ascertain the identity of the body that was cremated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murdered-man-returns-to-village-after-five-months/articleshow/78025247.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||SC's decision to limit width of Char Dham road has restored faith in judiciary: Environmentalists||Dehradun: A day after the Supreme Court approved the Char Dham national highway project but limited the Centre from widening roads in the hills beyond five and a half metres, environmentalists welcomed the decision on Wednesday, saying that it had “restored their faith in judiciary”. Ravi Chopra, the chairperson of an SC-appointed high-powered committee to suggest ways to minimise ecological damage to hills from the project, who had recently submitted a report criticising the government for going ahead with the all-weather road, said he was pleased with the court’s decision. “It has restored my faith that the judiciary will protect the environment,” he told TOI. The 18-member committee appointed by the court in 2019 had submitted its recommendations in July but could not arrive at a consensus. While 13 members of the panel held that roads in the hills could be widened, five members, including Chopra, opposed the idea, citing fragile ecology of the hills. Sathya Kumar, environmental scientist at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), who was part of the committee said the only disagreement among members was the width of the proposed road. “The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways itself had proposed a width of 5.5 metres in a 2018 circular but wanted to increase it later.” Kumar said the particular circular was not shared with the committee and was discovered only later. “The apex court’s decision has shown that it’s not always the majority that wins,” he said. Mallika Bhanot of Uttarakhand-based Ganga Ahvaan, an NGO working for protection of the Ganga, added that the next step should be to hold accountable officials “who have with impunity damaged the country’s most fragile land by going ahead with the project blatantly.” The all-weather 900-km highway project will connect Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scs-decision-to-limit-width-of-char-dham-road-has-restored-faith-in-judiciary-environmentalists/articleshow/78025266.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||High Court restrains police from taking action against city hospital||NAGPUR: In a respite to Seven Star Hospital, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday, restrained respondents, which included the city police, from taking any coercive action against it or filing a charge sheet. A division bench comprising justices Vinay Deshpande and Anil Kilor also issued notices to state government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) asking them to reply by September 28. “In our view, there shall not be any hanging sword on head of the doctors and other medical staff discharging their duties at dedicated Covid Center,” the bench said. The petitioner through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar moved HC for quashing of FIR filed by NMC for overcharging 17 non-Covid patients against prescribed rates fixed by the government. The then commissioner Tukaram Mundhe ordered the hospital to refund an excess amount of Rs6.86 lakh to patients and also slapped Rs5 lakh fine on it for overcharging patients. After hospital authorities moved HC and secured stay from paying the penalty, the NMC lodged a police complaint against it under Indian Penal Code along with Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-restrains-cops-from-taking-action-against-city-hosp/articleshow/78027989.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kochi||Palathayi: HC refuses to nix bail order||Kochi: The Kerala high court on Wednesday dismissed a petition challenging a Pocso special court’s order granting bail to Kuniyil Padmarajan, a school teacher and local BJP leader who is accused of sexually abusing a school student in Palathayi, Kannur.Justice P B Suresh Kumar held that the Thalassery special court’s order granting bail cannot be viewed as an act of judicial impropriety as the accused can seek regular bail on a change of circumstance even when the superior court has rejected his bail plea. The court pointed out that bail was granted under section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure which stipulates that bail should be granted if a final report is not filed within 90 days in cases involving offence punishable with imprisonment of 10 years or more. It can be concluded that the accused is entitled to bail under section 167 (2) and his further custody ought not to be guided by the suspicion that he may have committed the offence, the judgment said. The provision that the presence of the informant or any person authorized by him at the time of granting bail (section 439-1A) does not apply to an application for bail under section 167(2), it held. Bail granted to the accused was sought to be cancelled by the mother of the Class IV student, who was allegedly abused by the accused between January 15 and February 2 this year. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy had submitted that the investigation is ongoing and that the investigating agency has not so far ruled out the commission of serious offences alleged against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palathayi-hc-refuses-to-nix-bail-order/articleshow/78025309.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now 60,000 hectares land allotment for Kutch hybrid energy park||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat cabinet on Wednesday cleared the long pending proposal of the 41,500 MW renewable energy (solar and wind) park in Kutch district by approving a proposal of the revenue department to allot 60,000 hectares of land in the district for the mega project. The hybrid energy park project is one of the select projects of national importance that the PM reviews at his monthly PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) system. Over the past two years, the PMO has sent several reminders to the state government to expedite land allotment for the project. The hybrid renewable energy park is projected to attract the investment of around Rs 1.35 lakh crore. The PM had given a deadline of 2022 for the completion of the project. A high powered committee of officials had earlier approved the land allocation plans for five major companies and forwarded the draft allocation plan to the state cabinet for the approval. A key source in the government said: “The state cabinet has approved land allocation for SECI (Solar Energy Corporation of India), NTPC, GIPCL, GSEC, Adani Power and Suzlon, which are expected to get land for their 23000 MW, 5000 MW, 2500 MW, 3500 MW, 3500 MW and 4000 MW solar and wind power generation projects respectively.” There is a strong buzz in the secretariat that the PM could lay the foundation stone for the Kutch hybrid renewable energy park during his upcoming visit either later this month or in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-60k-ha-land-allotment-for-kutch-hybrid-energy-park/articleshow/78028021.cms||Kapil Dave
September 10, 2020||Madurai||TN to raise electronicshardware production||Madurai: Tamil Nadu, which is one of the forerunners in industrial development in the country, is one of the leading states in electronics hardware manufacturing as well as software development and services in India. While electronics hardware is the fastest growing industries in India, estimated at $127 billion now and projected to touch $400 billion by the year 2025, Tamil Nadu with its Electronics Hardware Manufacturing policy will enhance its share in the segment in the next few years, said Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management and IT, R B Udhayakumar. Speaking at a virtual conference on the 11th Source India Supply Chain event, the minister said that the new policy, unveiled by the Chief Minister at the two day conference of the Electronic Industries Association of India, aims at enhancing the production of electronics goods in the state. “Tamil Nadu has an ambitious target to reach the 20% target of India’s electronics exports. Healthy and steady economic indicators put Tamil Nadu on the global business map. Our prowess in electronic hardware coupled with the availability of manpower showed that there was a bright future for this industry in the state,” Udhayakumar said. He said, the Covid-19 pandemic had made many countries like Japan and South Korea to think of shifting their operations out of China. The US trade war too had hastened the process earlier for these countries to look for alternative base for manufacturing. It was an opportunity that awaited India. The Make in India policies, large availability of work spaces and man power made India the natural choice for these operations, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-to-raise-electronicshardware-production/articleshow/78028015.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi medical shops asked to keep record of people buying medicine for fever, cold||Rajkot: In order to trace suspected Covid-19 positive patients, Morbi district administration on Wednesday asked the medical shop owners in the district to register details of people who come to their shops to buy medicines for fever or cough. JB Patel, Morbi district collector, has issued a notification in this regard. “The owners of the medical shops are instructed to register the names, addresses and cellphone numbers of those customers who come to their shops with the complaints of fever or chronic coughing,” reads the notification.The notification has also asked all the private hospitals in the district to reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-medical-shops-asked-to-keep-record-of-people-buying-medicine-for-fever-cold/articleshow/78025310.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Deaths from Covid declining steadily in Madurai district||Madurai: Even as the overall death rate of the district remains among the highest in the state at 2.5%, the number of Covid-19 deaths has come down steadily in Madurai. Indeed, comparatively lesser number of cases is being reported now, but doctors and health officials feel that efforts at early identification and prompt treatment have greatly helped reduce mortality.About 55% of all Covid-19 deaths in Madurai have been reported from Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The remaining are reported from private hospitals, railway hospital in Madurai and those in other districts. Deaths peaked from July 1-15 when 114 casualties were reported while July 15-31 saw 94 people die. However, from August 15-31 less than half the number was reported (38). From an average of four to five Covid-19 deaths reported daily in July, hardly one or two a day is being reported.“It was a tough time for us then since we had more number of cases in general in July and August beginning with limited facilities. The unpredictability of the disease was also difficult to handle. However, now, we feel more positive as we are better prepared and have increased our capacity of beds. Over time, we were able to work out better treatment protocols and better anticipate how a patient’s condition can worsen,” said Dr K Senthil, head of the treatment protocol committee at GRH. Currently, only around 600 Covid-19 patients are under treatment at GRH, which has a total capacity of 1,214 beds, including 588 with oxygen support and 150 ICU, unlike earlier when the number of beds occupied was much higher.Doctors and district health officials said that one of the reasons for the decline could also be early diagnosis of severe Covid-19 cases through CT scan and now there being increased awareness among the public to go to a hospital quickly in case of symptoms. The doctor also added that so far, though it has been only on a trial basis, plasma therapy has also helped some severe Covid-19 patients recover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deaths-from-covid-declining-steadily-in-madurai-district/articleshow/78028026.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Audio book in memory of Verghese Kurien launched||Vadodara/Anand: An audio book in the memory of late Dr Verghese Kurien, hailed as the father of India’s White Revolution, was launched on Wednesday marking his eighth death anniversary. The audio book titled ‘The man who made the elephant dance’ is based on Kurien’s biography ‘I too had a dream’. It was launched on www.drkurien.com. It was launched through a webinar which was attended by eminent personalities of dairy industry and associates. Around 1,000 people who have been directly or indirectly associated with Kurien and his institutions also participated in the event. Kurien’s daughter Nirmala Kurien was the chief guest, chairman of National Dairy Development Board Dilip Rath was the guest of honour, while Shashi Sinha, CEO of IPG Mediabrands, India and Rahul Dacunha, managing director of Mumbai-based daCunha Associates were special invitees. Honorary professor at UK-based Durham University Dr Bruce Scholten and Kurien’s grandson Siddharth were special guests along with Atul Bhide, who has conceptualized and produced the audio book. R S Sodhi, managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) and GCMMF’s chief operating officer K M Jhala presided over the webinar. Nirmala, while unveiling the audio book, shared her childhood memories with her father of how he always believed in equal opportunity for all and excellence in any work undertaken by people. Kerala-born Kurien had transformed India from a milk deficit country to world’s largest milk producing nation. He had passed away on September 9, 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/audio-book-in-memory-of-verghese-kurien-launched/articleshow/78024355.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||‘Kanda Sashti Kavacham row will make people in state vote for BJP’||Trichy: People of Tamil Nadu will prefer the BJP to rule the state in the upcoming assembly election as they are angry with the row over the Kanda Sashti Kavacham by a YouTube channel, state secretary of arts wing of BJP Gayathri Raguram said on Wednesday. “Karuppar Kootam insulted Hindu and Tamil gods. Tamil people had not taken it easily. They are keeping their anger alive towards them. People will vote for the lotus,” Gayathri told reporters during a meeting of the arts wing in Trichy.She also announced a grand Tamil arts festival will be organised in the state, involving artists from 64 different art forms. Gayathri also stated that the festival will give a helping hand to the artists affected by the financial crisis due to the pandemic. She also exuded confidence that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend the festival. On the latest campaign title – Hindi Theriyadhu Poda – against the ‘imposition’ of Hindi in Tamil Nadu, Gayathri said that those behind it were not interested in the growth of youngsters in the state. “If Tamil is a language of god, Hindi is a friendly language,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kanda-sashti-kavacham-row-will-make-people-in-state-vote-for-bjp/articleshow/78028020.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Man stabbed to death over son’s love affair||Trichy: A 48-year-old man was stabbed to death by two men in Lalgudi on Wednesday over the love affair of his son. Police identified the deceased as P Ganesan alias Parthiban of Ayyan Vaaikkalkarai and the accused as P ‘Paambu’ Nagaraj, 32, of big street and S ‘Mukkadu’ Kumar, 40, of Valayalkara Street. Nagaraj and Kumar picked up a quarrel with Ganesan at Sunnambukara Street in the evening which turned violent. The duo chased Ganesan and attacked him with knives that pierced his neck and left chest. He was rushed to the government hospital in Lalgudi where he was declared brought dead. Lalgudi police which took up the investigation said Ganesan’s son Akash, 20, was in love with the 20-year-old daughter of Mukkadu Kumar for the past one year. As Kumar came to know about it, he and Nagaraj asked Ganesan to reprimand his son. The argument ended in the murder of Ganesan. Police said the accused were yet to be arrested. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-stabbed-to-death-over-sons-love-affair/articleshow/78028036.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Forum to review progress of Trichy’s smart city projects||Trichy: The Trichy district administration has constituted a city-level smart city advisory forum (CLAF), comprising elected representatives and experts to review the progress of smart city projects and submit suggestions to implement infrastructure projects. Sources said that district collector S Sivarasu has constituted a 12-member CLAF with himself as the chairman. MP (Rajya Sabha) and MP (Trichy Lok Sabha constituency) will be co-chairmen while Trichy East and Trichy West MLAs, corporation commissioner and city engineer will be the members. Technical experts includes a professor from National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy and an architect from Indian Institute of Architects. The forum meeting will be convened once in three months to discuss the progress and the first meeting is likely to take place on Thursday. “The necessity to include sanitation aspect in formulating new and ongoing projects will be apprised. Hope the urban local body listens to our suggestions,” M Subburaman, director, SCOPE NGO and one of the members of the forum said. Although the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has mandated the formation of city-level advisory forums in 2016, corporation maintained that instructions to form the forum came only recently.However, the timing of forming the forum has raised eyebrows among residents with a few projects already completed and some nearing completion and some in various stages of development. Also, the possibility of making new proposals is very less considering the available funds. The civic body said that the unavailability of members was the reason for the delay in forming the forum. “Plausible suggestions in the projects under execution phase will be considered if it serves the public,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forum-to-review-progress-of-trichys-smart-city-projects/articleshow/78028060.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot forms team to keep vigil on hospitals charging hefty fees||Rajkot: In order to prevent private hospitals from collecting exorbitant amount from the Covid-19 patients, the Rajkot district administration has formed a special team. “After receiving complaints from the patients, this team has been formed. So far, we have forced two private hospitals to return back Rs one lakh and Rs 50,000 to two patients in two different occasions. Hospitals had charged for PPE kits, N-95 masks, laboratory charges and visiting doctor charges from the patients,” said an official from the Rajkot district administration. “The team has been operational since September 3, and any patient who has been charged unfairly by any private hospital can approach it,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-forms-team-to-keep-vigil-on-hospitals-charging-hefty-fees/articleshow/78025347.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Schools not ready for reopening||MADURAI/TRICHY: Even as the centre has allowed partial reopening of schools from September 21 for Classes IX to XII with the consent from parents and an SOP for Covid-19 safety, a majority of schools in Madurai and Trichy, both government and private, are not yet prepared for starting classes on their campuses. At the same time, some schools, especially those which are not holding regular online classes, as a first step to normalcy, are preparing to partially reopen as a desperate measure. Many schools in Trichy city find it a positive move saying that it would help slow learners get their doubts cleared in classrooms. Getting ready with basic requirements to welcome students, schools also wait for response from the state government. Mala Sivakumar, principal, Kamala Niketan CBSE School, said that even if the schools are reopened, we will integrate on and offline classes. The school is undecided on going ahead with offline classes yet, as it will be very difficult to have regular classes with the standard operating procedure at place, she said. For government schools that lack online classes, teachers said that such partial reopening would be the only way for their students to slowly return to learning. However, headmasters said that for conducting classes, state education officials should lay down Covid-19 safety rules first and ensure distribution of proper masks, and sanitisers. “Students can be trained from the start to follow Covid-19 safety protocol,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Meanwhile, teachers of private schools said that more than 90% of parents were unwilling to let their child return to school now. “It is difficult to enforce strict protocol of hand washing, social distancing and wearing of masks even for higher class students. Even if one student tests Covid-19 positive, there would be a huge uproar. We cannot risk as of now when Covid-19 cases are still rising,” said the principal of a private school in Madurai. “We have developed from black boards to smart classrooms. Similarly, in post Covid-19 times, I’m hoping for clean and hygienic classrooms with plenty of space for students. But as of now, safety is a concern and maybe we can wait for two more months at least,” said Ramya R, a parent. Students on the other hand are also worried about wearing face masks for long hours than normal and using common toilets. Private and a few aided schools prefer online classes to physical classes. “Not all schools have suitable infrastructure such as extra classrooms, halls or open spaces for students to be spread out. Depending on the size of the school and strength of students, shift system could be brought in. Even then, it cannot be two shifts in a day but classes on alternate days or once in two days to give enough time for disinfection,” said Senthilnathan M, President, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. Padma Srinivasan, president of Rockcity Sahodaya School Complex, said that they have formulated multiple plans within the school to ensure that students are safe. She said commutation is another issue as students need to travel from different places to reach school. We are also awaiting response from the state government on reopening of schools, she added. Usha Raghavan, principal, Amritha Vidyalayam CBSE School, Trichy said that reopening of schools is essential as students are not in touch with writing for the last few months. Initially slow learning students or those who have doubts in subjects like Mathematics and other science subjects in class X or XII can be allowed in classrooms. She said that the school is also looking into the possibility of conducting the classes under trees as the campus has good green cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-not-ready-for-reopening/articleshow/78029994.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 10, 2020||Thane||Thane: Covid-19 claims Ulhasnagar cop before his kid’s naming ceremony||MUMBAI/ULHASNAGAR: A constable from Ulhasnagar’s Hill Line police station became the youngest personnel to die from Thane police commissionerate while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Others to succumb were one each from Mumbai, Pune and Gadchiroli in the last 48 hours, taking the state police toll to 180, of which 71 were from Mumbai and 20 from Thane. The state police report said 533 more tested positive in 24 hours, taking the total to 17,972. Of them, 14,269 recovered and 3,523 are being treated. Constable Sachin Pardeshi (33) died on Tuesday before he and his family could decide the date to the naming ceremony of his second child, a girl born three months back. “Pardeshi was was unable to take leave to visit his in-laws in Surat due to staff shortage as many tested positive,” his brother-in-law told TOI. Pardeshi had been at Ulhasnagar since April, after his wife Sandhya and their son Parth (4) went to her parent’s house in Surat for delivery. The report of Mumbai’s RAK Marg police constable Suryakant Mohite (54) showed positive on Tuesday, four days after he died. “Mohite had no comorbidities. He was ready to go to work when he complained of breathlessness and collapsed,” his elder brother told TOI. Constable Ravindra Gedam (52) of Mulchera police station and Pune traffic ASI Suresh Dalvi (56) were the others who died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/virus-claims-ulhasnagar-cop-before-kids-naming-ceremony/articleshow/78026264.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 10, 2020||Trichy||FIR filed in theft of 3 idols 40 years ago||Trichy: Idol wing CID police in Chennai registered a case in connection with the theft of three metal idols worth several crores of rupees from Vanmeeganathar temple in Ayanpettai village in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. The idols were stolen from the temple, administered by Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department, more than 40 years ago. The wing filed an FIR on Wednesday based on a complaint from the temple’s executive officer Ashok Kumar. A press statement from the wing said an antique Thiyagarajan swamy idol and two antique Ambal idols had been stolen from the temple before 1978. Additional director general of police (ADGP) Abhay Kumar Singh constituted a special team to trace the idols. Officials said on condition of anonymity that the temple administration had no idea that the idols had been stolen for several years now. Based on intelligence inputs from the idol wing, the temple administration verified their idols and found the three valuable idols missing, following which they lodged a complaint. The officials said the registration of the FIR will help them trace the idols which could have been smuggled to other states or other countries. The wing expected the administrators of HR&CE temples to take stock of their idols and lodge complaints with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fir-filed-in-theft-of-3-idols-40-years-ago/articleshow/78028045.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC seeks reply on plan to protect lions outside Gir||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday ordered the state government to state on affidavit what plans it has to manage wildlife, as Asiatic lions have spread out of the protected areas of Gir.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala sought a response from the authorities in response to a PIL filed by two retired wildlife wardens and a wildlife activist through advocate A S Timbaliya. The petitioners contend that the authorities have stuck to the lion conservation programme as it has yielded good results. The conservation programme has raised the numbers of lions in the sanctuary and Gir National Park, and with the increase in number, the animals have migrated to other areas. Now, a plan for their protection is required and sticking to the old conservation programme for the new territories of lions would have an adverse effect on the wildlife. Even for protected areas, a new plan is required, the petitioners submitted.The petitioners’ advocate, A S Timbaliya, submitted that with the animals now spread out in revenue areas, the government should come up with a new wildlife management plan for Gir and other areas. Various instances of wild animals strolling through villages and towns were cited. It was contended that the villagers are confused about how to deal with the wildlife, and increasing man-animal conflict will prove harmful for the animals.The petitioners elaborated on the tolerance level of humans in areas where lions and leopards have migrated lately from the protected jungles of Gir and Girnar. They are seeking a well thought-out plan to raise the tolerance of people towards wildlife. They sought court direction to the authorities to conduct research to plan ways to accommodate the wild animals so that people living in that area do not turn against the animals due to their excessive presence. For this, the authorities are required to undertake education and sensitization programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-reply-on-plan-to-protect-lions-outside-gir/articleshow/78028053.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||FSL conducts voice spectography of two Pathalgadis||Ahmedabd: Gujarat ATS on Wednesday sent two of the three recently arrested Pathalgadi activists for voice spectograph tests to match with audio and call records. Birsa Oriya, 27, and his brother Samu Oriya, 21, were taken to the Foresenic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Gandhinagar. ATS sources said they had applied for court permission to subject the accused to the test about a week ago, as FSL had scheduled the test on Wednesday.A senior ATS official said the three Pathalgadis were arrested from Vyara and Mahisagar in July. “In two concurrent operations on the night of July 24, Birsa and Samu were nabbed from Vyara district in south Gujarat, and a woman activist, Babita Kashyap, 33, was held from Mahisagar district. All three hail from Jharkhand and were in Gujarat to lay the roots of the Pathalgadi movement in tribal belts here.”Samu and Birsa who are lodged in Lajpore jail of Surat were directly brought to the FSL campus from Surat, while a team of ATS officials reached there from Ahmedabad. “The voice spectrograph test lasted for over an hour and a half,” an ATS official said. ATS claimed the trio had conspired to instigate the followers of Sati- Pati cult to take to violent means to overthrow the elected government in Gujarat.“Before they were arrested, we had legally intercepted calls made among themselves and also to their leaders in Jharkhand. Samu and Birsa are heard talking about weapons, while their leader tells them they will get weapons after they prove themselves. They also discussed a plan to ask the tribals to surrender their Aadhaar cards, ration cards and other government identity documents, and to eliminate whoever opposed the move,” a senior ATS official said.ATS officials said the trio had already planted six stones in areas of Bharuch and Chhota Udepur to mark the borders of their ‘Pathalgadi area’ beyond which they refused to recognize government authority.“They were gathering funds from Gujarat in suport of their plan to overthrow the elected government. Around 22 cases of assault and other offences are registered against the trio in Jharkhand. They have been booked under Sections 121 A, 124 A, 153A and 120 B of the IPC,” an ATS official said. What is Pathalgadi movement?The movement began in Jharkhand as the Panchayat (Extension of Scheduled Area) Act or PESA came into effect in 1996. “To the activists, it means that beyond the stones planted to mark Pathalgadi area, only the rule of the tribal gram sabha is obeyed and central or state authorities will not be allowed to enter,” said an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fsl-conducts-voice-spectography-of-two-pathalgadis/articleshow/78028063.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||During lockdown, helplines record spike in number of suicidal callers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Action groups working in the area of mental health, depression and suicide prevention have given the ‘Go Yellow’ call on Thursday and urged Kolkatans to step out wearing the colour to reflect the sunshine, share hope and give life another chance. Every September 10 is observed worldwide as Suicide Prevention Day. But this year is significant as the pandemic has pushed people to depression. Lifeline Foundation that offers emotional support to callers who may be depressed, distressed or suicidal has during the pandemic seen a 60% jump in calls and nearly 100% increase in callers who feel suicidal. Between April and August, 48 suicides have been reported from the city, said Kolkata Police. “Before the pandemic, we received calls from people who faced a myriad issues. But the situation turned more complex during lockdown. There were financial issues, job losses, insecurity about future, sharing of laptop, lack of space and privacy. Even regular issues became more frustrating. There was self discovery and self degradation. There were also families that were separated due to the lockdown,” recounted Lifeline Foundation deputy director Manjit Lachwani. Not only has the calls to Lifeline increased in past five months, duration of calls have also increased from 15-20 minutes to 30-35 minutes. At Swayam, a women’s rights organization, mental health consultant Chandana Bakshi saw suicidal ideation among callers spike as women faced domestic violence and social isolation during lockdown. “Suicide is not just a mental health issue. It is a social one as well. There are three types of people who feel suicidal: those who suffer from acute depression; those who are unable to deal with certain situations and those for whom reality is impaired. Social isolation during lockdown aggravated condition of all three categories,” she said. Calling on people to wear yellow on Thursday, singer Usha Uthup said the city needed to express its support to those who suffered from mental illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/during-lockdown-helplines-record-spike-in-number-of-suicidal-callers/articleshow/78026695.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city’s share of cases in district is now less than 50%||Trichy: From accounting for up to 73% of the daily fresh Covid-19 infections in the district, Trichy city’s contribution has dipped to 42% in a month. The city had been responsible for more than half the fresh positive cases reported in the district every day till about a week ago. In the first week of August, the city’s share of new cases was lingering around 65%, often going above 70%. In September, the first week saw this figure slumping to 48% of that in the district. While the overall fresh cases in the city have declined by 36% in a month, Ariyamangalam and Srirangam zones of the city corporation witnessed a significant recovery. The urban local body maintained that the positivity rate in the city is declining. Among the 141 samples collected from Gandhi market and G corner wholesale market localities last week, the RT-PCR testing revealed that only two were positive for Covid-19. The positivity rate of mass screening was a little over 1%.“Most of the mass testing we conducted in recent weeks across places where people gather are not identifying positive cases in huge numbers. The positivity rate of mass screenings has steadily declined in a month,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy corporation, told TOI. On an average, Trichy city has been testing 850 people a day in recent weeks, which has not declined, health officials added. Considering 850 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the city daily, the positivity rate has declined from 8.3% in the first week of August to 5.2% in the first week of September. The civic body attributed the fall to containment measure and early intervention through fever camps under way at hotspots as well. On the other hand, cases in rural Trichy have steadily increased in the past one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-citys-share-of-cases-in-district-is-now-less-than-50/articleshow/78028067.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Online protest conference against NEP||Madurai: As part of efforts to continue their protest against National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, the Federation of Protection of Education – Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, on Wednesday organised an online protest conference attended by activists and people’s representatives. The federation has also been actively holding online conferences and webinars with panellists discussing various aspects of the policy in detail through video conferencing in the past month. It observed that the Centre had come forward with NEP 2020 without proper discussion. There was strong opposition to the proposed three-language system and it was against Tamil Nadu and its people. The policy was also said to be promoting education as a business rather than a necessity for the basic rights and welfare of children. K Subbarayan, Lok Sabha MP from Tiruppur, and Nagapattinam MLA Thamimun Ansari were among the participants at the panel discussion. They stressed the need for education to be a state subject and for more freedom for states, and argued why various aspects of NEP should be challenged. This Sunday, another protest is being organised with 20 lakh households drawing ‘kolam’ in front of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-protest-conference-against-nep/articleshow/78028068.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||30 more shops open in Kallikudi market||Trichy: The agriculture business and agriculture marketing department on Wednesday unveiled 30 more shops at the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market. While the shops allotted to farmer producers organisation (FPOs) sold vegetables, the stakeholders are keen on making the wholesale traders open shops allotted for them from next week. FPOs from Anthanallur, Manapparai and Perambalur localities will be utilising the 30 shops. “Patronage from the public is increasing. We are getting bulk orders from hotels in Trichy. Once the wholesale traders are relocated, footfall will pick up further,” S Venkateswaran, secretary, Anthanallur FPO (A) said. A section of farmers have introduced electronic payment systems to avoid direct contact. People from Manikandam and from the outskirts visited the market on Wednesday. “From next week, a few wholesale traders will open the shops allotted for them. To improve patronage, city buses connecting the market are being considered,” a senior official from the department said. Public announcements were made for the benefit of residents to convey the opening of the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/30-more-shops-open-in-kallikudi-market/articleshow/78028072.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Mumbai||Kolkata CA held by EOW for Rs 34 crore bogus shares fraud||MUMBAI: City economic offences wing (EOW) arrested a 62-year-old chartered accountant, a resident of Kolkata’s posh Ballygunge locality, in connection with a Rs 34-crore fraud. Posing as a director in Intimate Fashions India Ltd, Ashok Agarwal allegedly sold nearly 1.4 lakh bogus shares to a Khar businessman and collected Rs 34 crore from him. More victims are coming forward and the fraud is expected to go beyond Rs 70 crore, police said. Agarwal’s son Shirish (34), also a CA, is a wanted accused. The complainant, who has an office at Bandra-Kurla Complex, told police Agarwal took him to New York in 2018 to meet other company directors. Agarwal offered to make him a director once they met the Americans. They return from US in three days, and Agarwal told the complainant other directors sanctioned his name. Agarwal had booked flight tickets and paid hotel bills. Agarwal also sent a mail saying he was made director. When the victim checked the company site he did not find his name or Agarwal’s. An FIR was lodged by BKC police on July 25, 2019, but the case was later transferred to EOW. “We arrested the accused and a probe is on,” said joint commissioner of police (EOW) Rajvardhan Sinha. The EOW team comprised officers Rajesh Kewale, Sumitsinh Pardeshi and Sambhaji Tagad, and staff Sanjay Rane and Shivaji Walekar. Agarwal met the complainant at a wedding in Kolkata. “He took money from February 2017 to 2019. Agarwal would mail bogus company reports to the victim and also sent a fake balance-sheet, stating the firm made a profit of Rs 3,000 crore,” said an officer. “The accused was posing as a director for 15 years. Two more people said they were duped by Agarwal. One of them paid Rs 15 crore and the other Rs 5 crore,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kolkata-ca-held-for-rs34cr-shares-fraud/articleshow/78026267.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 10, 2020||Kochi||KDHP says ‘no’ to land, offers R1cr for houses||Idukki: A virtual meeting on Wednesday between the chief minister, revenue minister, district authorities and Kanan Devan Hills Plantation Co (KDHP) officials discussed the rehabilitation of victims of the Pettimudi landslide. KDHP officials refused to provide land for victims and instead promised support for building dwelling units, Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said. "Company officials said they will provide Rs 1 crore for the construction of houses for eight homeless victims. The company said it will be ready for any financial support for home construction," Premkrishnan told TOI. "Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan accepted the offer. The CM directed Idukki district collector to inspect revenue land in Kuttiyar Valley for constructing the houses," said Premkrishnan. "The collector will visit Kuttiyar Valley on September 15 before taking a final decision. The company also assured job security and other facilities to the people,'' he said. According to company officials, the meeting mainly discussed rehabilitation of homeless victims. The compensation and other activities will be based on the report submitted by the revenue department, they said. News of the tragic landslide, which occurred at around 10.30pm on August 6, took 10 hours to reach the outside world. A rescue team reached the spot only by 11am. Four rows of layams housing estate workers were completely buried under the debris. Sixty-six bodies have so far been recovered with four persons still missing, officials said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kdhp-says-no-to-land-offers-r1cr-for-houses/articleshow/78025416.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid fear leads to students giving Eamcet a miss this yr||Hyderabad: The number of students appearing for the Telangana Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test (Eamcet) in the state this year has seen a massive plunge. Only 77.5% of the candidates appeared for the test on the first day of the engineering stream examination. Usually, about 90% attendance is recorded for Eamcet every year. The dipping numbers are being attributed to Covid-19 fear as well as students from other states skipping the exam. While 7,415 (86.20%) out of 8,602 registered candidates appeared for the test in 79 centres in Telangana, only 6,365 (69.98%) out of 9,227 registered candidates appeared for the test in 23 centres in Andhra Pradesh in the forenoon session. When it comes to the afternoon session, 7,140 (84.98%) out of 8,401 registered candidates appeared for the test in Telangana and 6,769 (71.37%) out of 9,484 registered candidates appeared in AP “In Telangana, the attendance is more or less on par with the previous year’s attendance as 85.59% of total registered candidates appeared. However, in AP, there is a decline of about 15%. This could be because students are looking to join local colleges due to the pandemic,” said A Govardhan, convener of Telangana Eamcet, adding that another reason for the low attendance in the AP state might be because AP Eamcet will be held shortly. Speaking to TOI, the convener of Eamcet said that only one student was initially stopped as his temperature was little over 99.14%, but he was allowed into the centres subsequently as his temperature went down. Meanwhile, the candidates, who skipped the test, and their parents said that they did not want to take any chances in the pandemic. “Some of the top private and deemed universities are admitting students based on class 12 marks this year. So, we have decided that my son would skip Eamcet and seek admission in one of these institutes,” said Sruthi B, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-fear-leads-to-students-giving-eamcet-a-miss-this-yr/articleshow/78026742.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nashik||1,260 people use e-psy helpline no.||Nashik: The helpline number started by the Nashik Zilla Parishad and Nashik civil hospital for people to seek guidance from psychologists about their fears regarding Covid-19 is being used by a large number of people. Till September 7, 1,260 people have used the helpline number — 7303250515 — that has been operational since August 16, said senior officials of the district health administration. These people used the number to seek guidance from health experts. Nilesh Jejurkar, the head of the psychiatry department of Nashik civil hospital, said the aim of the e-psy clinic is to counsel Covid patients and those who have recovered, their family and frontline workers to keep them in a positive frame of mind. Health officials said the Covid patients and those treating them are also found to be under severe stress. The helpline number is available around-the-clock for everyone who wants to speak to psychologists about their fears, problems and questions regarding Covid.  Jejurkar said almost all the covid patients are under mental stress, depression among others. Their families are also under immense stress. Since the doctors cannot be everywhere at all times, the helpline number of e-psy clinic was launched. Given the number of people who have reached out on the helpline number only raises questions regarding the coronavirus and its effects among people, added Jejurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1260-people-use-e-psy-helpline-no-/articleshow/78024031.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Archaeological excavation on cards in Ariyalur’s Maligaimedu, site inspected||Trichy: The state department of archaeology is planning to conduct excavations in Maligaimedu village near Gangaikondacholapuram in Ariyalur district. T Udhayachandran, principal secretary and commissioner, department of archaeology, who visited the village on Wednesday to inspect the possibility of carrying out the excavations, told TOI, “We will commence work once we get the ASI approval.” He also inspected the Gangaikondacholapuram museum that houses centuries-old stone idols and weapons and suggested to improve amenities for tourists. Archaeological excavations were conducted five times in the village previously between 1980 and 1991, during which the remains of the Chola royal palaces were identified. At least three palaces - Gangaikondacholan, Mudikondacholan and Cholakeralan - were believed to have been built between the 10th and 11th centuries in Maligaimedu village. Sources from the department said the palaces might have been destroyed during the invasion of Pandyas. Previous excavations at Maligaimedu have identified burnt bricks, ivory carvings, porcelain potsherd and iron nails. These remains were moved to the Gangaikondacholapuram museum. Udhyachandran will also visit Sivaganga and Tuticorin districts where excavations works are underway, on Thursday and Friday respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/archaeological-excavation-on-cards-in-ariyalurs-maligaimedu-site-inspected/articleshow/78028076.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Fishermen urged to refrain from crossing IMBL||Ramanathapuram: The Ramanathapuram district administration has urged fishermen from the district to refrain from crossing the international maritime boundary line (IMBL). District collector K Veera Raghava Rao appealed to them during a meeting held on Wednesday. He said that all steps were being taken to protect fishermen in the region near the border line with the help of the navy, coast guard and maritime police. But, sometimes it resulted in them venturing across the border due to natural circumstances like heavy winds, but this was a crime according to the international rules. “Fishermen should avoid getting into such situations, especially now, with the northeast monsoon set to begin. It is the duty of the fishermen to follow the weather reports and adhere to signs of warnings,” Rao said. Boats should be kept in good condition and all required documents including the licence, Aadhaar and ownership documents should be produced whenever asked for by the officials. Carrying safety equipment is a must during each fishing journey. He also said that the fishermen should ensure that they always remain in groups for safety reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishermen-urged-to-refrain-from-crossing-imbl/articleshow/78028075.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five-day Gujarat assembly session to begin on September 21||GANDHINAGAR: A five-day monsoon session of the Gujarat legislative assembly will be convened from September 21, the state government said on Wednesday. Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state for legislative affairs, said, “The decision to call this five-day monsoon session was taken at the cabinet meeting and some 24 bills including the new Gunda Control Act, PASA Act, Anti-Land Grabbing Act, key revenue reforms etc., will be tabled during the session. The minister hinted that the monsoon session would not have Question Hour. “We urged the speaker to not include Question Hour this time. If the need arises, the speaker can allow short-notice questions after discussing them with the ministers concerned,” Jadeja told reporters in Gandhinagar. Jadeja said steps will be taken to prevent the transmission of the virus during the session. “Before the session, Covid-19 tests will be conducted on everyone, including the CM, ministers, MLAs, staff of the assembly secretariat and mediapersons. Only those who test negative will be given entry,” he said. He added that a resolution hailing the contribution of “corona warriors” will also be brought during the session. A resolution will be passed to pay tribute to former President Pranab Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-day-assembly-session-to-begin-on-september-21/articleshow/78028080.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Safe drinking water hope for 50,000 Beliaghata residents||KOLKATA: In the next two years, residents of large areas in Beliaghata and its adjacent neighbourhoods such as Palmerbazar, Canal East Road and Canal West Road, and some areas off EM Bypass will have access to safe drinking water. Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has taken up construction of a water reservoir and booster pumping station for residents of these areas who still depend on ground water. Apart from supplying potable water to large areas under Ward 57, the booster pumping station will put an end to water scarcity in several parts of Beliaghata which fall under wards 35 and 36. According an estimate by KMC water supply department, the proposed reservoir and booster pumping station will cater to drinking water needs of around 50,000 people. According to a KMC official, the construction will be over by the end of 2022 for which the civic body will need to spend Rs 22 crore. “We had long been searching for land for construction of a water reservoir and booster pumping station which will replace ground water in large areas of Beliaghata and some parts of EM Bypass. After we found land near Sealdah railway station, we decided to set it up to mitigate water scarcity in large parts of Beliaghata and EM Bypass. Residents staying on both sides of Canal East Road and Canal West Road will also get benefitted,” a KMC water supply department official said.  The booster pumping station will also replace tube-wells and thus restrict use of ground water which has fast been depleting. “Several large housing complexes in Beliaghata and in areas off Bypass under three KMC wards are still drawing ground water. The project will take potable water to the residents of these housing complexes and at the same time augment supply of water,” said a KMC water supply department official. Ashok Gupta, a resident of a housing complex in Beliaghata, felt the construction of the booster pumping station would benefit hundreds of residents of the housing complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safe-drinking-water-hope-for-50k-beliaghata-residents/articleshow/78026727.cms||Saikat Ray
September 10, 2020||Mumbai||Amravati University relents, says exams will be held online||MUMBAI: Amravati University overnight altered its decision on how final graduating exams for the class of 2020 will be conducted. Following other universities, it will hold online exams in multiple choice question format, keeping aside earlier considerations that only 30% candidates have access to a smart-phone. Its decision had not gone down well with state government, with officials questioning vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar over the “online take-from-home” exam pattern. TOI had reported on Wednesday that pressure was being exerted on the VC to change the decision. “The university submitted a fresh proposal to state government. It was decided that like other state universities, we shall tell students to take exams from home via the online mode. Our question paper pattern will be MCQ, and there will be no revaluation for students,” said management council member Pradeep Khedkar. Like Mumbai University, it will follow the cluster system pattern, with lead colleges preparing a question bank. The one-hour exam will be of 50 marks, with 25 questions. Technology will be provided by the university and students will be given a log-in ID. “As we are in a poor connectivity zone, students can cancel their attempt even if they log in and take the exam,” said a source. He explained that if a student logs in, attempts many questions and then loses connection, the candidate can inform the university not to consider the attempt. The student can take the exam in phase two. Another member said, “This will lead to a fiasco. The state must realise that large belts of our university’s jurisdiction are tribal zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amravati-univ-relents-exams-to-be-online/articleshow/78026269.cms||Hemali Chhapia
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Forest department starts online course on butterflies||Trichy: The forest department in Trichy is taking its flagship certificate program on butterflies conducted at Tropical Butterfly Conservatory Trichy (TBCT), to the virtual platform.While TBCT has remained closed since the lockdown was announced, the one-day certificate course on butterflies conducted for visitors was also scrapped. The forest department has now announced a new online course on butterflies from September 12 in association with an NGO, Act For Butterflies. “The one-day certificate course on butterfly identification is a combination of theoretical and field components focusing on the winged creatures,” said P Mohan Prasath, founder of Act For Butterflies.While the course will be conducted on second and fourth Saturday of every month, there will be sessions focusing on family-wise species identification of butterflies. This will include over a 100 butterfly species found in south India. Another session will focus on butterflies’ habitat and behaviour, he said.Trichy district forest officer(DFO) D Sujatha said objective of such an initiative is to sow the seeds of nature conservation among school and college students. Asked about the reopening of the conservatory, the DFO said that the conservatory was expected to be opened soon given that Unlock 4.0 was underway. Mohan Prasath said that the interested people could contact the email id: mohan@aeonct.org or the contact number 9843511233.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-department-starts-online-course-on-butterflies/articleshow/78028085.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Embezzle for car, love: Con ride ends||AHMEDABAD: A man who had persuaded his girlfriend to embezzle money from her company was formally arrested on Wednesday after he recovered from Covid. The accused, Suresh Shah, had bought a car from his share of the proceeds of crime. The victim was Kirit Kulbaria of CTM, who owns a machine-making factory. He had been cheated of Rs 24.7 lakh. Suresh’s accomplices into whose accounts Kulbaria’s money was fraudulently transferred were arrested a week ago. Suresh had tested positive for Covid and was admitted to a hospital. According to assistant commissioner of police J M Yadav, Suresh, 30, of Satellite, had befriended Kalash Shah on Facebook. Kalash used to work in Kulbaria’s company. “Suresh and Kalash soon began an affair,” an investigator said. Cybercrime cell sources said that Suresh was in a financial crisis. So he told Kalash to use her access to the company’s accounts to steal the money. The money was spilt and parts of it were sent to the accounts of Suresh’s accomplices — Mukesh Shah of Ghatlodia, and Vishaka Shah and her mother Mona Shah of Isanpur. “Kalash had made a false online entry and had transferred the money. Suresh took his share,” ACP Yadav said. Yadav said that when the false entry came to light in March 2020, Kulbaria lodged a complaint. “We followed the money trail which led us to Mukesh, Vishaka, and Mona,” Yadav said. “We detained the three about a week ago and they admitted that Kalash had transferred the money on the directions of Suresh.” During interrogation, Suresh confessed that he had bought a car with the stolen money. He earlier used to deal in readymade garments, but his business had gone bust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/embezzle-for-car-love-con-ride-ends/articleshow/78026721.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Exam questions likely on CU website, not on WhatsApp||Kolkata: The question papers for Calcutta University undergraduate final year and terminal semester examinations, that will be held in digital mode, will not be sent over WhatsApp as was decided earlier. “Instead, the question papers may be available on CU website,” said a college principal, who attended a meeting between principals and VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee on Wednesday. The earlier permission to upload question papers on college websites has also been withdrawn. Candidates can sit at the comfort of their homes, complete the exam within 24 hours and send answer scripts in e-mails or upload scanned copies online. Only a handful of students who do not have any access to the internet can submit answer scripts to the heads of the departments in colleges or university. The examinations for UG courses and 68 PG programs will be conducted between October 1 and October 18. The university may also publish UG results by October 31. “Though some principals suggested to hold the examinations based on multiple-choice questions, the proposal was turned down since the terminal semester and final year question papers are already set as earlier, as per schedule, the exams were supposed to be held in April and May,” said Siuli Sarkar, principal of Lady Brabourne College. Another meeting to resolve the confusion over separate and ambiguous PG Board of Studies decisions related to individual departments have been sought by many college principals who run PG courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/exam-questions-likely-on-cu-website-not-on-whatsapp/articleshow/78026746.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 10, 2020||Madurai||HC summons officials for failing to check illegal sand mining activities||Madurai: Pulling up the authorities for failing to monitor illegal sand mining activities, the Madras high court has directed the Tirunelveli district collector and superintendent of police (SP) to appear before the court through video conferencing.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by B Sivasankar, who sought for a direction to restrain a person from indulging in illegal sand mining activities at Therku Kallidaikuruchi village in Tirunelveli district. The petitioner stated that though the collector had granted licence to the person to process gravel and m-sand in his own land, he is involved in illegal sand mining on the adjacent lands. The special government pleader submitted that since the jurisdictional tahsildar who had carried out an inspection noticed rampant illegal mining, showcause notice was issued. He further submitted that a case has also been registered at the Kallidaikuruchi police station. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that since licence was issued by the collector subjected to various conditions, it is obligatory on part of the authorities to monitor by carrying out inspections to ensure that the conditions are complied with. The judges observed that since the authorities had failed to discharge their duties, the person who was granted licence had excavated sand from adjacent lands and was involved in commercial exploitation. Hence, they directed the collector and SP to appear before the court. The judges also sought individual counter affidavits from them regarding the monitoring mechanism put in place to prevent such activities and adjourned the case to September 24 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-summons-officials-for-failing-to-check-illegal-sand-mining-activities/articleshow/78028092.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU receives 8,327 applications for Sept 21 exam||Ahmedabad: After announcing its plans to hold the third phase of the college examinations online as well, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has received applications from 8,357 students. They are from 13 different branches of diploma, undergraduate and post graduate programmes. As many as 460 students from 153 foreign countries and from 17 states have also registered for the online exams that will be held from September 21. The students can take the exam using digital devices like mobile, tablet and laptop. The varsity had earlier planned to hold the third round in pen and paper or offline mode. However given the huge demand from the students to conduct this round too in online mode, the varsity decided to hold the third online round of exams in September. The students were asked to register between September 3 and September 8. The state’s largest technical university has conducted online exams in two phases so far. A mock test will be held for the third round on September 15 following which the main exam will be held at the end of the this month. The GTU had got a good response for its second online exams that were held from August 17. About 24,000 students had opted for taking the college exams in online format after the varsity cancelled the pen and paper or offline format that were earlier scheduled to be conducted from August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-receives-8327-applications-for-sept-21-exam/articleshow/78028087.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second round of GU Bsc admissions as only 2,100 seats filled||Ahmedabad: After the first round of admissions to science colleges affiliated to Gujarat University (GU), a second round will be held soon sources in the varsity said. This round has been necessitated after only 2,100-odd seats were filled in round one. Students who participated in the first round will also be able to participate in the re-shuffling process. Students will have to provide their choice of colleges for the second round from September 10 to September 11. On the basis of this, college allotment will be made on September 14. The second round of admissions will be conducted for 10,530 seats for students of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) and 1,228 seats for students of other boards including CBSE. In all there are 12,587 seats for GSHSEB students and 1,406 for students of other boards. The final merit includes 10,700 students from Gujarat state board and 616 students from other boards. In the first round of allotments, 8,889 students of GSHSEB and 595 of other boards participated. Of these, admissions of 2,057 candidates of Gujarat state board and 178 of other boards were confirmed. The vacant seats for which reshuffling will be held are 10,530 seats for Gujarat board and 1,228 for other boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-round-of-gu-bsc-admissions-as-only-2100-seats-filled/articleshow/78028095.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Dashrath Patel denied bail in DV case||Ahmedabad: A sessions court on Mirzapur rural court campus on Wednesday refused to grant bail to one of the owners of Popular Builder, Dashrath Patel, in connection with an FIR registered with Vastrapur police station by Fizu Patel, wife of his nephew, accusing in-laws of attempt to murder, domestic violence, kidnapping, illegal confinement and criminal conspiracy.On behalf of Dashrath Patel, it was submitted that he was slapped with charges at a later stage when there was a meeting for a compromise between Fizu and the accused person. He had got the meeting video-recorded, and if he had ill intentions, he would not have recorded the meeting. However, the state government vehemently opposed the bail plea. The prosecutor argued that Fizu was ready to settle the dispute on receipt of Rs 50 crore, but she was forced to settle the issue on the payment of mere Rs 2.5 crore. After hearing the arguments, additional sessions judge N L Dave said that the accused person had not revealed during his custodial interrogation where the documents were lying which are being sought by the police for investigation. If he is granted bail, he could misplace the documents and tamper with the evidence. Besides Dashrath, his brother Raman, nephew Monang and relative Virendra Patel are behind bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-dashrath-patel-denied-bail-in-dv-case/articleshow/78026740.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||NEET centres in Trichy ramp up preparations||Trichy: Colleges and schools in Trichy, which have been selected as centres to conduct the NEET entrance examination on September 13, have intensified preparatory work. Arrangements have been made for staggered entry of candidates as every batch will be allowed inside the centre after a gap of 30 minutes. This will ensure that students do not gather outside or inside the centre defying social distancing norms. Institutions said that adequate arrangements will be made for washing hands at the centre with the deployment of adequate invigilators. In Trichy district, 15 schools and more number of colleges will accommodate NEET candidates. The number of colleges is more this year. One of the NEET coordinators in Trichy said that more institutions have been made centres to ensure social distancing. Further, the number of candidates in each centre has also been reduced. A city school, which accommodated 480 candidates last year, will have less than 300 this year. Every class will have 12 students instead of 24 last year, as a preventive measure, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/neet-centres-in-trichy-ramp-up-preparations/articleshow/78028093.cms||---
September 10, 2020||World||US has canceled more than 1,000 visas for Chinese nationals deemed security risks||WASHINGTON/BEIJING: The United States has revoked visas for more than 1,000 Chinese nationals under a May 29 presidential proclamation to suspend entry from China of students and researchers deemed security risks, a State Department spokeswoman said on Wednesday. The acting head of the US Department of Homeland Security, Chad Wolf, said earlier that Washington was blocking visas "for certain Chinese graduate students and researchers with ties to China's military fusion strategy to prevent them from stealing and otherwise appropriating sensitive research." In a speech, Wolf repeated US charges of unjust business practices and industrial espionage by China, including attempts to steal coronavirus research, and accused it of abusing student visas to exploit American academia. Wolf said the United States was also "preventing goods produced from slave labor from entering our markets, demanding that China respect the inherent dignity of each human being," an apparent reference to alleged abuses of Muslims in China's Xinjiang region. A State Department spokeswoman said the visa action was being taken under a proclamation President Donald Trump announced on May 29 as part of the US response to China's curbs on democracy in Hong Kong. "As of September 8, 2020, the Department has revoked more than 1,000 visas of PRC nationals who were found to be subject to Presidential Proclamation 10043 and therefore ineligible for a visa," she said. She said the ineligible "high-risk graduate students and research scholars" represented "a small subset" of the Chinese coming to the United States to study and research and that legitimate students and scholars would continue to be welcomed. China said in June it resolutely opposed any US move to restrict Chinese students from studying in the United States and urged Washington to do more to enhance mutual exchanges and understanding. Some 360,000 Chinese nationals study in the United States, bringing in significant revenue to US colleges, although the Covid-19 pandemic has severely disrupted the return to campus this autumn semester. DETERIORATING RELATIONS China-US relations have sunk to historic lows with the world's two biggest economies clashing over issues ranging from trade and human rights to Hong Kong and the coronavirus. Trump, who had touted friendly ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping as he sought to make good on promises to rebalance a massive trade deficit, has made getting tough on China a key part of his campaign for re-election on Nov. 3. He has accused his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, who leads in national opinion polls, of being soft toward Beijing. Earlier, some Chinese students enrolled in US universities said they received emailed notices on Wednesday from the US Embassy in Beijing or US consulates in China informing them their visas had been canceled. Nearly 50 students holding F-1 academic visas including postgraduates and undergraduates said in a WeChat chatroom that the notices stated they would have to apply for new visas if they wanted to travel to the United States. Many in the chatroom said they were majoring in subjects such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Some said they were postgraduates who obtained bachelor's degrees at Chinese universities with links to the People's Liberation Army. In May, sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters that Washington was planning to cancel the visas of thousands of Chinese graduate students believed to have links to China's military. In another move against China, US Customs and Border Protection officials have prepared orders to block imports of cotton and tomato products from Xinjiang over accusations of forced labor, although a formal announcement has been delayed. (Reporting by David Brunnstrom and Humeyra Pamuk in Washington and Ryan Woo in Beijing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-has-canceled-more-than-1000-visas-for-chinese-nationals-deemed-security-risks/articleshow/78029152.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||No immediate plan to resume suburban train services: Eastern Railway GM||KOLKATA: There are no plans to resume suburban train services in the near future, said Eastern Railway (ER) general manager Suneet Sharma in Kolkata on Wednesday. He was addressing a press conference on the freight performance of ER during the pandemic and remedial measures taken. The state government is in favour of the resumption of suburban railway services. Recently, the state home secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, had written a letter to the chairman of the railway board, requesting for the resumption of train services in compliance with Covid-19 social distancing norms. Sharma said: “There are issues. Our suburban stations don’t have the facilities for crowd control. We will see how the Metro Railway’s plan works out. We will also discuss the matter with the state government. However, we do not have any plan to launch suburban services at the moment,” he said. He made it very clear that suburban train services won’t be available in Kolkata in the near future. “We will speak to the state government but there are issues that will be difficult to work out, at least in the suburban stations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-immediate-plan-to-resume-suburban-train-services-er-gm/articleshow/78026781.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Prices of tomato, potato and onion hit the roof||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Prices of essential vegetables — tomato, potato and onion — have risen to dizzying heights. Tomato is selling for Rs60-70/ kg in retail markets, onion Rs35 and potato, which rarely crosses Rs25, is now Rs45. Tomato costs Rs70 in Andheri Lokhandwala and Khar, Rs60 in Bandra, Borivli, Mulund and Thane, and Rs50 in Kalyan. Online, farmers’ groups are despatching cheaper one for Rs46. Middle-class households, under pressure from salary cuts, job losses and slack business, are bewildered how to prepare a proper meal by avoiding these basic ingredients. “Whether vegetarian or not, nearly all recipes call for these items. Coriander has gone off the table since it spiralled to Rs20 for a bunch in April-May,” said Ananth Nair, a small entrepreneur from Khar. Kalyan and Vashi wholesale trader Mangal Gupta, a farmer, said, “The price rise is due to uncertainty in market, which deterred farmers from planting tomato. Coupled with heavy rain in Maharashtra, this hit production. Rates will be normal in a month, around Dusshera, as farmers sow cucumber and tomato in mid-August. It is a 60-day cycle for tomato.” The wholesale price at Vashi market was Rs35-40/kg against Rs10-20 a month back. APMC Vashi wholesale traders attributed the spike in cost of tomato to heavy rain in major production areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka that damaged the crop. With scanty supply and increasing demand after the lockdown was relaxed, prices soared in wholesale and retail markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prices-of-tomato-potato-and-onion-hit-the-roof/articleshow/78026275.cms||B B Nayak
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Candidates rue difficulty level, minimal precautionary norms||HYDERABAD: Candidates who appeared for the Telangana Eamcet on Wednesday said that the the physics and chemistry papers were moderately tough while the mathematics paper was quite lengthy and difficult. “I found the maths section to be very lengthy. The remaining sections were comparatively easy,” said R Ram Sagar, a candidate. Few students also said that they could have fared better if exams were not postponed because of Covid-19. “Despite conducting online classes, my students complained that they could not prepare well as colleges were shut for the last six months. They said that paper was very difficult,” said G Satish, who owns an intermediate college in the city. Few candidates complained about Covid-19 operating procedures not being followed strictly. They said that there is not much of social distancing as students were made to sit at adjacent computers without much gap in-between.Some even took to social media to highlight their concerns. “They are not checking who has symptoms, they are just keeping the declaration forms in a box. And other point everyone is writing exam in a common hall,” (sic) read a tweet from @saki_254.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/candidates-rue-difficulty-level-minimal-precautionary-norms/articleshow/78026762.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government approves proposal to amend Registration Act||GANDHINAGAR: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to amend provisions of the Registration Act, 1908, to ensure more effective implementation of the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Bill, 2020, which will be introduced in the assembly session this month. The bill to amend the Registration Act, 1908, will also be introduced in the assembly. The Times of India, in its August 19, 2020 edition, had first reported that the Gujarat government will introduce a new law to curb instances of land grabbing by land mafia by force or by deceit from government, local authorities, religious and charitable institutions or from private individuals. One of the main amendments in the Registration Act will be that an unauthorized person will not be able to register a property. People will be able to file online registration of property without the assistance of a lawyer. Electronic filing of registration applications will also bring down instances of persons being pressurized or coerced into registering property in someone else’s name, the government claimed. Amendments to the Registration Act have also made provision of imprisonment of up to seven years for those who provide false information while registering property, misuse power of attorney and register property by unfair means. Those found guilty will have to pay fines up to the market value of the said property. The state cabinet has already given its approval to The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Bill, 2020, which proposes imprisonment of up to 14 years and not less than 10 years for persons convicted for land grabbing. If the person contravening provisions of the proposed law is a company, every person, who at the time the contravention was committed, was in charge of the company, will be deemed guilty of the contravention and will be liable to be proceeded against.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-approves-proposal-to-amend-registration-act/articleshow/78026754.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Six questioned in AAP firing incident||Vadodara: Six persons were picked up since Tuesday for interrogation in connection with firing on former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member, Ameena Sheikh, at her home in Yakutpura on Tuesday noon. Police sources said that the six persons were brought to the police station for questioning as they are connected with the prime suspects. Officials said that they are confident that the kingpins will be arrested soon as they got several leads while interrogating these six persons. “We will reveal where the crime was planned and who played what role once the arrests are made. Right now, we are close to cracking the case,” a senior official said. On Tuesday, Sheikh’s husband had told cops that a woman and a man had come to his house and of the duo, the woman had fired upon his wife. However, police are verifying if the person was a woman. “Just because the person had covered the face with a dupatta, it is not necessary that it was a woman,” a police official said. Sheikh was shot at the footsteps of her home. However, she survived the attack. Naeem had alleged that she was attacked over an ongoing property dispute within the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-questioned-in-aap-firing-incident/articleshow/78024373.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Prices of tomato, potato and onion hit the roof||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Prices of essential vegetables — tomato, potato and onion — have risen to dizzying heights. Tomato is selling for Rs60-70/ kg in retail markets, onion Rs35 and potato, which rarely crosses Rs25, is now Rs45. Tomato costs Rs70 in Andheri Lokhandwala and Khar, Rs60 in Bandra, Borivli, Mulund and Thane, and Rs50 in Kalyan. Online, farmers’ groups are despatching cheaper one for Rs46. Middle-class households, under pressure from salary cuts, job losses and slack business, are bewildered how to prepare a proper meal by avoiding these basic ingredients. “Whether vegetarian or not, nearly all recipes call for these items. Coriander has gone off the table since it spiralled to Rs20 for a bunch in April-May,” said Ananth Nair, a small entrepreneur from Khar. Kalyan and Vashi wholesale trader Mangal Gupta, a farmer, said, “The price rise is due to uncertainty in market, which deterred farmers from planting tomato. Coupled with heavy rain in Maharashtra, this hit production. Rates will be normal in a month, around Dusshera, as farmers sow cucumber and tomato in mid-August. It is a 60-day cycle for tomato.” The wholesale price at Vashi market was Rs35-40/kg against Rs10-20 a month back. APMC Vashi wholesale traders attributed the spike in cost of tomato to heavy rain in major production areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka that damaged the crop. With scanty supply and increasing demand after the lockdown was relaxed, prices soared in wholesale and retail markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/prices-of-tomato-potato-and-onion-hit-the-roof/articleshow/78032651.cms||B B Nayak
September 10, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Prices of tomato, potato and onion hit the roof||MUMBAI/NAVI MUMBAI: Prices of essential vegetables — tomato, potato and onion — have risen to dizzying heights. Tomato is selling for Rs60-70/ kg in retail markets, onion Rs35 and potato, which rarely crosses Rs25, is now Rs45. Tomato costs Rs70 in Andheri Lokhandwala and Khar, Rs60 in Bandra, Borivli, Mulund and Thane, and Rs50 in Kalyan. Online, farmers’ groups are despatching cheaper one for Rs46. Middle-class households, under pressure from salary cuts, job losses and slack business, are bewildered how to prepare a proper meal by avoiding these basic ingredients. “Whether vegetarian or not, nearly all recipes call for these items. Coriander has gone off the table since it spiralled to Rs20 for a bunch in April-May,” said Ananth Nair, a small entrepreneur from Khar. Kalyan and Vashi wholesale trader Mangal Gupta, a farmer, said, “The price rise is due to uncertainty in market, which deterred farmers from planting tomato. Coupled with heavy rain in Maharashtra, this hit production. Rates will be normal in a month, around Dusshera, as farmers sow cucumber and tomato in mid-August. It is a 60-day cycle for tomato.” The wholesale price at Vashi market was Rs35-40/kg against Rs10-20 a month back. APMC Vashi wholesale traders attributed the spike in cost of tomato to heavy rain in major production areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka that damaged the crop. With scanty supply and increasing demand after the lockdown was relaxed, prices soared in wholesale and retail markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/prices-of-tomato-potato-and-onion-hit-the-roof/articleshow/78032654.cms||B B Nayak
September 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai-Bodi railway line to open in 6 months||Madurai: An additional Rs 35 crore has been allocated for the Madurai-Bodi railway line under the redistribution of funds for Southern Railway, according to a statement from Theni MP Raveendranath Kumar. He said it was his efforts that speeded up the gauge conversion work that will be complete in six months and commissioned. The project was slow in taking off and only 30% complete when he assumed charge as MP. He had been constantly pursuing the railway project ever since his inception into the 17th Lok Sabha and had made several submissions in Parliament and to railway minister Piyush Goyal. He met district collector Pallavi M Baldev and concerned officials and sought their cooperation for settling issues such as amicable settlement for encroachers at a few locations on the Madurai-Usilampatti stretch. He urged them to ensure that deadlines with regard to resolution of pending issues are met without fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-bodi-railway-line-to-open-in-6-months/articleshow/78028100.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Plea to operate train for NEET candidates to Trichy, Thanjavur||Trichy: A rail users association has appealed to the railways to operate a special train to carry NEET candidates from Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur to their examination centres in Thanjavur and Trichy. Stating that almost all the eligible students have to travel either to Trichy or Thanjavur on September 13 and there is no proper transportation facility, secretary of the Nagore-Nagapattinam Rail Users Association, Mohan, has submitted representations to the railways and Nagapattinam district collector to operate the special train from Nagore to Trichy via Tiruuvarur and Thanjavur. Based on the representation, collector Praveen P Nair has written a letter to the state principal secretary, transport department, to grant permission to operate a special train for students who will appear for the NEET entrance examination. In his letter, collector requested to operate the special train from Nagore to Trichy via Nagapattinam - Kilvelur - Tiruvarur - Koradacherry - Needamangalam - Thanjavur - Pudhalur and Thiruverumbur. The departure time may be 7am at Nagore on the day while the return journey may be scheduled at 6pm at Trichy. The collector also stated that seats may be reserved for NEET students who may be allowed to travel with their hall tickets with one person to accompany them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-operate-train-for-neet-candidates-to-trichy-thanjavur/articleshow/78028098.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kochi||Pantheerankavu Maoist case: Allan Shuaib, Thwaha Fasal get bail after 10 months||KOCHI: Observing that the petitioners in Pantheerankavu Maoist case are young men who have a chance to reform, the NIA special court granted bail to Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal on Wednesday. The duo, who got bail 10 months after their arrests in November 2019, are likely to be released by Friday. NIA judge Anil K Bhaskar passed the order granting them bail on Wednesday. The court observed that both petitioners are budding youngsters. At the time of arrest, the first accused was a 19-year-old law student while the second was 23-year-old pursuing journalism course. “It appears that they used to be proactive on every contentious social and political issue. Such persons will be more prone to extremist ideologies and probably that may be the reason for the petitioners to come in contact with the banned organization,” the court observed. “…Therefore, the court has to be lenient to them on the question of granting bail but with a clear message that the chance given for reformation shall not be mistook as an opportunity to fasten their bonds with the banned terrorist organization and be a part of it,” the order said. The court set 12 conditions while granting bail and it included execution of a bond of Rs 1 lakh each with two solvent sureties for the amount. Sureties should be parents of the accused and a close relative. The accused shall not contact any person related to the case. Allan must report at Panniyankara police station on the first Saturday of the month between 10 am and 11 am. Similarly, Thwaha should report at Pantheerankavu Police Station. Both shall appear before NIA in case of an investigation and they should surrender their passports. The accused cannot leave Kerala or indulge in criminal activities. Station house officers of both police stations were directed to monitor them and inform the court about involvement in criminal activity or association with the banned organization. The prosecution can ask for cancellation of bail if conditions are violated. The court also observed that one cannot resort to violent methods to subdue a democratically-elected government though people are tempted to do so. “Let us hope that their parents will play a constructive role to better the children’s mental and psychological qualities,” stated the order. On November 1, 2019, Allan and Thwaha were arrested by Pantheerankavu police saying that they had taken part in a secret meeting as part of CPI Maoist organization. NIA took over the probe in December 2019 and the chargesheet was filed later in April. The third accused, CP Usman, is still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pantheerankavu-maoist-case-allan-thwaha-get-bail-after-10-months/articleshow/78025492.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Manali man covers 126km with 2 mountain passes in 19 hrs||Manali: Ultramarathon runner Kieren D’souza has set a new record by running across two mountain passes with over 13,000ft altitude, covering a total distance of 126km in less than 19 hours. Trained mountaineers and trekkers usually take six to 10 days to cover the same distance. This ultra running, starting and ending at Manali, involved traversing Hamta Pass (14,000ft) and Rohtang Pass (13,050ft) and was held under the observation of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS) on September 5 midnight. The run was given the name of “Triple Trouble Run” for its three hurdles — Manali to Hamta Pass, Hamta Pass to Rohtang Pass and Rohtang Pass to Manali. Kieren did not stop until he completed the run at about 7pm. Manali-Hamta Pass-Chhatru is a popular trekking route among Indian and foreigner trekkers. This trekking is completed in four days. But, Kieren did it in just a few hours. He completed the Chhatru-Rohtang and Rohtang-Manali stretches also in a matter of hours. ABVIMAS director Col Neeraj Rana said the race was held under the close watch of two observers from the institute. “Kieren completed the race in 18 hours 55 minutes. Nobody had done this before,” he said. Before this, he had accomplished almost impossible task of climbing 17,300ft high Mt Friendship peak in just one day in June. He started running from Manali, reached Beas Kund, the base of the peak, successfully climbed the snow-laden peak, climbed down and ran back to Manali in just 12 hours. Trained mountaineers take days in planning and then at least five days to climb it. Kieren hails from Nagpur but lives in Manali. He moved to Manali for rehearsal on the Himalayas, but the recent lockdown encouraged him to attempt some of the impossible tasks. His team “4Play” helped him in accomplishing both tasks. Kieren is a professional ultramarathon runner, who has participated in dozens of races across the world. He is often called as the fastest man in the Himalayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manali-man-covers-126km-with-2-mountain-passes-in-19-hrs/articleshow/78026814.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pits never stop: 55 cave-ins in 8 months||AHMEDABAD: Since Monday, the city has reported three cave-ins — one each in Nava Vadaj, Khokhra, and Maninagar. So far this year, Ahmedabad has been riddled with 55 cave-ins in just eight months. That translates to seven cave-ins per month against five in 2019. The cave-ins in Khokhra and Nava Vadaj are massive and substantial time will be needed to repair them. Officials said that the cost of repairs is estimated to be Rs 5 lakh per cave-in because the leakage in drainage or stormwater line has to be plugged before the roads are resurfaced. The officials said that some of the 55 cave-ins are the result of poor reclamation of earth by contractors. A senior official said that in several areas cave-ins are a chronic problem. He cited the example of 132 Feet Ring Road near the BRTS track. He said that the spots on the stretch often cave in; one has collapsed recently. The officials said that about 40% of the drainage lines in the city are old and these play a part in cave-ins. The officials said that to strength the drainage lines, the AMC had announced a project to use the strip wound lining (SWL) method. In this Japanese method, cameras are used to assess damage inside drainage lines and small cracks and fractures are sealed. These cracks can cause cave-ins. But the project itself caved in under apathy. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the city has several old drainage and stormwater lines that need repairs. “We are examining these lines and tenders for retrofitting have been issued,” he said. “Old lines develop punctures and leaks and these cause cave-ins. We are using the latest technology to plug leakages.” He denied any cave-in at places where new lines are being laid. A senior official said that leaks in drains can be attributed to illegal connections or blockages. The official said that contractors are supposed to compact the soil after they dig it up for repairs. But, he said, in 90% of the cases, contractors finish the job in a hurry just before the monsoon and the holes are filled with earth without proper reclamation. An official from the engineering department said that drainage lines develop major leaks whenever the city receives good rain. Water beyond the lines’ carrying capacity leads to punctures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pits-never-stop-55-cave-ins-in-8-months/articleshow/78026799.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 10, 2020||Trichy||Centre of excellence in AI launched in NIT Trichy||Trichy: A centre of excellence in artificial intelligence (CoE-AI) was inaugurated at NIT-Trichy on Wednesday by institute director Mini Shaji Thomas. Established at a cost of about Rs 1.2 crore sanctioned from the higher education funding agency (HEFA), the CoE has been set up to focus on interdisciplinary research in AI. The initiative is expected to generate highly skilled manpower in terms of internships and project staff in due course of time with expertise in AI. There will also be focus on attempting to solve societally relevant problems such as crisis management, healthcare and decision support system in the light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “The centre has already been sanctioned sponsored projects from DRDO, Isro and Naval Research Board amounting to a total of Rs 1.5 crores,” said Mini Shaji Thomas. She said the Institute had taken initiatives to extend the facilities available at the CoE to other organizations on consultancy mode. In addition to these, the CoE-AI is planned to submit proposals to different government and private organizations to expand research and development activities. The core team of CoE-AI expect the centre to establish itself as an independent centre for research in AI in the long term, attracting and creating potential opportunities with its available expert facility and expertise in manpower. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/centre-of-excellence-in-ai-launched-in-nit-trichy/articleshow/78028123.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Anandapur accused, victim were fighting over buying flat: Cops||Kolkata: Hours after Abhishek Kumar Pandey was arrested for allegedly molesting a 31-year-old bank official in his sedan at Anandapur and then, knocking down 47-year-old Nilanjana Chatterjee who tried to rescue the woman in the car late on Saturday, police said the accused and the victim, who had known each other since 2018, were fighting over when to buy a flat. While the woman bit Pandey before trying to get off, Pandey attempted to pull her back inside, in what he claimed, was his attempt to pacify her, police said. In the process, Pandey’s kara (bangle) cut the victim’s skin, leading to her injury. The cut was ostensibly so deep that her blood splashed onto the rear seat. Police hinted they would ask the woman to record her statement before a magistrate. “We have some hard evidence, which we will help establish the facts of the case,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Pandey, whose sister had pressured him into surrendering, was produced in a local court on Wednesday and remanded in police custody till September 16. The court also allowed permission to record Chatterjee and the bank official’s statements before a magistrate. The defence counsel had earlier pleaded for Pandey’s bail, saying the two knew each other and no crime was committed against the women. According to police, the two had known each other since October 2018 and their families were getting ready for their wedding. “The couple had decided to buy a house but they were divided over when to make the purchase withPandey insisting they should invest later owing to the current Covid situation. The two stopped talking last week. To break the impasse, Pandey offered to go on a long drive ,” said an officer. On Saturday, Pandey picked up the woman from her Nayabad flat and they went for dinner at a Patuli restaurant. But they again got into a fight. They were barely 300m from Ruby crossing, when the woman insisted on getting off. As the two got into a scuffle, the woman yelled for help, catching the attention of Chatterjee and her husband Deep Satpati, who were returning home in their own car,” the officer said. “Pandey started reversing his car and on his third attempt, he slammed on the accelerator, when he allegedly found Chatterjee in front, trying to stop him. He claimed he panicked after hitting Chatterjee and fled. Later, he visited the bank official’s home and returned her keys and mobile before going home off EM Bypass and telling his mother everything. Meanwhile, the woman initially resisted on lodging a complaint but on seeing Chatterjee’s fractured leg, gave a fake narrative. She returned home and texted Pandey to surrender.” Satpati, police indicated, might make an in-camera statement on Thursday. The next morning, Pandey’s legal team started work to try for his bail. Pandey reportedly drove back home from his lawyer’s place, packed his clothes and walked away with two suitcases. He checked into a guest house in the Purba Jadavpur around 8pm on Sunday. Around 11am on Monday, his legal team asked him to meet them at Sealdah. Pandey reportedly asked the guest house to arrange a cab. Barely 30 minutes after he left, cops reached the hotel, got the taxi number and traced the owner. After meeting his lawyers, Pandey hired a rickshaw to NRS Hospital area and from there, took a taxi to Dum Dum. He asked a friend for a place and was directed to a hostel at Golabari in Dum Dum, police said. Cops tracked Pandey to Dum Dum and asked his family to reach Lalbazar. His sister reportedly pleaded with him to surrender. At the Dum Dum mess, the boarders recognized him from his photo on social media and asked him to surrender, too. Pandey stepped out and was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/anandapur-accused-victim-were-fighting-over-buying-flat-cops/articleshow/78026861.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||State task force for higher education to implement NEP||Ahmedabad: The state government has recently formed a task force for implementing the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 for higher and technical education. The 13-member team led by education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama consists of principal secretary Anju Sharma, IIT-Gandhinagar director Sudhir Jain, provost of Ahmedabad University Pankaj Chandra, GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth and Gujarat University vice-chancellor Himanshu Pandya, among others. Earlier, the state education department formed a 15-member task force for primary and secondary education. At a meeting of the members of NEP committee for higher and technical education on Wednesday, various sub committees were formed including courses and programmes, co-ordination among varsities and their further strengthening and steps to improve the quality of education. The new NEP has been translated into Gujarati, and a task force is being formed to make a road map for Gujarat, chief minister Vijay Rupani said recently on Teachers’ Day. On the basis of this road map, the state will make drastic changes in education, right from primary to secondary and higher education, from KG to PG (kindergarten to post graduation), Rupani had reportedly said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-task-force-for-higher-education-to-implement-nep/articleshow/78026825.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Telangana, Centre on razing places of worship||HYDERABAD: Wondering how construction of a new secretariat is not in public interest, the Telangana high court on Wednesday issued notices to the state and central governments, asking them to file replies by October 1 to three public interest litigation (PIL) pleas which questioned razing of two mosques and a temple on the old secretariat premises. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing a PIL filed by Mohd Zakir Hussain Javid, sought replies from the governments by October 1 and also wanted to know from them whether laws pertaining to land acquisition, waqf and endowments were followed while taking over these properties and demolishing them. Urging the court to rebuild the two mosques — Masjid-e-Daftar-e-Motamadi and Masjid-e-Hashmi — petitioner’s counsel Yaser Mamoon described the assertion of the state that it unintentionally and by mistake demolished the mosques as not trustworthy. “The demolition was intentional and the explanation being offered is unreliable,” he said. Replying to a query from the bench as to what remained in the matter to be adjudicated in view of the state’s assurance that it would rebuild the places of worship with all modern amenities, the counsel said that there was a vast difference between the state’s utterances and its actions. The two mosques were situated in an area of 650 square yards, which is equivalent to nearly 6,000 square feet. The state, however was now saying that it will build the mosques in a mere 1,500 square feet. “This will result in a huge loss to the waqf board. Let the state file its reply on how it is planning to rebuild the demolished mosques,” he said. The bench, however, brushed aside Mamoon’s allegation that the state leadership was resorting to the new secretariat construction only for its own vested interests and not in public interest. “How can the secretariat construction be termed as a vested interest of someone,” the bench said, asserting “it is certainly in public interest”. While making it clear that the government could always acquire properties in public interest, the bench asked the state counsel whether compensation was paid to the rightful owners of these properties. Alternative land too could be given, it said. The bench also issued notices in two other PILs, filed by advocates Mohd Afzal Uddin Dakhani and Khaja Aijazuddin in the same matter. The matter was adjourned to October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-t-centre-on-razing-places-of-worship/articleshow/78026808.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat ROB deck slab work starts||Kolkata: Concretization of Majerhat bridge’s deck slab started on Wednesday. Raja Santosh Roy Road, situated on the eastern side of the structure, has been closed for two days for safety. On September 4, 2018, a span of the bridge, actually a rail overbridge (ROB), had collapsed, severing the city’s link with New Alipore, Behala and beyond. A milestone will be achieved when its deck slab spanning 260m from the Mominpore Road-Burdwan Road crossing to the Mint on the southern end is concretized on Thursday. The state public works department (PWD), the implementing agency of the project, wants to open the bridge before Puja this year. “Several vehicles have to ply through Raja Santosh Roy Road, in absence of the Majerhat bridge. There should not be accidents while the crucial work (concrete casting) is on,” said an official. After the deck slab is cast on Thursday, PWD will start preparations for the cabling work in the next three or four days. A construction gap of 28 days is needed for curing after casting. Once the slab firms up, installation of the cables can start. And then the deck will be waterproofed and paved with asphalt and concrete. The four-lane Majerhat ROB is cable-stayed bridge. Of the 260m deck slab that is being cast now, 76m comprises the girder over the railway tracks. So, traffic and electricity blocks from Eastern Railway (ER) were necessary. With no suburban trains plying due to the lockdown, the railways gave the two-day power block. The new four-lane bridge will be 650m long and 21.2m wide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-rob-deck-slab-work-starts/articleshow/78026823.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Logjam continues in Himachal assembly||Shimla: For third consecutive day uproarious scenes were witnessed inside Himachal Pradesh Assembly during the ongoing monsoon session. Congress legislators protested by going inside the well of the House when chief minister Jai Ram Thakur was replying to adjournment motion moved by opposition under Rule-67. Chaos started as soon as the day’s proceedings started on Wednesday and speaker Vipin Singh Parmar asked the chief minister to reply to the discussion held under Rule-67. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Congress MLA Harshvardhan Chauhan started demanding permission for the opposition to speak. Speaker said the issue was discussed for more than six hours. He said 15 members from the ruling side and 13 members from the opposition have participated in the discussion and now, after two days, chief minister is replying. After the speaker gave the ruling, the chief minister rose to reply, but opposition started raising slogans and soon went inside the well. CM Thakur said by creating such circumstances, opposition has only exposed itself. He said in Congress ruled states, assembly sessions are being concluded in one to three days while in Himachal Pradesh, the opposition was allowed to speak for two days. He said it will be written in the history that during pandemic situation, opposition was clapping sitting inside the well of the House. He said opposition actually should have suggested the government about steps to be taken in future to deal with such situation. After chief minister completed his reply opposition members returned to their seats and later they went out of the House. After opposition went outside, CM Thakur said it was not walkout. But while speaking to the journalists outside the assembly, Agnihotri said opposition had staged a walkout. He alleged that opposition was not allowed to speak on the adjournment motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/logjam-continues-in-himachal-assembly/articleshow/78026842.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||‘Ensure all govt contracts go to locals’||Panaji: Rajkumar Kamat, president of Vibrant Goa Foundation and member of the Investment Promotion Board, Goa, said the state government should begin supporting ‘local for vocal’ in the true sense by ensuring that all government contracts go to local persons. He said that while the state government is doing its job on the Covid front, it is also necessary that it sees to it that work on the livelihood front picks up pace. “I do believe the government needs to ensure the ease of doing business in Goa in the real sense. It will unshackle the businesses to grow. Secondly, the government should be really supporting local for vocal. It is necessary that all government orders whether it is for contracts, designs or any other vendors need to go to the local people. A system can definitely be designed for this,” said Kamat. He was speaking as part of a social media initiative by reQUEST Media, where professionals, thinkers, business leaders and intellectuals speak about solutions to improve life post pandemic. The videos of are released regularly on the social media platform reACTION123. Kamat said businesses too, learning from the Covid crisis, should expedite their work of harnessing technology. “Today we have seen that it is technology that has come to our help, so all businesses need to make sure we are absolutely technology savvy and use it to the fullest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-all-govt-contracts-go-to-locals/articleshow/78026857.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Allahabad||Sculptors rediscover draw of ‘Ek Chala’ style Durga idols||Prayagraj: The pandemic might have played spoilsport with festive preparations for Durga Puja, but city artists are not letting Covid-19 get in way for their plans for the festival. Like every year, sculptors have started working on idols of goddess Durga Puja. 30-year-old artist Sudhir Sahu aka Sagar is working on an idol of goddess Durga which is based on e ‘Ek Chaala’ style of sculpting. In ‘Ek Chala’ idols, multiple figurines are sculpted on a single platform. Sahu’s idol would be around 1.5 feet in height. “This year, I have been working on small idols. I have received calls from Durga Puja pandal organisers, but for now I am working on this Ek Chala idol,” Sahu said. Idol’s ornaments are being made from soil from Yamuna’s bank, which is not only considered pure but also binds firmly. “In ‘Ek Chala’ idols, goddess Durga and her four children — Kartikeya , Ganesha , Saraswati , and Laxmi — are all sculpted in one frame known as ‘chal chitra’.” Due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, more and more people are giving elaborate and flashy designs a miss and are opting for the simple ‘Ek Chala’ style idols. “In this style of sculpting, artists use natural colours obtained from flowers and other natural sources. Other raw materials used include straw, cotton, and bamboo. It is an eco-friendly style as no chemicals are used. The structure is put assembled using natural glue or wheat flour dough,” said Sahu. Despite being North Indian, Sahu is fluent in Bangla and only watches Bangla television channels. “Drawn to the Bengali culture, I started sketching images of Goddess Durga at the age of eight,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sculptors-rediscover-draw-of-ek-chala-style-durga-idols/articleshow/78024096.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC refuses to look into Karvy appeal urgently||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Wednesday refused to take up the appeal filed by scam hit Karvy Stock Broking Ltd on an urgent basis. The company’s plea challenging the centre’s decision to order a probe by serious fraud investigation office (SFIO) into its alleged mismanagement in respect of the securities of its clients was earlier dismissed by a single judge. The company filed an appeal against this order. Its counsel urged a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijayaen Reddy to take up their appeal on an urgent basis because the SFIO hastened its probe after the dismissal of their plea by a single judge. Probe officials have already seized certain documents from our office, the counsel said urging the court to take up the matter as a lunch motion. The bench asked him to clear the objections of the registry and get his plea numbered. You can then make a mention, the bench told the counsel. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-refuses-to-look-into-karvy-appeal-urgently/articleshow/78026824.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Marginal rise in sales: IIM-A prof||Ahmedabad: The monthly Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES) carried out by Abhiman Das, professor of economics at IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) showed signs of recovery for the MSMEs. The result of the survey in July revealed that one third of the firms under survey expected more than 6% cost increase compared to the same period last year. In the survey for June, 71% of the firms had mentioned much less than normal sales. For July, the percentage went down slightly at 66% - indicating recovering market. Compared to 68% of the firms that had reported much less than normal profit margins in June, the number went down to 62%. However, 85% of the firms in sample reported somewhat or much less sales. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marginal-rise-in-sales-iim-a-prof/articleshow/78026858.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks report on polluting units||Hyderabad: Stating that pollution in one area is a problem for the entire city as it will never be confined to its point of origin, Telangana high court on Wednesday made it clear that Shastripuram and Tatanagar areas in Hyderabad should be rid of pollutant industries. The court sought a status report from GHMC on the progress made in respect of removing pollutant industries from the areas and posted the case to October 8. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a 2012 PIL on Shastripuram pollution. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-report-on-polluting-units/articleshow/78026849.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||KMC seals abandoned pipes||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is taking precautionary measures to ensure that the last leg of East-West Metro construction from Esplanade to Sealdah is completed without hurdles after mud water had gushed out of the tunnel on B B Ganguly Street on Saturday night, triggering a panic among locals. According to a KMC official, the sludge or mud gushed out of the tunnel through an abandoned underground tube well that was used once by local traders as a source of their drinking water. Sources in the Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation Limited (KMRCL) said the tunnel boring machine that started its journey from Esplanade is working on the sidewalk of Bowbazar Street in front of Basumati Building. A joint team of KMRCL and KMC inspected the site and sealed the abandoned tube-well to prevent a rerun of the incident. The civic officials are also searching for other abandoned pipes to seal them properly. The mud water also damaged some gully pits that need to be repaired, said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-seals-abandoned-pipes/articleshow/78026859.cms||Saikat Ray
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to lease out cancelled stone, sand mines||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has decided to lease out stone and sand mines or blocks in the state that have been suspended or cancelled and those, which have no appeals pending against them. At a review meeting here on Wednesday, mines and geology minister Mool Chand Sharma said the decision would help people get the construction material at reasonable prices and also curtail illegal mining activities. Besides, the move would also help realise the lease money, which some contractors and leaseholders have not cleared for years. While instructing senior officers of the department to initiate the process to lease out such mines, the minister said payment of dues from the leaseholders should be ensured. He also asked the officers to chalk out a plan so as to recover the department’s money and fix responsibility in this regard. Focussing on streamlining the functioning of the department, Sharma directed to expedite the process of recruitment of employees in the department and suggested to appoint contractual employees until permanent recruitments are made, so that the work of the department is not affected. The minister also took stock of the mining blocks, which have been leased out or given on contract from November 2019 and the status of mines opened during till now. Furthermore, several important issues, including contracts and leases granted through auctions and those through applications, stone crushers, mineral dealer licences, short-term permits, illegal mining cases and vehicles seized during this time were discussed. During this meeting, the minister was informed that during the tenure of the incumbent state government, the department has received around Rs 574-crore revenue from mining activities, and Rs 254 crore has been received so far this year. Apart from this, revenue of around Rs 54 crore has also been generated through ‘e-Ravana’ system. Several senior officers of the department were also present at the meeting, including director general, mines and geology Amitabh Singh Dhillon and principal secretary of the department Anand Mohan Sharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-lease-out-cancelled-stone-sand-mines/articleshow/78026876.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Covid chokes industries’ oxygen supply||AHMEDABAD: With hospitals’ demand for medical-grade oxygen shooting up amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the supply of oxygen to industrial units has been constrained. Manufacturers are unable to adequately meet the industrial demand. To ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals amid the spike in demand, the central government in April allowed industrial oxygen manufacturers to produce and supply the gas for medical use. With medical use remaining the top priority, several manufacturers of industrial oxygen started producing and shipping medical-grade oxygen, the demand for which has more than doubled after the Covid-19 outbreak. “Till March, barely 5% of our 90 tonnes per day production was supplied to healthcare institutions; now the figure has increased to 40%,” said Chetan Patel, director, Shree Ram Oxygas Private Limited, which operates a plant in Alang, Bhavnagar. “Hence, industries are not being adequately catered to,” Patel said. “We have to give priority to healthcare in the time of the pandemic and we are working in tandem with government directives,” he added. Previously, the industrial segment consumed 60% of the total oxygen produced in the state, while the remaining 40% served medical needs. According to industry players, the situation has changed completely after the pandemic with 80% going for medical use and 20% for industries. Oxygen is used in shipbreaking, engineering, steel, foundry and fabrication industries. “In addition to the rise in oxygen demand in Gujarat, there is a spike in demand from hospitals in Rajasthan and Maharashtra,” said a manufacturer and distributor of oxygen. An Ahmedabad-based oxygen supplier said: “At present, only 20-30% of our oxygen supply goes to industries. If an industrial unit requires 15 bottles of oxygen a day, it is offered only 5 bottles, given the unprecedented demand from hospitals.” Bakul Patel, a partner in a shipbreaking firm in Alang, said: “Earlier, we used to get regular supply. Now we have to place the order in advance to ensure the required quantity is available.” Haresh Parmar, secretary, Alang Ship Recycling Industries Association, said: “The price of industrial oxygen has jumped from Rs 10 per cubic metre to Rs 20 cubic per metre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-chokes-industries-oxygen-supply/articleshow/78026877.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: IC suppliers in fuel scam still on the run||HYDERABAD: After 32 members of an inter-state-gang were arrested for cheating motorists by tweaking the fuel dispensing machine using integrated chips (ICs), the Cyberabad police has said that none of the accused have any formal technical background. According to the cops, the fugitive Shibu Thomas has only studied up to 10th class, whereas another key accused Sheikh Subhani has no formal education. Police said that the IC suppliers, Shibu Thomas and Jo Joseph, who are residents on Mumbai, are still at large. A team of polisemen are camping in Mumbai in search of them. “We were told during the investigation that Shibu has studied only till 10th class. We do not have confirmed information about Joseph’s educational background. We can only know they got hold of ICs after nabbing them. Shibu and Joseph bought a two-bedroom flat in Mumbai worth Rs 2 crore by the profits they made out of supplying ICs,” sources privy to the investigation told TOI. Subhani has mastered the mechanism of manipulation to such a degree that officials of Legal Metrology, were taken aback over his modus operandi. Police has found out that the arrested persons, including petrol station operation had taken the filling stations on lease from license holders. “The person who took the lease decided to maximise their profits by cheating the motorists,” investigations said. Officials strongly suspect that Sibhu and Joseph might have similar agents in other states too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ic-suppliers-in-fuel-scam-still-on-the-run/articleshow/78026924.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Border Road Organisation rebuilds Bailey bridge near China border||PITHORAGARH: The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has reconstructed a Bailey bridge in the Jimighat area that was damaged on July 18 due to a landslide. The bridge is strategically important as it connects Munsyari with Milam, the last village on the India-China border. The bridge was opened for movement of light vehicles on Tuesday. BRO officials claimed that the bridge was constructed “in a record time of just a week.” After the bridge collapsed, more than 20 villages had been cut off from Munsyari and the movement of security personnel had been impacted as well. “Villagers and defence personnel had to move on foot to reach their destination due to absence of the bridge,” said Devendra Singh, a local resident. A BRO official told TOI that although the bridge collapsed in July, they were unable to start work on its construction due to bad weather persisting in the area, and the threat of fresh landslides. “A week ago, we started work of reconstructing the bridge and completed it in a record time,” the official said. He further added that the previous bridge was 140 feet long and 10 feet more have been added to the reconstructed bridge, making the structure 150 feet long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bro-rebuilds-bailey-bridge-near-china-border-says-work-completed-in-record-time-of-just-a-week/articleshow/78021972.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three arrested for cheating woman of Rs 38 lakh in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Gopalapatnam police arrested three persons in connection with the alleged Rs 1.44 crore gold scam. However, cops said their investigation found the worth of the scam to be around Rs 38.2 lakh. The arrested have been identified as Kona Hymavathi (39), Rambhukta Vasu (28) and Dekka Nagendra Teja (19). Police also recovered Rs 2 lakh in cash, one racing bike, six mobile phones, and about 22 grams of gold from the trio. Y Srinivasa Rao, assistant executive officer of Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Simhachalam had filed a complaint against four persons at Gopalapatnam police station on Monday. DCP (Crime) V Suresh Babu said Hymavathi and her son Nagendra Teja received Rs 38.2 lakh from Sravani, and cheated her by promising to sell gold ornaments of Simhachalam temple through auction. They also created fake bills and invoices printed on temple letterhead to win the victim’s trust, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-arrested-for-cheating-woman-of-rs-38l/articleshow/78025320.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government’s standing counsel resigns||NAINITAL: Standing counsel for the state government Anurag Bisaria on Wednesday resigned from his post saying that promotion of 15 advocates and appointment of 14 new counsels on various posts amidst the Covid-19 pandemic is “an unnecessary burden on the state.” In his letter to the Advocate General (AG), Bisaria also referred to termination of services of 17 advocates representing the government, saying that it was "disrespectful". “Termination of services of 17 advocates representing the state in times of Covid was inhuman and at the same time, hiring of 14 new counsels while also promoting 15 advocates is confounding and this will also put an unnecessary burden on the state government,” the letter read. The state government had in August terminated the services of 17 counsels representing the state. These included two deputy advocate generals, an assistant government advocate and a standing counsel along with 13 brief holders for the state. Though the move was seen as a way to ease the burden on public exchequer but just days later, the state government appointed 14 new counsels and promoted 15 serving advocates. Bisaria further said that instead of hiring the new lawyers, it would have been better to give permanent jobs to 10-15 irregular stenographers. “This would have increased the speed as well as quality of work done by the existing advocates,” he said in his letter. Apart from the AG, Bisaria has also marked his resignation letter to the Prime Minister, BJP national president, governor of Uttarakhand, chief minister and the state’s law secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govts-standing-counsel-resigns-claims-hiring-of-new-advocates-an-unnecessary-burden-on-state/articleshow/78021992.cms||Prashant Jha
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||HC stays proceedings in EG tonsure case||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Wednesday stayed all further proceedings, including the arrest of YSRC workers accused of tonsuring a Dalit youth at Sitanagaram in East Godavari district. The HC also issued a notice to Induguvalli Prasad, the complainant, asking him to reply as to why the petition moved by YSRC functionary K Krishna Murthy and others should not be admitted. Contending the case registered against them, Murthy and five others had moved court seeking quashing of the FIR. They claimed they were not connected to the incident and accused police of lodging a false case. Besides Murthy and his aides, some cops from Sithanagaram police station were also named accused after Prasad’s complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-stays-proceedings-in-eg-tonsure-case/articleshow/78025463.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders divided over janata curfew call||Kolhapur: Confusion prevails over which shops and offices are allowed to remain open during the janata curfew — for 10 days starting from Friday. The traders’ association has declared that all shops, barring pharmacies and milk-vending outlets, will remain close. However, ready-made garment shop owners have opposed the decision stating that they are incurring losses. The association is now trying to convince them stating that the spread of Covid-19 needs to be contained before Dasara and Diwali as most of the business take place during that time. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, “We expect most shops to remain closed for at least six days. We have announced shut down for six days and not for 10 days as announced by Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). We have lost several business days earlier and cannot afford to lose business during Diwali and Dasara. If the Covid situation worsens, then the customers will not turn up to buy things during these festivals.” The autorickshaw and hawkers unions, however, have decided to operate normally. Baba Indulkar of the Common Man Association said, “Earlier lockdowns have not helped in stopping the spread of the contagion. During the earlier lockdowns, autorickshaw drivers faced hardships and they cannot afford another lockdown.” The vegetable and fruit vendors are likely to continue with their businesses too.  Meanwhile, mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said, “We are aware that the daily wage workers and poor people will suffer due to the curfew. But we also need to curb the increasing Covid cases as health and other staff are severely strained. We have not made the janata curfew strict and it is completely voluntary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-divided-over-janata-curfew-call/articleshow/78024135.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Nathwani takes oath as RS member||Vijayawada: Industrialist Parimal Nathwani took oath as Rajya Sabha member on Wednesday. Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu administered the oath to the new member in his chamber. Nathwani was elected to the upper house from Andhra Pradesh on a YSRC ticket, along with Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, Mopidevi Venkata Ramana and Alla Ayodhyarami Reddy. He could not take oath along with the other members on health grounds. Nathwani is a two-time RS member from Jharkhand as an independent. This is his third consecutive term. Thanking chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy for nominating him, he said, “The CM has fulfilled nearly 90% of election promises in his first year in office, which is a record in the country. I will use my 12 years of experience as Rajya Sabha member and my long association with Reliance Industries to develop the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nathwani-takes-oath-as-rs-member/articleshow/78025171.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Rescuer could be back on feet tomorrow||Kolkata: Nilanjana Chatterjee would undergo physiotherapy on Friday and could be up on her feet with assistance, said doctors at Ruby General Hospital. The 47-year-old braveheart’s leg was crushed under the wheels of a sedan while she was trying to rescue a woman from the car late on Saturday. She underwent a surgery on Monday to repair a fracture on her right leg. Even though she had been suffering from a mild nausea after the surgery, Chatterjee was now stable and would have her surgical wound dressed on Thursday, said a hospital source. Once the dressing is done, doctors will re-assess her condition and decide whether she is ready to undergo rehabilitation or not. “While this is a routine procedure, the exact condition of the bones will be known after the dressing and her rehabilitation programme will be drawn up,” said a hospital official. He added Chatterjee could subsequently be made to walk with the help of a walker.In a message recorded from her hospital bed on Wednesday, Chatterjee said she hoped such incidents were not repeated. She and her husband Deep Satpati told TOI they did not judge the 31-year-old woman, a bank official, even if she had not shared the exact details of the accused, Abhishek Pandey, whom she was reportedly set to marry. “People react to situations in different ways. In society, where a victim woman is even more victimized, she might have had second thoughts in revealing all the details immediately. She has relatives, friends and she would be held accountable. She has a job,” said Satpati. The couple said they were happy the way police helped them in the beginning. “We had a brief spell of uncertainty, but we were moved by the way chief minister Mamata Banerjee and police commissioner Anuj Sharma supported us. After their intervention, the accused was caught barely a few hours later. I often say there is nothing impossible for Kolkata Police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rescuer-could-be-back-on-feet-tomorrow/articleshow/78026884.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Flammable, that’s the rub: Blaze destroys sanitizer unit||Ahmedabad: A major fire broke out at a sanitizer manufacturing unit in Moraiya village near Changodar GIDC on Wednesday afternoon. No casualty or injury were reported, said officers of the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES). According to an officer, a call about the blaze was received at about 3.05pm on Wednesday. AFES chief fire officer M F Dastoor said, “The blaze started on the first floor of Aarmed Formulations Private Limited and the entire facility was burned to the ground.” There was only one door to the facility which had no ventilation. Therefore, the whole structure collapsed, added Dastoor. “It took about three hours to control the fire. Nine fire tenders and 50 AFES personnel were deployed,” he said. Dastoor said that the cause of the fire is not known yet. “The structure burned rapidly and collapsed due to the highly inflammable sanitizer which contains alcohol,” he said. “So we could not ascertain the source of the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/flammable-thats-the-rub-blaze-destroys-sanitizer-unit/articleshow/78026881.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM flags off south India’s first Kisan rail||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy flagged off south India’s first Kisan rail on Wednesday. The one-of-its-kind train will be particularly helpful for farmers from Rayalaseema region by transporting their produce from Anantapur to New Delhi. The virtual flag-off was also attended by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The train carried 214 tonnes of tomato, 138 tonnes of banana, 32 tonnes of sweet orange, 11 tonnes of papaya, 8 tonnes of melons and 3 tonnes of mango to the national capital on its maiden journey from Andhra Pradesh. “About 312 metric tonnes of horticulture produce is being harvested in the state in 17.42 lakh hectares. Nearly 15.6 per cent of fruit production in the country is done in AP,” the CM noted. He also requested railway officials to reduce the fares of Kisan rail as they are slightly on the higher side. Though Andhra Pradesh is called the ‘fruit capital of south India’, it was difficult to tap outside markets owing to transportation and other issues. The situation particularly worsened during the lockdown period. But despite the crisis, nearly 45,000 tonnes of banana, 1,185 tonnes of vegetables, 1,471 tonnes of mango and 8,000 tonnes of mango pulp were exported from Anantapur region to other countries in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-flags-off-south-indias-1st-kisan-rail/articleshow/78025119.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Booty-strapped liquor dealer puzzles cops||VADODARA/NARMADA: They have been nabbing bootleggers in Narmada district since years. But when they intercepted Nirmal Vasava on the highway in Nandod taluka on Tuesday night, the local crime branch (LCB) sleuths, too, were shocked. Vasava had employed a never-seen-before trick to ferry liquor bottles stealthily. “He had strapped dozens of liquor bottles on his body and wore clothes over it. We couldn’t believe our eyes when he removed his shirt. Vasava had used sellotapes to stick the bottles on his upper body,” said C M Gamit, police sub-inspector, LCB, Narmada. The cops began unstrapping the bottles one by one. “He had strapped 48 bottles of 180 ml each on his body. It was unbelievable. We have arrested many bootleggers and busted several tricks that they employ to ferry liquor. Some hide bottles in the boot space of their vehicles, some ferry it in milk containers while others make special jackets for hiding the bottles,” Gamit told TOI. But it was the first time that any bootlegger in Narmada had employed this innovative trick to ferry liquor. The cops were amused as to how 22-year-old Vasava, a resident of Vanzar village in Nandod, could carry so much weight and even manage to ferry the bottles without damaging them. The police said that Vasava had bought the liquor bottles from a bootlegger, Kishan Valvi, who stays in Teen Khuniya village located near the Maharashtra border. “He probably took help of Valvi’s men to strap the bottles with the help of sellotapes. Vasava told us that he himself thought of this idea to evade the police checking,” Gamit added. The LCB sleuths had received information about Vasava following which they kept an eye on the road leading to Vanzar. The cops intercepted his motorbike at about 8 pm and frisked him. “Vasava has been booked under the Prohibition Act in the past too. He buys liquor from other bootleggers and sells it in his village,” Gamit said. The cops have seized Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles and his motorbike. In March last year, the Vadodara crime branch had arrested seven women who were carrying 332 liquor bottles applying similar modus operandi. These women, all residents of Dahod, had strapped 47 bottles each with tapes on their body. They were nabbed near Golden Chowkdi on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/booty-strapped-liquor-dealer-puzzles-cops/articleshow/78024331.cms||Tushar Tere
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Overnight rain uproots 70 trees, damages 100 vehicles||BENGALURU: Heavy rain that lashed Bengaluru throughout Tuesday night left several parts of the city, especially in the north and east, under knee-deep water for most part of Wednesday. Over 70 trees were uprooted and over 100 vehicles damaged. It was a night of mayhem for residents of Sarvajnanagar and HBR Layout as the downpour left many houses inundated, damaging property inside. Asgar Khan, a resident of HBR Layout, said water began to enter his residence around 9pm. “My wife was resting with my eight-month-old child. My primary concern was to get them to safety,” he said. He immediately carried his little one, helped his wife out and rushed to a neighbouring house on the second floor. “We thought we could go back if the rain stopped by midnight, but it continued to pour till 5.30am,” he said. When the family returned early on Wednesday morning, everything inside the house was submerged. Another resident of HBR Layout, Rohit J, said the water level in his house stood at almost four feet. “Provisions, my new laptop and mobile were all damaged. During these hard times, I won’t be able to purchase anything again,” he said, sobbing. According to GS Patil, director of India Meteorological Department, Bengaluru will experience very heavy rainfall with thunderstorms for two days. Hesaraghatta received the highest rainfall of 15cm, while BIAL recorded 9.1cm. Residents of Dollars Colony were fuming after the downpour damaged more than 40 cars and 40 two-wheelers in the locality. “Every time it rains, water floods basements. BBMP pays no heed to our demands,” said Shilpa Spoorthy, a resident. “When we called the BBMP control room, the staffers were rude and disconnected the call. Finally, we had to contact fire services and use political connections to get help,” she said Areas like Malleswaram, Laggere, Sarvajnanagar, Hennur, Geddalahalli, Manyata Tech Park road, Pulikeshinagar, Arekere and BTM Layout among others received very heavy rainfall. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad visited some of the rain-affected areas and promised suction machines will be deployed in wards with massive flooding. “We will provide food and necessities to those whose houses have been destroyed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/overnight-rain-uproots-70-trees-damages-100-vehicles/articleshow/78025920.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Broke windshield to pull my husband out of car’||BENGALURU: “It was a horrific experience. I had to break the windshield of my car to pull out my husband from what would have been a watery grave,” lamented IT employee Priya (name changed), who lives in a flat in Dollars Colony near Sanjaynagar. Priya said for three years, water has been gushing into their apartment basement every time it rains heavily but neither the builder nor the civic administration have done anything. Last year, she was out of town when rainwater in the basement damaged their cars and confined her mother and husband to their house. “It’s is the second time this is happening. Two of our cars have been damaged again. Last year, we purchased two cars which were submerged due to waterlogging in the basement, and we had to sell them at throwaway prices,” said Priya. Around 11.30pm on Tuesday, when it was pouring, a worried Priya called the security guard, who asked her to immediately remove their cars from the basement. By the time she and her husband rushed down, there was knee-deep water. Priya got into one car, while her husband got into another. They had to drive up a ramp to get out of the gate but the current was so strong that the gate broke and swirling water cascaded down, explained Priya. “My husband dialled my mobile number and asked me to get out of the car, saying my life was more precious than the car,” she recalled. “But my husband was stuck in the car and the door was jammed. We broke the rear windshield,” she said. Thirteen cars and 20 twowheelers parked in the basement were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/broke-windshield-to-pull-my-husband-out-of-car/articleshow/78025908.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Areas around tech park wake up to flooded streets||BENGALURU: North Bengaluru, especially localities off Ballari Road, bore the brunt of Tuesday’s overnight rain havoc. Early Wednesday morning, Manyata Tech Park and surrounding areas like Hebbal-Kempapura and Rachenahalli were completely inundated, with roads resembling streams. People residing around the tech park alleged that a shrunken drain and failure to maintain rainwater harvesting systems in the area resulted in the near-deluge scenario. “There’s not enough space for rainwater to enter Hebbal and Nagawara lakes as both are almost covered with water hyacinths,” said Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a local resident, adding: “I reside just behind Manyata and waterlogging has been a consistent problem here.” Shobha Anand, managing trustee of Jala Mitra, a citizens’ group involved with Rachenahalli Lake, said, “As per KSNDMC, the area received about 125.5mm of rain on Tuesday. The landscape in this part of the city has been extremely manipulated, destroying the topography of the area and resulting in huge alterations to the flow of rainwater through stormwater drains (SWDs). Huge projects have encroached upon the SWDs or altered them, obstructing free flow of rainwater. The BBMP’s stormwater department too has been reducing the width of the drains in several parts of the city, which affects their carrying capacity. It’s high time the government starts working towards securing SWDs and ensuring proper connectivity.” “In 2018, the National Green Tribunal said that no stormwater drain must be closed. The one near Manyata is covered, but it hasn’t stopped water from flowing into it,” a senior BBMP official said. “Bengaluru received very heavy rain in the last 24 hours, which is the main reason why roads got flooded,” he said. Bearys Lakeside Habitat in Hebbal-Kempapura saw its basement flooded for the first time in several years. Geeta Dua, a resident of the apartment, said, “I have been living here for the past seven years and this is the first time we saw over two feet water collect in our basement. We started cleaning in the morning and were still pumping out water in the evening.” “We didn’t call BBMP as they are occupied with pandemic work,” added Dua. Several residents were stranded indoors on Wednesday morning. Anbu Murugan, who also resides in Hebbal, said, “The road where I live is right behind Manyata Tech Park and is highly prone to flooding. If it rains for more than an hour, the entire stretch turns unmotorable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/areas-around-tech-park-wake-up-to-flooded-streets/articleshow/78025953.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Three modern hangars to make Kolkata airport a maintenance hub||KOLKATA: The city airport is set to become a hub for aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) for Code C aircraft like Airbus A320 and Boeing B737 that are the most common types flown by Indian carriers in domestic routes. Nearly 80% project work has been completed and bids are expected to be invited for leasing out the infrastructure to MRO firms sometime next year. The Indian MRO industry is growing at a rapid pace and is currently pegged around Rs 11,000 crore annually. “We are constructing three new modern hangars on the eastern side of the runway near Narayanpur. Work on the taxiway and apron area has been completed. Around 20% work on the hangars is over. Work had ceased during the lockdown but restarted in July. Now, it is progressing full-steam and should be over by March 2021. Thereafter, it will either be leased to an airline or a third party MRO firm,” said Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. With nearly 25 planes — most of them A320 or B737 — stationed at Kolkata airport during the night, the airport operator believes it is ideally suited to house an MRO facility. Moreover, being the gateway to north-east India and South East Asia, Kolkata could become a mini-hub for MRO in the region, say aviation industry experts. Airlines in India spend about 13-15% of their revenues towards maintenance. It is the second-biggest cost item for airlines after fuel. While airline engineers carry out on-tarmac inspections (A and B checks) in-house, they work with third-party MROs for engine, heavy maintenance (C and D checks) and modifications. In Kolkata, AI has an operational hangar. A significant percentage of the business aviation fleet in India gets heavy maintenance done in Europe, UK and the US. This trend is gradually shifting as MRO players in India like Air Works, Indamer Aviation and GMR Aerotech upgrading their heavy maintenance capability and providing customers with an option to reduce turnaround times as well as costs of aircraft maintenance. In addition, there are six old hangars at Kolkata airport, four of which are in a very poor condition and will be demolished once the new hangars are in place. Of the four, two dilapidated and rusting hangars could not withstand the high velocity winds during Amphan cyclone and had crashed on May 20. The two hangars that will be retained are used by Coast Guard and private non-scheduled aircraft. The old hangars will gave way to more parking bays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-modern-hangars-to-make-airport-a-maintenance-hub/articleshow/78026885.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi University to hold final-year exams online||Patiala: The Punjabi University, Patiala has decided to conduct both practical and theory examinations of the final semester/ year in online mode. While the practicals will be held by September 19, the theory examinations will start from September 25. According to varsity’s controller of examinations Jaswinder Singh Khattar, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, they have decided to go for the online mode, so that students are able to take the exams from their homes. The theory exams will be of two hours, during which the students will have to solve 50% of the questions. Necessary guidelines in this regard will be uploaded on the university’s website soon. There are around 78,000 final year/ semester students, including from the main campus of Punjabi University, its neighbourhood campuses, constituent colleges and affiliated colleges. The university authorities said around 70% of the students hail from rural Punjab. The examination controller said, “The date sheet for the examination will be released soon. We are working further on the modalities about the exams. The date for the online practical exams will be announced in the next few days, as these have to be completed by September 19.” Sources revealed that the university authorities will hold an online meeting on Thursday morning on the issue of exams. According to sources, the university is planning to give time to the students for downloading question papers and then uploading their answer-sheets. They can also submit their answer-sheets in the nearby university/ colleges or speed-post the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-university-to-hold-final-year-exams-online/articleshow/78026892.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||Central scheme announced to boost cultivation of medicinal plants||Panaji: The Goa state medicinal plants board has invited applications from farmers interested in cultivation of medicinal plants under national AYUSH mission’s scheme titled ‘scheme for development and cultivation of medicinal plants’. Three varieties of medicinal plants are under consideration – stevia, the leaves of which are used as a sweetener and sugar substitute; pipli or Indian long pepper which is used to improve appetite and digestion, as well as treat stomach ache, heartburn and indigestion, and Kokum, which is famed for its pharmaceutical and culinary uses. The scheme mandates that farmers can avail of Rs 1.3 lakh per hectare in an area of 12.5 hectare for stevia plantations. For growers of pipli and kokum, the eligibility is Rs 27,000 per hectare in an area of 20 hectare. Farmers owning a Krishi card or a Kisan credit card or those with ownership documents for the land being cultivated are eligible to apply for the scheme. The last date for applications is September 30. The Goa state medicinal plants board has also announced that anyone interested in growing any other species of medicinal plants may also submit their expression of interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-scheme-announced-to-boost-cultivation-of-medicinal-plants/articleshow/78026953.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt sets up new entity to bag Bulk Drug Park project for Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: Making the first move to bag the prestigious Bulk Drug Park project, the state government constituted Andhra Pradesh Bulk Drug Infrastructure Corporation (APBDIC) as 100% subsidiary of Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC). APBDIC will act as State Implementing Agency (SIA) to take forward the proposal for setting up of Bulk Drug Park proposed by Centre. Shagili Shanmohan, managing director, AP High Grade Steels, has been appointed managing director of APBDIC. The government has set its focus on bagging one of the three mega bulk drug park projects and put the process on fast track by setting up a separate corporation. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy not to fritter away the chance to bag the coveted project as it would not only attract massive investment to the state but also generate employment. Gautham Reddy said that the state was confident of bagging the project as we are top rankers in the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB). The EoDB ranking of the state, incentive policies of the state applicable to the bulk drug industry, availability of technical manpower in the state, availability of pharmaceutical/chemical clusters in the state will also be factored in while selecting the states. The government has expressed its willingness to offer land to the project and is likely to be located in one of the coastal districts which has national highway, air and rail connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sets-up-new-entity-to-bag-bulk-drug-park-project-for-ap/articleshow/78024916.cms||Samdani MN
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Fraudsters create Facebook profiles in Karnataka cops’ names, seek money||BENGALURU: In times of pandemic, cybercriminals are resorting to a novel way to con gullible persons: They create fake profiles in the name of state police officers and beseech their friends and relatives with requests for financial help. At least four instances where fake Facebook accounts were created in the name of police officers to siphon off money have been reported in Karnataka recently. In one of the cases, Raichur district’s Sindhanur Rural sub-inspector Raghavendra’s account was impersonated and messages were sent from it to his friends and relatives to deposit money in e-wallets, claiming he’s in acute financial crisis. Raghavendra said: “My friends and family members received a message to transfer money in my name from a different Facebook account stating I was in deep financial trouble. However, my friends knew I’d never ask money from anyone. They called me to crosscheck and I was taken aback. I immediately alerted others about this scam.” Raghavendra filed a complaint with the district CEN police lastw eek. Sindhanur DySP Vishwanath Kulkarni said a case has been registered with Raichur CEN police station and probe is under way. Similar incidents have been reported from Ballari and Uttara Kannada districts as well. A fake Facebook account was created in the name of Revannasiddappa Jeeramkalgi, sub-inspector of Karwar Rural police station, and messages were sent from it to his multiple friends, requesting money. One of the friends, without crosschecking, sent Rs 7,000 to the account mentioned in the message. According to CEN police of Karwar, the account to which money has been credited is based out of Jaipur city in Rajasthan. In Ballari, Cowl Bazaar police inspector Subhash Chandra’s Facebook account was impersonated and requests to send money were made through it. “In all these cases, the accused sent messages in English or Hindi, but were unable to read Kannada. They would ask to transfer money to e-wallets or e-banks such as Google Pay, Phone Pe or Paytm. Previously, faking of accounts was rampant on online marketplaces such as Olx and Quicker. In most cases, they impersonated Army personnel. This is the first time that accounts of state police officers are being impersonated for financial gain,” an investigating official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fraudsters-create-fb-profiles-in-cops-names-seek-money/articleshow/78026248.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 10, 2020||Nashik||1,419 cases, 18 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district reported 1,419 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, including 972 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 47,744. A total of 18 people have succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours including nine from Nashik city. The death total stands at 991 in the district. As many as 562 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which 230 patients were from Nashik city. There are 9,114 active cases in the district, including 5,450 in the city. Nashik city has reported 32,893 cases so far, including 557 deaths. There has been a spike in the number of Covid cases in the district as 10,358 patients tested positive in the last nine days between September 1 and 9. Although the number of patients has increased, the death rate of the district is at 2.07%. Nashik city has recorded 7,442 new cases in the last nine days, but the death rate of the city has reduced to 1.69%, which is the lowest death rate since May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1419-cases-18-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78024132.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Mother saves minor from being raped||BAREILLY: An alert mother saved her five-year-old girl from being raped by a 22-year-old man in Baghuli village of Mailani block in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday. The minor girl went out to play with her friends after breakfast when a local identified as Monu Kumar offered to show her a kitten and took her along. After finding her girl missing, the mother immediately started looking for her. She searched her from one house to another and finally reached Monu’s place and caught him red-handed while trying to allegedly rape her daughter. She screamed for help and locals caught Monu and later handed him over to the police. Mailani SHO Vidhya Shankar Shukla said, “The girl was immediately sent for a medical examination. According to initial investigation, it was evident that the accused Monu had attempted to rape the girl. We have booked him under IPC section 354 [attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman] and POCSO Act.” Notably, crime against women is on the rise in Kheri as three girls were raped and murdered in the district since August 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/alert-mother-saves-minor-from-being-raped-in-kheri/articleshow/78023090.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMTS will ply on all its 149 routes, BRTS on 13 from Thursday||AHMEDABAD: With the Metro rail services getting back on track, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has now decided to resume AMTS and BRTS services at 50% of seating capacity from Thursday on most routes. All passengers will have to use sanitizers and wear masks and none will be allowed to stand in the buses. Atul Bhavsar, chairman of the AMTS said from Thursday, 650 AMTS buses and over 200 BRT buses will start plying on city roads. During the lockdown, only 355 AMTS buses had serviced 77 routes, but Thursday onwards buses will ply on all 149 routes, said Bhavsar. BRTS will run 205 buses on its 13 routes from Thursday, whereas during the lockdown they had serviced only eight routes with 77 buses, Bhavsar added. The daily revenue of AMTS has dropped fro pre-Covid Rs 24 lakh to just Rs 5 lakh after lockdown. Bhavsar said daily passenger load of AMTS has dropped to 55k, and the buses are losing out on long-distance traffic as they are still not crossing city bridges . He said passenger numbers are expected to increase with all routes becoming operational, and as passengers will be able to change buses from Kalupur and Lal Darwaza. AMTS officers said passengers are still reluctant to travel in buses. “When we resumed services the daily passenger count was 50k, and it hasn’t grown beyond 55k till now. BRTS’s daily passenger count has dropped from pre-Covid 1.5 lakh to just 30k. BRTS’s daily revenue has dropped to Rs 3.5 lakh,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amts-will-ply-on-all-its-149-routes-brts-on-13-from-thu/articleshow/78026898.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four of a family kill self in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four members of a family, including two kids, were found dead in a lodge under Dwaraka police station limits on Wednesday night in what appears to be a suicide pact. The deceased were identified as Bondam Applaraju (32), his wife Manasa (28), and children Keethi (6) and Satwik (5). Police said Appalaraju, a resident of Pendurthi area in Vizag city, had been staying in the lodge from August 20. On Sept 1, his family also started staying with him in the lodge. On Wednesday night, lodge staff sensed something was wrong when there was no response to their knocks on the door. They called the cops who found the bodies after breaking open the door. Appalaraju is believed to have poisoned his wife and kids to death before hanging himself. Cops suspect financial issues coupled with debts to be the reason behind the family’s extreme step. A suicide note was also found. The bodies have been shifted to hospital for autopsy. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-of-a-family-kill-self-in-vizag/articleshow/78025495.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Junior colleges prepare to open doors on September 21||VIJAYAWADA: Following guidelines issued by the state government on Monday, junior colleges across the state are preparing to reopen on September 21. The government had stated that schools and junior colleges could resume academic session for students in classes IX and above. However, the consent of parents is mandatory for students to attend classes. Even as colleges ready action plans to hold classes following physical distancing measures, some corporate junior colleges that have completed their admission process online and started online classes are now exploring the option to hold classes offline for 50% of their students. Under this model, online classes will continue alongside regular classes and students who do not wish to attend offline classes may continue to do so online. “There is no compulsion in attending classes. We have tried to take consent of parents in conducting regular classes from September 21, but most of them are not willing to send their children to classes due to the Covid-19 fear. So we have decided to continue online classes for some more time,” said K Narayana Rao, vice-principal at a corporate junior college. However, some parents alleged that corporate college are asking students with a poor academic record to attend offline classes. “State government’s directions are being taken advantage of by junior colleges. They are asking us to send my son to the college as he has not performed well academically. His immune system is weak and we are afraid of sending him to college during this health crisis and where students may gather in groups,” said M Nirmala, a homemaker from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jr-colleges-prepare-to-open-doors-on-sept-21/articleshow/78025294.cms||Venu Lanka
September 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Prepare anganwadi centres as pre-primary schools: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to prepare all anganwadi centres in the state as pre-primary schools. He said that these centres will get major facelift under Nadu-Nedu scheme and directed the officials not to compromise on quality of the works. The chief minister on Wednesday reviewed the progress of renovation works in anganwadi centres as part of the Nadu-Nedu programme. He directed the education department officials to study the curriculum in kindergarten schools and ensure the best practices are implemented here at anganwadi centres as well. Under ‘Nadu-Nedu’ scheme in anganwadi centres, facilities like toilets with running water, drinking water facilities, minor/ major repairs, electrification, kitchen works, refrigerator, furniture, green chalk board, 55-inch TV, paintings on the walls and a play zone should be ready and available, he said. The CM said the newly-formed advisory committee and curriculum committees should monitor on quality of food, sanitation and bathrooms at Anganwadi centres. The training of anganwadi teachers should be clear and more challenging, he said and added 27,438 new buildings need to be constructed of which 17,984 buildings will be constructed in the first phase and 9,454 buildings in the second phase. Under Nadu-Nedu, identification of land should be completed by September 30, anganwadi development committees should be set up, material should be procured and other works should be completed and construction works should start by December 1 and completed by June 30, 2021. The government had also launched Saadhana mobile app to impart training through online for anganwadi workers, helpers, mahila shakti kendra supervisors in spoken English. The CM said steps should be taken to open YSR Pre Primary (PP-1 and PP-2) schools in the second week of November. Ministers Taneti Vanitha, Adimulapu Suresh, chief secretary Neelam Sawhney, principal secretary, Buditi Rajasekhar, commissioner Vadrevu Chinna Veerabhadra, and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prepare-anganwadi-centres-as-pre-primary-schools-cm/articleshow/78024869.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Amaravati||Rs 6,000 crore under YSR Asara to help women SHGs||AMARAVATI: In a move to revive economic activity along with bailing out debt-ridden women self-help groups, the state government will be pumping nearly Rs .6,345 crore financial assistance. CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy will launch YSR Asara scheme aimed at clearing debts of self-help groups on Friday. SC, ST, BC and minority women members of nearly eight lakh self-help groups are expected to get the financial assistance for four years under YSR Asara scheme. After seeing the plights of lakhs of women hailing from poor families during his padayatra, Jagan had promised to bail them out from their debt. The women have been forced to take loans to cope with the costs towards education, health care, elderly care, daily needs, and other emergencies. “This pushed them into a vicious cycle of debts due to their incapability to cope with exorbitant rates of interest. YS Jaganmohan Reddy had noticed this during his 3,648-km padayatra and made a promise. He is keeping every promise made to the public including the one to the poor women,” said Lella Appireddy, YSRC general secretary and in-charge of central office. He said that the chief minister had promised to reimburse all outstanding loans by women members of self-help groups belonging to the SC, ST, BC, and minority communities as on April, 11, 2019 in four installments. “This has been worked out at Rs. 25,383 crore. The first tranche will be released on Friday,” said Appireddy. Taneti Vanitha, minister for women and child welfare, said that the CM would release Rs 6,345 crore, benefiting 7,91,257 self-help groups (SHG) under YSR Asara scheme. She said that amount can also be used for their future prospects if they have repaid their loan already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/rs-6k-cr-under-ysr-asara-to-help-women-shgs/articleshow/78025392.cms||Samdani MN
September 10, 2020||Amaravati||Gautham Reddy seeks industries’ help for skill development projects||AMARAVATI: Seeking industry support in setting up a skill development university and colleges in the state, minister for industries, commerce and IT Gautham Reddy held discussions with several top officials of NTPC, ITDC, SAIL and BHEL in New Delhi on Wednesday. He requested the top firms to join hands with the state government in training the youth of the state to provide skilled and trained people to the industry. He wanted them to join as stakeholders in setting up the industry specific skill development colleges. Gautham Reddy met SAIL chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhury and requested him to support in setting up skill development colleges in the state. He said the state government has been implementing multiple skill development programmes aimed at students in schools, colleges, dropouts and unemployed and decided to develop industry friendly eco-system by supporting them with skilled workforce. “In this connection, CM Jaganmohan Reddy has proposed to establish a skill development university and at least 25 Lok Sabha constituency-level skill colleges across by involving PSU, corporates and industries as key stakeholders,” Gautham Reddy said. He said that higher education, skill development and training, industries departments have come together for identifying industry driven job roles, courses and curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/gautham-reddy-seeks-industries-help-for-skill-development-projects/articleshow/78025204.cms||Samdani MN
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||24 deaths, over 1,000 new cases in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The district on Wednesday reported as many as 1,014 cases of Covid-19 along with 24 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 31,318 and death toll to 958. According to a health official, the number of active patients in the district is 10,349. Also, Swabhimani Shetkari Saghtana leader Raju Shetti was moved to a private hospital in Pune after he complained of breathlessness. Shetti was under home isolation after he had tested positive for the contagion a few days ago. His son Saurabh also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Shetti, a two time Member of Parliament, has asked everyone who recently came in contact with him to get themselves tested at the earliest. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar announced that a centralised monitoring centre will be set up at Shahu Smarak Bhavan. “The centre will help recruit volunteers, doctors and facilitate relatives of the patients admitted in CPR Hospital,” she said. Meanwhile, Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari on Wednesday appealed to the people to observe strict janata curfew that will begin from Friday. “Action will be taken against those roaming outside without masks, spiting in the open and not following social distancing norm. Currently, some towns have imposed voluntary janata curfew and the move has yielded positive results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/24-deaths-over-1000-new-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78024163.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Pratapgarh woman abducts minor girl to marry beau||PRAYAGRAJ: Two persons including a woman were arrested by police in Pratapgarh in connection with the kidnapping of a seven-year-old girl. The arrested persons, identified as Sarita Saroj (20) and her cousin Amarjeet (23), are residents of Raniganj and Fatanpur, respectively. SP (Pratapgarh) Anurag Arya told reporters that one Shyamji Chaurasia had on Tuesday approached Aspur Devsara police and claimed that her granddaughter Abha (7) was allegedly kidnapped by two persons on Monday night when she was sleeping with her grandmother. Shyamji also kept the needle of suspicion towards Sarita Saroj, daughter of Vimlesh Saroj and resident of Devgarh Kamasi (Raniganj), claiming that his daughter Indu had spotted Sarita along with another unidentified person roaming around the house on Monday evening. He also told police that Sarita had an affair with his son Sadanand Chaurasia and was also mounting pressure on him for marriage. Following the kidnapping of the minor girl, the SP had formed two teams. A police team arrested Sarita and Amarjeet when they were carrying the girl on a bike near Telyani Pulia road. Sarita told the police that she had an affair with the maternal uncle (Sadanand) of the kidnapped girl for the past two years since they had been studying in ITI college in Pratapgarh. She claimed since the family members of Sadanand had declined to solemnize their marriage, she along with her cousin had hatched the conspiracy to kidnap the girl with an intention to mount pressure on the family members of the boyfriend. Sarita along with her cousin Amarjeet had kidnapped the minor girl on September 7 night when she was sleeping with her grandmother. When the father of the accused Sarita came to know, he instead of telling police had helped them to hide the kidnapped girl at his house. However, when Sarita and her father came to know that the grandfather of missing girl has lodged a complaint with the police, she along with her cousin had planned to leave the minor girl at her house but were caught by the police red handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pratapgarh-woman-abducts-minor-to-marry-beau/articleshow/78024151.cms||Kapil Dixit
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Tech boost for new control room at Lalbazar||Kolkata: The new Lalbazar Control Room, nerve centre of Kolkata Police, that has been shifted to the ground floor of the main building may have a smaller area than the previous control room, but it is more sophisticated and equipped with modern communication technology. The distress calls received through dial 100 are now transferred immediately to the call dispatchers who ask the nearest mobile van to take act. The entire activity is recorded digitally for future reference. What aids this system is that the locations of police vehicles can be traced and projected on a giant screen while their movement can be monitored from the control room. The PCR vans, introduced in the city a few months ago, will act as the first response for cops in the control room. About 27 vans are on duty at any point of time. Video feed of any important crossing can be projected on the giant screen of the control room through more than 2,500 CCTV cameras. Similarly, the CCTV footage of smaller lanes and by-lanes can also be projected on the giant screen. This is the for first time that the control room has been shifted as the original control room building had to be vacated for renovation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tech-boost-for-new-control-room-at-lalbazar/articleshow/78026926.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist records 921 cases, highest single-day rise so far||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has attributed the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases to rapid antigen tests that are being conducted regularly. The district reported 921 fresh Covid patients since Tuesday late night, which is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day. Singh, in a video message, has appealed to the citizens not to panic because of the increase in the number of cases. He said the drive will continue to identify patients at an early stage and save their lives. Singh said 2,500 tests are being conducted on average. As many as 700 patients with comorbidities tested positive and are taken to the hospital at an early stage, Singh said Karad teshsil reported 251 cases out of the 951 fresh cases, including 87 cases from Karad town. Satara tehsil also added 215 new cases, including 165 cases in Satara town. Apart from Karad and Satara tehsil, Phaltan reported 85 cases, Wai tehsil recorded 76 cases, Khatav and Maan tehsils registered 37 and 31 cases, respectively, Khandala has 45 while Patan and Mahabaleshwar has 24 and 17 cases respectively. As many as 21 deaths were recorded since Tuesday late night which includes eight women and 13 men. Of the deceased, 16 are senior citizens. According to officials, nine deaths were reported in Karad tehsil while five in Satara among others. The district has reported 20,530 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 8,543 are active. The death toll stands at 536. District collector admitted that administration was facing a problem of bed shortage. Singh appealed to the people not to occupy the beds out of fear and make them available to the ones who need it. People can opt for home isolation or other options if they are stable and have minor symptoms, he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-records-921-cases-highest-single-day-rise-so-far/articleshow/78024183.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Loan fraud: Pvt firm CEO held||Hyderabad: A chief executive officer (CEO) of a private firm was arrested by Central Crime Station’s sleuths for cheating a bank by producing fake land documents and taking a loan of Rs 5. 90 crore. CCS alleged Gunti Suman, CEO and director of Eigerbuck Private Limited, colluded with a property owner to mortgage fake documents of a land located at Lingojiguda with PNB Bank Nanalnagar Branch. The owner, Raheemuddin, had sold the land to four people in 2005. Suppressing the facts, the owner then transferred the property on to his daughter’s name and later executed sale deeds in favour of Y Venkata Siva Reddy and three others. They along with Gunti Suman mortgaged the documents and took loan of Rs 5.90 lakh. They later defaulted on the loan payments and it became an NPA.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-fraud-pvt-firm-ceo-held/articleshow/78026972.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar has lowest deaths, Covid positivity rate per million||PATNA: Bihar on Wednesday reported 1,498 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to over 1.50 lakh. However, in a silver lining, the state has the lowest death rate per million population in the country. The test positivity rate in terms of case growth in the past one week is also the lowest. With just six deaths per million, Bihar’s death rate is the lowest in the country, as per the data shared by the principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit, followed by Kerala and Assam with ten deaths each per million of their population. The worst in this category is Delhi with 246 deaths per million, followed by Maharashtra with 219 deaths per million. Similarly, in the positivity rate category, Bihar has emerged as the best among all states in the country. Positivity rate is calculated based on the number of positive cases against the total number of tests done. As of September 8, Bihar’s positivity rate stood at 0.9% and was the least in the country, followed by Gujarat with 1.8%. Maharashtra has the maximum test positivity rate at 29.1%. In mid-June, Bihar was amongst the worst-performing states in terms of positivity rate, which was around 7%. “Condition is now better. While a month back, we were amongst the worst, the situation has now improved,” said Amrit. Even in terms of seven day-rolling-averages, that is average growth in cases registered in the past one week, Bihar is the best-performing state registering the least number of cases. With 1.3% growth rate, Bihar, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu recorded the same growth for past one week. The worst performing state was Chattisgarh with 6.0% growth rate, followed by Uttarakhand and Jharkhand with 3.6% and 3.4% growth rate respectively. The coronavirus tally in Bihar reached 1,52,192 on Wednesday, and ten deaths reported officially, taking the toll to 775. However, with 1,35,791 recoveries, active cases stand at 15,624 in the state. Also, Bihar’s recovery rate stood at 89. 2%. As per data shared by the health department, five deaths were reported from East Champaran, taking the toll to 33, followed by two deaths from Madhepura where the toll has reached nine. One death each was reported from Buxar, Gaya and Samastipur. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths, including a 55-year-old woman from Mokama in Patna and a 62-year-old woman from Navneet Colony in the city. According to information shared by the hospital incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, eight new patients were admitted, including a one-day-old newborn and ten were released. Of the 1,498 new cases registered on Wednesday, 203 reported from Patna. Covid-19 cases from other districts are Saharsa (111), Muzaffarpur (68), Nalanda (61), Darbhanga (61), Araria (58), Purnia (55), Darbhanga (50) and Goplaganj (50). The health department said 1,22,121 samples were tested in 24 hours on Wednesday, and so far, over 44 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar. The state has been testing more than one lakh samples daily, and this increase in testing is also a factor behind the fall in the positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-has-lowest-deaths-covid-positivity-rate-per-million/articleshow/78025582.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Nutritional needs of moms, kids: HC seeks report on govt schemes||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Wednesday directed the state government to give a detailed status report on the implementation of the schemes that had been rolled out in the state after March to ensure the nutritional needs of pregnant women, lactating mothers and children. The court issued the direction as the state government had failed to give details regarding beneficiaries of the schemes for the second time in a counter affidavit to a PIL. Social activist Prafulla Samantara had filed the PIL seeking special intervention by way of food security measures in the 12 districts with high prevalence of stunting, child wasting and underweight children due to malnutrition. The court was hearing the matter along with Samantara’s rejoinder to the state government’s second counter affidavit. Taking note of the submissions of Samantara’s counsel Ishwar Mohanty, the division bench of Justice Sanju Panda and Justice K R Mohapatra posted the matter to September 15 for hearing along with the detailed status report on implementation of the schemes after March this year. The rejoinder pointed out that the second counter affidavit had virtually listed out several schemes which have been purportedly rolled out for ensuring the nutritional needs of women and children in the state. “The counter affidavit is bereft of any data and specifically, data pertaining to the implementation of the schemes during the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown period i.e. post March 2020. For that the effectiveness of these schemes cannot be ascertained,” the rejoinder stated. “Besides, as per the counter affidavit, there are no special schemes which have been implemented in the 12 worst-affected districts which have high prevalence of hunger and starvation in the state. Thus, it can be clearly inferred that the state has failed to provide adequate and nutritious food to the vulnerable groups in these districts,” it added. Rashmi Ranjan Nayak, joint secretary of women and child development and Mission Shakti had filed the second counter affidavit. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nutritional-needs-of-moms-kids-hc-seeks-report-on-govt-schemes/articleshow/78025584.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||KMC co-morbidity survey in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: The civic body on Wednesday conducted a co-morbidity survey in large areas of Tollygunge, New Alipore and Kalighat, which includes one of the biggest slums in the city. The survey, which the KMC health department took up in coordination with the state health department, will take stock of co-morbidity factors prevailing among city’s population, especially in Covid-19-sensitive areas. SSKM hepatology head Abhijit Chowdhury, also a public health activist, on Wednesday visited some areas under KMC’s Borough X, which housed slums, for quality check of the Covid co-morbidity survey. While the survey is an initiative of KMC and the state health department, Covid Care Network (CCN) is providing technical and logistic support. “The survey will help at least in three ways. One, triaging for care. By identifying people with co-morbidity, they can be made aware of their vulnerability to Covid. They can be taught early signs of turbulence so that there is no delay in seeking medical help,” said Chowdhury. “Second, people with co-morbid conditions can be given telemedicine, counselling facilities. And third, we will have a data to take priority call when a vaccine is available.” The survey will be done in phases. “In the first, workers will select areas to collect data on types of co-morbidities.. The survey will last for two weeks,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-co-morbidity-survey-in-south-kol/articleshow/78026941.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Retired woman professor found murdered on outskirts of Dehradun||DEHRADUN: A 67-year-old retired woman professor was found murdered inside her house in Athoorwala village in Doiwala on the outskirts of Dehradun late on Tuesday night. The body of the woman, identified as Putul Ghosh, was found on the bed inside her bedroom. The hands were tied with a rope and police also found injury marks on her head and face. Based on initial evidence, police said that it seemed the assailants broke into the house by breaking one of the windows. “The woman was a retired professor. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of murder but we are investigating all possible angles and motives behind the crime. A team of the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) also visited the house and has collected evidence,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, deputy inspector general (DIG), Dehradun. Originally from Kolkata in West Bengal, the deceased was living in the same house since 2014. Prior to this, she was staying in a rented accommodation on Sahastradhara Road, as per police. Police said that no substantial evidence of money or jewellery being robbed from the house was found. Police have also questioned the neighbours to find out more about the deceased as none of her relatives live in Dehradun. “The neighbours said they didn't know much about her except for the fact that she was unmarried and was living there with one of her maternal uncles, who died 7-8 months back. Since then, she was staying alone in the house,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/retired-woman-professor-found-murdered-on-outskirts-of-dehradun/articleshow/78022043.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 10, 2020||Goa||‘Social factors major reason behind suicide’||Panaji: As one of the nation’s biggest silent killer today, suicides are often put down as a mental health issue but health professionals point out that social factors such as abuse, alcoholism, family discord and chronic illnesses are some of the major reasons why Goans choose to take their own lives. As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Goa has a startling suicide rate — 16.9% as against the national average of 10% accounting for an average of five people taking their lives per week. These statistics have given the state the dubious ranking of having the eleventh highest suicide rate in the country, which is why all stakeholders need to work together and put in place a broader strategy to prevent suicides, said mental health professionals. “In India, we need to move away from looking at suicide from a mental health perspective. A large chunk of suicides in India are due to social determinants unlike in developed countries,” said Dr Abhijit Nadkarni, psychiatrist and co-director at Sangath’s Addictions Research Group. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2019 for Goa shows that family problems and illness accounted for 32.4% and 17.1% of the total suicides, respectively. Among the other causes, addiction accounted for 5.6%, marriage related issues 5.5%, love affairs 4.5%, loans 4.2%, failure in examination and unemployment 2% each, professional/career problem 1.2% and property dispute 1.1%. Speaking to TOI ahead of World Suicide Prevention Day, many psychologists and psychiatrists said that aside from the required infrastructure changes and curbs on hazardous substances, Goa needs a multi-pronged strategy to address the underlying societal issues that prompt people to attempt suicide. “A suicide prevention policy is required for Goa. We need all stakeholders to work together to prevent suicides,” said Dr Peter Castelino, the managing trustee at Cooj, Goa’s foremost suicide helpline. Dr Amit Dias faculty at Goa Medical College’s Department of Preventive and Social Medicine agrees. “Suicide prevention is a complex issue and requires continuous multi-sectorial collaborative efforts. It starts with accepting the fact that suicide is a major public health problem and steps can be taken to prevent it,” he said. Another worrying trend for India is the fact that after road accidents, suicide is the second biggest killer of youth in India. “1.3 million Indians have died by suicide in last 10 years. Each year 1 to 5 million Indians attempt suicide and yet we don’t have a suicide prevention strategy or a program,” said Dr Soumitra Pathare, psychiatrist and Director Centre for Mental Health Law & Policy ILS. Pathare helped draft India’s new mental health law and was appointed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to draft a new national mental health policy for India. He points out that every suicide affects 15-30 people which is why the country also needs a support program for survivors. “It is easy to say child ended his life because he failed in his exams but that’s too simplistic. Society decides certain standards for success. Our attitudes, the education system, all need to change,” said Castelino. Policies to reduce the impact of alcohol use and reduce domestic violence can go a long way in preventing suicides, said Nadkarni. He said that creating safe spaces for people, especially youngsters, to talk about their concerns, the stress about success and other factors will also help. “Suicide is preventable, it is a problem in the younger age group but it is definitely preventable,” said Dias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-factors-major-reason-behind-suicide/articleshow/78026996.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Road accidents due to drink driving go up, but checking||Bhubaneswar: The lifting of the lockdown, reopening of liquor shops and resumption of vehicular movement have all led to a spurt in road accidents owing to drink driving in the state over the last few days. However, the enforcement agencies, including the police and the regional transport officers (RTOs), appear to be clueless as the government is yet to resume alcohol breathalyser test on suspected tipsy drivers. Amid the Covid-19 outbreak and apprehension of contracting the infection through handling of the alcohol breathalyser kits used to test the inebriated drivers, the state police headquarters had on March 17 ordered the immediate suspension of the crackdown on drunk drivers. Police sources said at least 85 accidents were reported in different districts in the last one week. “We found that 40 accidents occurred owing to drink driving. Though we could not use the alcohol breathalyser device for checking the tipsy drivers, we took the accused persons to hospital for a test. They were all found drunk,” a police officer said. Liquor shops, which were shut since March 22 in the wake of the pandemic, were allowed to sell alcoholic beverages only through online booking and home delivery from May 25. From July 1, the state government allowed the counter sale of liquor. Sources said the police and the RTOs have been asked to send suspected drunk drivers to hospital for alcohol tests. “We are unlikely to resume the alcohol breathalyser test because of the pandemic. But the reckless drivers should be taken to the hospital for the test. Random enforcement against such people will be risky now,” state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. Driving under the influence of alcohol is a major cause of concern for the authorities as the state recorded the second highest number of road deaths caused by drink driving in 2018. Transport statistics said the state witnessed 555 deaths owing to drink driving in 2018. Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 1,824 such deaths. The state police had launched special drives against tipsy drivers from September 6, 2019 after the amended Motor Vehicles (MV) Act came into effect on September 1. The new MV Act has a provision of imposing hefty Rs 10,000 fine and arrest for drink driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/road-accidents-due-to-drink-driving-go-up-but-checking/articleshow/78025591.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Panhala witnesses ‘cloud burst-like’ situation||Kolhapur: Several hilly areas of Kolhapur district received heavy showers on Tuesday with Panhala fort receiving over 140 mm rainfall. The intensity of the rainfall was such that the roads at some places in the hill station were waterlogged. In addition, some farm fields were completely destroyed. Wells as well as water tanks were completely submerged in rainwater. District collector Daulat Desai visited Panhala on Wednesday and took stock of the situation. During his visit, Desai ordered authorities to estimate the losses caused due to ‘cloud burst-like’ situation. He also surveyed the historical fort and found that some cracks had developed in the structure. Weather experts said that the phenomenon observed at Panhala can be termed as ‘mini-cloud burst’. In full-fledged cloud burst, rainfall of over 100 mm is observed usually in an hour. The experts said that within the first hour of downpour, the intensity was around 60 to 90 mm and therefore can be termed as ‘mini-cloud burst’. Weather researcher Shantanu Patil said, “The cloud formation was mainly due to convection caused by rapid heating of land in a short period. The cloud bands were as high as 13 km and at its peak the temperature was -80 °C. This led to sudden downpour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panhala-witnesses-cloud-burst-like-situation/articleshow/78024204.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 1,061 new cases, tally beyond 27k||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with 1,061 fresh infections, pushing the case tally to 27,211. With this, the infection rate of the state reached 5.9%. Along with the surge in infections, the state also witnessed 789 cases of recoveries, the highest so far in a single day. The cured cases as on Wednesday stood at 18,262 and the recovery percentage reached 67.1%. Among those found infected were lab technicians at the virology lab of Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Subsequently, the lab was shut for 48 hours for testing of Covid-19 patients. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 265 cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 251 from Dehradun, 142 from Haridwar, 82 from Tehri, 68 from Pauri, 51 from Champawat, 49 from Rudrarayag, 36 from Nainital, 31 from Chamoli, 27 from Pithoragarh, 25 from Almora, and 23 from Uttarkashi. Meanwhile, deaths of 12 Covid-19 patients were also reported in the state on Wednesday. Among these, seven deaths were recorded at AIIMS Rishikesh, four at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College, and one at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-1061-new-cases-tally-beyond-27k/articleshow/78024231.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Expansion of Satara municipal council limits gets Maharashtra nod||KOLHAPUR: The long-pending demand to expand the limits of Satara municipal council became a reality after the proposal was sanctioned by the state government on Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar made an announcement in the state assembly and handed over a copy of the decision to BJP MLA Shivendraraje Bhosale. Following this decision, the geographical area of Satara town will now increase from 8.7sqkm to 12sqkm. Also the population of Satara is expected to get doubled when the decision comes into force. Satara town’s population as per 2011 census was 1.29 lakh. Due to this the number of councillors will also increase and the elections are scheduled for next year. “As many as 35 localities and a few villages around Satara town will be part of Satara municipal council. Tax will be introduced in various phases in the next five years after implementing development works,” a civic official said. The proposal for expanding the boundaries of Satara municipal council was first officially moved in 1979, but it was delayed for four decades for some or the other reasons. In September 2019, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis made formal announcement in this regard, but he had to step down after the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/expansion-of-satara-municipal-council-limits-gets-state-nod/articleshow/78024235.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||As schools move online, parents concerned over e-exams||BHUBANESWAR: With schools closed and lessons being conducted remotely, students and their parents are worried over the soon-to-be-held online examinations. Parents said their children were either missing or not paying proper attention in classes, which might affect their scores. The parents added that the children might face connection issues, overlapping time slots and shortage of devices during the exams. “I am excited and nervous as I will sit for an online examination for the first time. Though we haven’t faced much issues during online classes, exams are different,” Parth Senapati, a class-III student, said. Some parents, who have more than one kid, said with their shifts starting from morning there could be problems over the availability of devices at a given time. “What if my office meeting falls at the time when my two children — one in Class X and another in Class VI — are having their online tests? Where will I get three different devices from? We have requested the teacher to consider taking the exam of the younger child later,” Prajna Samal, a parent, said. While many schools gave objective questions in the exams, a few were asking students to write their exams under the surveillance of a camera. “We have made the children revise the chapters and sit for mock tests. They will not face any problem while appearing for the exams,” Anima Subudhi, a teacher of Kendriya Vidyalaya-1, said. “Online classes often get disrupted due to poor connectivity. Children keep complaining about the sound or video quality. If the net gets disconnected while writing the papers, students may get scared and not be able to finish it,” Manoj Patnaik, another parent, said. Some schools have already started oral and project tests for the half-yearly exams. “In the oral tests, teachers had asked the students to look towards the roof while answering the questions so that there was no cheating. But what about the written tests? How can they ensure zero cheating then,” Alaka Pradhan, a parent, said. Nibedita Rath said teachers were hopeful and optimistic to face the new challenge. “Children will be able to adapt to the new system of online examinations. There may be some problems but we are trying our best to adjust so that the exams are conducted successfully,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/as-schools-move-online-parents-concerned-over-e-exams/articleshow/78025605.cms||Minati Singha
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||10,000 people to be provided job opportunities through forest department: CM Rawat||DEHRADUN: In a review meeting of Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA), CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday said around 10,000 people would be provided job opportunities through the forest department. He also asked forest officials to not just carry out plantation drives but also to ensure the survival of saplings through frequent monitoring. He pointed out that the consistent monitoring will lead to development of forest and accountability of officers should be fixed for the process. Citing the importance of the forest department in employment generation, the CM said that a high number of people who returned due to Covid-19 can be provided opportunities in sectors of water conservation, plantation, nursery development, and protection of forest property. For the growth of meadows, the CM said that Bhimal can be used as coir net and check dams can be made using pine needles. CM Rawat said that solar fencing is very effective for protection from wild animals but people need to be made aware about the issue. He added that special efforts should be made to prevent human wildlife conflict. The CM lauded the efforts made by the forest department for water conservation and said that there have been good results of construction of check dams and water trenches. State forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the department is constantly making efforts for conservation and promotion of forests. He maintained that around 10,000 people were trained by the labour department to make coir net and check dams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/10000-people-to-be-provided-job-opportunities-through-forest-dept-cm-rawat/articleshow/78024258.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odia prof dies at NIT-Hamirpur, family alleges foul play||Bhubaneswar: The family members of a young professor from Puri, who died under mysterious circumstances at the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Hamirpur on Sunday, after he went back to re-join the institute, has alleged foul play in his death. In a letter addressed the director general of police (DGP), the family requested him to look into the matter and help resolve the case of 29-year-old Priyadarshi Biplab Kumar’s death. The family members also requested the DGP to help bring his body back from Himachal Pradesh. “We requested a video recording of the autopsy which the Hamirpur police did not allow. We requested the Odisha DGP to look into the matter for a proper investigation,” said Dayanidhi Harichandan, Priyadarshi’s maternal uncle. According to the family members, the NIT-H administrators have been constantly harassing Priyadarshi, an assistant professor, ever since he joined the institute in November last year. “NIT-H administrators called him back and asked him to join duty, which he did on August 23. After getting there, he was in quarantine as per norms and in contact with us,” Dayanidhi said. On Sunday, Priyadarshi had lunch in the mess and then spoke to his mother for a while and told her he would call back in the evening. When he did not the family members panicked and contacted the warden. “The warden broke open the door and found my nephew lying on the floor with blood oozing out of his nose and mouth. He was taken to the nearby hospital and then PGI Chandigarh, where they declared him brought dead,” Dayanidhi said. The family members alleged foul play by the head of the department where Priyadarshi was working as an assistant professor. “He was healthy. It has to be something else. The autopsy needs to be done properly,” the maternal uncle said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odia-prof-dies-at-nit-hamirpur-family-alleges-foul-play/articleshow/78025597.cms||Sandip Mishra
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||7-feet-long croc rescued in Tarsali||Vadodara: A seven-feet-long crocodile was rescued from a road near a mall in Tarsali late on Tuesday night. Some passers-by spotted the crocodile crawling by the roadside following which the volunteers of Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) and Life with Wildlife were informed. The volunteers rushed to the spot and rescued the reptile, which did not have a tail, after an hour long efforts. Traffic on the usually busy road came to a halt as commuters stopped to catch a glimpse of the reptile that seemed to have crawled out of a nearby water body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-feet-long-croc-rescued-in-tarsali/articleshow/78024396.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Four women among 5 ‘Maoists’ gunned down in Kalahandi||BHUBANESWAR: Security personnel gunned down five suspected Maoists, including four women, following a heavy exchange of fire in a forest in Odisha’s Kalahandi district on Wednesday. A jawan of the special operation group (SOG), the anti-Maoist force of the state police, was injured in the gunfire. The identities of the deceased were being ascertained. The exchange of fire took place under the M Rampur police limits on the Kalahandi-Kandhamal border. “Acting on an intelligence input, our personnel (the SOG and the district voluntary force) entered the forest on Tuesday to launch an operation. A group of Maoists, who had been camping in the jungle, opened fire on our personnel. One of our jawans was injured in the firing. Five Maoists have been neutralized in retaliatory firing,” superintendent of police (Kalahandi) B Gangadhar told TOI. Sources said the exchange of fire between the suspected Maoists and the police occurred around 11am on Wednesday and continued for nearly half an hour. Police seized two SLR rifles, three single-barrel rifles, some live ammunition and other Maoist-related articles from the Maoist camp. Combing operations were stepped up in the area following the exchange of fire. “We have deployed security forces in the area and anti-Maoist operations have been intensified,” SP (Kandhamal) Vinit Agrawal said. Police suspect that the Maoists might have fled into the dense jungle in Kandhamal after the killings. This was the third major anti-Maoist operation in the state in the last two months. Five suspected rebels, including two women, were gunned down in Kandhamal district on July 5. The security personnel had killed two suspected Left-wing extremists in a forest of Tumudibandha area in Kandhamal district on July 23. Left-wing extremism (LWE)-related violence has significantly declined in the state in the last few years. At least 13 Maoists have so far been killed in different districts this year. The casualties of suspected Maoists stood at 19 in 2018 and 8 in 2019. Recently, the state government declared five districts — Angul, Boudh, Sambalpur, Deogarh and Nayagarha — Maoist-free belts. These districts did not report any Maoist-triggered violence in the last two years or more, which is a major criterion for acknowledgement as a Red-free zone. At present, altogether 10 (Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada, Bargarh, Balangir, Nabarangpur, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Kandhamal, and Sundargarh) of the 30 districts in the state are affected by LWE. (With inputs from Hruskesh Mohanty in Berhampur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/4-women-among-5-maoists-gunned-down-in-kalahandi/articleshow/78025612.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 10, 2020||Goa||1st phase of Miramar beach front facelift open to public||Panaji: Conceptualised in 2018 and initially proposed to be taken up in conjunction with the Society of integrated coastal management (SICOM)’s Blue Flag project, the initial phase of the Miramar beach front face lift project was thrown open to the public on Tuesday. Taken up for redevelopment and beautification under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, the Rs 13 crore project is being executed in four phases. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate along with Corporation of the city of Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar and managing director of Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd Swayandipta Pal Chaudhuri inspected the work and inaugurated the project. “The first phase of Miramar development is complete and is open to the public,” the Panaji MLA said. “It involves complete development of the beach side majorly catering towards our senior citizens. This phase has fitness equipment for performing light exercises and also for leisure activities,” Monserrate said. Ponda-based R B S Candiaparcar is the contractor for the project for Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, with Rs 2 crore being spent on the first phase, said an official. “The second part of the project should be open for the public by October and we hope to have the entire project ready by December end,” said an official. Miramar beach attracts hordes of tourists and locals all the year around but the promenade along the beach had fallen into neglect with broken benches, damaged footpaths and garbage sullying the image of the popular beach. The beach was picked for a facelift under the AMRUT mission as well as under the World Bank’s Blue Flag project. SICOM, a semi-autonomous body that reports to the Union ministry of forest and environment, failed to implement the Rs 9 crore contract which included a new pathway to the beach, a solar energy plant, a jogging track, outdoor fitness equipment, public toilets and changing rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1st-phase-of-miramar-beach-front-facelift-open-to-public/articleshow/78027006.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||No formal lockdown in Sangli||Sangli: District collector Abhijit Chaudhari on Wednesday clarified that the administration would not issue any formal order regarding janata curfew that is expected to come into force from Friday. He, however, has warned that strict action would be taken against all those found violating the safety rules. “The appeal for janata curfew has been made in response to various organizations for curbing the spread of Covid-19 in the district. People should avoid coming out of their homes and gathering at public places,” he said. Meanwhile, Solapur city recorded 72 new cases and four deaths on Wednesday. According to the official communication, 54 patients were also discharged from various hospitals. The total number of cases in Solapur city has now increased to 7,217, out of which 820 are active. The city has also witnessed 432 deaths due to the contagion. Solapur rural recorded 394 new patients and 20 deaths on Wednesday. The rural areas now have as many as 4,522 active cases while the death toll stands at 439.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-formal-lockdown-in-sangli/articleshow/78024270.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State economic corridor to be part of central project||Bhubaneswar: The state government’s proposal for inclusion of Odisha economic corridor (OEC) under the National Industrial Corridor Development Programme has been approved by the National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT). The NICDIT is an apex body under the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). It has proposed to develop five industrial corridors in India. The OEC will be a part of the northern-most stretch of the East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC), the first coastal economic corridor planned in the country. “The corridor has the potential to generate over Rs 4 lakh crore of manufacturing output, Rs 81,000 crore of investment and an additional eight lakh direct jobs by 2025,” a statement from the state industries department pointed out. The ECEC will connect four states – West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. With inclusion of OEC under the National Industrial Corridor Development Programme, the board of trustees have agreed for initiation of the project development activities in Odisha in two nodes. The nodes have been identified based on factors like land availability, highways, large cities, existing industrial infrastructure and port. Under the plan, 100 km on each side of NH-16 has been taken as the corridor influence area. While the first node includes Gopalpur, Bhubaneswar, Kalinganagar industrial estate, second node, called the PKDS node, includes areas like Paradip, Kendrapada, Dhamra and Subarnarekha industrial areas. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-economic-corridor-to-be-part-of-central-project/articleshow/78025621.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||Heavy rainfall at isolated places till Sunday||Panaji: There is a probability of heavy rainfall in isolated places till Sunday, September 13, said the India meteorological department (IMD). This is due to two different systems including a low pressure area over the east central Arabian Sea and a low pressure area over the west central Bay of Bengal. The IMD said that though the low pressure area has weakened, it remains only as upper air circulations. “In the coming days, the weakened system will bring moisture and rainfall over Goa for three days,” IMD said.  Thundershowers may persist for two days more. After that, the monsoon will be normal owing to which the activity of lightning will be less after September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rainfall-at-isolated-places-till-sunday/articleshow/78027075.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||17-year-old rescued from relative’s house||Berhampur: A 17-year-old girl, who went missing from her home from a village in Ganjam district’s Kabisurya Nagar police station limits about three months ago, was rescued by police in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday. The girl, a Plus II second year student had left home without intimating her parents in June with one of her relatives while her parents had planned her marriage. “We rescued the girl from the house of one of her relatives,” said IIC of Kabisurya Nagar police station Pravat Sahoo. She has been handed over to her parents, he said. Child rights activists have convinced her parents not to marry her off at this tender age, which was illegal. “We have received 44 complaints regarding child marriages in the district during the five-month lockdown period from April to August this year,” said Sudhir Sabat, director of ChildLine India Foundation, Ganjam unit, which manages a government-supported national helpline for children in distress. During the same time last year, the Childline had received 26 complaints of child marriages being planned, said Sai Prasad Samal, the district coordinator of ChildLine. “Despite the lockdown and restriction on the movement of vehicles, our team along with officers had rushed to stop such marriages that usually take place in remote areas,” he added. “People might have planned to conduct the child marriage during the lockdown under the impression that nobody in their village will get to know about the ceremony,” said Sabat. During the same period, the number of child marriage bids in the tribal-dominated Gajapati district has declined compared to last year. While 13 such cases were reported from April to August in 2019, the number came down to three this year, said Gajapati child protection officer Arun Kumar Tripathy. Besides receiving calls regarding child marriage, we have also received the calls from children, who are victims of domestic violence (six), cyber abuse (two), physical abuse (five), sexual abuse (one), trafficking (one) and child labour (four) during the period in Ganjam district, said Samal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/17-year-old-rescued-from-relatives-house/articleshow/78025615.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kochi||NCB to question Bineesh Kodiyeri||BENGALURU: Sleuths of the Bengaluru zonal unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have reportedly sought information from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to ascertain his relationship with one of the three alleged drug traffickers arrested recently. The gang was busted on August 24 and the investigators had claimed that drugs were being supplied to film stars, musicians and students. Bineesh Kodiyeri appeared before ED officials in Kochi On Wednesday, following a notice to him in connection with Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case in which key suspects Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair were apprehended by sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Koramangala in Bengaluru in July. Sources revealed that ED sleuths on Monday made a submission to a special court stating that Bineesh was to be probed by NCB’s Bangalore unit who had on August 24 arrested his friend and Kochi native Mohammed Anoop (38) from a service apartment in Kalyan Nagar in connection with a drug racket. Anikha Dinesh, the lady kingpin of the racket, along with Anoop and his friend Rijesh Ravindran (37), a Thrissur native, were nabbed by the NCB with a haul of ecstasy pills and LSD blots. “Anoop had confessed that Bineesh Kodiyeri is his close friend who had financially helped him in setting up a Kerala cuisine eatery in Kammanahalli. The two had conversed multiple times on the cellphone just days before Anoop getting arrested for drug dealing,” said an investigating official with the NCB. In a remand report submitted by the NCB at Bengaluru NDPS court, Anoop’s confession on Bineesh had been prominently included. While Anoop and Rijesh remain in Parapanna Agrahara prison and have moved for bail on Monday, the NCB sleuths had asked their ED counterparts in Kerala to provide details of Bineesh and his ties with drug dealer Mohammed Anoop. NCB sources said that Bineesh could be quizzed in the coming days on any possible links to the drug trade in Bengaluru. “Bineesh and Anoop have a common friend named K T Ramees, who is a notorious gold smuggler and prime accused in the gold smuggling case. Ramees is imprisoned in the case and we are probing on his links to the other two,” said an ED source. Meanwhile, the bail petition of Anoop and Rijesh will come for hearing before a special NDPS judge here on Thursday and NCB is likely to demand their custody, mainly Anoop’s, for further questioning into the matter and to ascertain his links to Bineesh, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ncb-to-question-bineesh/articleshow/78025622.cms||Petlee Peter
September 10, 2020||Aurangabad||2 booked for morphing pics and blackmailing 19-yr-old student||Aurangabad: MIDC Waluj police have booked a 20-year-old man along with his brother on charges of morphing photographs of a 19-year-old girl student and using them to blackmail her. According to police, the suspects had posted the morphed images of the girl on various social media platforms and were demanding Rs 50,000 for deleting them. “The complainant are the main suspect are classmates. Preliminary probe indicates that the suspect’s brother has also helped him in the alleged act following which he has also been booked. The suspect, using different cell phone numbers, had been sending messages and morphed pictures to the girl. After the alleged harassment became unbearable, she brought the issue to the notice of her parents, who took her to police station and lodged a complaint late on Tuesday,” senior inspector Madhukar Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-booked-for-morphing-pics-and-blackmailing-19-yr-old-student/articleshow/78024296.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Juvenile duped elderly man of Rs 6 crore posing as insurance agent||New Delhi: A juvenile posed as an insurance company agent and duped an 86-year-old man of Rs 6 crore by transferring money from his accounts into a bank account opened with fake credentials. He was apprehended by officers of Economic Offences Wing (EOW), and during the probe it was found that the teenager, along with a few others, had set up their own company using the fake documents through which they would dupe people posing as insurance agents. The juvenile had approached the victim offering insurance policies and in turn managed to get the bank details of the victim and transferred the money. Cops had already caught the rest of his gang members, while the juvenile was evading them. The accused duped the elderly man by claiming that his insurance money had been moved into different accounts and he would help in claiming it. “The 17-year-old boy, a resident of central Delhi, was a school drop-out. Police said that he had opened an account at a private bank in the name of Ritwick Bansal and would use the ATM card to withdraw money for his gang members,” said OP Mishra, joint commissioner of police, EOW. Investigating officers said that the gang members had opened 35 accounts in different parts of the country. Cops were trying to find out how many people had been duped by the gang so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/juvenile-duped-elderly-man-of-rs-6-crore-posing-as-insurance-agent/articleshow/78048020.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays Rs 75 lakh payout to accident victim’s kin||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday put on hold payment of Rs 75 lakh compensation to the family of a youth who rammed his bike into chained barricades and is currently in a vegetative state. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan stayed operation of the May 18 order of a single judge, who had awarded compensation and damages to the victim and held police liable for negligence and failure in discharge of its duty. The division bench passed the order on an appeal filed by police, which submitted that the issues raised before the single judge were not maintainable in a writ petition as it involved questions of fact, and only a civil suit could be filed for seeking damages. In its plea, police invoked a technical ground and argued that even the Supreme Court had held that in such cases where questions of fact were involved, only a civil suit was maintainable, and the judge could not have awarded damages. The single judge in his decision had concluded that the barricades were neither properly lit nor adequate reflectors or blinkers were put on them to make them visible from a distance. It then awarded Rs 75 lakh compensation to the petitioner, Dheeraj Kumar, who was 21 at the time of the incident in December 2015. The accident took place on an early December morning in west Punjabi Nagar when Kumar and his father were returning home on a motorcycle and collided with police barricades that were chained together to cordon off a road/street completely. In the plea, the father and the son sought compensation for refund of medical expenses, loss of income/dependency, loss of prospects, continuing future needs and for pain and suffering suffered due to the accident. In the verdict, the single judge had noted that barricades were chained and did not allow vehicles to pass through, and such chains could not have been visible to the motorist from a distance. Police, in its response, had contended that the accident took place due to contributory negligence of Kumar as he was speeding and was unable to apply the brakes in time to avoid collision. It maintained that the barricades were put in a well-lit area and were visible from a considerable distance. The motorist seemed to have tried to slip through the gap in between the barriers, and owing to the speed at which the vehicle was travelling, he was unable to spot the chain, it added. Police also claimed that no helmet was found at the site, thus, Kumar was in violation of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-stays-rs-75l-payout-to-accident-victims-kin/articleshow/78027107.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||IAS officers posted as collectors after successful Covid stint||Bhubaneswar: Two young IAS officers -- Siddharth Shankar Swain and Chakravarti Singh Rathore-- who have contributed significantly in managing the Covid-19 situation in Ganjam have been posted as new collectors of Angul and Jajpur districts respectively. Swain as project director of district rural development agency (DRDA), Ganjam and nodal officer of the Covid-19 management had played a crucial role in managing the situation in the southern district, which was once the Covid hotspot. Ganjam is now witnessing a significant turnaround. Rathore, who was serving as commissioner, Berhampur Municipal Corporation had also worked hard to manage the situation in Berhampur city. While 3,385 cases have been detected in Berhampur city, it now has only 122 active cases with a recovery rate of 94.53 per cent. The appointment came hours after chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked districts, which have recently seen surge in Covid-19 positive cases, to follow Berhampur model of testing, tracing and containment strategy. The Covid situation in Jajpur is very grim. “Both Swain and Rathore have done a good job in Ganjam. Their experience will be crucial in their new assignments. New collectors have been appointed keeping in mind the Covid situation in various districts,” said a senior government officer. Jajpur incumbent collector Ranjan Dash has been transferred as additional secretary in state culture department while Angul collector Manoj Kumar Mohanty has been posted as additional secretary in the revenue department. New collectors have also been appointed in Balangir and Nuapada districts. Chanchal Rana has been appointed as new collector of Balangir while Swadha Dev Singh will head the administration in Nuapada district. Rana, who is currently serving as project director, DRDA, Mayurbhanj, had been recently deputed in Sambalpur for Covid management. Arindam Dakua, present collector of Balangir has been transferred as director, special project under the panchayati raj department while Nuapada collector Madhusmita Sahoo has been brought as deputy secretary in the water resources department. Among others, Berhampur sub-collector Dattatraya Bhausaheb Sindhe has been elevated as project director, DRDA, Ganjam while Siddeshwar Baliram Bondar is new commissioner, Berhampur Municipal Corporation. Keerthi Vasan V will serve as new sub-collector, Berhampur while J Sonal has been posted as sub-collector, Gunupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ias-officers-posted-as-collectors-after-successful-covid-stint/articleshow/78025625.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man stabs private employee to death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old private employee was murdered by a man in Rajendranagar on Tuesday night. Police said that Mohammed Javed, a private employee, was stabbed by Irfan, who was supported by few of his friends. On Tuesday night, Javed and his friend Ghouse had gone to Attapur to meet another friend. Later, when Javed and Ghouse went to an eatery, they came across the accused Irfan, who was travelling on a bike. Irfan stopped his bike and spoke to Javed. Later, they both entered into a heated argument. Irfan telephoned and called his friends, who came in a car. Irfan then stabbed Javed to death. Later, the accused fled the spot after abandoning his bike. He got into the car in which his friends had earlier reached the spot. Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of IPC. They suspect that financial dispute between Irfan and Javed led to the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabs-pvt-employee-to-death/articleshow/78027069.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Dhule stock gives a breather to Malegaon hosp running low on O2||Nashik: The only Covid-19 hospital in Malegaon town had a major scare on Tuesday when it almost ran out of oxygen meant for treatment of patients. There was no supply of oxygen cylinders to the textile town on the day and the hospital had even used up the reserve stock. Finally, a vehicle carrying the oxygen cylinders to Dhule was diverted to Malegaon in the wee hours of Wednesday.Malegaon needs about 350-400 jumbo oxygen cylinders a day. Of them, 200 are for Covid-19 patients and remaining for other patients.Officials said the two oxygen distributors could not supply a single jumbo cylinder to the hospital on Tuesday due to a snag at the gas manufacturing plant.Malegaon municipal commissioner Deepak Kasar told TOI, “There was a severe crisis of the gas at the Sahara hospital, since there was no fresh supply of cylinders from Nashik on Tuesday. But with the intervention of state minister Dada Bhuse and district collector Suraj Mandhare, we managed to procure the cylinders.”Kasar, along with other officials, went to the hospital at 8pm after being told of the situation. Police bandobast was made outside the hospital to prevent any untoward incident.The hospital had eight patients on ventilator support and 47 on oxygen support. “The hospital had just a few cylinders left and it needs about 13 cylinders every hour,” added Kasar.The situation was so critical that the Malegaon civil hospital gave 20 of its cylinders to the Sahara hospital. Some of the small cylinders of ambulances too were used.After learning about a vehicle carrying 32 jumbo cylinders to the Dhule government hospital, it was decided that the vehicle would be diverted to Malegaon. “A team rushed to the highway and intercepted the vehicle at 1.30 am and diverted the stock to Malegaon,” said Kasar.The two local distributors of oxygen cylinders to Malegaon — Bharat Mehta and Sailesh Jain — also made enquiries with other distributors and managed to bring in more cylinders from Nashik, Aurangabad and Dhule by 3.30am. “It was an unprecedented situation on Tuesday. There was no supply of even one cylinder in Malegaon on Tuesday. The administration must resolve the issue of smooth availability of oxygen,” the suppliers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-stock-gives-a-breather-to-malegaon-hosp-running-low-on-o2/articleshow/78024357.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to remain shut for 2 days||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) will be closed yet again for the public from September 10 and 11 as another of its staff members tested positive Covid-19 on Wednesday. The corporation will be completely sanitised in these two days and only the staff members will remain present. The DMC has been shut for the public multiple times now as several staffers have been found infected with Covid-19 so far. The municipal corporation has released the contact numbers of its officers of various departments to whom the public can contact in cases of emergency. Also, the helpline number of the DMC can be used to inform any civic issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-remain-shut-for-2-days/articleshow/78024350.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||No printing contractor, Delhi University can’t give degrees||NEW DELHI: The gowns, mortarboards and speeches continue unchanged but what has disappeared from the Delhi University (DU) convocation is the degree. Since 2017, DU graduates are stuck in a paperless limbo as the university has failed to appoint a printing contractor. This fact came to light in July this year when some graduates moved the Delhi high court for their delayed degrees, and the HC directed the university authorities to confer digital degree certificates. Times ViewWho can believe that the administration of one of the top universities in the country failed to find a company that prints degrees in three years? Such an explanation is totally unacceptable. After the recent open book examination fiasco, this is further evidence that DU needs to get its act together. The future of students cannot be trifled with.Two months later, a portal has finally been set up to accept applications for degrees. Sources in the DU said the previous contract was cancelled after an audit showed the same party had been printing DU degrees for years. Degree torture: Burden of compliance on DU colleges However, professor D S Rawat, officiating dean examination, said, “The contract of the old printing company was cancelled because they had made some mistakes. After that, the university could not finalise the tender document.” This year, DU has invited tenders from printers on March 11, June 8 and July 18, but few have shown interest. “It is true that, earlier, degrees used to be sent to the colleges. All of a sudden, the practice stopped and we still don’t know the reason behind it,” S P Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, said. When colleges raised this issue, a senior university official directed the examination department to resume sending degrees, but nothing changed. Now, the burden of compliance is on the colleges, as they have been told to provide details of all graduates since 2017 for issuing digital certificates. For the 2019 batch, photographs are also needed. Sarthak Maggon, advocate for the students, said they have been getting many calls from graduates and have made a list of names to present to the HC on Friday. DU has already informed the court that it has received 30,000 applications for digital degrees, but issued only 23 to the petitioners in the case. Students who need their degree urgently to apply to other universities have suffered the most in these years. Watch Delhi: DU graduates in a limbo with no physical degrees since 2017||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-printing-contractor-delhi-university-cant-give-degrees/articleshow/78029194.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt wants archaeology dept to restore smaller temples around Lingaraj shrine||Bhubaneswar: The government has asked authorities of the state archaeology department to prepare an action plan for the restoration of a number of small temples located around the Lingaraj Temple. Development commissioner Suresh Mohapatra on Wednesday chaired a meeting in this regard that was attended by senior officials of the state culture department and state archaeology. “There are many small temples around Lingaraj Temple which are not Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) protected monuments. We want to restore these age-old temples as part of the EKAMRA plan. A meeting was held in this regard and the state archaeology department has been asked to prepare an action plan for proper restoration of these small temples,” said a senior government official who attended the meeting. After the archaeology department prepares the action plan, the government will take a call on the next course of action. Though the old town, referred to as the Ekamra Kshetra, has more than 500 small temples, sources said over 30 small temples are located within the 65 acres of area which is being developed under the EKAMRA project. Under the EKAMRA plan, the state government has planned to develop the periphery around the 11th century Lingaraj Temple. A number of commercial and residential structures are being cleared within the identified area between the Lingaraj Temple and Bindu Sagar to create substantial space and facilities for devotees. The state government plans barrier-free access between the 11th century shrine and Bindu sagar, the sacred pond that has historical connection with the shrine. Facilities like parking space, food plaza, Bhajan Mandap and convention centre are part of the project. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has been assigned to acquire land for the EKAMRA project, which is on-going. The final plan for the project has also been designed, which is being reviewed every week, said a source in the state works department, the implementing agency for the project. As Puri and EKAMRA projects are two of the top priority areas of the state government, chief minister Naveen Patnaik recently reviewed their progress and asked officials to expedite their work. The state government has earmarked Rs 150 crore for the project for the 2020-21 financial year. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-wants-archaeology-dept-to-restore-smaller-temples-around-lingaraj-shrine/articleshow/78025629.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Biker booked for injuring constables||Nashik: Police have booked a biker for rash driving and injuring two policemen of the Nashik Road police station after knocking them down from their bike. The Nashik Road police said on Tuesday afternoon when the two constables were passing by the Mahajan hospital on their bike, the accused, riding his bike rashly, knocked the duo down following which the two suffered serious injuries. Assistant police sub inspector S P Kadam, said the biker left the scene after the accident, leaving his vehicle behind. According to the biker, he had suffered injuries so he rushed to the hospital. Kadam said, “On Wednesday, the biker came to the police station to give his statement.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/biker-booked-for-injuring-constables/articleshow/78024367.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire accident at DPS Sec’bad||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at Delhi Public School, Secunderabad, on Sikh Road on Wednesday evening. Though there was no loss of life, property was gutted in the blaze. The fire started in the school’s HR wing on the ground floor around 6.25 pm and two fire tenders were rushed to the place to douse the flames. “All the computers, false ceiling and electronic items were gutted in the accident. It is a G+1 building, the fire started at the ground floor and was controlled before it could spread further,” district fire officer Madhusudan Rao said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-accident-at-dps-secbad/articleshow/78027085.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Proposal to shift Cantonment to Hyderabad outskirts gathers dust||SECUNDERABAD: The proposal to shift military installations from Secunderabad Cantonment to the city outskirts has been gathering dust. A decision to submit a proposal to the defence ministry regarding the shifting of military installations was first taken two decades ago, when TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu was chief minister of undivided AP. A survey report on shifting the defence establishments was also prepared by the Centre. However, sources say that the plan failed to materialise as a result of poor political relations between the Centre and the state. Again in 2014, the TRS government had submitted a proposal regarding the same to late defence minister Manohar Parrikar, but the proposal has been pending for the past six years. In fact, the local military authority (LMA) began shutting civilian roads the same year. “In 2018, I had urged the President to shift Cantonment on the lines of Mumbai’s Colaba Cantonment away from the city. I condemn the LMA’s decision to close roads in Cantonment,” M Jagadish, an 80-year-old resident, said. “All defence establishments used to operate in isolated areas long ago, however, due to rapid urbanization, they are now in civilian areas,” said a United Federation of Residents Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/proposal-to-shift-cantonment-to-city-outskirts-gathers-dust/articleshow/78028209.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NIA will only seeklimited CCTV footage||Thiruvananthapuram: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to limit the examination of video feeds to those cameras fixed at strategic locations at the Secretariat, on the basis of the accused’s statements in the gold smuggling case. It is learnt that such a decision has been taken after realizing the futility in examining the feeds of all 82 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras at various locations in the Secretariat. It is learnt that the agency sleuths have taken the blue print of camera positions in the Secretariat, to zero in on those cameras, the feeds from which may be useful for the NIA sleuths in aiding the investigation in the case. The positions of the cameras would be compared with the statements of the accused and only then it would be decided which all camera feeds should be sought. 5 more gold middlemen arraigned NIA probing the terror angle behind the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case on Wednesday arraigned five more persons as accused who acted as middlemen and brokered the sale of gold smuggled in through the diplomatic channel. Sources said that the agency also held raids at residences and jewellery shops of accused persons in Coimbatore, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Thalassery. Musthafa of Kunamangalam, Abdul Azeez of Akarapaddy, Nandu alias Nandagopal of Coimbatore, Raju of Thalassery and Muhammad Shameer of Kozhikode been newly arraigned.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-will-only-seeklimited-cctv-footage/articleshow/78025645.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Government to develop ‘Sanskrit Grams’ across the state||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has decided to develop 'Sanskrit Grams' across the state. The decision was taken after receiving positive feedback from the pilot programme which was run in two districts — Chamoli and Bageshwar — by the state government. A village will be converted into a ‘Sanskrit Gram’ in order to encourage the local residents to speak in Sanskrit language in their daily conversation. The residents are assisted by the government-appointed staff who are proficient in the language. During a meeting chaired by Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, a decision was taken to develop such 'grams' throughout every district of the state. “It is important to promote Sanskrit in order to preserve it. Youths need to be engaged with the Sanskrit language and for that, we need to develop it at the block level,” Rawat said. Also, it has been decided to recognise all the commendable works done in the field of the language and to promote Sanskrit through different mediums in the upcoming Kumbh Mela. The officials have now identified suitable villages from every district which can be potentially converted into a 'Sanskrit Gram'. Notably, Sanskrit is the second official language of Uttarakhand and the state already has an academy for it in Haridwar which is going to be renamed as 'Uttaranchal Sanskrit Sansthanam'. Also, the state government currently runs 97 Sanskrit medium schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-develop-sanskrit-grams-across-the-state/articleshow/78024369.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi records highest new Covid cases (4,000+) & tests (54,500)||NEW DELHI: The daily tally of Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed 4,000 for the first time on Wednesday with 4,039 people testing positive. The earlier peak was on June 23 when Delhi recorded 3,947 new cases. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal pointed out in a tweet that Delhi was also testing aggressively with 54,517 tests having been carried out in the past 24 hours. These included both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. The latest tally has taken the total number of cases in the city to 2,01,174 while the toll has mounted to 4,638. In the past 24 hours, 20 deaths were recorded. The CM called an emergency meeting with the health minister, senior officials and chiefs of Delhi government hospitals on Wednesday to review the situation. At 2L, Delhi has highest no. of cases among major citiesDirecting the hospitals and authorities to take all preventive measures to check the spread of the virus and ensure zero deaths, the CM also issued directions for increasing the number of tests. Later, in a tweet, he asked people not to be scared. "Today, highest no. of cases — 4,039. But also, highest no of tests — 54,517 — against 15,000/20,000 tests till last week. If we did same no. of tests, today’s cases wud be less than 1,500. So, don’t b scared by no. of cases. Del wages war against corona wid aggressive testing (sic)," he tweeted. The CM pointed out in another tweet that only 20 deaths had been reported on Wednesday as against more than 100 daily in June. He said people were falling ill and recovering even as the government was isolating them and preventing the virus from spreading through aggressive testing. The first case of Covid-19 in Delhi was recorded on March 2. It took 125 days for the state’s Covid tally to cross the one-lakh mark. But, data shows, it took only 64 days — from July 7 to September 9 — for the tally to reach two lakh. The infection is now spreading at an alarming rate. Increased testing has certainly played a role in pushing up the figure. Delhi's caseload of 2,01,174 is the highest across all major cities in the country and sixth highest among all states after Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and UP. Mumbai, which is the secondmost-affected city, has reported approximately 1.58 lakh cases till date. However, the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Mumbai is higher than that in Delhi. Dr N K Mehra, ICMR emeritus scientist and former dean of AIIMS, said the state government will have to be very strict and vigilant and not get swayed by the temporary success they had achieved. "In July, when the cases started to come down, people became complacent. The government, too, became relaxed," he said. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria also stressed on the need for stricter enforcement of measures, such as wearing masks in public places, social distancing and washing hands frequently to reduce the disease burden. "Due to increased testing, we are able to catch many positive cases in a latent stage, even before the patient develops symptoms. This is a good thing and the aim should be to trace and isolate all such persons to reduce the spread of the disease," said Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The doctors said a vaccine to prevent the disease is still a long way away and following social discipline was the only way to avoid another crisis situation. According to the latest data released by the state health department, 1.72 lakh patients have recovered. Delhi has 23,773 active cases — 12% of the total positive cases reported till date — of whom 5,533 needed hospitalisation. A total of 12,518 patients are in isolation at home. "The number of admissions for Covid-19 has doubled in the past few weeks. We are admitting 90 to 100 patients daily," said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 2,000 Covid beds. In July, daily admissions had reduced to less than 30, he added. Watch Covid-19: Delhi records highest new cases, crosses 4,000 mark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-highest-new-covid-cases-4000-tests-54500/articleshow/78029198.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||243 new cases in Bhopal in a day, Covid count rises to 13,000||BHOPAL: As many as 243 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 here on Wednesday. Since the pandemic began, the state capital has reported more than 13,000 cases, resulting in 314 deaths due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, a meeting of the health department and district administration focused on the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Raj Bhawan. The governor’s house has reported three more cases of the infection. Also, medical practitioners seem to be the worst affected by the Covid-19 spread. Nine doctors were diagnosed with the infection on Wednesday. Five are from Gandhi Medical College (GMC), one each from JP Hospital and TB hospital and two doctors in Kolar. 25th Battalion (Bhadbhada) reported two positives while 7th Battalion (Jehangirabad) reported one positive as security forces continued to be diagnosed with the infection. Ansal Apartment (Shyamla Hills) reported two positive cases and the nearby Nadir Colony also reported a new case of the infection. New Jail Colony and Mendora Village (Ratibad) reported three positives each. Five positives in the same family have been reported from Apsara Complex (Indrapuri). Saket Nagar reported eight positives. Dev Lok Colony reported five positives in Bairagarh. Shiv Lok Colony (Khajurikalan) reported two positives. A salesperson was diagnosed with the infection at a car showroom in Hoshangabad road. Bhim Nagar and New Subhash Nagar reported three positive cases. Professor Colony reported two more cases of the infection. Three positives have been diagnosed in Alkapuri. Two positive cases were reported in various colonies like Kamla Nagar, Soumya Enclave (Chuna Bhatti), Shurabhi Colony (Barkheda Pathani), Kalyan Nagar (Bhanpur), Vishwakarma Nagar, Kabitpura, Jain Mandir Road, Shalimar Garden (Kolar), Lake Pearl residency (Kolar), Shiv Nagar, Ruchi Life Escape (Jatkhedi) and New Sindhi Colony, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/record-243-cases-in-city-in-a-day-covid-count-rises-to-13k/articleshow/78025651.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS meet ahead of Parliament session||Hyderabad: TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a meeting with TRS MPs on Thursday to discuss strategies to be adopted in Parliament. Parliament sessions will begin from September 14. KCR will guide the TRS on the issues like GST and financial assistance, which are likely to be raised in Parliament. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-meet-ahead-of-parliament-session/articleshow/78027114.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Cases rising, can’t send kids out: Parents; They will be safe as their homes: Schools||BHOPAL: Union ministry might have issued SOPs for partial reopening of schools for Class 9 to 12 but the parents as well as students are not enthused. They said that what will happen if any Covid case is detected in the school. They are reluctant to attend classes in such situations. MP government is yet to decide about the opening of schools. Partial resumption of activities in schools for students of Class 9 to 12 on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers would be allowed from September 21. Parents said that allowing school opening when cases are rising high is not a good idea. “School is a place where children gather. Is it possible for the school to stop students when they come in large numbers? How will children maintain 6 feet distance among each other and how will school ensure such norms?” asked a mother Vinita Saxena. “I am not going to send my daughter to school in any situation. They want to fail her they can,” reacted a father Ram Saran Yadav. “Who will monitor whether the children follow Covid norms,” said Kranti Singh, father of a student. Even students are reluctant to attend classes. “It is unsafe out there. Online classes can continue till there is a vaccine,” said a student Akshay Dhankani. Schools, however, claimed that they will ensure to follow all instructions asked to follow in the SOPs. The SOP has outlined various generic precautionary measures to be adopted in addition to specific measures to be taken when schools will permit students (for 9th to 12th class) to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “We will make all possible arrangements to ensure that all Covid norms are followed. Parents and teachers need not worry about it as each student is our responsibility inside the school,” said a school owner without quoting his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cases-rising-cant-send-kids-out-parents-they-will-be-safe-as-their-homes-schools/articleshow/78025641.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Kadu approached to allow coaching classes to resume||Nashik: The members of the Professional Teachers’ Association (PTA) have petitioned Bacchu Kadu, the minister of state for education, to allow the coaching institutes to resume classes. The minister has promised to look into the demand.The members of the Association of Private Coaching Classes, in Nashik district, on Wednesday presented a memorandum of demands to Kadu. “We called up the minister on his phone and submitted our petition of demands about permitting coaching classes to start. Some of our members from Amravati have also met the minister with similar demands. The minister has assured that he would look into the same,” Jayant Muley, the president of the association in Nashik said. According to the PTA, since the state government has already allowed bus operations, it should also allow the coaching classes to restart their ‘businesses’. “The schools are registered with the charity commissioner, but private coaching classes are a business. School teachers are getting paid though the schools are closed. However, we are suffering a lot as there are no earnings at all,” said Bandopant Bhuyar, one of the non-government members on the 2018-Drafting Committee for Coaching Classes formed by the state government.PTA members said the government should allow coaching of students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII as they are old enough to understand the Covid-19 directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kadu-approached-to-allow-coaching-classes-to-resume/articleshow/78153350.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Governor lauds Telangana on Covid testing||HYDERABAD: In a departure from her earlier stance of expressing displeasure at the way the government was handling the Covid-19 situation, governor Tamilisai Soundararjan on Wednesday said the government has ramped up the testing and introduced mobile testing vehicles. Interacting with reporters on completion of one year in the office, she said the state government is now following her suggestions. She said her remarks on Covid-19 were made with a purpose and certainly not to gain any sensationalism. Though she praised the government, it came with a rider that the government could have done better and been more pro-active to her earlier suggestions. “I must say there was some laxity during the initial days in implementing my suggestions. Had they followed, the situation could have been much better. But, the good thing is that testing has been scaled up,” she said. While being careful with her choice of words, Soundararajan said she is not just a governor but also a doctor. “Whatever I say or do is to be a catalyst between government and people. Raj Bhavan is actually a people’s bhavan.” Replying to query, she said a vaccine for Covid-19 is likely in next 6-12 months and hoped that India, particularly Telangana, would be the first off the blocks. She said neither she completely supports nor dismisses the plasma treatment for Covid-19 patients. She said health, education and tribal welfare are her top three priorities. “Telangana should better the performance in higher education,” she said and added that she had told the chief minister to fill the vacancies of vice-chancellors and implement Ayushman Bharat scheme in the state. She said that she initiated the ‘chancellor connects alumni’ concept so that alumni of all the universities contribute for their alma mater. She also launched the ‘Connect Chancellor’ website, developed by NIC, and called upon the alumni of different universities in Telangana to connect, contribute and strengthen their old universities. She began her address in Telugu and said she now understands the language but cannot speak fluently. “I am overwhelmed by the love and affection of the people of Telangana who call me as their ‘akka’ (sister). I am the daughter of Tamil Nadu and sister of Telangana,” she said. Meanwhile, chief secretary Somesh Kumar met the governor to congratulate her on completing one year in office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-lauds-t-on-covid-testing/articleshow/78028214.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to give free hand to industries for a year to beat pandemic: Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Delhi government may announce a policy of no or minimal interference for a year to help the Covid-battered industries get back on the path of growth, industry minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. Addressing a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) session online, Jain said the government was committed to take measures for ease of doing business to catalyse industrial growth. The government will make approvals and licences for industries fully online to minimise human interaction and interference, Jain said. The minister also invited industry experts to give the government a list of industry-related acts that need amendments to give an impetus to growth to survive the pandemic. “There is a need to create demand for and by the industry to survive the pandemic, which has induced uncertainties and insecurities,” said Jain. “The average spending by consumers had drastically reduced. The need of the hour is to work towards building consumer confidence to avoid a long-term downward spiralling effect on the industry,” he pointed out. Delhi government has retained key subsidies on essential services like electricity and water to ensure that people have enough money to spend on various necessities, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-give-free-hand-to-industries-for-a-year-to-beat-pandemic-jain/articleshow/78027173.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Bleed Blue: Busy line breathes some life into Metro’s return||NEW DELHI: The reopening of Delhi Metro’s busiest corridor, the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), on Wednesday resulted in a massive jump in the network’s ridership. While 17,600 passengers had used Delhi Metro on Tuesday, when only the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and Gurgaon’s Rapid Metro were operational, 53,400 commuters travelled by the train system on Wednesday. Apart from the 65.3-km Blue Line, the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) also resumed services on Wednesday, giving commuters more travel options with nine interchange facilities. Although the Blue Line was the busiest corridor before cessation of services from March 22, it was the Yellow Line that saw the highest ridership of 26,900 on Wednesday. The Blue Line had 22,600 passengers and Pink Line, 3,900. “The actual utilisation of a metro train system is reflected in the number of journeys using one or more lines taken by a passenger while completing a full journey,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. While the Vaishali metro station on the Blue Line saw huge queues from early morning, other stations in east Delhi, such as Preet Vihar, Laxmi Nagar and Yamuna Bank, had more passengers than on the Yellow Line in the last two days. The usually crowded stations at Dwarka Mod, Uttam Nagar, Janakpuri West, Rajouri Garden, etc., wore a desolate look in the early hours, but became animated after 9am. Between 9am and 10am, TOI saw all earmarked seats occupied and many others standing in the aisles. The commuters diligently maintained physical distancing both on the platforms and inside trains, with those waiting on the platforms allowing passengers to disembark first. “I work in Gurgaon and use the metro to avoid the morning rush hour traffic. But at the moment, I’ve been drive to office,” said Sunil Agarwal, who lives in Vivek Vihar in Delhi. “When the Yellow Line became operational on Monday, however, I didn’t feel like reaching Rajiv Chowk by another mode of transport to catch the metro to Gurgaon. Now that the Blue Line is operational, I can travel on the network again.” Agarwal was grateful to the security staff at the stations. “From entry to thermal scanning to bag and hand sanitisation, everyone was helpful,” he said. “I faced no problems. All places on the way appeared thoroughly disinfected too.” The Yellow and Blue Lines account for 60% of Delhi Metro’s ridership. As part of the graded resumption of train services, the Yellow Line was reopened on Monday. While 15,500 people used the corridor, along with Gurgaon’s Rapid Metro, that day, the figure marginally rose to 17,600 on Tuesday. While the 57.5-km long Pink Line ensured the availability of interchange facilities to commuters at six stations, the corridor itself was mostly ignored through the day. It provided interchange facilities with the Blue Line at Rajouri Garden, Mayur Vihar Phase I, Karkardooma and Anand Vihar and with Yellow Line at INA Delhi Haat and Azadpur. This is apart from Rajiv Chowk where the Blue and Yellow Lines meet and Yamuna Bank, where the Blue Line branches off to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali. “At present the Pink Line has a big gap and that is why not many people use it,” noted Manish Sharma, resident of Mayur Vihar Phase III. Though the Pink Line forms an arc around the city, it functions in two segments: Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase I and Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake to Shiv Vihar, due to a missing link near Trilokpuri where DMRC has been unable to construct a viaduct. On Wednesday, DMRC operated 66 trains on the Blue Line, performing 478 train trips. There were 27 trains making around 228 trips from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase I and 13 trains with approximately 291 trips from Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake to Shiv Vihar. “We expect the number of trips to increase when the operation timings are extended on September 11 and 12 with the opening of other corridors,” Dayal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bleed-blue-busy-line-breathes-some-life-into-metros-return/articleshow/78027217.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Parthasarathi assumes charge as SEC||Hyderabad: Retired IAS officer C Parthasarathi assumed charge as the new state election commissioner (SEC) on Wednesday. The SEC said he would try to hold elections to the local bodies within the due date and as per the Constitution. As the term of the GHMC ends on February 10 , 2021, holding the GHMC elections will be the foremost priority, Parthasarathi said. “The commission will hold elections with the coordination of the governor, state government, chief secretary, police and district election authorities,” he said. The state election body had remained headless after the retirement of the state’s first SEC Nagi Reddy in April this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parthasarathi-assumes-charge-as-sec/articleshow/78028238.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nashik||New IG (spl) vows to curtail crime against women, farmers||Nashik: The newly appointed inspector-general (special) of Nashik range, Pratap Dighavkar, has vowed to curb crime against women and farmers while focussing on tackling highway robberies. “Ensuring safety of women in society and stopping cheats from duping farmers need greater focus. Putting an end to highway robberies is a another priority,” said Dighavkar during his first interaction with reporters after taking over the reins in Nashik. The officer said his setting up of Covid facilities for police personnel, who are frontline warriors during the coronavirus pandemic, will be another priority. “It has come to my notice that many traders have cheated farmers of Nashik and Jalgaon districts by purchasing agricultural goods on the promise of prices for their produce. I have instructed my colleagues to compile the data of such complaints filed this year so that necessary action can be taken,” he said. On tackling highway robberies and incidents of chain-snatching, the new I-G (special) said special patrolling will be taken up and strict watch kept on anti-social elements. Dighavkar said he would organise a special programme under which every police personnel will be given the responsibility to keep an eye on criminals on police record. Nearly 60% of the property offences are committed by criminals with crime history,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/new-ig-spl-vows-to-curtail-crime-against-women-farmers/articleshow/78024432.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Kaloji Rao’s 107th birth anniversary||Warangal: The 107th birth anniversary of padma bhushan Kaloji Narayan Rao was celebrated here on Wednesday. All government officers and Kaloji Narayan Health university staff paid floral tribute to the poet. District collector RG Hanumanth garlanded the poet’s statue in Nakkalgutta of Hanamkonda. - Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kaloji-raos-107th-birth-anniversary/articleshow/78027133.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||High Court to hear PIL against stone crusher near Rajaji Tiger Reserve||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday listed the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking demolition of the stone crusher near the Rajaji Tiger Reserve for further hearing on Friday. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe listed the case for hearing after two days on the request of the government counsel who said that he will come up with a reply on what needs to be done with the stone crusher in the meantime. According to the PIL, the stone crusher is functioning in an aerial radius which is less than 10 kilometres and is therefore illegal as it goes against the guidelines of the Supreme Court. Speaking to TOI, Dushyant Mainali, the counsel appearing for the petitioner said, “The Supreme Court guidelines clearly say that no stone crusher can operate within 10 km of a National Park. However, the said stone crusher is barely a few meters from the buffer zone of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Therefore, we have asked the court to order its removal or demolition,” Mainali said. The reply filed by the district magistrate as well as the forest department too had confirmed that the allegations are true. The responses said that the stone crusher is located at about 6.5 kilometres of aerial radius from the buffer zone of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve but the distance by road is much more. However, the petitioners have argued that the pollutants emanating from the crusher travels by air and not by road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-to-hear-pil-against-stone-crusher-near-rajaji-tiger-reserve-on-friday/articleshow/78024463.cms||Prashant Jha
September 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Pressure on IUML to act against MLA M C Kamarudeen for ‘cheating’||KOZHIKODE: As complaints are piling up against Manjeshwaram MLA M C Kamarudeen for ‘cheating investors’, pressure is mounting on the IUML leadership to act against the former district president. Majority of those invested in Fashion Gold, the company set up by Kamarudeen and T K Pookoya Thangal, district working committee member of IUML, are either members or the sympathizers of the party. And many investors are women who reposed their faith in the party leadership. 14 more persons filed complaints against Kamarudeen with Chandera police on Wednesday, taking the total to 26. Cases are registered at various other police stations too. There are around 700 investors in the company set up in 2007. Meanwhile, state police chief Loknath Behera ordered to hand over the investment fraud case involving Kamarudeen to crime branch. The case was being investigated by district crime branch, formerly crime detachment. Sources said that the state crime branch team to probe the case will be finalized on Thursday. Jamal Parambath, who claimed to be an IUML supporter, said that Kamarudeen and Thangal used their political clout to woo investors. After lodging a complaint with Chandera police, Jamal told TOI that the duo took money even though they knew that their business had flopped. “They accepted even Rs 10,000 as investment shortly before the company was closed. They have no intention to return the amount,” said Jamal, who invested Rs 10 lakh. He said a 12-member committee was formed around ten months ago to sort out things. “But now we know that the members of the committee were also investors who are only interested in getting back their money. A building of the firm at Payyannur worth Rs 6 crore was registered in the name of eight members of the committee recently,” he added. Many decided to come in the open after they realized that the committee too cheated them. Jamal said he had submitted many complaints to IUML leadership. “Everyone in Kasaragod knew what Kamarudeen did, but no action was taken by the party. It remains to be seen how ordinary party workers will react in coming elections if the party remains silent on the issue,” he said. The Indian National League (INL), IUML’s arch rival, is planning agitations in the district. The National Youth League, the youth wing of the party, will hold a sit-in in front of Kamarudeen’s house soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pressure-on-iuml-to-act-against-mla-for-cheating/articleshow/78025718.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Make private hospitals give cashless Covid treatment: Thakre||NAGPUR: West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre on Wednesday met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and requested directives from the state government to private hospitals to provide cashless hospitalization to Covid-19 patients having health insurance and also under government’s Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. TOI had on August 19 reported that private Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) and Dedicated Health Care Centres (DCHCs) were not giving cashless facility to insured patients. The hospitals are citing various reasons for not giving cashless hospitalization. Thakre, in a memorandum submitted to Pawar, said, “Middle-class and service-class people do not have cash in hand to pay up to Rs3 lakh advance per head. They are totally depended on mediclaim insurance. Similarly, poor patients are not able to get beds in government-run Covid hospitals. They can get timely treatment in private hospitals if given cashless hospitalization under Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.” Thakre told TOI that Pawar forwarded his memorandum to health minister Rajesh Tope for necessary directives to private hospitals. Thakre also raised the issue of people finding it difficult to get beds in the city. He said government had alerted Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to equip infrastructure and manpower in April. But the civic body did nothing. Now, the cases and most shockingly deaths due to Covid-19 are on the rise. Thakre added deaths could be prevented if everyone got timely treatment. Therefore, need was to develop a jumbo Covid Hospital in the city as soon as possible on the lines of one in Mumbai. “Smaller hospitals of 300 beds each in couple of parts of the city will also be very useful,” he said. Thakre also informed Pawar about shortage of health care manpower in the city. “NMC developed five Covid hospitals of which four are yet to be commissioned. NMC is not having manpower to start them. Huge publicity was made by the NMC on 5,000-bed Covid Care Centre on Kalmeshwar road but not a single patient has been admitted there in four months. The government should also solve this problem,” he said. Thakre also apprised the deputy CM about surge in cases and deaths in August and first week of September. The district had registered 919 deaths in August and 413 in nine days of September for a total of 1,458. Positive cases were around 47,400 of which 14,000 came in September alone and 27,973 in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/make-pvt-hospitals-give-cashless-covid-treatment-thakre/articleshow/78027154.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Corona tests on 2,800 SOU, Narmada Dam, forest staffers||Bharuch/Vadodara: Over 2,800 employees of the Statue of Unity (SoU), Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd, CISF, forest department and L&T underwent Covid-19 tests at Narmada district on Wednesday. The tests were conducted at 10 different centres in Kevadia Colony by several teams of doctors. Authorities will take the decision to re-open the SoU for tourists on the basis of the results of these tests. “We conducted Covid-19 (RTPCR) tests on the employees under direct and indirect employment of the SoU, SSNNL, L&T, CISF and forest department to ensure the safety of people working at these sites and the tourists too. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also expected to visit the SoU on October 31 and hence, precautions are being taken to safeguard the health of the entire staff,” said Manoj Kothari, collector, Narmada. Fifty medical teams participated in the testing camp on Wednesday morning. Sources in the SoU said that the Narmada health authorities have begun preparations to meet the additional demand for treatment facilities as many of those tested may be reported positive for the virus. The world’s tallest statue and the country’s most popular tourism site, SoU, has been closed since March 16 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Once it re-opens, a large number of visitors are expected to visit the statue, Sardar Sarovar Dam, nutrition park, jungle safari and other attractions in Kevadia. Hence the mass tests were conducted as a precautionary measure. Narmada district recorded 754 Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday, of which 690 patients have recovered and been discharged. The SoU was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018. The PM has already visited this place thrice since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/corona-tests-on-2800-sou-narmada-dam-forest-staffers/articleshow/78024424.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Racket of illegal water connections busted in Old City||Hyderabad: Sleuths of vigilance wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) busted a major racket after uncovering eight illegal water connections on one premise in Old City. According to HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer, M Ravi Chandan Reddy, during the raid, it was noticed that Ahmed, a resident of Chandulal Bardari, an industrial area in Bahadurpura assembly constituency, installed an illegal water connection and was drawing water by damaging the main pipe. Ahmed was also supplying water through illegal water connections to seven other consumers from the same source. “Ahmed fled away from the premises and we tried to chase him, but our efforts were in vain,” said Ravi Chandan. The water supply was completely affected in nearby residential colonies at Chandulal Bardari due to damage to the drinking water pipeline and drawing of water by illegal means. Water board officials said that the accused is associated with a political party. A criminal case was registered against the accused by Kamatipura police under Sections 269, 430, 379 Indian Penal Code (IPC) and PDPP Act, said the water board’s CVO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/racket-of-illegal-water-connections-busted-in-old-city/articleshow/78028218.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospitals not reporting suspected Covid patients: NMC||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) daily analysis of Covid-19 deaths has revealed private hospitals and clinics are not reporting suspected coronavirus patients, especially influenza like illness (ILI), to the civic body. This is considered very important in preventing deaths and containing spread of the disease. The analysis also shows 40% deceased got tested for Covid-19 after five or more days of symptoms. To control increasing Covid deaths in the city, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma have started daily analysis of deaths from beginning of September. The concept of death analysis once or twice a month was started by former municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. The latest daily analysis has pointed out 96% of the deceased in first four days of September were not high-risk contacts of positive persons. Though information of 36% deceased was not be available, 64% of the deceased had visited some or the other hospital. Of these 64%, some 65% of the deceased had visited private hospitals and clinics. They took treatment from these hospitals and clinics for an average of three days. But NMC did not get information about these patients from the private hospitals or clinics. Among all the deceased, 40% tested for Covid-19 after five or more days of onset of symptoms, 20% within 2-5 days, 8.6% after 1 day, and 31.4% on the day symptoms appeared. The city had witnessed first case on March 11. Since last week of March, the civic body has time and again asked all hospitals and clinics to report such cases. With rise in cases in July, NMC had directed these establishments to test all suspected patients for Covid-19 on first visit. Last month, the district administration had also started to provide Rapid Antigen Kits to hospitals. Sharma told TOI, “We held meetings with private hospitals, clinics and related associations and requested details of suspected, including ILI, patients immediately. It is mandatory for all to report such patients. We can contact these patients, ensure their testing on time, monitor home isolation of their high-risk contacts, which will prevent deaths as well as contain spread.” IMA president Dr Archana Kothari, though, insisted private hospitals and clinics run by MBBS or above doctors are for sure reporting cases on daily basis. “It has come to fore that patients are not getting tested for Covid-19 immediately despite suggestions by doctors. We are educating people in this regard. Also, private hospitals have started to test almost all patients before admitting or taking them in for surgeries etc,” she said. Dr Kothari added, “A large number of DHMS, BAMS etc doctors are also practicing in the city and might be not reporting ILI patients to NMC. We are planning to spread awareness among these doctors. IMA has been doing its best to contain spread and control deaths for last few months, and also launched some programmes on its own and also in association with NMC.” Earlier reports had indicated 82-85% of deceased were comorbid. Latest report says 74% were comorbid, which show a rise in deaths of patients with no comorbidities. As for age, 32% of deceased were in age group of 61-70 with similar number in 51-60 years groups. Some 20% were in group of 71-80 years, 6% each in above 81 years and 21-40 ages, 4% in 41-50 group, and 0% below 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosp-not-reporting-suspected-covid-patients-nmc/articleshow/78027210.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||NGO sees spike in distress calls to suicide helpline during pandemic||Hyderabad: There has been a spike in the number of distress calls on the suicide prevention helpline received by Roshni, a city-based NGO that helps people struggling with suicidal tendencies. September 10 is observed as World Suicide Prevention Day and this year’s theme is ‘Working Together To Prevent Suicide’. The NGO received at least 5,000 calls since March 23, seeking help for depression, and witnessed a 15% increase in calls from people struggling with suicidal thoughts. The NGO also reported a marked increase in such calls for a few days post actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “We received 5,000 calls on our helpline from March till August-end. Of the 5,000 calls, 40% of them were from AP and Telangana, while 20% of the callers reported suicidal thoughts due to various issues such as financial problems, domestic issues, unemployment, relationship problems and Covid-related issues,” the NGO said. Roshni analysed the calls and found that financial issues such as not being able to pay EMI or children’s school fees due to loss of income or pay cuts were the reasons given in majority of the cases. “Many callers had lost their jobs and some others were anxious of losing their jobs. Also, due to staying indoors for a prolonged period and working from home, there were complaints of domestic violence. Many living in small homes were uncomfortable with the idea of working from home due to inadequate facilities and were facing difficulties working from home with children around,” said Akheel Siddiqui, a senior volunteer at Roshni.Anxious callers were also worried about managing household chores as most of the apartment societies had barred maids from entering or coming for work. “Certain callers were not aware of the complications of Covid-19 and would enquire about the same. They were apprehensive of small things and would ask us for how long the pandemic will continue. In the initial days of the lockdown, there were many calls from migrant workers and others who were not able to get food and medical supplies,” said Akheel. Meanwhile, the state police department refused to give details regarding suicide cases booked this year and during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-sees-spike-in-distress-calls-to-suicide-helpline-during-pandemic/articleshow/78028265.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gangster’s house demolished, wife and ex-corporator booked||BHOPAL: A joint team of police district administration and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished the three-storied house of gangster Mukhtar Malik located at Ahata Rustam Khan in Shyamla Hills area. Malik, who was externed by the district collector, was arrested by the crime branch from Goharganj in Raisen district on Tuesday. Former municipal corporator Shabista Zaki and her husband Congress leader Asif Zaki along with Malik’s wife Sheeba Malik staged a protest against the demolition after which they were detained by the Shyamla Hills police and later released. Police acting on a complaint filed by BMC officials registered a case against Shabista, Asif and two others for obstructing government officials from discharging their duty. Shabista termed the action as unconstitutional and accused cops of beating the protesters including women. She said that the house in question is not owned by Mukhtar Malik but belongs to Faisal Hasan. She alleged that BMC and police had this information and despite that they demolished the building. Police produced Mukhtar before the court from where he was taken on police remand for three days by Hanumanganj police. Police said when the joint teams reached the spot for demolition, Mukhtar’s wife Sheeba along with Shabista, Asif and others staged a protest. Police tried to disperse the protestors by using mild force but when they did not move, police detained them. Subsequently, a team of more than 20 BMC workers and two JCB machines demolished the illegal property. The demolition process continued till evening. Mukhtar’s house was identified to be demolished last year during the drive against the mafia initiated by the Kamal Nath government, but it was not done due to protests. District administration had then sealed the house and it was vacant since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gangsters-house-demolished-wife-and-ex-corporator-booked/articleshow/78025713.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nashik||2 more care centres to come up||Nashik: The Nashik zilla parishad will be setting up Covid care centres in Makhmalabad and Sinnar each as coronavirus cases are increasing, district health officer Kapil Aher said on Wednesday. As of September 9, 410 people were under treatment in Nashik taluka, 107 in Chandwad, 415 in Sinnar, 597 in Niphad and 336 in Niphad. A total 2,915 people infected with the virus are taking treatment in various parts of the rural district. Aher said there are 20 care centres across the Nashik rural district with a capacity of 1,670 beds. “The district health department has also intensified its survey of co-morbid patients and senior citizens to check their health from time to time. If they catch the infection, they can be immediately brought under treatment,” he said. The ZP has appealed to political leaders to spread awareness about Covid among citizens and spread the message on the importance of wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing and visiting hospital soon after Covid symptoms show up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-more-care-centres-to-come-up/articleshow/78024480.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal police crack murder case, arrest three persons||WARANGAL: Warangal police on Wednesday solved the mystery surrounding the murder of a vegetable vendor and arrested three persons including a minor. Police seized Rs 2.71 lakh and gold ornaments from the possession of the accused. The police arrested A Akash Babu and his two accomplices in the murder of Dornam Sharada (38), a resident of Tailors Street in Hanamkonda. Sharada was found murdered at her house on September 3. Commissioner of Police P Pramod Kumar told reporters that during the probe they found that Sharada was killed by her brother’s son A Akash Babu. “Akash knew that Sharada was saving a part of her income for her daughter’s wedding, so he hatched a plan to steal the money. He broke into Sharada’s house in the wee hours of September 3 and killed her by hitting her with a stone. He also attacked Akhil, Sharada’s son, who was asleep and stole the cash and gold ornaments from the almirah. Later, Akash met Mekala Machchender of Pochampally in Yadadri district and the minor and sought shelter,” he said. Based on CCTV footage, police arrested the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-police-crack-murder-case-arrest-three-persons/articleshow/78028260.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Artists, craftsmen to get stalls at affordable rates, says Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to artists and craftsmen associated with the tourism industry, Delhi government has decided to provide stalls at all the campuses of the tourism department, including at Delhi Haats, at very affordable rates. The government has also decided to waive off the rent for these vendors for the entire duration of the lockdown. The decision was taken in a meeting of the Board of Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation (DTTDC) on Wednesday. “Due to the Covid epidemic and lockdown, artists and artisans who cannot buy expensive stalls at Delhi Haat and other places will be provided stalls at a very economical rate,” Sisodia, who chaired the meeting, announced. According to Sisodia, these stalls will be available for only 500 to 600 rupees. In many cases, it has also been decided to give considerable concession in the normal fare till October 31. “At present, the economic situation is facing a huge challenge all over the globe and the markets are badly affected. DTTDC is of the view that at this point, it is necessary to retain those vendors who have been associated with it for a long time. This will not only enable them to consolidate their business activity but also help DTTDC in getting regular revenue,” Sisodia stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/artists-craftsmen-to-get-stalls-at-affordable-rates-says-sisodia/articleshow/78027240.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Massive spurious drug-making racket busted in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A joint team of the drugs control department and Moradabad police on Tuesday busted a racket of “spurious” drug manufacturer who was running a production and packaging unit and would sell its drugs in the name of reputed pharmaceutical companies during a raid on a building in Harthala area of Moradabad and seized equipment worth Rs 1.5crore and fake medicines worth Rs 20 lakh. Police said they sealed the premises and launched a probe. Moradabad drug inspector Naresh Mohan Deepak said, “We have been receiving complaints of illegal drugs units selling their medicines in the names of reputed pharmaceutical companies from legit drug manufacturers, following which a raid was conducted on an illegal unit that was found to be operational on the first floor of a four-storey residential building in Harthala area. All equipment and medicines have been seized.” Harthala SHO Nagandhar Singh told TOI, “During the inspection, two women and their domestic help were found residing in the building while the other two, including the prime accused and owner of the house, were absconding. An FIR was registered against the accused under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 466 (forgery of record of court or of public register, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 130B (aiding escape of, rescuing or harbouring such prisoner) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).” “Three people, including two women —Mobina and Aisha — have been arrested, while effort is on to arrest the prime accused, Asif — the operator — who is absconding,” said the SHO. “Asif is a history-sheeter, who was earlier lodged in jail for eight months for running a similar unit in Bhojpur area of the district. Police had then seized equipment and medicines worth around Rs 80 lakh during a raid,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/massive-spurious-drug-making-racket-busted-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/78023281.cms||Maria Khan
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||New evidence in case needs to be safe from ‘prying eyes of petitioner’: HC||Chandigarh: While upholding the contentions for custodial interrogation of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a murder case, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that since fresh evidence of police and other witnesses has come up, “an urgent need arises to preserve the same from prying eyes of the petitioner for the trial”. “Since it is at this juncture, the investigating agency has woken up and gathered courage to investigate its own officer and therefore, the vital pieces of evidence which would come handy in leading to various leads would inch towards unravelling this puzzle which too has baffled the citizenry who are looking upon the justice system as a last resort to get justice,” observed Justice Fateh Deep Singh of the HC while dismissing Saini’s plea for anticipatory bail. Further observing the necessity to dismiss the plea, the order further reads, “There being every likelihood of petitioner stifling fair investigations and trial, for which custodial interrogation of the petitioner is very much essential to piece together this unfortunate incident.” In his detailed order, released on Wednesday, Justice Singh also observed that in such nature of crime the commission is in utmost secrecy and coming across witnesses is a herculean task in itself as it is more based on circumstances and common human experiences which were experienced in abundance by this state in those dark days. Referring to Saini’s clout, the judge also observed that the petitioner happened to be a blue-eyed boy and with political patronage wielded great influence and was law unto himself. In this regard, the HC referred to a 1991 case titled Vinod Kumar versus State of Punjab in which a senior judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court accused Saini of intimidating him. FIR against Saini was registered on the complaint of Palwinder Singh Multani alleging that his brother Balwant Singh, a junior engineer with UT Chandigarh, was allegedly killed in state-managed elimination around December 1991. HC observations “A million dollar question arises whether under the garb of interim bail/anticipatory bail, the hands of the investigating agency can be tied so as to frustrate its endeavours to unearth the truth and reach into the circumstances unfolding into the manner of the crime. If it would have been the intention of the legislature, then no crime in this world could have been detected and the culprits would have gone scot-free,” observed Justice Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-evidence-in-case-needs-to-be-safe-from-prying-eyes-of-petitioner-hc/articleshow/78027196.cms||Ajay Sura
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cleaner gets 2-yr jail for molesting minor girl||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old school bus cleaner was sentenced to undergo two-year jail term by LB Nagar sessions court for molesting a minor girl student in April 2013. The accused, from Kothapet, Saroornagar, was working as a cleaner of the school bus. He would pick up students from home and later drop them back after school hours. According to police, the accused would lure the 13-year-old class 8 student by giving chocolates. He would deliberately talk to her and touch her inappropriately. “The accused used to take her to school and back home by the bus operated by the accused,” said P Anthaiah, sub-inspector of police. One day after the school hours, he took her to the cellar of the school and molested the girl. He also threatened her and told her not to reveal the incident to anyone. The girl, however, revealed the incident to her family and a case was lodged at the Chaitanyapuri police station in April 2013. On Wednesday, the accused was convicted by the local court and awarded two-year rigorous imprisonment. He was also asked to pay a fine of Rs 1,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cleaner-gets-2-yr-jail-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/78027184.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to include 17 new castes in BC communities list||HYDERABAD: The state government on Wednesday issued orders or inclusion of 17 new castes in the list of Backward Classes communities. These 17 castes would be eligible for reservations in education and employment in the state, and also for financial assistance as part of various government schemes under BC quota. Of the total 17 castes, as many as 13 have been included in the Group-A of the BC list and remaining four in Group-D. With these additions, the total number of castes in group-A have gone up to 68 and group-D to 51 castes. The group-A castes comprise of aboriginal tribes, vimuktha jathis, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes. The group-D consists of other BC castes. There are a total of five groups in BC communities list comprising Group-A, B, C D and E. Of the total 17 castes, 13 were added to Group-A and four to D. National BC Welfare Association president R Krishnaiah deman ded that the state government enhance the reservations percentage too along with the inclusion of 17 new castes. “Presently, the five groups of A, B, C, D and E put together are getting 29 per cent reservations in education and employment in the state. This 29 per cent quota itself is insufficient as BCs comprise over 56 per cent of the total state’s population,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-include-17-new-castes-in-bc-communities-list/articleshow/78028273.cms||Roushan Ali
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Sanitation worker at NMC hospital detained||NASHIK: A 56-year-old sanitation employee at the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s Dr Zakir Hussain hospital, which is currently a Covid hospital, was detained by the police for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman in the hospital on Tuesday. The man was apprehended by the Bhadrakali police on Wednesday morning. He had allegedly urinated on a 28-year-old woman in the toilet of the hospital. Vishal Bedse, the medical officer of the hospital, had lodged a complaint against him with the Bhadrakali police station on Tuesday night. In his complaint, Bedse said around 10.30 am on Tuesday, the sanitation worker barged into the toilet, by forcefully pushing open the door in an inebriated state, despite knowing that there was a woman inside. He then allegedly urinated on the woman. The woman raised an alarm and the man fled in the commotion. Bedse added the complaint was lodged on the instructions of senior NMC officials. Sajan Sonawane, senior PI of the Bhadrakali police station, said the sanitation worker has been detained and they have started the process to arrest him. The police said that soon after the complaint was lodged on Tuesday night, they started looking for the accused. He was finally tracked down on Wednesday afternoon and then detained. The 134-bed Covid hospital is witnessing a heavy flow of patients from across the city and other parts of the district. Bedse said earlier, there were separate wards for men and women. However, now to accommodate the additional patients, cots are being placed in different wards. Currently, there are 150 beds in the hospital. The place where the incident took place is also a common ward having both male and female patients, the officials said. According to the police, the woman concerned was not serious and was discharged on Tuesday evening. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the NMC medical superintendent, said: “This kind of behaviour will not be tolerated. While we have lodged a police complaint after learning that he had reported to work after consuming alcohol and for his unacceptable conduct, strict departmental action will also be taken against him.” The Bhadrakali police said that they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sanitation-worker-at-nmc-hosp-detained/articleshow/78024537.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||On Saini trail, cops raid houses of close friends||Mohali: A special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police in search of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Wednesday conducted a series of raids in different cities. According to SIT sources, teams raided the residential premises of his friends in Kansal in Mohali, Chandigarh, Dabwali in Sirsa, Hoshiarpur and Delhi simultaneously, though without any success, between 3am and 4am. Saini faces arrest in a 1991 case over alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, son of a former IAS officer, after the police added murder charge to FIR registered against him. He was then Chandigarh SSP. Some co-accused in the case have turned approvers and deposed against Saini. The SIT believes that Saini might be staying with a friend or associates to avoid arrest. Sources said after the high court dismissed his bail application on Tuesday, Saini met his counsel at a secret location to hand over some papers for further legal action. A senior officer with Punjab Police said, “We know that at present, Saini is hiding somewhere in close proximity to Chandigarh or Delhi. Our teams are conducting regular searches. Names of some high profile politicians have also cropped up (to save Saini from arrest), but at the moment, we can’t reveal the names.” BOX Off to Nepal? The Punjabi Police looking out for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini does not rule out the possibility of him fleeing to Nepal by road. Although they believe that Saini is hiding somewhere in India only and have no solid clues regarding him slipping away to the neighbouring country, they are not ruling out any possibility at the moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-saini-trail-cops-raid-houses-of-close-friends/articleshow/78027227.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Miscreants attempt to rob a gas godown in Roorkee||ROORKEE: Two unidentified miscreants on Wednesday shot in the air to terrorise the staff of a gas agency godown in the city. However, their attempt was foiled as people raised an alarm and the miscreants managed their escape on a motorcycle. Police have started a hunt to catch them. Reportedly, the two bike-borne miscreants reached at a godown of Ekta Gas Agency in Salempur near Roorkee at about 12 pm and fired many rounds from their weapon to terrorise the staff for robbing the cash box there. But they could not succeed in their bid due to raising of alarm by people. However they (miscreants) threatened people for dire consequences and escaped on their two-wheeler. “We have received a complaint against this incident from the side of manager of godown and registered a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Manoj Menwal, in-charge of Gangnahar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/miscreants-attempt-to-rob-a-gas-godown-in-roorkee/articleshow/78024525.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government clears Rs 193 crore for sugarcane farmers||DEHRADUN: Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday sanctioned Rs 193 crore to clear the pending dues of sugarcane farmers of Uttarakhand. Owing to the delay in payment for sugarcane units, the farmers on several occasions requested the CM for the clearing of their pending dues. CM Rawat has now directed state authorities to ensure timely payment to the farmers. He added that the state government was committed towards helping farmers and in future also it would take steps to provide them with the required assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-clears-rs-193-crore-for-sugarcane-farmers/articleshow/78024563.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Transport issues choke Kolhapur O2 supply||Kolhapur: The benefits expected from the 400 new beds with oxygen and 300 ICU beds that are soon to be added to hospitals across the district may be negated by the severe shortage of oxygen supply in Kolhapur. Over the past week, the administration has not been able to procure more oxygen. The officials said while the oxygen manufacturing units have adequate capacity, the supply could not take place due to lack of transportation facility. District collector Daulat Desai said he has communicated with suppliers from other districts and states, and very soon, the arrangements to bring in the oxygen will be made. On Wednesday, an additional oxygen tank was installed at the IGM Hospital Ichalkaranji, but due to the shortage of supply, the tank is still empty. MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said, “I have discussed the issue with the district authorities and I am ready to contribute in procuring oxygen from wherever it is available.” Meanwhile, industrialists have threatened to shut down their factories as many operations (such as forging) have been halted due to the shortage of oxygen. Sachin Shirgaonkar, the president of Gokul-Shirgaon Manufacturers’ Association, said: “Our production has been halted since the past week. The demand for oxygen for medical purposes has grown, so we will see whether the situation improves in the next few days.” The proposal of adding beds with a total outlay of Rs 60 crore has been approved and soon the state government will release the funds. The district administration is planning to set up these beds at the abandoned government buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/transport-issues-choke-kolhapur-o2-supply/articleshow/78024555.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Heavy rains expected in Kerala till Friday, says IMD||KOCHI: The weather department has said that there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall in some places in the state till September 11. India Meteorological Department issued an orange alert for 11-20cm rainfall in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts for Thursday. Thrissur and Kasaragod will get isolated heavy rain in some places. Coastal districts are on alert too with high waves of 2.8-3.2 metres forecast till 23:30 hours of September 10 along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds are expected to vary between 36-69 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Sea will be rough near shores along and off Kerala-Karnataka coasts and Lakshadweep area. IMD said that an offshore trough at mean sea level runs from south Maharashtra to north Kerala coast. The east-west shear zone runs roughly along 13°N across peninsular India at 3.1km above mean sea level and a cyclonic circulation lies over eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast between 1.5km and 5.8km above mean sea level. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm & lightning are likely over peninsular India in next 4-5 days. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, following heavy rainfall, IMD changed its alerts to orange for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts. There was thunderstorm and lightning in several places. The southwest monsoon was active over Kerala with Thiruvananthapuram airport and Chengannur (Alappuzha) recording 14cm of rainfall each. Haripad (Alappuzha) got 13cm while Thiruvananthapuram city recorded 10cm. Mavelikkara (Alappuzha), Enamackel (Thrissur) got 9cm each while Kayamkulam (Alappuzha) recorded 8cm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/heavy-rains-expected-in-state-till-friday-says-imd/articleshow/78030289.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||CNG sales rise to 85% of pre-Covid level in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: CNG sales in Delhi have risen to 85% of the pre-lockdown level as the Arvind Kejriwal government progressively opened up markets, allowed businesses and other economic activities to resume after the Centre began lifting curbs since June. Data from Indraprastha Gas Ltd, the sole supplier in the capital and most of the towns in neighbouring UP, show CNG sales averaging 27.5 lakh kg per day in August against 34.5 lakh kg per day in the same month a year ago. Company managing director A K Jana said on working days sales are hovering between 92% and 95% of pre-Covid level. PNG, or piped gas supplies, to industrial units are also back at 100%. “Only piped supplies to hotels and restaurants etc., which is not a large volume, are still lagging,” he said. Company director (commercial) Amit Garg said he expected sales to be back to normal once the weekend lockdown in neighbouring towns are scrapped and schools reopen. Data shows current daily average sales at 32 lakh kg per day, or 92% of the pre-Covid average sales of 34.5 lakh kg per day. Demand has grown steadily as opening of markets and other business establishments drew traffic from neighbouring townships. The limit on the number of passengers on buses have prompted higher frequency of service, which has boosted consumption. Jana said people are avoiding public transport to the extent possible and preferring to use personal vehicles. “CNG car sales, whether new or pre-owned, are rising because they are cheaper to run in comparison to petrol or diesel,” he said. At current prices, CNG is 61% cheaper than petrol and 40% than diesel. Garg expected the resumption of Metro services to further boost sales as CNG vehicles providing last-mile connectivity services to the stations are getting back on the roads. Sales had slumped by 90% to 3.7 lakh kg per day in April as the countrywide lockdown to check coronavirus infections from spreading shuttered nearly all economic activities and all vehicular movements, except emergency services, were halted. This forced IGL to close most of its stations in the NCR, though the company maintained round-the-clock service throughout the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cng-sales-rise-to-85-of-pre-covid-level-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/78027275.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Celebrate house warming for poor on September 12: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday that the "house warming programme" to be held under the "Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana" on September 12 , should be celebrated with joy and fervour. Two lakh houses have been constructed in the state under the "Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana". Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, will chair the "house warming programme". The Prime Minister will also interact with the beneficiaries of the scheme. "This day is a day of joy and excitement for these families. House of their own will instill a sense of security in the minds of people. Therefore, more and more people should connect with this virtual event," Chouhan said. Chouhan was reviewing the preparations for the "House Warming Programme" at a meeting held at Mantralaya. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains, additional chief secretary Panchayat & rural development, Manoj Shrivastava and other officers were present at the meeting. The beneficiaries will be connected through webcast with this virtual programme. The programme will begin at 11.00 am and broadcast through Facebook, Twitter besides regional channels. These houses, built during the Coronavirus pandemic provided job to the labourers at a large scale and housing facility to the local residents as well as the migrant workers, said an official press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/celebrate-house-warming-for-poor-on-sept-12-cm/articleshow/78025758.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kochi||Heavy rains expected in Kerala till Friday, says IMD||KOCHI: The weather department has said that there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall in some places in the state till September 11. India Meteorological Department issued an orange alert for 11-20cm rainfall in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts for Thursday. Thrissur and Kasaragod will get isolated heavy rain in some places. Coastal districts are on alert too with high waves of 2.8-3.2 metres forecast till 23:30 hours of September 10 along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds are expected to vary between 36-69 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Sea will be rough near shores along and off Kerala-Karnataka coasts and Lakshadweep area. IMD said that an offshore trough at mean sea level runs from south Maharashtra to north Kerala coast. The east-west shear zone runs roughly along 13°N across peninsular India at 3.1km above mean sea level and a cyclonic circulation lies over eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast between 1.5km and 5.8km above mean sea level. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm & lightning are likely over peninsular India in next 4-5 days. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, following heavy rainfall, IMD changed its alerts to orange for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts. There was thunderstorm and lightning in several places. The southwest monsoon was active over Kerala with Thiruvananthapuram airport and Chengannur (Alappuzha) recording 14cm of rainfall each. Haripad (Alappuzha) got 13cm while Thiruvananthapuram city recorded 10cm. Mavelikkara (Alappuzha), Enamackel (Thrissur) got 9cm each while Kayamkulam (Alappuzha) recorded 8cm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heavy-rains-expected-in-state-till-friday-says-imd/articleshow/78025777.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||Opposition slams curbs on govt staff, terms it undemocratic||Panaji: The vigilance directorate’s order on Wednesday warning Goa government servants against protesting the state administration’s policies ‘without following the right channel’ saw the diktat being termed undemocratic by the opposition. “The government just imposes different projects and policies on the people without following a consultative process. In such circumstances, citizens are bound to express their unhappiness with the projects. The government should rethink the order and withdraw it. It cannot curb anyone’s freedom and democratic rights. The order is unconstitutional,” said president of Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) Pandurang Dhavalikar. Dhavalikar said that the project for a new campus for IIT Goa planned at Shel-Melauli in Sattari taluka is only one of the many examples where locals were not taken into confidence by the state government. “May be the state government should make a closed housing cluster for its employees so they do not go to their villages and discuss issues affecting the place and then express their opinions on it. Everyone is free to express themselves. The government cannot exercise such control on employees. It is their constitutional right to speak if they think something is unjust,” said the MGP president. Durgadas Kamat of Goa Forward Party (GFP) said that the state government should stop controlling government employees as though they were BJP workers. “Government employees are not BJP workers to take orders the way BJP workers take from Atmaram Borkar Road office! If you have a government which doesn’t care about their problems, what should they do?” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-slams-curbs-on-govt-staff-terms-it-undemocratic/articleshow/78027274.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Red, Violet and Green lines reopen today||NEW DELHI: After Delhi Metro's busiest corridors, Yellow and Blue Lines, resumed operations, the network's oldest, Red Line, reopened on Thursday. Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh) and Green Line (Kirti Nagar-Bahadurgarh) also opened on the same day. The entirely elevated 34.4km Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda), which has 29 stations, not only connects the northwest fringe of the capital to the northeast, but also enters Ghaziabad. Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali) was the first to enter Ghaziabad with just two stations. Red Line has eight stations in Ghaziabad and the 9.6km section serves the interior parts of the NCR. Delhi: People queue up to board metro trains at Kashmere Gate metro station. #DelhiMetro #Unlock4 https://t.co/y8UgNdTk4P— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1599701229000Red Line will have interchange facilities at Welcome with Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) and Green Line at Inderlok, apart from connecting with Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-Huda City Centre) and Violet Line at Kashmere Gate, Delhi Metro’s biggest interchange hub. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation resumes services on red, green and violet lines(Visuals from Raja Nahar Singh metro… https://t.co/1w5OyWYoz3— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1599702158000Kashmere Gate is also where the north end of Violet Line terminates, connecting the interchange station with busy areas like ITO and Janpath. It also provides another interchange point with Yellow Line at Central Secretariat, then moves south to Khan Market, Lajpat Nagar, Delhi’s IT hub Nehru Place, Sarita Vihar and Badarpur, before entering Haryana and reconnecting Faridabad and Ballabhgarh to the network. “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will be running 35 trains on Red Line to take 413 trips on September 10. Similarly, 40 trains with 344 trips will be put into service on Violet Line,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. “On Green Line, 20 trains with 268 trips will be put into service. The trips will be increased from September 11 and 12 with the opening of other lines,” he added. Green Line connects parts of northwest Delhi, like Pashchim Vihar, Mundka, Peeragarhi, etc to Brig Hoshiar Singh station in Bahadurgarh, Haryana. Friday will see the opening of Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh) and extension of service timings from 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm. From Saturday, operations will return to normal, from 6am to 11pm, like things were before the shutdown on March 22. At the same time, Airport Express Line will also become operational. Watch Delhi Metro reopens Red, Violet and Green lines today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-violet-and-green-lines-to-also-be-back-on-track-today/articleshow/78027272.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Heavy rains expected in Kerala till Friday, says IMD||KOCHI: The weather department has said that there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall in some places in the state till September 11. India Meteorological Department issued an orange alert for 11-20cm rainfall in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts for Thursday. Thrissur and Kasaragod will get isolated heavy rain in some places. Coastal districts are on alert too with high waves of 2.8-3.2 metres forecast till 23:30 hours of September 10 along Kerala coast from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds are expected to vary between 36-69 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. Sea will be rough near shores along and off Kerala-Karnataka coasts and Lakshadweep area. IMD said that an offshore trough at mean sea level runs from south Maharashtra to north Kerala coast. The east-west shear zone runs roughly along 13°N across peninsular India at 3.1km above mean sea level and a cyclonic circulation lies over eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast between 1.5km and 5.8km above mean sea level. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm & lightning are likely over peninsular India in next 4-5 days. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, following heavy rainfall, IMD changed its alerts to orange for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts. There was thunderstorm and lightning in several places. The southwest monsoon was active over Kerala with Thiruvananthapuram airport and Chengannur (Alappuzha) recording 14cm of rainfall each. Haripad (Alappuzha) got 13cm while Thiruvananthapuram city recorded 10cm. Mavelikkara (Alappuzha), Enamackel (Thrissur) got 9cm each while Kayamkulam (Alappuzha) recorded 8cm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/heavy-rains-expected-in-state-till-friday-says-imd/articleshow/78030291.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||DCs competent to order girdawari but await govt orders: AAP||Bathinda: Instead of taking note of the losses suffered by farmers at the time of any natural calamity within their jurisdiction and ordering girdawari (special revenue assessment) deputy commissioners wait for the specific orders from the state government, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan has alleged. “The DCs prefer not to take initiative (of ordering girdawari) even though they have the powers. The fact came to light with the letter sent by the state revenue, rehabilitation and disaster management department received by him on Tuesday,” the Kotkapura MLA claimed. Sandhwan said he had asked the Muktsar DC in July to order girdawari after farmers suffered losses due to rainwater stagnating in the fields. He alleged the DC delayed giving orders saying the state government had not sent instructions for that. The MLA said the letter by the revenue department had made it clear that respective DCs had to order girdawari or special girdawari under para 9.1(B), chapter 9 (harvest inspections) of the Land Record Manual on their own as per the case. In a letter issued on September 7, The department stated it had written to the DCs on July 31 to keep on informing the state government and to timely send detailed reports of crop losses as per norms so that the compensation could timely be provided to the affected farmers. The AAP functionaries said, “After getting unsatisfactory reply from the DC about the girdawari I wrote to CMO asking about the orders. It is in response to my letter that revenue and rehabilitation department has made it clear that DCs are competent to order girdawari.” When contacted, Muktsar DC M K Arvind Kumar only said “as per the state government orders the special girdawari had been ordered”. BOX: ‘Money given to some districts lapsed’ As per information provided by the revenue department , compensation of Rs 161 crore was released in 16 districts of Punjab for losses to farmers suffered during the monsoon season in 2019. It was stated that the funds for Moga, Muktsar, Barnala, Patiala, Kapurthala and Tarn Taran had lapsed and had again been released. The process was ongoing to release the lapsed funds of Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dcs-competent-to-order-girdawari-but-await-govt-orders-aap/articleshow/78027251.cms||Neel Kamal
September 10, 2020||Agra||Agra’s sanitation workers went on strike||AGRA: City’s sanitation workers went on a day-long strike on Wednesday in protest against the death of a rag picker at Kuberpur dumpsite two days ago. Leaders of the sanitation workers and people associated with the Valmiki community also staged a protest at Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) head office. Meanwhile, in absence of cleanliness work, city roads remained littered with garbage. The protesters were demanding action against additional municipal commissioner KB Singh and compensation to the family of the rag-picker who died after an accident with the civic body’s garbage collection vehicle. Sanitation workers association leader Shyam Kumar Karunesh said, “Umesh Kumar died following an accident by a civic body garbage collection vehicle. He was not provided any treatment. His body was packed in a sack and thrown away near his home. Instead of recommending compensation to the family, the additional municipal commissioner alleged that he was a thief. We will continue to protest till suitable compensation is not provided to the family of the deceased. We also want action against the additional municipal commissioner for his insensitive remark.” Meanwhile, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party district president Nitin Kohli along with the party workers provided Rs 50,000 cheque to the family of the ragpicker and participated in the protest at AMC head office. Congress and Aam Aadmi party leaders also participated in the protest. Additional municipal commissioner KB Singh said, “The Kuberpur dumpsite is a prohibited area. We have a private company tasked for processing of waste. The rag-picker was a trespasser. He, in connivance with the garbage collection vehicle driver, had been collecting useful items from the garbage from the dumpsite to sell it in the market. The driver who was an outsourced employee has been dismissed from service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-sanitation-workers-observe-strike-over-death-of-a-rag-picker/articleshow/78024572.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cash customers forced to leave ticket counters||NEW DELHI: The increase in the number of Delhi Metro commuters has brought new problems. Those who did not have credit or debit cards and went to recharge their smart cards with cash, were turned away from the ticket counters. They had no option but to find another mode of transportation. For Mehul, a resident of Janakpuri East, travelling by Delhi Metro wasn’t possible on Wednesday because the 19-year-old didn’t have an ATM card or e-wallet to get his smart card recharged. Carrying a Rs 100 note, he stood in a queue waiting for his turn to come. But the customer care executive turned him away as no cash was being accepted. The teen stepped out and boarded an autorickshaw to his destination. Times ViewA key factor in administrative efficiency lies in anticipating problems. Metro authorities had ample time to prepare for the resumption of service. But they definitely missed a trick. Now with the passenger volume likely to increase manifold in the coming days, Metro must set things right at the earliest.Karan Tiwari, a resident of Mayur Vihar, said even though he had recharged his card, there was a problem in reading it at two entry machines. “The customer care staff tried to help me, but even they were clueless about the problem. After repeated tries at a third machine, it was finally accepted,” he added. Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said, “Smart cards are contactless and without any human interface. This eliminates chances of transmission of the novel coronavirus. We have displayed all relevant information about the new norms of travelling on the homepage of the official website, social media handles and the entry point of all stations.” “Regular information about the same was also publicised through mainstream media. We would like to advise the public again to keep themselves updated about the new norms of metro travel,” added Dayal. Commuters also complained about facing delays in recharging their smart cards through e-wallets. Kanishk Sharma, a Pandav Nagar resident trying to board a train at Rajiv Chowk station, said, “I paid through an e-wallet, but the customer care executive said he hadn’t received the amount. It took around 15 minutes to resolve the issue. Two other passengers also faced the same problem.” DMRC said they did not receive any complaints regarding problems in payment through e-wallets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cash-customers-forced-to-leave-ticket-counters/articleshow/78027314.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 10, 2020||Goa||‘Goa a transit point in international arms trade for underworld players’||Margao: Of the scores of cases booked under the Arms Act by Goa police in the last three decades, only a minuscule percentage of the arms seized were legal, police sources said. Mohan Naik, who retired as superintendent of police in 2017 after serving on the force for 36 years, and who investigated several sensitive cases pertaining to seizure of arms following attempt to murder, shootouts and killings, said that Goa’s tryst with illegal arms has come a long way. From the traditional country-made muzzle loading rifles to kattas brought from states like Bihar and UP, to sophisticated assembled guns, Naik says the ramification of the inter-state or international illegal arms trade has also drawn Goa into its vortex to a large extent. “The gun culture in Goa,” Naik says, “can be traced to the pre-Portuguese times, though the pattern has undergone a change. While earlier, many families used to possess local muzzle loading single/double barrel rifles which were made by local tinsmiths, mainly for poaching wild animals or for crop protection, with Goa’s liberation came the katta gun culture. This pattern came from states like Bihar and UP. Many labourers working in industrial estates of Kundaim, Madkai and other places were booked for selling katta guns to locals.” Pen pistols were also recovered from criminals by the police in nearly 15 cases over the last three decades. The easy availability of guns at low rates – Naik said in many cases he had investigated, katta guns were procured by the accused at prices as low as Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 – led to a rise in the crime graph of the state. In the Tanuja Naik murder case of 2002, Naik recalled, the UP-man had fired at the 22-year old girl with a crude katta pistol, the spring of which had penetrated her body. Investigations into some of the cases took Naik to remote places in Bihar and UP in a bid to get to the source of the arms trade. The ramification of the inter-state and international arms trade has led to Goa becoming a hideout for the underworld players. “They may not be committing crimes here, but the state serves as a transit point for the trade route,” Naik said, referring to the notorious foreign national criminals booked by Goa police over the last few years. To arrest the proliferation of gun culture, Naik suggested a two-pronged approach— cancelling licences which have outlived its purpose, and judicious grant of licences by authorities. Pointing out that nearly 300 licenced arms exist in Goa for “crop protection” purposes, Naik questioned their validity when killing wild animals has been banned by the government. “Crop protection licences is a legacy of the Portuguese era when people would kill wild boars and fawns with immunity. The government needs to stop this. Issue a notification and show cause to the licence-holders as to why they need to possess arms,” Naik said. Further, pointing out to a category of arms licence holders who need to always possess arms in view of their occupation, such as petrol pump owners or those dealing in large cash transactions, Naik suggested that the government exempt this category from having to deposit their arms during elections as is the current practice. “Importantly,” he said, “issue grant of licence only after a thorough evaluation of the applicant’s threat perception.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-a-transit-point-in-international-arms-trade-for-underworld-players/articleshow/78027302.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Average wholesale onion price rises to Rs 2,400/quintal||Nashik: The average wholesale onion price at the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, increased by 15% on Wednesday due to a rise in demand. The average wholesale price at the APMC was recorded at Rs 2,400 per quintal on Wednesday — up Rs 300 from Tuesday’s Rs 2,100 per quintal. The average wholesale onion prices have almost doubled over the past 11 days, from Rs 1,200 per quintal on August 29 to Rs 2,400 per quintal now. The average wholesale onion prices are expected to go beyond Rs 3,500 per quintal in the next couple of weeks, said APMC sources. The APMC officials said the onion crop in Madhya Pradesh and South India have been damaged due to incessant rainfall. As a result, the demand for Nashik onions has increased, leading to the price rise. APMC officials said it will take another one-and-a-half months for fresh kharif onions to hit the market and the price trend will be upward until then. Moreover, there have been losses of up to 30% in onion stocks due to continuous rain and climatic conditions. It is difficult to assess how much the farmers will have in their stocks, but an onion scarcity is expected by the end of September, said the officials. In Nashik city’s retail markets, onions are sold at Rs 30 per kg. The fresh rise in the wholesale prices are expected to reflect in the next couple of weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/average-wholesale-onion-price-rises-to-rs-2400/quintal/articleshow/78024578.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 10, 2020||Agra||Man, shot dead over old rivalry in Farrukhabad||AGRA: A 32-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in a Farrukhabad village on Tuesday night. Police have registered a murder case against six persons on a complaint filed by the deceased’s family members. All the six accused were arrested for the murder of Nand Kishore Jatav. Police said that Jatav was killed over an old rivalry. The murder took place in Sankisa village and we are probing it, Farrukhabad SP AK Misra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-32-shot-dead-over-old-rivalry-in-farrukhabad/articleshow/78024585.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM not taking action in scholarship scam: Sukhbir Badal||FAZILKA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Wednesday alleged that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was not taking any action in the post-matric scholarship scam because the proceeds of the crime had been shared with the Congress high command. He announced that SAD would order an independent inquiry into the scam once it came to power in Punjab. Talking to mediapersons at Ghuriana village during a visit to the rain-affected areas of Jalalabad and Balluana assembly constituencies, the SAD president said the probe into the scam by the additional chief secretary had not only revealed how SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had swindled Rs 63 crore meant for Dalit students, but also exposed the role of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee as well as the party high command in the scam. He further said, “It seems former SC welfare director Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal was rewarded with a Congress ticket from Phagwara during the byelection held last year within days of approving the distribution of Rs 19.61 crore to ineligible private educational institutions. This, apparently, is also the reason why the CM is trying to put a lid on the scam through a sham probe.” The Ferozepur MP rejected the chief secretary-level inquiry ordered into the case, saying that the earlier indictment of Dharamsot and Dhaliwal had been done by an officer of similar seniority, who was heading the SC welfare department. He said only a CBI inquiry coupled with an Enforcement Directorate probe could expose the culprits and reveal the money trail in the case. The SAD chief also visited more than 12 rain-hit villages in Jalalabad and Balluana assembly constituencies. He said even though crops in thousands of acres had been destroyed, the Congress government was unmoved. “No officer has been deputed to listen to the grievances of the people. No compensation has been awarded to them. No effort is being made to install pipes to drain out water from the affected fields,” Sukhbir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-cm-not-taking-action-in-scholarship-scam/articleshow/78027295.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Seating arrangements for MLAs finalised for assembly session||DEHRADUN: After a joint inspection of the assembly building by Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal and chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday, the former revealed the likely seating arrangement for the three-day assembly session commencing September 23. While Covid-19 test is mandatory for all MLAs before entering the assembly premises, those above 65 have been asked to virtually connect with the proceedings. Aggarwal said, “Keeping in mind the social distancing norms, we can accommodate 47 legislators in the main hall. The others have been provided seating arrangement in the three pavilions.” The three pavilions — journalists, governor and visitors — have been made a part of the main hall for the three-day session. The Speaker pointed out that Covid-19 test has been made compulsory and only after getting a negative report a lawmaker would be permitted to enter the premises. “The test facility can be made available at the MLA hostel, their residence or in the assembly premises. Only the legislator and driver will be allowed in the campus. After dropping the MLA, the driver will have to leave the premises. No other person besides the lawmaker will be allowed inside the premises,” he added. He further said that not only the MLAs above 65 years of age but others too have been permitted to join the proceedings virtually. “After entering the premises, sanitisation facility will be available at three locations,” said Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seating-arrangements-for-mlas-finalised-for-assembly-session-starting-sept-23/articleshow/78024590.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt forms committee to augment excise duty revenue||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday constituted a committee under the chairmanship of excise commissioner to suggest measures for augmenting the state excise duty revenue. This committee will also suggest measures for simplifying the liquor pricing mechanism and checking malpractices and evasion of duty in the liquor trade. The committee will look into changes in excise duty structure too, which will aid in ease of doing business for the restaurant and hospitality industry in Delhi. Delhi government wants the committee to study and make suggestions to improve the business of this industry so that more jobs can be generated which will, in turn, help the capital’s economy to grow. The government in a statement said that the committee would also ensure equitable access to liquor supply and transform the nature of liquor trade commensurate to the changing stature of the capital. The committee will have deputy commissioner (excise) Sandeep Mishra and additional commissioner (trade and taxes) Anand Kumar Tiwari as members. The government is working to make Delhi a business-friendly city, therefore, giving a major focus on promoting the restaurant and hospitality industry. The committee will submit its report to Sisodia within the next 15 days. The hotel and hospitality industry has been one of the worst affected industries in the Covid pandemic. This industry produces about 8% of the jobs in Delhi. The situation has not only affected the employment but also reduced the revenue of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-forms-committee-to-augment-excise-duty-revenue/articleshow/78027312.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Agra||12 youths held from café for disobeying Covid-19 norms||AGRA: Mathura police bust a social gathering at a café on NH-2 and arrested 12 youths during a raid on Tuesday night — part of their crackdown on gatherings in bars and cafes, which have been declared illegal under pandemic protocols. The manager of the café, though, is yet to be arrested. An FIR was registered against 13 persons, including the cafe manager, under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, at Kotwali police station. According to Circle Officer Varun Kumar, when a patrolling team reached Rajeev Nagar, they heard a lot of noise coming from a cafe. When they checked it, they found a gathering of 15-20 youths, who were partying in violation of social distancing norms, without any fear of contracting or spreading the infection. Twelve of the youths, all in the age group of 18 to 30 years of age, were arrested. However, cafe manager Govind Saini was not present at the time of the raid, said police. It was found that liquor and hookah were served to the patrons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-cops-arrest-12-youths-from-caf-for-disobeying-covid-norms/articleshow/78024591.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Vadodara||Testing continues to gain momentum||Vadodara: Covid-19 testing continued to gain momentum with 2,781 persons being tested in the city and district since Tuesday evening. This led to the detection of 126 new cases taking the total number of cases detected so far to 9,171. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed one more death due to Covid-19 being the primary cause. This took the total number of deaths to 155. A retired policemen Chandrakant Patil died due to a brain haemorrhage after a fall while being treated for Covid-19. Patil, 60, who was personal assistant of P P Kanani, vigilance officer of MSU, passed away at the trust-run hospital where he was admitted since last Saturday. His colleagues told TOI that Patil passed away after he slipped inside the washroom of the hospital which resulted in brain haemorrhage. “He had gone out of station. After he returned, he had very mild symptoms of Covid-19 and had tested positive. Although he was advised home quarantine, he decided to get hospitalised because of presence of grandchildren in his house,” said a member of the vigilance staff. “He was doing well and recovery fast from Covid-19 but slipped inside the washroom and collapsed resulting in his demise,” he said. Patil, who had worked with both detection of crime branch and prevention of crime branch, had joined university’s vigilance team just a year back. As many as 145 persons were discharged from home isolation and various hospitals in the city. With this the total number of discharged patients went up to 7,634 leaving 1,382 under treatment. Those under treatment include 52 on ventilators or oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-continues-to-gain-momentum/articleshow/78024488.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Gang posing as customs officials busted in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A gang of fraudsters who had been posing as commissioner of customs (Delhi zone) and other officials to dupe people has been busted. The matter came to light when IGI Airport authorities received several calls from the victims complaining about the officials asking for money. Rajeev Ranjan, DCP, IGI Airport, said that the fraudsters, as per their modus operandi, would befriend people online and then assure them of sending parcels and couriers from abroad to the airport. Later, they would call impersonating as the customs officials and ask for money against payment in the name of custom duties. After an FIR was registered and several raids conducted, a Nigerian national, Christian Anthony Maduneme (32), was arrested. He was the mastermind. The gang members also targeted people through matrimonial sites after getting their mobile numbers. They would discuss the marriage and then pretend to have been confronted by the “commissioners” at the airport who were asking for money. Efforts are on to nab other members of the gang. A complaint was recently filed by Vinod Kumar, deputy commissioner of customs, alleging that online frauds were going on in the name of chief commissioner of customs (Delhi zone) and other customs officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-posing-as-customs-officials-busted/articleshow/78027344.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||GIDC board meet grants nod for new industrial plots||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) on Wednesday approved the creation of fresh industrial plots from the 3 lakh sqm of land freed up at various industrial estates. The GIDC board met and agreed that only those plots which have road access will be put up for allotment. The GIDC board also agreed to acquire additional land at Panchawadi to create a proper access road to the Panchawadi industrial estate. The existing road is steep and narrow and not conducive for trailer trucks and heavy machinery, said officials. GIDC has been able to create new plots after the percentage of open spaces at individual industrial estates was reduced from 15% to 7.5%. A few weeks earlier, GIDC has approached the Town and Country Planning (TCP) department for conversion of the land to industrial plots. “The plot plans were prepared but after some members pointed out some issues, the plans were redrawn and corrected,” said a GIDC board member. Given that GIDC does not have funds to create new infrastructure including roads, the board agreed that it would be wise to only put up those plots for allotment which have ready access. “A committee will be formed to scrutinise the new plots so that no entrepreneur falls into a trap,” said a board member. New industrial plots have been identified at Verna, Tuem, Colvale, Honda, Kundaim, Cuncolim, Canacona, Pilerne and other industrial estates. Industries minister Vishwajit Rane, who was present for the meeting, took strong objection to the encroachment on industrial land at Verna, which TOI had highlighted a few days earlier. According to sources, Rane urged GIDC to take action against those who encroached on GIDC land. Rane reportedly told the board that condoning or regulariing encroachments would set a precedence. Aside from this, GIDC also gave the approval for the appointment of a solicitor and auditor for GIDC. A Rs 1.5 crore proposal to develop infrastructure at Panchawadi was kept on hold since the industrial estate lacks electricity supply and a proper access road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-board-meet-grants-nod-for-new-industrial-plots/articleshow/78027313.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Covid cases rise: 435 test Covid +ve in city||Kanpur: For the second consecutive day, over 400 fresh novel coronavirus cases were recorded by the district health department. On Tuesday, 459 new cases were recorded and on Wednesday, 435 more tested positive for Covid-19. Thus, in last two days, about 900 new cases were recorded. And now there are a whopping 4,362 active cases under treatment in the district. Health department, on Wednesday, collected a record high of close to 6,000 samples for Covid test. This is the highest number of samples collected in a time period of 24 hours. On Wednesday six more Covid patients succumbed. In past month, all 31 days witnessed Covid related deaths and the trend continued in September too. In first nine days of September, 64 Covid deaths have been recorded, which is an alarming figure while the death toll has reached 500. A spurt in the cases is being seen in the urban areas as people do not follow the social distancing norms and flout the Covid protocol. Meanwhile, 68 persons were discharged from hospitals after being declared cured of Covid-19 on Wednesday and another 209 completed home isolation. In all 5,212 persons have been discharged so far and 8,403 persons have completed home isolation. New cases have been identified from localities - Kakadeo, Juhi Colony, Bajariya, Rambagh, Barra Vishwa Bank, Harjinder Nagar, Gwaltoli, Panki, Fazalganj, Kaushalpuri, Arya Nagar, Mandhana, Kidwai Nagar, Darshanpurwa, Ramadevi, IIT, Swaroop Nagar, Keshavpuram, Maswanpur, P. Road, Medical College campus, Sarsaul, Parvati Nagar, Jarauli, Radhapuram, Nawabganj, Pheelkhana, and many other localities. The deceased were resident of Nazeerabad, Generalganj, Shyam Vihar, Chowk Saraffa, Hanspuram and Shivkatra. Of six deaths, five took place at LLR hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-cases-rise-435-test-covid-ve-in-city/articleshow/78025870.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||By opposing ‘goonda tax’ probe, Punjab supporting sand mafia: SAD’s Cheema||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday described the Punjab government’s move to challenge the CBI probe ordered by the Punjab and Haryana high court into ‘goonda’ tax as “officially coming out in support of the sand mafia”. The probe has been ordered on the basis of a report by a judicial officer. Former minister and SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said it was shocking that instead of allowing a judicial inquiry into the collection of goonda tax and recovering the same and depositing it in the government treasury, the Punjab government was approaching the high court against the report of a judicial officer. This action let the cat out of the bag, said Cheema. He added it was clear that the government had taken a stand in favour of the sand mafia instead of taking action against it. “It seems the government is aware that any fair inquiry into ongoing illegal mining in the state would implicate Congress ministers and legislators, who are hand in glove with the mafia,” said the SAD functionary. He said the affidavit submitted by the Punjab government, asking for a recall of the high court order, would set a bad precedent for governance and pit the state against court officials. He said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should order the mines department to withdraw it immediately. “The CM should also respect the findings of the judicial officer who has listed seven locations where illegal checkpoints have been installed by the sand mafia and also submitted photos and videos of the same, besides telling the court that goonda tax was being collected from trucks and vehicles carrying sand and gravel,” he added. Cheema said the CM should file an affidavit in the court to welcome the CBI probe initiated against the sand mafia in Ropar district and should suggested that it be conducted across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/by-opposing-goonda-tax-probe-punjab-supporting-sand-mafia-sads-cheema/articleshow/78027352.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Wrong policies of SAD-BJP govt behind waterlogging in Fazilka’||Abohar: Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar, state water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar visited more than a dozen rain-hit villages of Fazilka district on Wednesday. After listening to the plight of people, the departments concerned were directed to implement an effective action plan for drainage. Talking to media, Jakhar said the waterlogging problem was due to the policies of the previous SAD-BJP government. He said faulty water drains were constructed during the Akali government, which exacerbated the problem. Jakhar said the state government would work out a plan to solve the problem permanently, but immediate priority for the time being was drainage, so the farmers could sow crops. Water resources minister Sarkaria said there was a need for comprehensive planning of irrigation canals and the government had asked the department to prepare a long-term project. Kangar said special girdawari (revenue assessment) orders had been issued by the government. He said the department had been instructed that no eligible person should be deprived of compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wrong-policies-of-sad-bjp-govt-behind-waterlogging-in-fazilka/articleshow/78027335.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Unhappy hours: Shops at stations find few takers||NEW DELHI: Picking up chocolates and a gift for a friend’s birthday or anniversary while changing trains, browsing books, a quick bite before taking the long ride home or even a leisurely cuppa with friends at a coffee shop, this and more have been a part of the life of Delhi Metro commuters. With train services resuming after five months, the kiosks, shops and eateries at stations are also slowly coming back to life. “We were not expecting Delhi Metro to be shut down for so long. The stock from March has to be discarded,” said an employee at the Rajiv Chowk station outlet of a popular chain of gift shops. He pointed towards a cardboard piece with a hastily-written “Closed” on it. “We will sanitise the shop thoroughly and replace the shelves with new stock. There has been hardly any rush in the last two days, but with the opening of Blue Line the buzz is returning,” he added. Though most of the popular eateries and other shops are either closed or being cleaned and sanitised, the few open have hardly seen any footfall. “We opened our outlet the day Yellow Line became operational, but sales have been negligible,” said a staff member at an eatery. Where once food menus and combo offers jostled for space, the huge glass entrance of the eatery was full of Covid-19 advisories. Customers are only supposed to eat at the counter, and take-away food has to be packaged. Apart from symptoms of Covid-19 and health advisories, a poster was also prominently placed explaining how one could place “contactless” orders through QR codes. “The number of passengers have been going up slightly every day, but unlike earlier everyone seems to be in a hurry,” said the employee. Rentals from such shops form a substantial source of income for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. In 2018-19, it earned Rs 594 crore through non-passenger revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unhappy-hours-shops-at-stations-find-few-takers/articleshow/78027350.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH doctor protest: Patient services hit||HYDERABAD: Nearly 200 PG doctors at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) boycotted duties for the second day in a row, impacting patient services to some extent. While the senior faculty was called an hour ahead of schedule to handle the out patient (OP) load, there were delays in patient services. However, patients were attended too, even as some of them were referred to the casualty department at the hospital. Meanwhile, the junior doctors have threatened to boycott emergency services too if their demands are not met in two days and if that happens the impact on patient services will be severe. “Emergency will be shut down 48 hours from now if our demands are not met,” said Dr Vaibhav, a representative of the Osmania Junior Doctors Association. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the junior doctors of general surgery and orthopaedic departments boycotted elective outpatient services, elective ward duties and elective operation theatre duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-doc-protest-patient-services-hit/articleshow/78027353.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 10, 2020||Nashik||Paan stall owner held, 18 swords found||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have arrested a paan stall owner in Sinnar and recovered 18 swords which he allegedly kept in his stall for sale. The paan stall owner Mayur Balak (21), resident of Bhagwadi, Sinnar has been arrested under various sections of the Indian Arms Act and Bombay Police Act.  K K Patil, the police inspector of the local crime branch (Nashik rural police), said under the direction of Sandeep Ghuge , the in-charge superintendents of police, they were keeping a close watch across the rural district to control the menace of illegal businesses.  Acting on a tip-off, police conducted a search in Balak’s stall and recovered the swords. Balak told the police that he had got the swords from outside the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/paan-stall-owner-held-18-swords-found/articleshow/78153594.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Global trials of vaccine paused, but Tamil Nadu health department seeks volunteers||CHENNAI: The suspension of global clinical trials for Covishield, Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University, will not affect phase-2 trials in Tamil Nadu, said officials. The state health department called for volunteers to register for screening through social media platforms, saying trials could even begin within a week if they get an adequate number of eligible candidates. “We are calling for volunteers to participate in trials. Once they are screened and if everything goes right, we will start may be within a week,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of public health and principal investigator of the project. The suspension of global trials, he said, was only a small pause. “This is not stopping the trials. This is how vaccine trials have to go whenever there is an adverse event. It will be re-examined and monitored. Even if there is swelling in the area where the injection has been administered, we take that also as an adverse event and we will monitor.” On Wednesday, reports emerged that AstraZeneca, collaborating with Oxford University, halted global phase-3 trials after a participant developed a ‘potentially unexplained illness’. A few other reports said the volunteer developed transverse myelitis, an inflammation in the spinal cord. Phase 2/3 trials are on in the US, UK, South Africa and Brazil. In Tamil Nadu, trials will take place in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Porur, vaccines for which reached Chennai on September 3. The two sites are part of the 17 sites in India chosen for trials. Serum Institute of India (SII), which has an agreement with AstraZeneca and has clinical trials in the country, will produce and market the vaccine in India and many other countries. SII, in an online post, said, “We (Serum Institute of India) can’t comment on reports of AstraZeneca pausing trials in the UK, other than that they have been paused for review and shall restart soon. The Indian trials are continuing, and we have faced no issues at all.” In July, results of phase 1/2 clinical trials in the UK published in The Lancet journal, said the vaccine triggered a response from T-cells — white blood cells that can attack infected cells — within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days. It also caused minor side effects like fever, chills and muscle pain, most of which reduced by using paracetamol. There were no serious adverse effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/global-trials-of-vaccine-paused-but-state-health-dept-seeks-volunteers/articleshow/78025900.cms||U Tejonmayam
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Ragini is refusing to sign bits & pieces statement, say CCB sources||Bengaluru: A source in the Central Crime Branch (CCB) claimed Ragini Dwivedi has categorically told police to take her full statement instead of asking her to sign bits and pieces of it. A woman police officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police is leading the interrogation team and they are grilling the actress for six hours every day. At the end of each day, police are getting Ragini to sign a printed statement. However, Ragini has allegedly refused to sign the papers which allegedly explain details of the drugs racket and people involved. “Ragini is insisting they take one comprehensive statement from her, where she will provide details of the drugs mafia, including names of actors and actresses involved,” the source said. “She is saying that when her statement is submitted in court, there should be no changes of any kind.” However, a senior police officer said it was all a misunderstanding. “Based on what our investigation unearthed, we had prepared three or four different statements and asked Ragini to sign them. She misunderstood, thinking we wanted her to sign off on partial statements. What we need is a full and detailed statement from her,” the officer said. Meanwhile, police officers denied reports that Ragini and Sanjjanaa were lodged in a single room and that had both fought on Tuesday night. “They have been kept in separate rooms and there are women police deployed outside their rooms,” an officer said. “Since both are accused in the same case, we will not allow them to see each other. We will bring them face to face only if needed. So where is the question of the two fighting? Ragini’s room is at least 100 feet away from Sanjjanaa’s room.” On Wednesday, police took a detailed statement from Sanjjanaa on parties she had attended in recent times. “We showed her some pictures and videos of different parties. She was seen in the parties. She gave a detailed account of the parties and the names of people who attended them. Yes, she made a statement on drug supplies in these parties,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ragini-is-refusing-to-sign-bits-pieces-statement-say-ccb-sources/articleshow/78025896.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Agra||96 new Covid-19 cases in Agra||AGRA/BARIELLY: At least 96 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 3,644. A 68-year-old man also passed away while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. He was suffering from tuberculosis. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 111 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 61 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 3,459 cases, 2,803 [76.9%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 730 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Significantly, in Bareilly district, at least 131 Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday while 110 were reported from Shahjahanpur district. So far, 58 people have died while undergoing treatment in Shahjahanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/96-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-131-in-bareilly/articleshow/78024627.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||BJP loses two grassroot workers in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A senior BJP functionary died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday in Shahjahanpur. Former president of state minorities commission, Ashish Kumar Singh Massey got the attack while he was nursing a fever at home. Massey was 61. He is survived by wife Sapna Ashish and two sons. “He was associated with BJP for a long time and was also given the responsibility of assembly elections in Goa and Assam,” his son Ayuhman told TOI. Meanwhile, another local BJP leader and former vice president of Bjij unit, Manoj Kashyap, died of Covid-19 at district hospital in Shahjahanpur. Kashyap was tested positive for Covid-19 on September 5. He was 46 and used to write poetry. His close friend Amit Tyagi told TOI, “Manoj is survived by his wife, three daughters and son Nirbhay Bharat. He was a resident of Delhi and used to write poetry. He settled her while campaigning for BJP in 2014 elections and gained popularity among the locals. He was a ticket aspirant for 2019 general elections and was working at grass root level in rural areas of Shahjahanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-loses-two-grassroot-workers-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78015597.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 10, 2020||Agra||Girl 'abducted' from police station in UP was raped over days||AGRA: A 16-year-old girl who mysteriously went missing from a police station in UP’s Etah on August 21, just two days after being “rescued” from her kidnappers, was allegedly raped over days by half a dozen men who took her to various locations in Delhi/NCR. The sordid facts came out on Wednesday. Police officers investigating the case told TOI that the girl, who was rescued from a two-room accommodation in Gurugram, soon went missing from police custody. Cops had then claimed that the accused — the same men who had kidnapped her before — had taken her away after locking the woman constable at Awagarh police station in the toilet. A SWAT team of UP Police rescued the girl from Gurugram on August 27 following which her statement was recorded in court. The girl has now said she was kidnapped from the police station She added that she was taken to multiple locations and raped by several men. The station house officer, investigating officer and the woman constable at Awagarh police station were suspended after the girl disappeared and a departmental inquiry was ordered against them. A deputy superintendent level officer is investigating the case. According to the girl’s family, she first went missing on August 14. After three days of frantic search and a police complaint, she was found in a nearby village but her alleged kidnapper managed to flee, said police. The girl’s family has claimed that a man called Luv Kush wanted to marry her but she had rejected his advances following which he kidnapped her. On August 21, a medical examination of the girl was conducted but she went missing from the police station just before she was to be taken to the magistrate to record a statement. Based on the girl’s complaint, 12 people have been arrested and a chargesheet will be filed once investigation is complete, said superintendent of police (crime) Rahul Kumar. “The main accused, a 20-year-old man called Luv Kush, formerly employed in a private company in Gurugram, has been held.” The accused have been booked under sections of the Pocso Act and IPC sections 364 (kidnapping for murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) among others, said Vijay Pratap, the new station house officer (SHO) of Awagarh. According to child rights activists, police officers were in violation of the guidelines of the women and child development ministry which state that minor girls cannot be brought to the police station. “After being rescued, she should have been sent to the one-stop centre (Asha Jyoti Kendra) for girls and women in distress. After counselling at the centre, the girl should have been produced before the child welfare committee. There is a need for the police department to update staff about rules and regulations to be followed in cases related to minors.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-16-rescued-from-kidnappers-and-abducted-again-from-up-thana-was-gangraped-over-days/articleshow/78024618.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Constable suspended for allegedly sending obscene messages to women cops on WhatsApp||BAREILLY: A police constable has been suspended by Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand for allegedly sending obscene messages and pictures to women constables on WhatsApp. The SSP took action after receiving a written complaint from women constables. A probe has been ordered. Nisar Hussain, the suspended constable, was deployed at Chowk Kotwali police station in Shahjahanpur city. The SSP has also suspended a sub-inspector (SI) for not registering any FIR after several cases of complaints by locals in Khudaganj police station. “Constable Nisar Hussain’s conduct was not appropriate with women co-workers and after verifying the complaint, we have suspended him. SI Mehar Chandra was suspended for not taking the complaints seriously. A departmental inquiry has been ordered against both of them,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-suspended-for-sending-obscene-messages-to-women-cops-on-whatsapp/articleshow/78021350.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Covid-19 death rate India’s worst||CHANDIGARH: After recording 71 fresh Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, Punjab fatality rate went up to 2.95%, surpassing Maharashtra’s mortality rate of 2.90%. With 2,061 people out of 69,684 infected succumbing to the virus, Punjab now has the highest mortality rate in the country. Since August 1, 1,675 people have lost their lives, 41.8 deaths in a day on an average. There is no relief from the trend in sight as 74 people in critical condition are on ventilator support while 573 are on oxygen support. Punjab has a low survival rate of infected patients intubated on ventilators till now. Of 71 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 13 people lost their lives in Ludhiana, 11 in Amritsar, eight in Patiala, six in Kapurthala, five each in Sangrur and Bathinda. Four deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, three in Amritsar, two in Gurdaspur and one each in Ropar, Pathankot, Mansa, Ferozepur and Fazilka. Punjab posted yet another single-day highest count of cases as 2,137 people were tested positive. Of fresh cases, the highest of 319 were reported in Mohali, 311 in Amritsar, 240 in Ludhiana, 210 in Jalandhar, 173 in Gurdaspur, 159 in Patiala, 130 in Bathinda, 94 in Hoshiarpur, 57 in Sangrur, 54 in Faridkot, 53 in Muktsar, 52 in Fazilka, 49 in Ferozepur, 45 in Kapurthala, 37 in Moga, 35 in Tarn Taran, 31 in Mansa, 24 in Nawanshahr, 22 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 19 in Pathankot and 15 in Barnala. As 1,231 people were discharged after recovery, the tally of patients discharged now stands at 50,558. Of these, 314 were discharged in Ludhiana, 160 in Jalandhar, 131 in Amritsar, 128 in Patiala, 113 in Bathinda, 64 in Moga, 53 in Gurdaspur, 37 in Muktsar, 35 in Faridkot, 32 in Fazilka, 27 in Kapurthala, 24 in Hoshiarpur, 23 in Ropar, 20 each in Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 15 in Nawanshahr, 11 in Pathankot, and two in Tarn Taran. In a meeting between the CM and Congress MLAs, health secretary Hussan Lal said 90% deaths in Punjab had been reported among Level III patients, 7.6% among Level II and the remaining among patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-death-rate-indias-worst/articleshow/78029663.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab Covid-19 death rate India’s worst||CHANDIGARH: After recording 71 fresh Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, Punjab fatality rate went up to 2.95%, surpassing Maharashtra’s mortality rate of 2.90%. With 2,061 people out of 69,684 infected succumbing to the virus, Punjab now has the highest mortality rate in the country. Since August 1, 1,675 people have lost their lives, 41.8 deaths in a day on an average. There is no relief from the trend in sight as 74 people in critical condition are on ventilator support while 573 are on oxygen support. Punjab has a low survival rate of infected patients intubated on ventilators till now. Of 71 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 13 people lost their lives in Ludhiana, 11 in Amritsar, eight in Patiala, six in Kapurthala, five each in Sangrur and Bathinda. Four deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, three in Amritsar, two in Gurdaspur and one each in Ropar, Pathankot, Mansa, Ferozepur and Fazilka. Punjab posted yet another single-day highest count of cases as 2,137 people were tested positive. Of fresh cases, the highest of 319 were reported in Mohali, 311 in Amritsar, 240 in Ludhiana, 210 in Jalandhar, 173 in Gurdaspur, 159 in Patiala, 130 in Bathinda, 94 in Hoshiarpur, 57 in Sangrur, 54 in Faridkot, 53 in Muktsar, 52 in Fazilka, 49 in Ferozepur, 45 in Kapurthala, 37 in Moga, 35 in Tarn Taran, 31 in Mansa, 24 in Nawanshahr, 22 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 19 in Pathankot and 15 in Barnala. As 1,231 people were discharged after recovery, the tally of patients discharged now stands at 50,558. Of these, 314 were discharged in Ludhiana, 160 in Jalandhar, 131 in Amritsar, 128 in Patiala, 113 in Bathinda, 64 in Moga, 53 in Gurdaspur, 37 in Muktsar, 35 in Faridkot, 32 in Fazilka, 27 in Kapurthala, 24 in Hoshiarpur, 23 in Ropar, 20 each in Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 15 in Nawanshahr, 11 in Pathankot, and two in Tarn Taran. In a meeting between the CM and Congress MLAs, health secretary Hussan Lal said 90% deaths in Punjab had been reported among Level III patients, 7.6% among Level II and the remaining among patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-death-rate-indias-worst/articleshow/78029664.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Covid-19 death rate India’s worst||CHANDIGARH: After recording 71 fresh Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, Punjab fatality rate went up to 2.95%, surpassing Maharashtra’s mortality rate of 2.90%. With 2,061 people out of 69,684 infected succumbing to the virus, Punjab now has the highest mortality rate in the country. Since August 1, 1,675 people have lost their lives, 41.8 deaths in a day on an average. There is no relief from the trend in sight as 74 people in critical condition are on ventilator support while 573 are on oxygen support. Punjab has a low survival rate of infected patients intubated on ventilators till now. Of 71 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 13 people lost their lives in Ludhiana, 11 in Amritsar, eight in Patiala, six in Kapurthala, five each in Sangrur and Bathinda. Four deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, three in Amritsar, two in Gurdaspur and one each in Ropar, Pathankot, Mansa, Ferozepur and Fazilka. Punjab posted yet another single-day highest count of cases as 2,137 people were tested positive. Of fresh cases, the highest of 319 were reported in Mohali, 311 in Amritsar, 240 in Ludhiana, 210 in Jalandhar, 173 in Gurdaspur, 159 in Patiala, 130 in Bathinda, 94 in Hoshiarpur, 57 in Sangrur, 54 in Faridkot, 53 in Muktsar, 52 in Fazilka, 49 in Ferozepur, 45 in Kapurthala, 37 in Moga, 35 in Tarn Taran, 31 in Mansa, 24 in Nawanshahr, 22 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 19 in Pathankot and 15 in Barnala. As 1,231 people were discharged after recovery, the tally of patients discharged now stands at 50,558. Of these, 314 were discharged in Ludhiana, 160 in Jalandhar, 131 in Amritsar, 128 in Patiala, 113 in Bathinda, 64 in Moga, 53 in Gurdaspur, 37 in Muktsar, 35 in Faridkot, 32 in Fazilka, 27 in Kapurthala, 24 in Hoshiarpur, 23 in Ropar, 20 each in Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 15 in Nawanshahr, 11 in Pathankot, and two in Tarn Taran. In a meeting between the CM and Congress MLAs, health secretary Hussan Lal said 90% deaths in Punjab had been reported among Level III patients, 7.6% among Level II and the remaining among patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-death-rate-indias-worst/articleshow/78027394.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Active cases drop below 50K after nearly two months||Chennai: Active cases of Covid-19 in the state fell below the 50,000 mark after 53 days on Wednesday, when the state added 5,584 new cases and 78 deaths. The case tally touched 4,80,524, when 49,203 of the patients were still under treatment. The cumulative toll was 8,090. Records show that more than 88% of patients have been cured and about 1.7% succumbed to the viral infection since March 7. The last time the state had active cases below 50,000 was on July 18, when the state had 49,452 people still under treatment, while the case tally was 1,65,714. The state had the most active cases on July 31 (57,968). Over the past few days, the average positivity rate for infection has been the highest in Cuddalore and Krishnagiri (11%), while Nagapattinam and Coimbatore had 10% compared to the state average of 9%, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. “The infection rates are now slowly coming down in almost all regions. We are also seeing fewer deaths compared to a fortnight ago,” he said. "With fewer fresh cases, greater discharges, active cases have come down to about 10%," he said. Worst-hit Chennai has a positivity rate of 8%. On Wednesday, the state capital continued to report the highest number of cases (993) and deaths (14). Its neighbours Chengalpet (237), Kancheepuram (171) and Tiruvallur (281) together added 689 cases and 15 deaths. Among other northern districts, Cuddalore reported 344 cases. Together the eleven northern districts added 2,751 cases and 36 deaths. In the west, which got red hot after cases peaked in Coimbatore and Salem, the infection rate is beginning to see a slow decline, officials said. Coimbatore reported 445 new cases, followed by Salem(279), Tiruppur (120), Dharmapuri (114), Namakkal (93), Erode (90), Krishnagiri (75) and Nilgiris (69). The region together reported 16 deaths. Among the ten southern districts, there were 136 cases in Kanyakumari and 139 in Tirunelveli, pushing the regional count of new cases to 805. Sivaganga, which had the lowest positivity rate (3%), clocked 37. Together, southern region reported 16 deaths. Of the 723 cases in central zone Nagapattinam (172), Pudukottai(118), Thanjavur (131) and Thiruvarur (127) reported a three digit increase, while Trichy reported 98 along with Ariyalur (44), Karur (38) and Perambalur (15). The eight districts together reported 10 deaths. At the end of the day, the state discharged 6,516 patients, taking the recovery rate to more than 88%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-drop-below-50k-after-nearly-two-months/articleshow/78025912.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas ‘aide’ grabs 1.5 biswa land, IG orders probe||Kanpur:A probe has been launched in connection with a land grabbing incident, wherein one Anjali Tiwari has given a written complaint to IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal apprising him about the grabbing of the 1.5 ‘biswa’ of agricultural land belonging to her father by a close aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. Agarwal confirmed to TOI that he has received an application and ordered a probe by Circle Officer Billhaur. Anjali is a resident of Basen village of Chaubeypur. “We had 1.5 biswa of agricultural land. On August 30, a man, who claimed himself to be close with slain gangster Vikas Dubey, grabbed the land and threatened us of dire consequences,” Anjali stated in her complaint. “When we approached local police, the police misbehaved with my brother Sonu and instead of acting as per the course of law, made him forcibly sign on a compromise paper in front of the one who had grabbed our land,” said Anjali while talking to reporters on Wednesday. To recall, a team of the revenue department on July 13 had visited Bikru, the village of the gangster and recorded the statements of people who were deprived of their agricultural land allegedly by the gangster and his aides in the last two decades. Villagers, who were victimised by the gangster, had stated that he was in the habit of terrorising and forcibly taking possession of the poor farmers agricultural land, which they had inherited from their ancestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-aide-grabs-1-5-biswa-land-ig-orders-probe/articleshow/78025895.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three hospitals penalized for Covid treatment lapse||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked three hospitals to pay compensation to the family of a deceased Covid patient — two of them for refusing to admit the patient and the third one for not providing ICU treatment even though he was admitted in the ICU. The 78-year-old Rishra resident had died in a fourth hospital. Alok Nath Banerjee, a COPD patient with other co-morbid condition, was brought to Fortis Hospital on July 3 with Covid symptoms. After stabilising the patient, doctors at the hospital said the patient needed ICU care and regretted that no ICU bed was vacant. According to the complaint lodged by Enakshi Mukherjee, the deceased’s daughter, they got in touch with All Asia Medical Institute (AAMI) in Gariahat. She claimed that the hospital offered an ICU bed but refused admission on arrival. The patient was then taken to Fleming Nursing Home, where the patient allegedly was not given ICU care. Within two-three hours, the family shifted him to an Ekbalpore nursing home, where he died four days later. “The commission has directed Fortis to pay Rs 1 lakh and AAMI and Fleming to pay Rs 50,000 each to the family. If the patient’s family does not accept the amount, the commission will give it to the CM’s Covid Relief Fund,” said Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee. According to a statement issued by Arafat Faisal, head (medical service) of Fortis Hospital. Anandapur, the patient was stabilised in the emergency unit and the hospital even arranged for an ambulance when the family said they had found a bed in another hospital. “While we respect the judgment, we want to state that we have no control over availability of bed in other hospitals," said Faisal. “We have no record of such patient being asked to bring to our hospital or being refused admission. We are waiting for a copy of the judgment after which we would appeal to the commission for a review,” said AAMI director Harshvardhan Agarwal. Calls to Fleming Nursing Home went unanswered. In other judgment, the commission has asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to refund Rs 40,000 to the family of a patient whose bill amounted to Rs 1.8 lakh for three-day admission. The hospital said it would carry out the commission’s directives. The commission has also intervened in a case of a 52-year-old patient from Diamond Harbour who was admitted at Medica for 77 days. The hospital had to discharge the patient with Rs 19 lakh dues. The patient’s family has complained to the commission that the hospital was threatening them, a claim denied by the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-hosps-penalized-for-covid-treatment-lapse/articleshow/78025909.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: All-party meetings to discuss conduct of bypolls, local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Two all-party meetings convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state election commissioner (SEC) V Bhaskaran in the coming days will give a clear picture on the upcoming poll season in Kerala. The chief minister has convened the all-party meeting on Friday to discuss Chavara and Kuttanad bypolls, while SEC’s meeting on September 18 will discuss the conduct of local body elections. The government’s suggestion that bypolls need to be abandoned as there would be only five months left for new MLAs in office if polls are held in November will be placed at Friday’s meeting by Vijayan. If there is a consensus on the suggestion, the state would convey the decision to central election commission which may consider it favourably. Sources said the election commission would consider a joint request by all parties if a valid reason is cited for abandoning the election. SEC has also convened a meeting of all political parties in Kerala next week. The meeting on September 18 will discuss the conduct of local body polls. The commission is going ahead with elections though several parties have expressed reservations over conducting polls in the time of Covid-19. The polls to grama, block and district panchayats, municipal councils and corporation councils need to be completed before November 11 so that smooth transition of power takes place when the tenure of incumbent committees end. If the process is not completed by then, local bodies would be governed by administrators till the next elections are held. The ruling LDF doesn’t want such a scenario and supports the suggestion of holding polls adhering to strict Covid-19 protocol. It is learnt that draft protocols for campaigning and election process would also be discussed at the meeting. The commission is gearing up to shift maximum operations online and has even mooted virtual campaign for the polls. Final decision on these suggestions will be taken after hearing the opinions of all political parties. The chief minister has already sought the support of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala in putting up a joint request before central election commission regarding scrapping the bypoll in Kuttanad and Chavara. The UDF high power committee, which discussed the proposal on Tuesday, decided to seek postponement of local body polls along with the bypoll. UDF cited worsening Covid-19 situation to demand poll postponement as health department has predicted more cases in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-party-meetings-to-discuss-conduct-of-bypolls-local-body-polls/articleshow/78025974.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: All-party meetings to discuss conduct of bypolls, local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Two all-party meetings convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state election commissioner (SEC) V Bhaskaran in the coming days will give a clear picture on the upcoming poll season in Kerala. The chief minister has convened the all-party meeting on Friday to discuss Chavara and Kuttanad bypolls, while SEC’s meeting on September 18 will discuss the conduct of local body elections. The government’s suggestion that bypolls need to be abandoned as there would be only five months left for new MLAs in office if polls are held in November will be placed at Friday’s meeting by Vijayan. If there is a consensus on the suggestion, the state would convey the decision to central election commission which may consider it favourably. Sources said the election commission would consider a joint request by all parties if a valid reason is cited for abandoning the election. SEC has also convened a meeting of all political parties in Kerala next week. The meeting on September 18 will discuss the conduct of local body polls. The commission is going ahead with elections though several parties have expressed reservations over conducting polls in the time of Covid-19. The polls to grama, block and district panchayats, municipal councils and corporation councils need to be completed before November 11 so that smooth transition of power takes place when the tenure of incumbent committees end. If the process is not completed by then, local bodies would be governed by administrators till the next elections are held. The ruling LDF doesn’t want such a scenario and supports the suggestion of holding polls adhering to strict Covid-19 protocol. It is learnt that draft protocols for campaigning and election process would also be discussed at the meeting. The commission is gearing up to shift maximum operations online and has even mooted virtual campaign for the polls. Final decision on these suggestions will be taken after hearing the opinions of all political parties. The chief minister has already sought the support of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala in putting up a joint request before central election commission regarding scrapping the bypoll in Kuttanad and Chavara. The UDF high power committee, which discussed the proposal on Tuesday, decided to seek postponement of local body polls along with the bypoll. UDF cited worsening Covid-19 situation to demand poll postponement as health department has predicted more cases in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/all-party-meetings-to-discuss-conduct-of-bypolls-local-body-polls/articleshow/78034198.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man arrested for raping minor tenant||KANPUR: A middle-aged man was arrested for repeatedly raping a 10-year-old girl in Govind Nagar police area of the city on Wednesday. The accuse was identified as Zaki. The 10-year-old survivor is the daughter of Zaki’s tenant. After the girl narrated the ordeal to her mother on Tuesday, a complaint was registered. The accused Zaki had rented one of the portions of his house to a family few months ago. Zaki had sexually harassed her several times in the past months. The latest incident took place about a week ago, when he found the girl alone at her place and sexually abused her again. He threatened her against telling anyone about the incident. Unable to bear the sexual harassment anymore, the girl told everything to her mother. The mother then informed the police, who in turn, registered a case and arrested the accused on late Tuesday night. “He was arrested and booked under provisions of the IPC and Pocso Act,” said Govindnagar circle officer Vikas Kumar Pandey, adding, “The survivor has been sent to the district hospital for medical examination.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-tenant/articleshow/78025919.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Cops begin pandal review, want wider entrances to avoid crowd||Kolkata: Senior police officers began their on-ground assessment of various Durga Puja pandals from Wednesday. The first to be on the list were a few pandals in central and southeast Kolkata where they reviewed crowd management and parking facilities in the wake of the Covid restrictions. A follow-up meeting is likely to be held at the divisional headquarters before another round of meetings at Lalbazar. Till now, cop action was limited to merely collecting information on the themes of the pandals and parking arrangements.Police sources said that several Puja committees, mostly mid- and low-budget ones, had reduced the sizes of their pandals this year. For a few, the cops suggested widening the entrances to ensure that the idol is visible from a distance and the viewing area does not become crowded.“We want organizers to widen the gate of the pandals if the pujas are held on grounds so that people can see the idol from outside. This will help avoid any gathering inside the pandal. For pujas held in alleys, bigger barricades, which will make controlling crowds easier, must be set up. Several of them have assured us that they will conduct thermal screening at the entrances and no one with fever will be allowed to enter. Wearing masks will be mandatory and hand sanitizers will be distributed at the pandals,” explained an officer.“This year, the pujas at Mohammad Ali Park, College Square and Santosh Mitra Square are likely to see a new crowd-movement plan for pandal-hoppers. We are likely to prepare two plans for now — one that takes local train passengers into account and the other that will be based on absence of train movement. We may reverse the usual Sealdah -College Street-CR Avenue route if local trains do not begin operations as we shall have some big pujas in the Jorasanko-Girish Park area,” said a police officer. “Even if the celebrations are muted, it is important that we stick to the plans. A realistic crowd estimate is also the need of the hour,” said another officer.A DCP said enforcing social distancing and managing traffic would be big challenges this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-begin-pandal-review-want-wider-entrances-to-avoid-crowd/articleshow/78025917.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Sale of China-made goods dips in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Market experts believe that the India-China stand-off on the border and the call for boycott of Chinese goods has started having an impact on people’s choice in buying products. But there are still sectors, where there is no alternative to Chinese products and people can't help but buy them. President of Akhil Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Santosh Agrawal, said, “I would reckon share of Chinese products' sale in Bhopal market must have reduced by 30% to 50%. But, there are products like mobiles and electronic goods, which are not being made in India and if you buy a Japanese product, it will be too expensive for a middle-class person. So, here he has little choice. Otherwise, if you see online sales, purchase of Chinese goods has gone down considerably.People are not booking order with the Chinese companies fot bulk supply or visiting there on their own to bring Chinese goods for sale or their own use. The Covid-19 pandemic is also one major reason for it, but people are deliberately shunning Chinese goods,” he said. Mobiles, the one consumer item in which China has no challenge in the Indian market, continues to attract Indian youths despite widespread anti-Chinese sentiments. While a section of traders dealing in the sale of mobiles say it's because there is no competition for Chinese brands, there is another section which says that all popular Chinese brands in the mobile market are being “made in India” and therefore they are not Chinese anymore. “See, all the brands which you are calling Chinese brands have ‘Made in India’ engraved on their packs. How can you call them Chinese now?” said an executive at one of the biggest mobile-selling showrooms in Bhopal. “Mobiles, which sell the most, are priced between Rs 10,000 and Rs 16,000. And in this segment, there are at least four to five Chinese brands, which are still popular though prices have gone up considerably after mobile was bracketed with goods attracting 18% GST in place of 12% as it used to be earlier,” said owner of Vickey's Gallery in Bittan Market. However, a section of citizens believes that the manner in which people bought Ganesh idols made of soil in place of China-made POP idols shows that people are preferring Indian goods even if they cost a little more. “You must have seen this year, Ganesh idols made by Indian potters sold much more than POP Ganesh idols from China, which used to sell a lot in previous years,” said Jai Prakash Sharma, when asked whether the call for boycott of Chinese goods had any impact on the market. But, he said that Ganesh festival was not publicly celebrated. During the Durga festival, when pandals will be there, it would be interesting to see whether lighting used to decorate the pandals is China-made or Indian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sale-of-china-made-goods-dips/articleshow/78025922.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||No cancellation, puja committees gear up for West Bengal’s biggest festival||KOLKATA: ‘Never say never’ will be the essence of Durga Puja this year with devotees praying to the goddess for strength to conquer one of the biggest challenges of our lifetime — the novel coronavirus pandemic. According to Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella body of puja organizers in the city, almost all community (barowari) puja committees have already started preparing for the biggest festival in the state and none of them are likely to cancel their plans. The pandemic had threatened to cast a shadow on the biggest festival in the state with many believing that several smaller organizers may prefer to sit out this year due to financial and logistical constraints. “At this point, we can say that all the Durga Pujas that are organized in the city every year will be held this year too. Many committees may, however, curtail certain aspects to implement social distancing and other safety protocols,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of Forum for Durgotsab. “Durga Puja is our biggest festival. Puja committees are following all the guidelines for protection against the infection,” said Basu. The highly infectious nature of novel coronavirus has threatened festivals and congregations that bring together a large number of people. Since the outbreak of the disease in India earlier this year, festivals like Dol, Easter, Poila Baishakh, Eid and Ganesh Utsav have been rather muted. According to figures provided by the forum, there are close to 3,500 Durga Pujas in the city alone, which generate direct and indirect employment for millions. The puja committees are aware that cancelling a puja could mean depriving several people of livelihoods for several months. “We have artists and artisans coming from the interiors of the state. To them, Durga Puja means livelihood for a period of four to five months. There are idol makers, dhakis, street vendors and decorators who get work during Durga Puja,” said Tushar Saha, assistant secretary of the Forum. Several bonedi baris (traditional households) in the city, where Durga Puja has been organized for 100-200 years, have decided to restrict entry of outsiders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-cancellation-puja-committees-gear-up-for-bengals-biggest-festival/articleshow/78025914.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||Gangster’s gunner arrested||Kanpur: Akhilesh Dikshit, an alleged gunner of gangster Vikas Dubey wanted in killing of eight policemen, was arrested by police from Chaubeypur area of the district on Wednesday. He was also carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head.  Akhilesh of Gutaiya Rura in Kanpur Dehat, confessed of opening 30 to 40 rounds of fire from his rifle on the police team. “On a tip-off, police team arrested him at his hideout in Chaubeypur area and recovered his licensed firearm from a nearby jungle. He had been sent to jail last year for murdering his wife and had procured bail in June this year,” said CO Billhaur Santosh Kumar. “Dikshit has been sent to jail. He was wanted in Bikru shootout,” said CO further. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangsters-gunner-arrested/articleshow/78025907.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Police did not find any drugs in our house, says Ragini Dwivedi’s father||BENGALURU: “Everyone is lapping up a false narrative that is targeted at tarnishing my daughter. I cannot explain what I’m going through as a father,” said Sandalwood star Ragini’s father Col Rakesh Kumar Dwivedi, battling tears while recounting how things have turned topsy-turvy for the family in the past week. “Police officers barged into the house, searched every nook and corner and found no narcotics, just a small box of organic cigarettes. The allegations against my daughter are not true. The whole episode seems to be a plot; what’s happening to my daughter is unfair,” Rakesh told TOI. Ever since her name figured in the drugs scandal, the family has been pushed to the edge. “When we first heard about it, we were getting ready to go to the police station. But things got out of hands. Cops barged into our house at 6.30am on September 4 and turned everything upside down," he said. Rakesh says his daughter would never get involved in any drug racket as she was a part of the anti-drug campaign launched by the Karnataka government. "I know my daughter, she has always been against it," said Rakesh, adding, “If my daughter was like someone they’re saying she is, why would the government request her to participate in its social campaigns?” What hurts most are baseless reports and name-calling by television channels. “They are concocting stories and spoiling my family’s name. I feel sad for my daughter, I only want the best for her. Somebody may be plotting against us. My daughter recently got a call from someone and she was upset about it. We later realised that someone’s ego had been hurt and this drug drama began after that.” He refused to name the person who had called his daughter. Everyone’s attitude changed after police linked her to the racket. “Many people, including my neighbours, have started distancing themselves from us. They are afraid to take my calls because they fear they may be hounded by police," Rakesh said. Even the film industry has turned a deaf ear to her pleas. “During the pandemic, she did everything from providing food to the poor, helping migrant workers, distributing masks and helped the her film fraternity. When technicians were dying of hunger, she stepped in and helped everyone while the rest of the industry was sitting at home wearing masks. Today, nobody is standing by her. Where are they? Isn't she a part of their industry too?" he asked. He appealed to police not to malign her with baseless charges. “I’m not against any investigation and if there is enough evidence, I will support them. I don't want police to concoct charges. Without getting to the truth, they should not sit on judgement like this,” he said. Rakesh said he has been trying to visit his daughter and talk to her and even give her a pair of fresh clothes, but it has been challenge. "Police are passing the buck before allowing me to meet my child,” he said. Fortunately, cops allowed Ragini’s mother to visit her and provide home-cooked food. “Stop firing bullets from my daughter’s shoulder. A fair trial is what we’re hoping for and things will end peacefully," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-did-not-find-any-drugs-in-our-house-says-raginis-father/articleshow/78025926.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No Metro on Sundays; kids and elderly not allowed||KOLKATA: Trains will not run on Sundays when Metro Railway resumes services next week. The one-day break will be used to sanitize stations and coaches. Senior citizens and children, along with those having fever, cough and cold, will not be allowed to board during these Covid times, according to the passenger protocol prepared by Metro Railway. Though Metro Railway hasn’t formally announced its resumption date of September 14, the authorities on Wednesday issued an official release on the September 13 special services for NEET aspirants. In all, 66 pairs of trains will ply on that day from 11am to 7pm. Candidates can show their admit cards to access the stations. They may use smart cards. Those who don’t have one will be given paper tickets. From September 14, only the north-south line will operate from 8am to 8pm. The last train will leave at 7pm from terminal stations Kavi Subhas and Noapara. Stoppage time will increase from 20 seconds to 30 seconds. There will be no galloping service and trains will stop at all the 24 stations. According to the dos and don’ts mentioned in the passenger protocol, social distancing has to be maintained while standing and sitting in coaches and while using the escalators. Inside the station, commuters can’t touch handrails of escalators, staircases and walls. And be prepared for punitive action if you spit on the station premises. Alternate seats — those marked ‘X’ — must be kept vacant. Instead of the 2,000-plus passengers in an eight-coach train, only 400 people — 128 seated and 274 standing — will travel at a time. Fifty passengers — 16 seated and 34 standing — will be allowed in each coach. “Spitting at station premises is strictly prohibited and punishable offence,” read the SOP, asking commuters to wear masks that cover the mouth and nose and strictly maintain the 6ft distance from co-passengers at ticket counters, AFC gates and on platforms. Only three persons can use the elevators at a time. Commuters will have to click on ‘https//pathadisha.com/metro’ to generate an e-pass to be shown to Kolkata Police personnel before entering a station. Metro officials can show their identity cards and contractual staff their certificates issued by the authorities to walk in. Thermal checking will be done to allow only asymptomatic people in. Downloading the Aarogya Setu is compulsory for both commuters and Metro Railway personnel. Food and beverage kiosks at underground stations will remain closed. Those at viaduct or surface stations will remain open. Stations in containment zones will remain closed. The SOP stressed on repeated cleaning of high-contact surfaces like escalator handrails, elevator buttons and booking counters. Frequent announcements will be made to guide passengers with Covid-19 norms. A short film on dos and don’ts will be screened continuously on platform TVs. On Wednesday, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi went on his second round of inspections. He covered all the stations south of Park Street. “The GM checked the exits and entries (in most stations, only one exit and entry point will be opened), the sanitizer dispenser and the markings for social distancing inside coaches and station premises,” said an official. On Tuesday, Joshi had inspected the stations north of Park Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-protocol-no-metro-on-sundays-kids-elderly-not-allowed/articleshow/78025915.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 10, 2020||Kolkata||Battered Kolkata airport slip road to be repaired on lockdown days||KOLKATA: The airport authorities will attempt to repair the internal road that links VIP Road to Jessore Road during the lockdown on Friday and Saturday. The poor road condition has considerably slowed down traffic, leading to a traffic snarl that spills on to Jessore Road in the morning and VIP Road in the evening. On Tuesday, at least 50 flyers caught in the kilometre-long snarl had missed their flights. “We will try to carry out the repairs during the lockdown when the road will be free from traffic,” an airport official said. Meanwhile, police helped organize patchwork repairs on the crater-filled 1km road on Wednesday. TOI had on Wednesday highlighted how the shabby condition of roads, both outside and inside the airport, was resulting in traffic snarls. On Wednesday, repairs were carried out on a section of Jessore Road. Police blamed the Kolkata airport officials for compounding the problem by not repairing the road within the airport premises. Officials countered that the condition of the road had deteriorated due to heavy traffic being allowed to ply there. “A height barrier installed at the Jessore Road end had been removed to allow trucks to ply on the road, leading to its damage,” the official said, pointing out that over 95% of vehicles that access the road are those that have nothing to do with the airport but used it to bypass the snarl at the VIP Road-Jessore Road intersection. “Most of the cars from the Barasat-Madhyamgram use this road. Now, overloaded trucks also ply on it,” he said. On Thursday, Bidhannagar Police have convened a video conference to discuss how the roads around the airport can be improved. “Representatives from Bidhannagar Police, Barrackpore Police, PWD’s highway division and regional transport authority will join the meet to discuss steps that can be taken,” said a Bidhannagar Commissionerate officer. Police have proposed widening the airport slip road at the point it meets Jessore Road to ensure faster dispersal of traffic when the traffic light on Jessore Road turns green. “We have had a discussion with PWD regarding expansion on the Jessore Road side. We will also write to The Airports Authority of India to allow us permission to widen the road at the airport end,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/battered-airport-slip-road-to-be-repaired-on-lockdown-days/articleshow/78025924.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||28 succumb, 2,294 test positive in Haryana||Chandigarh: Haryana reported highest 28 single-day fatalities due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, and 2,294 new cases, raising the count to 882 deaths and 83,353 positive cases in the state. The spike has pushed the state’s Covid-positivity rate to 6.11% and fatality rate to 1.6%. There were also record 1,828 recoveries in a day, taking the overall cured patient count to 65,143 and recovery rate to 78.18%. Now, there are 17,328 active cases in the state. Besides Faridabad, Gurugram and Kurukshetra, where 200 plus patients were reported, seven districts reported more than 100 cases during the day. Ambala and Panipat districts crossed the 5,000-plus mark in overall tallies. The largest number of new cases were reported in Faridabad district (287), followed by Gurugram (260), Kurukshetra (235), Ambala (180), Karnal (160), Yamuanangar (150), Panchkula (142), Sonipat (141), Panipat (127), Hisar (108), Rewari (86), Palwal (70), Jhajjar (62), Sirsa (56), Bhiwani (46), Mahendragarh (38), Fatehabad (31), Jind (30), Kaithal (28), Rohtak (24), Nuh (23) and Charkhi Dadri (9). Karnal and Hisar reported four deaths each, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamnunanagar three each, Faridabad and Panchkula two each, and Panipat, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Rohtak one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/28-succumb-2294-test-positive-in-haryana/articleshow/78027414.cms||Manvir Saini
September 10, 2020||Amritsar||International fliers with Covid negative test report allowed home quarantine in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Amid easing of restrictions, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that those flying in from abroad with Covid negative certificates, which are up to 96 hours old, could quarantine at home. International travellers who get themselves tested on arrival at the airport, as part of the Government of India’s new directives, can also go home for quarantine if found negative, he said. Amarinder said after the decline in testing due to rumour mongering and fake propaganda, the number of Covid tests had again touched around 28,000 per day as the police had cracked down heavily on miscreants spreading misinformation in the state. Pointing out that 28,688 tests were conducted on Tuesday, he said the figures would be raised to 30,000 soon. The focus of the state government is on saving lives, for which early testing is essential, he added. Claims of organ harvesting of deceased Covid patients was incorrect and illogical, said Amarinder, warning of strict action against such miscreants. “We have to effectively counter such campaigns,” he told the third group of Congress MLAs as part of his series of video conferences with party legislators and ministers to discuss the Covid situation. The MLAs also suggested stringent measures to check violation of restrictions. Overcharging by private hospitals was also raised by MLAs, some of whom said many hospitals were refusing to attend to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/intl-fliers-with-ve-test-report-allowed-home-quarantine-in-pb/articleshow/78033152.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Out(r)age before exams: Delhi University college’s power supply may be cut||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s open-book (online) examinations are set to begin from September 14, and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College in Dwarka may have its electricity supply disconnected a day before that for failing to pay power bills. The college, fully funded by Delhi government, has accumulated dues of over Rs 46 lakh over five months. The principal pleaded that despite numerous pleas, the state government hadn’t released adequate funds, leaving it with an overall deficit of Rs 21 crore. The college has already had its telephone connection terminated due to non-payment of bills. A few days ago, the college found a BSES notice for disconnection of electric supply under Section 56 (1) of the Electricity Act, 2003, stuck on the main gate, giving the institution 15 days to pay the outstanding amount of Rs 46,38,270 or have the power supply halted. Speaking to TOI, principal Hem Chand Jain claimed, “Since April 1, Delhi government has only twice given us 80% of the amount required to pay salaries. Other than that, we have received no grants. How can we pay the utility bills?” Responding to this, a Delhi government official alleged that the government was in receipt of complaints of “serious financial irregularities” in DDU College and its “accounts are being audited”. The official said, “The electricity bill was due on June 25. Colleges have already been given 25% of their grants, and this covers all payments of the first quarter. So, the college needs to explain why it hasn’t paid the electricity bill for the first quarter. Where has the money gone?” A BSES official said that since DDU was an educational institute, the power company had taken a “compassionate view” and had only served the notice as per DERC guidelines. “We are in touch with the college administration to resolve the matter,” the official said. DDU College is among the 12 in Delhi University that are fully funded by Delhi government. These institutions have frequently complained about not getting adequate funds for five months. Though the Dwarka institution was not functioning since mid-March because of Covid-19, the principal explained, “Many things are still running in the college. We have to use basic lights from sunset to sunrise for security purposes. We need electricity for our laboratories, and there are teachers who come to the college on work. We cannot shut down the 14 elevators in our seven-storey college building because they are used by the non-teaching and administrative staff.” Jain added that in the pre-Covid years, the college ran up an electricity bill of over Rs 20 lakh every month. He disclosed that the institution had also received notice to clear the property tax arrears of around Rs 2.9 crore. “If this state of affairs continues, the college will likely witness a dip in the national ranking,” feared Jain, expecting to slip from the 15th spot it got in 2019 in the Union HRD ministry’s all-India NIRF rankings of colleges. Some colleges and DU Teachers’ Association have periodically protested against Delhi government allegedly not releasing enough funds to the 12 colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/outrage-before-exams-du-colleges-power-supply-may-be-cut/articleshow/78027422.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 10, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai, Maharashtra log highest one-day surge in Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai registered their highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state reported 23,816 fresh cases, while Mumbai reported 2,227 cases, taking the total cases in the state to 9.6 lakh and in the city to 1.6 lakh. The highest cases in a day earlier were 23,350 in the state on September 6, and Mumbai had reported a high of 2,077 cases 74 days ago, on June 27. The state also recorded 325 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday. It has been reporting over 300 deaths every day for the past one week. The total fatalities in the state are now at 27,787. Mumbai, which has been recording over 40 deaths over the past two days, added 43 deaths on Wednesday, the highest in 19 days, taking the city’s total Covid deaths to 7,985.Active cases in the state crossed 2.5 lakh cases on Wednesday, and the positivity rate too is on the rise; it was 19.8% on Wednesday. A senior state official said that the high number of deaths in the state was a cause for concern as Maharashtra contributed nearly 38% of the total deaths in the country. A civic official said a majority of deaths continue to be in patients with co-morbidities. “Out of the 43 deaths, 37 patients had comorbidities. Hence we want people to not delay diagnosis and seek care in time,” said a civic official, adding that a big jump in testing numbers is contributing to more cases. The official said that ICU beds are being added in the jumbo facilities to tackle the surge in cases. The Pune region added the highest number of cases while the Mumbai region reported the highest deaths on Wednesday. Pune region added 6,591 cases and 66 deaths, taking its total cases to 2.5 lakh, with 5,923 deaths. Mumbai region added 6,234 cases and 83 deaths, taking the total cases to 3.7 lakh and deaths to 13,584. Meanwhile, in MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli reported over 500 cases in a day. On Wednesday, there were 536 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths there, taking the total number of patients to 32,929, with 699 deaths. The twin city currently has 4,290 active patients. Looking at the surge in cases again, there have been demands for a weekend lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli. In a letter written to KDMC chief Dr Vijay Surywanshi, some people have demanded weekend lockdowns seen in states like Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of measures, the civic body with the police has started taking action against those not wearing masks. Madhavi Phofale, Public Relations Officer of KDMC said, “Since April, we have collected fines of Rs 5 lakh from such people.” There were 355 positive cases from NMMC on Wednesday, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 29,165. But 86% of the patients there have recovered from the coronavirus. Five deaths took the total toll there to 640. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area reported 254 cases and one death. The total cases there are 13,867, while deaths are 321. With the largescale addition in cases, the recovery rate of the state reported a dip on Wednesday. A total of 6.8 lakh people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 70.9%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/city-state-log-highest-one-day-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78029462.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai, Maharashtra log highest one-day surge in Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai registered their highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state reported 23,816 fresh cases, while Mumbai reported 2,227 cases, taking the total cases in the state to 9.6 lakh and in the city to 1.6 lakh. The highest cases in a day earlier were 23,350 in the state on September 6, and Mumbai had reported a high of 2,077 cases 74 days ago, on June 27. The state also recorded 325 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday. It has been reporting over 300 deaths every day for the past one week. The total fatalities in the state are now at 27,787. Mumbai, which has been recording over 40 deaths over the past two days, added 43 deaths on Wednesday, the highest in 19 days, taking the city’s total Covid deaths to 7,985.Active cases in the state crossed 2.5 lakh cases on Wednesday, and the positivity rate too is on the rise; it was 19.8% on Wednesday. A senior state official said that the high number of deaths in the state was a cause for concern as Maharashtra contributed nearly 38% of the total deaths in the country. A civic official said a majority of deaths continue to be in patients with co-morbidities. “Out of the 43 deaths, 37 patients had comorbidities. Hence we want people to not delay diagnosis and seek care in time,” said a civic official, adding that a big jump in testing numbers is contributing to more cases. The official said that ICU beds are being added in the jumbo facilities to tackle the surge in cases. The Pune region added the highest number of cases while the Mumbai region reported the highest deaths on Wednesday. Pune region added 6,591 cases and 66 deaths, taking its total cases to 2.5 lakh, with 5,923 deaths. Mumbai region added 6,234 cases and 83 deaths, taking the total cases to 3.7 lakh and deaths to 13,584. Meanwhile, in MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli reported over 500 cases in a day. On Wednesday, there were 536 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths there, taking the total number of patients to 32,929, with 699 deaths. The twin city currently has 4,290 active patients. Looking at the surge in cases again, there have been demands for a weekend lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli. In a letter written to KDMC chief Dr Vijay Surywanshi, some people have demanded weekend lockdowns seen in states like Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of measures, the civic body with the police has started taking action against those not wearing masks. Madhavi Phofale, Public Relations Officer of KDMC said, “Since April, we have collected fines of Rs 5 lakh from such people.” There were 355 positive cases from NMMC on Wednesday, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 29,165. But 86% of the patients there have recovered from the coronavirus. Five deaths took the total toll there to 640. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area reported 254 cases and one death. The total cases there are 13,867, while deaths are 321. With the largescale addition in cases, the recovery rate of the state reported a dip on Wednesday. A total of 6.8 lakh people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 70.9%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-state-log-highest-one-day-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78028337.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 10, 2020||Thane||Mumbai, Maharashtra log highest one-day surge in Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai registered their highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state reported 23,816 fresh cases, while Mumbai reported 2,227 cases, taking the total cases in the state to 9.6 lakh and in the city to 1.6 lakh. The highest cases in a day earlier were 23,350 in the state on September 6, and Mumbai had reported a high of 2,077 cases 74 days ago, on June 27. The state also recorded 325 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday. It has been reporting over 300 deaths every day for the past one week. The total fatalities in the state are now at 27,787. Mumbai, which has been recording over 40 deaths over the past two days, added 43 deaths on Wednesday, the highest in 19 days, taking the city’s total Covid deaths to 7,985.Active cases in the state crossed 2.5 lakh cases on Wednesday, and the positivity rate too is on the rise; it was 19.8% on Wednesday. A senior state official said that the high number of deaths in the state was a cause for concern as Maharashtra contributed nearly 38% of the total deaths in the country. A civic official said a majority of deaths continue to be in patients with co-morbidities. “Out of the 43 deaths, 37 patients had comorbidities. Hence we want people to not delay diagnosis and seek care in time,” said a civic official, adding that a big jump in testing numbers is contributing to more cases. The official said that ICU beds are being added in the jumbo facilities to tackle the surge in cases. The Pune region added the highest number of cases while the Mumbai region reported the highest deaths on Wednesday. Pune region added 6,591 cases and 66 deaths, taking its total cases to 2.5 lakh, with 5,923 deaths. Mumbai region added 6,234 cases and 83 deaths, taking the total cases to 3.7 lakh and deaths to 13,584. Meanwhile, in MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli reported over 500 cases in a day. On Wednesday, there were 536 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths there, taking the total number of patients to 32,929, with 699 deaths. The twin city currently has 4,290 active patients. Looking at the surge in cases again, there have been demands for a weekend lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli. In a letter written to KDMC chief Dr Vijay Surywanshi, some people have demanded weekend lockdowns seen in states like Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of measures, the civic body with the police has started taking action against those not wearing masks. Madhavi Phofale, Public Relations Officer of KDMC said, “Since April, we have collected fines of Rs 5 lakh from such people.” There were 355 positive cases from NMMC on Wednesday, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 29,165. But 86% of the patients there have recovered from the coronavirus. Five deaths took the total toll there to 640. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area reported 254 cases and one death. The total cases there are 13,867, while deaths are 321. With the largescale addition in cases, the recovery rate of the state reported a dip on Wednesday. A total of 6.8 lakh people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 70.9%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/city-state-log-highest-one-day-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78029461.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 10, 2020||Kanpur||12-mth-old boy, mother killed in accident||Kanpur: A 35-year-old woman and her 12-month-old son were killed after a truck hit a motorcycle they were on at Sikandara town in Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Kapuri Devi and her son Kartik, residents of Amrahat Dera village of Kanpur Dehat. The accident took place when Kapuri, her son and their neighbour Rahees were on their way to Bhognipur town. A speeding truck hit their motorcycle from behind near Patel Chowk. While Kapuri Devi and her son died on the spot, her neighbour Rahees sustained serious injuries and was admitted to a nearby hospital. Police said the truck driver managed to flee the spot and the police are conducting raids to nab him. “A case has been registered under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code at Kotwali police station,” said ASP Anuk Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/12-mth-old-boy-mother-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78025930.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||International fliers with Covid negative test report allowed home quarantine in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Amid easing of restrictions, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that those flying in from abroad with Covid negative certificates, which are up to 96 hours old, could quarantine at home. International travellers who get themselves tested on arrival at the airport, as part of the Government of India’s new directives, can also go home for quarantine if found negative, he said. Amarinder said after the decline in testing due to rumour mongering and fake propaganda, the number of Covid tests had again touched around 28,000 per day as the police had cracked down heavily on miscreants spreading misinformation in the state. Pointing out that 28,688 tests were conducted on Tuesday, he said the figures would be raised to 30,000 soon. The focus of the state government is on saving lives, for which early testing is essential, he added. Claims of organ harvesting of deceased Covid patients was incorrect and illogical, said Amarinder, warning of strict action against such miscreants. “We have to effectively counter such campaigns,” he told the third group of Congress MLAs as part of his series of video conferences with party legislators and ministers to discuss the Covid situation. The MLAs also suggested stringent measures to check violation of restrictions. Overcharging by private hospitals was also raised by MLAs, some of whom said many hospitals were refusing to attend to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/intl-fliers-with-ve-test-report-allowed-home-quarantine-in-pb/articleshow/78027419.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Ludhiana||International fliers with Covid negative test report allowed home quarantine in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Amid easing of restrictions, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that those flying in from abroad with Covid negative certificates, which are up to 96 hours old, could quarantine at home. International travellers who get themselves tested on arrival at the airport, as part of the Government of India’s new directives, can also go home for quarantine if found negative, he said. Amarinder said after the decline in testing due to rumour mongering and fake propaganda, the number of Covid tests had again touched around 28,000 per day as the police had cracked down heavily on miscreants spreading misinformation in the state. Pointing out that 28,688 tests were conducted on Tuesday, he said the figures would be raised to 30,000 soon. The focus of the state government is on saving lives, for which early testing is essential, he added. Claims of organ harvesting of deceased Covid patients was incorrect and illogical, said Amarinder, warning of strict action against such miscreants. “We have to effectively counter such campaigns,” he told the third group of Congress MLAs as part of his series of video conferences with party legislators and ministers to discuss the Covid situation. The MLAs also suggested stringent measures to check violation of restrictions. Overcharging by private hospitals was also raised by MLAs, some of whom said many hospitals were refusing to attend to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/intl-fliers-with-ve-test-report-allowed-home-quarantine-in-pb/articleshow/78033150.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Can’t deny man police job over case for bursting fireworks: HC||CHENNAI: Bursting of fireworks is an integral part of Diwali, having its roots to a hoary and hallowed civilization unique to this land and is celebrated by all age groups across the nation with great fervour and ardour, the Madras high court has said. Justice V Parthiban made the observation while censuring the Tamil Nadu uniformed services recruitment board (TNUSRB) for rejecting a candidate as a petty case had been registered against him for the ‘offence’ of bursting fireworks. Setting aside the rejection order, the court directed the board to consider the candidate’s claim for appointment as Grade-II constable. The issue pertains to a plea moved by A Balaji, who was denied consideration for recruitment as he had an FIR filed against him for bursting fireworks during Diwali. Justice Parthiban said, “It looks like the board is only looking for candidates conforming to the Victorian standards of conduct and discipline. Such Utopian expectation is a matter of pretentious and wishful idealism, divorced from mundane pragmatism.” If display of festive mood and exhilaration during the celebration would amount to attracting disqualification in the understanding of the authority, it only exposes its hollowness and in that view of the matter, the rejection is nothing but a caricaturing of fair play in administrative action, Justice Parthiban added. In fact, as averred by the petitioner in his affidavit, along with him, one another person was involved in bursting of fireworks, who happened to be a son of a sub-inspector of police and no case was registered against him. This was not specifically disputed by the authorities, the judge pointed out. The court then set aside the rejection order dated April 9 and directed the board to consider the claim of the petitioner for his appointment as Grade-II police constable, jail warder or fireman as per his rank and eligibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cant-deny-man-police-job-over-case-for-bursting-fireworks-hc/articleshow/78025927.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 10, 2020||Pune||Mumbai, Maharashtra log highest one-day surge in Covid-19 cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai registered their highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state reported 23,816 fresh cases, while Mumbai reported 2,227 cases, taking the total cases in the state to 9.6 lakh and in the city to 1.6 lakh. The highest cases in a day earlier were 23,350 in the state on September 6, and Mumbai had reported a high of 2,077 cases 74 days ago, on June 27. The state also recorded 325 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday. It has been reporting over 300 deaths every day for the past one week. The total fatalities in the state are now at 27,787. Mumbai, which has been recording over 40 deaths over the past two days, added 43 deaths on Wednesday, the highest in 19 days, taking the city’s total Covid deaths to 7,985.Active cases in the state crossed 2.5 lakh cases on Wednesday, and the positivity rate too is on the rise; it was 19.8% on Wednesday. A senior state official said that the high number of deaths in the state was a cause for concern as Maharashtra contributed nearly 38% of the total deaths in the country. A civic official said a majority of deaths continue to be in patients with co-morbidities. “Out of the 43 deaths, 37 patients had comorbidities. Hence we want people to not delay diagnosis and seek care in time,” said a civic official, adding that a big jump in testing numbers is contributing to more cases. The official said that ICU beds are being added in the jumbo facilities to tackle the surge in cases. The Pune region added the highest number of cases while the Mumbai region reported the highest deaths on Wednesday. Pune region added 6,591 cases and 66 deaths, taking its total cases to 2.5 lakh, with 5,923 deaths. Mumbai region added 6,234 cases and 83 deaths, taking the total cases to 3.7 lakh and deaths to 13,584. Meanwhile, in MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli reported over 500 cases in a day. On Wednesday, there were 536 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths there, taking the total number of patients to 32,929, with 699 deaths. The twin city currently has 4,290 active patients. Looking at the surge in cases again, there have been demands for a weekend lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli. In a letter written to KDMC chief Dr Vijay Surywanshi, some people have demanded weekend lockdowns seen in states like Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In terms of measures, the civic body with the police has started taking action against those not wearing masks. Madhavi Phofale, Public Relations Officer of KDMC said, “Since April, we have collected fines of Rs 5 lakh from such people.” There were 355 positive cases from NMMC on Wednesday, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 29,165. But 86% of the patients there have recovered from the coronavirus. Five deaths took the total toll there to 640. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area reported 254 cases and one death. The total cases there are 13,867, while deaths are 321. With the largescale addition in cases, the recovery rate of the state reported a dip on Wednesday. A total of 6.8 lakh people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 70.9%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-state-log-highest-one-day-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78029458.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Two cops suspended for 'harassing' woman||PILIPHIT: Two constables, Rajendra Kumar and Dhirendra Singh, were suspended for allegedly harassing a 30-year-old woman by barging into her house on September 7. The woman, who belongs to Neuria town of Pilibhit district, had filed a complaint following which the SP Jai Prakash Yadav suspended the two cops on Wednesday. A preliminary inquiry was conducted by Pilibhit Sadar's CO, Pramod Yadav, according to the SP. “Although the two cops have denied the charges and have explained that they had raided the woman's house to get information regarding the assembly of locals in her house who were said to be involved in gambling and betting, but they were still liable for the action. It was their prime duty to inform their SHO regarding the illegal activity first," the SP added. The SP further said that a departmental inquiry has been ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-cops-suspended-for-harassing-woman/articleshow/78021364.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Soon, room registration may be for e-portals||PANAJI: A year after the state government introduced legislation to bring online travel aggregators under the ambit of the tourism department, it framed rules to facilitate the registration and renewal of services. The draft rules state that hotels and other accommodation not registered with the authority concerned won’t be listed or displayed by the online service provider. The rules will be finalised after considering suggestions and objections from the public by the end of the month. While the authority is not specified, it’s likely to be the tourism department, sources said. In the absence of legal provisions so far, many in Goa rent their rooms and flats to tourists, creating a huge unaccounted inventory of rooms. A tourism stakeholder said that the industry suffered due to these unaccounted rooms, and that the state too is losing out on revenue. The hospitality industry has repeatedly complained that they were not provided with a level playing field, as online aggregators do not register their services with the tourism department, and they eat into their business. Thus, the Goa, Daman and Diu Registration of Tourist Trade Act was amended last year. The proposed rules also have registration fees listed — Rs 2 lakh for aggregators providing travel and accommodation, and Rs 1 lakh each for aggregators providing only booking and only travel. The rules also propose to make it mandatory for travel agents not registered with the authority concerned not to be listed or displayed by online service providers. If a violation of this rule is brought to the notice of the authorities, it is empowered to direct the online service provider to remove the name of any hotel or travel agent which has not registered, or whose registration is cancelled or has lost its validity. Online providers providing services such as booking and facilitating accommodation must also display the registration details of all hotel, accommodation and travel agencies listed on their website. They will also require to publish the details of a grievance officer on their platforms, who can address queries and issues raised by consumers with regards to transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-room-registration-may-be-must-for-e-portals/articleshow/78028366.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||Tourists carry declaration signed by doctors calling them ‘fit’ instead of Covid reports||MUSSOORIE/DEHRADUN: A large number of tourists are allegedly entering the state without a Covid-negative report and are instead carrying declarations signed by medical practitioners. Hoteliers in Mussoorie, who shared with TOI such declarations, said that in the past few days, they had to turn away many tourists who were carrying such letters instead of Covid certificates. Speaking to TOI, several hoteliers said that a number of guests were approaching their institutions with letters from medical practitioners instead of carrying Covid-19 negative reports from accredited labs. “They are carrying either a prescription or even a declaration of them being Covid-negative signed by medical practitioners and demanding rooms in hotels. All law-abiding hoteliers are refusing to provide accommodation to them,” said a hotelier from Mussoorie on condition of anonymity. “What is a cause of concern is that these people who are coming without Covid certificates must be getting accommodation somewhere in the town,” said another hotelier who did not wish to be named. Notably, the ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines issued by the Uttarakhand government on September 1 clearly stated that all persons coming from outside the state would have to undergo a test from ICMR-authorised labs “not earlier than 96 hours from the time of arrival.” The guidelines said that “visitors from outside the state who do not produce a valid Covid-19 report shall have to undergo quarantine and the district authorities shall ensure proper verification of the medical reports at the border check posts at the time of entry.” A check post has already been set up by the police at Kolhu Khet (15 km before Mussoorie), but despite that, tourists who were not carrying valid Covid-19 test reports were being allowed to enter the town When queried, Arun Mohan Joshi, deputy inspector general (DIG), Dehradun, said, “It is the responsibility of the hotels and guest house owners to ensure that tourists staying there have all the valid documents. If someone comes up with fake Covid-19 test results or shows fake doctors’ recommendations, hotels should immediately report to the police and an FIR will be registered against such people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-carry-declaration-signed-by-doctors-calling-them-fit-instead-of-covid-reports/articleshow/78023498.cms||Anmol Jain
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Woman, masters in economics, drives taxi in Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: Humorous and hard-working 24-year-old Kiran Kurma is making history in the Maoist-affected tribal district of Gadchiroli. She is the only woman, and the only post graduate in economics, to be driving a passenger taxi jeep. Her foray into this man’s world is a story of grit, a simple woman rising to the occasion to meet the challenges of life. Kiran’s life could have been the best example of ‘Beti bachao, beti padhao’ campaign, however, it also raises questions whether the government is doing enough for such educated daughters. Her village is surrounded by hillocks and farms in the southernmost tip of Maharashtra, where education is a distant dream for most, with her family being the exception. Kiran, youngest of three sisters, completed her bachelors and then masters in economics from Osmania University at Hyderabad in 2018-2019. She mulled pursuing a PhD, before shifting to Delhi for six months to train in an aviation institute, but destiny grounded her plans. Kiran, member of special backward class, also considered government service, but said the reservation criteria made her chances bleak. After her father met with an accident, Kiran had to sacrifice her dreams, but not her humorous outlook towards life. “After two daughters, my parents had planned and hoped for a boy. But the almighty played an April Fool joke, and I was born on April 1,” she says with a giggle. “But my parents would simply not give up. They named me Kiran, just so it sounded like a boy, and also dressed me like one since childhood. My father too chose me to save his business after his accident, instead of my other siblings, one of whom is a post graduate in science and a Bachelor in Education. I had to come back from Delhi to lend him a hand,” she said. Kiran’s father Ramesh had been the first to start driving a passenger jeep between remote Regunta and Sironcha, when villagers used to cover the distance on foot or bullock cart. Kiran has been driving the same route between her village Regunta and Sironch, a distance of around 70km in Sironcha taluka of south Gadchiroli. She has been daily traversing dense forest in the Maoist heartland for the last five years, but this route became her income source in 2018. Kiran brings a trip to Sironcha in the morning and returns in the evening, earning around Rs2,000-Rs3,000 and her father earns Rs4,000-Rs5,000 per day. “Many times, I do not ask for money from senior citizens or women if I feel they cannot pay me. I feel it’s my duty to serve my fellow human beings,” says Kiran. Ramesh had started off with a second-hand jeep, but the father-daughter duo went on to own five vehicles within a short period. They had to sell off two, though, unable to find a sincere driver, and still own three. Asked whether she expects something from the government, she laughs and says, “Forget anything for me, a proper road for all, so that our bodies and vehicles remain intact while moving on them would be enough.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-pg-in-economics-drives-taxi-in-remote-gadchiroli/articleshow/78027470.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||NCB to grill Kerala politician’s son||Bengaluru: Sleuths of the Bengaluru zonal unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have reportedly sought information from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) about Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to ascertain his relationship with one of the three alleged drug traffickers arrested recently. The gang was busted on August 24 and investigators claimed that drugs were being supplied to film stars, musicians and students. On Wednesday morning, Bineesh Kodiyeri appeared before ED officials in Kochi following a notice to him in connection with the notorious international gold smuggling case in which key suspects Swapna Prabha Suresh and Sandeep Nair were apprehended by National Investigation Agency sleuths here in July. Sources in Kerala revealed that ED sleuths on Monday made a submission to a special court stating Bineesh was to be probed by NCB’s Bengaluru unit which on August 24 arrested his friend and resident of Kochi Mohammed Anoop (38) from a service apartment in Kalyan Nagar in connection with a drug racket. Anikha Dinesh, the kingpin of the racket, along with Anoop and his friend Rijesh Ravindran (37), a Thrissur native, were nabbed by NCB with a haul of ecstasy pills and LSD blots. “Anoop confessed that Bineesh Kodiyeri is his close friend who had financially helped him in setting up a Kerala cuisine eatery in Kammanahalli. The two had talked many times on cellphone just days before Anoop was arrested for drug dealing,” said an NCB investigating official. In a remand report submitted by NCB at Bengaluru NDPS court, Anoop’s confession about Bineesh had been included. While Anoop and Rijesh remain in Parapanna Agrahara prison and have moved for bail on Monday, NCB sleuths asked their ED counterparts in Kerala to provide details of Bineesh and his ties with Anoop. NCB sources said Bineesh could be grilled soon for possible links with the drug trade in Bengaluru. “Bineesh and Anoop have a friend called KT Ramees, who is a notorious gold smuggler and prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. Ramees is in prison and we’re probing his links to the other two,” said an ED source. Meanwhile, the bail petition of Anoop and Rijesh will come up for hearing before a special NDPS judge here on Thursday and NCB is likely to demand their custody for questioning and to ascertain his links to the CPM leader’s son, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ncb-to-grill-kerala-politicians-son/articleshow/78026012.cms||Petlee Peter
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Job rush: UT adviser writes to Haryana CS||Chandigarh: A day after the chaos outside Haryana Secretariat in Sector 17, Chandigarh, due to the joining of newly appointed clerks, UT adviser Manoj Parida on Wednesday wrote a letter to Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora. He urged Arora to issue suitable directions to all departments to ensure that such mass gathering does not happen, and, if required, the candidates could be called in phases. Parida also mentioned the extraordinary surge of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, and stated that such gathering of people will lead to widespread infection, causing serious challenges to the UT administration in Covid-19 management. Last week, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had declared the final result of recruitment tests for clerks in the state. On Sunday, the commission had released the list of departments allotted to all the 4,800 successful candidates, and asked them to complete the formalities, which led to chaos in Sector 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/job-rush-ut-adviser-writes-to-haryana-cs/articleshow/78027445.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||Workers clear SWD at Koyambedu mkt sans gear||Chennai: The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has engaged people to clear waste from stormwater drains with just their bare hands in Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC). Activists working for the welfare of Safai Karamcharis condemned the act, calling it a gross violation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. Amid a strong stench, 10 workers on Wednesday cleared dark semi-solid matter from five manholes dotted along the stormwater drain at the wholesale vegetable section of KWMC, which is set to reopen on September 18. While one worker scooped buckets of waste from the manhole, another poured it out on the road. Except for one, the other workers were not wearing gloves nor were they equipped with protective gear. Inquiries with the workers revealed that gloves were provided, but could not be used since they affected work. No other safety gear was found in the vicinity. Samuel, state convener of Safai Karamchari Andolan, said the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act does not allow entry of humans into manholes or open drains to clear waste. “In the event of any emergency, those engaged in such work should be given necessary protection gear such as gloves, gumboots and oxygen cylinders, which should be monitored by an engineer. An ambulance must be stationed at the location,” he said. But, these rules are flouted as using workers is cheaper than using machinery. “Why are government agencies refusing to utilise machines when engaging humans poses a great risk to life,” Samuel asked. When contacted, the CMDA, which maintains KWMC through the Market Management Committee, said the matter being cleared was not sewage, but vegetable waste. “We have not touched the drainage system. The waste from stormwater drains is not sewage,” an official said, adding that the issue would, however, be checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workers-clear-swd-at-koyambedu-mkt-sans-gear/articleshow/78025990.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana okays salary hike for govt teaching hospital staff||HYDERABAD: Amidst the Covid crisis, the state government has passed an order for enhancing the salaries of faculty in government teaching hospitals across the state on Wednesday, meeting the long pending demand after four-and-a-half years. Doctors at Gandhi Hospital had previously threatened to go on a strike over the issue and had agitated for a few days two months back. With the new order, the salary of 2,866 faculty members across all teaching hospitals will increase by 24% to 44%. “We are welcoming the decision of the state government to implement to pay revision. This will be an encouragement for many fresh passouts who will be willing to serve as faculty,” said Dr Srinivas G, president, Resident Doctors Association. As per the order issued on Wednesday, the revised salaries will be paid in cash from September 2020, payable in October 2020. “Orders as regards to payment of arrears of salary in the UGC revised pay scales 2016, shall be issued separately,” read the order. This however came as a disappointment to many. “I will be getting nearly Rs 20 lakh arrears which has been delayed again. The delay is particularly a problem for nearly 200 doctors who have retired during these last four-and-a-half years,” said an assistant professor. The salary for assistant professors will increase from Rs 67,000 to Rs 90,000 (34% rise), for associate professor it will increase from Rs 80,000 to Rs 1,00,000 (24% rise) and for professor, it will increase from Rs 1,25,000 to Rs 1,80,000 (44% rise).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-okays-salary-hike-for-govt-teaching-hosp-staff/articleshow/78027479.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 10, 2020||Delhi||10 traffickers held as 14 kids rescued from train in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Due to the shortage of labourers in factories in the city, police are anticipating a spurt in child trafficking cases in the coming days. The apprehension comes in the wake of the railway unit of Delhi Police rescuing 14 children and arresting 10 child traffickers from a train that had arrived from Bihar at Delhi Junction railway station. The operation was conducted on a tip-off from Bachpan Bachao Andolan and Salaam Baalak Trust, who came to know about the minors aboard Mahananda Express. Times ViewAs per ILO statistics, about 12.9 million children aged between 7-17 years are engaged in work in India. The outbreak of coronavirus and its impact on the economy would have pushed more families into deprivation. Human trafficking rackets are well-networked and thrive in such desperate situations. Their activities are likely to increase at such a time. Authorities and NGOs hence need to be extra-vigilant to foil and stop them.DCP Harendra Singh said that after coming to know of the trafficking bid on Monday night, vigil was stepped up at railway stations. “The team kept a close watch on passengers getting down from different trains. CCTV cameras were monitored for suspicious movements. The deployment was stepped up when Mahananda Express arrived,” he added. Soon, the police team spotted a few men accompanying teenagers in suspicious circumstances. Subsequently, they were rounded up on the platform. It was found that each trafficker had been tasked to get out of the station with a couple of minors to avoid suspicion. The rescued children, aged between 12 and 14, were medically examined. They were then produced before the Child Welfare Committee through videoconferencing and taken to a quarantine centre at Lajpat Nagar. Based on their statements before the committee, the 10 accused, identified as Akbar, Manzoor, Naushad, Tasuvil, Naseem, Aman, Noor, Mehraj, Maskhur, and Mahesh, were arrested. The accused and the children are from Katihar and Purnia districts from where Mahananda Express originates. During interrogation, the accused said the parents of the children had been promised that they would get high paying jobs and good education. Police are looking for other members of the syndicate. While four children were to be lodged at Azadpur, two were to be sent to Seelampur. Plans for the rest were yet to be finalised. “Because of shortage of labourers in factories in the capital due to the pandemic, the accused saw an opportunity to bring children to work there due to the high demand,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-traffickers-held-as-14-kids-rescued-from-train/articleshow/78027485.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||108 social media a/c, links blocked||Chandigarh: Punjab Police have got 38 Facebook, 49 Twitter and 21 YouTube accounts or links blocked for the spread of rumours on Covid-19. This exercise has been conducted as part of a crackdown ordered by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh against miscreants inciting public with hate content on organ harvesting. As many as 151 accounts or links of Facebook, 100 of Twitter, four of Instagram and 37 of YouTube had been reported to Facebook, Twitter and Google authorities and 121 FIRs registered so far at police stations across Punjab. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the state police’s bureau of investigation had taken up the matter of spiteful accounts or links of anti-national and anti-social elements with cyber law division, ministry of electronics and information technology, following which 108 accounts or links had been blocked. Action against other accounts was awaited, he said. Gupta added authorities of social media platforms had also been requested to provide information of users. Suitable legal action will be initiated against miscreants under the relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Indian Penal Code as soon as the user information is received, he said. Bureau of investigations director Arpit Shukla has also appealed to people against sharing any kind of unverified or unauthentic posts, news, videos or stories regarding Covid on social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/108-social-media-a/c-links-blocked/articleshow/78027434.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Dehradun||PM Modi says Badrinath can be developed as a ‘spiritual mini smart city’||DEHRADUN: After reviewing the proposed master plan for Badrinath, which is to be given a makeover on the lines of Kedarnath, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday in a video conference with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and state officials said that the Badrinath shrine town, if successfully developed as a ‘spiritual mini smart city’, can be an inspiration to several other prominent religious destinations of the country. The PM further said that if successful, the model can be taken up at other religious locations as well. Besides, Modi added that the format of the Badrinath master plan should be based “purely on spirituality and not on tourism.” The project worth around Rs 485 crore is to be completed by 2025. During the interaction, the PM directed authorities that in the Badrinath master plan, it should be ensured that the mythological and spiritual importance along with the significance of the area is retained. He laid thrust on connecting nearby spiritual places with the master plan and added that “special lighting should be made at the entrance site of Badrinath temple which is in accordance with the spiritual environment of the area.” He also asked officials to develop homestays in the region which could benefit the locals. In the presentation made to the PM, the state officials said that an area of 85 hectare would be included under the master plan and a museum and an art gallery would also be a part of the project. The information on Dashavatara (the 10 incarnations of Lord Vishnu) will also be provided to the devotees through visual and audio mediums. The beautification of two lakes — Sheshnetra and Badrish — has been taken up in the project as well. Besides, areas close to the temple and the road leading to it will also be beautified. Beautification of ponds, removal and reconstruction of buildings in an area of 5 sq km, widening of road leading to the shrine, developing Badrish Van (forest), parking facility for devotees and construction of a bridge have been included under the master plan. CM Rawat said that land will not be a problem in the master plan, and like Kedarnath, the work at Badrinath will be carried out throughout the year. “It will be ensured that information on places of religious and spiritual importance like caves of Ganesh and Vyas in Badrinath are provided to the devotees through different mediums. Keshavprayag, the confluence of rivers Saraswati and Alaknanda, can be developed as well,” he added. Chief secretary Om Prakash told TOI, “In the first phase, we will take up projects which do not require land acquisition. Our focus will be on development of Sheshnetra and Badrish lakes and roads leading up to Mana, and also works in and around the temple area. Later in the second phase, we will work on ghats, plaza and approaching roads. In the third phase, open space will be created near the temple and a path from the temple to Sheshnetra lake will be constructed.” He said that structures around the temple premises will be demolished. “The land and property owners will be provided due compensation or if they want land, they will be provided land at a separate location,” the CS added. When asked on when the project will start, he said that it was in the initial stage and several clearances were still required. “Once all the clearances are received, we will start with our work,” he added. The PM also reviewed the ongoing projects at Kedarnath. The CS said that the PM has directed to ensure that the “Om Namah Shivay'' chant is played on the route to Kedarnath shrine. “While two meditation caves are ready, we have completed Aastha path work on the banks of Saraswati, and the work on Shankracharya’s samadhi is also underway,” said Prakash. The helipad area of Kedarnath is being increased to 100x50 metres in order to help Chinook helicopters ferry heavy machinery for development works. The work of demolishing three cottages of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam is underway to widen the existing helipad, the chief secretary further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-modi-says-badrinath-can-be-developed-as-a-spiritual-mini-smart-city-will-become-an-inspiration-for-other-religious-locations-across-the-country/articleshow/78023523.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 10, 2020||Pune||Month since launch, PMC suspends testing camps in housing societies||PUNE: The civic body has decided to stop conducting Covid-19 testing camps in cooperative housing societies because of “logistical issues”. The initiative was launched last month. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now suggested that high-risk residents of housing societies visit the designated centres in their localities to take the test. The abrupt end to the initiative has left mohalla committees and residents welfare forums miffed. Sources in the National Society for Clean Cities (NSCC), which was responsible for mobilising residents of the housing societies to participate in these camps, said they had spent much time and efforts in convincing residents about the importance of taking these tests and an abrupt end to the initiative “is unacceptable”. Rekha Galande, zonal medical officer of PMC, Zone I, told TOI, “The designated testing centres in each ward have the responsibility to cover the (test) needs of the population in that particular ward. We were finding it difficult to align our manpower and timing in case of camps being organised in housing societies. Ensuring doorstep services was becoming difficult. Also, when we go for the camps, a lot of crowd assembles and random people are sent for the tests.” Another senior PMC official from Zone IV told TOI, “Areas that are containment zones with a huge number of positive patients should first be taken up for tests. We have been receiving calls from representatives of residents welfare groups to conduct testing camps in housing societies. But we have clearly told them that we cannot skip the hotspots to conduct tests in housing societies, where there may not be much of a patient load.” Shyamala Desai, president of NSCC (Pune), told TOI, “We tried to convince the PMC authorities to restart the initiative. But they said they do not have enough manpower and doctors to visit the housing societies for the camps. We however maintained that residents were averse to visiting the civic body’s designated testing centres for the tests. It’s better to have four medical experts from the PMC visit the societies than have numerous residents flock the testing centres.” Seema Tanwar, president of womensclubkharadi, an NGO helping the PMC conduct such camps in Kharadi housing societies, said, “ Some of our society camps were cancelled recently with some PMC staffers facing certain health issues. We were advised to take the residents to the nearby Covid-19 testing centre, instead of holding the testing camps on the society premises. The PMC said it would get back to us once their staffers were out of quarantine. But we have not heard from them since then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/month-since-launch-pmc-suspends-testing-camps-in-housing-societies/articleshow/78027484.cms||Neha Madaan
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Two smugglers arrested with smack worth Rs 4 crore in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Bareilly police claimed to have arrested two smugglers and seized four kilogram smack — worth Rs 4 crore — from their possession in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly City late on Tuesday night. The accused — Ghulaam Nabi and Aslam Khan, both residents of Bareilly district — were travelling with the smack in a Mahindra TUV bearing Delhi registration number, said police, adding the TUV is registered with the RTO, Wazirpur, in Delhi and they are trying to trace the owner and his role in the drug peddling. Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “An Izzatnagar police team was on routine patrolling when the SHO received a tip-off about two people carrying a large consignment of narcotics in a Mahindra TUV in Karamchari Nagar colony, and a manhunt to nab them was immediately launched. Soon, the vehicle was found. When the police team signalled the driver to stop, he tried to speed up the vehicle, but police arrested both of the accused and seized the smack, which they were supposed to deliver to someone in Delhi. Both the accused have been booked under the NDPS Act and the search for their kingpin is going on. The drug is worth around Rs 4 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-held-with-smack-worth-rs-4-crore-in-bareilly/articleshow/78021394.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 10, 2020||Pune||New telemedicine app goes live to boost home isolation||PUNE: The district administration has launched a telemedicine app, Arogya-Dheer, as part of attempts to increase the number of patients in home isolation. There are a total of 8,467 patients in home isolation within PMC limits. In Pimpri Chinchwad, the number is 3,193. Another 1,394 patients have been allowed to stay home and recover in the rural limits. Home isolation of Covid patients — only those with mild to moderate symptoms — eases burden on hospitals where beds are by rule, to be reserved for serious cases. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said Pune already allows patients with mild symptoms to be home quarantined. But it's a different rule in Mumbai, where the BMC has decided not to home quarantine those above the age of 60. Rao said,“Based on a doctor’s report and on the severity of symptoms, it has been decided that it is better to home quarantine if patients have the required amenities.”  Additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goel, who is monitoring patients at home, said the home isolation process is simple and voluntary. Goel said, “A patient can be isolated at home if she or he has access to a separate room in the house and a toilet. Patients will also need a 24-hour care-giver. Patient should also maintain complete isolation and regularly wash and sanitize their hands. With this new app, Arogya-Dheer, we hope to increase the number of patients under home isolation as long as they do not have major Covid-19 symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-telemedicine-app-goes-live-to-boost-home-isolation/articleshow/78027477.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Trees near Bapu Kuti safe; panel to look at alternatives||NAGPUR: Stung by protests from green activists and people, the state government on Wednesday stayed felling of over 130 trees between Wardha-Sevagram road near Bapu Kuti and has asked a committee of experts and officials to find a way out to see how they can be saved and traffic can also move smoothly. The decision was taken at a joint meeting of PWD minister Ashok Chavan and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in which both ministry officials were present. Chavan said, “A committee under PWD secretary Ulhas Debadwar including experts, PWD, forest and environment ministry officials, and collector will decide on the fate remaining trees by exploring alternative alignment, tree transplantation or other possibilities to develop road out without felling trees.” Surprisingly, the meeting discussed saving 67 trees but, as reported, these many trees have already been felled and around 130 trees on 2km Bapu Kuti stretch remain for which protests have been launched. PWD has already chopped 70 big trees along 2km road patch. TOI did a series of stories to save these trees. These reports were highlighted across the social media to draw attention of the government including Rahul Gandhi. Besides, six generations of Mahatma Gandhi’s kin had also voiced their opposition with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Aaditya Thackeray and PWD. “I’m grateful to Chavan and PWD for their quick intervention on the issue of felling trees on Wardha-Sevagram road. Chavan has asked the department to work on multiple options to save trees and also ensure road is smooth and safe for travel,” said Thackeray. Thackeray added, “We received multiple representations on the issue both locally and internationally. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is committed to sustainable development.” PWD superintending engineer Sushma Sakharwade said, “The committee will conduct inspection soon.” “The Wardha Vruksha Bachao Samiti is happy government has taken note of our protests. The statements by Chavan and Thackeray are promising, though we do not want to be content with this temporary move and want no trees should be felled further,” said honorary wildlife warden Sanjay Ingle Tigaonkar. Dr Alok Bang, an ecologist spearheading protests, said, “A tree is not just a tree, it's a mini-ecosystem supporting biodiversity of insects, birds and mammals, including humans. Cutting trees is exactly what we don't want. It is a foolhardy operation that even the development proponents shouldn't want. Our demand is that no trees be felled and not to allow any disturbance activities such as soil excavation and compaction within a 1.5-metre radius of each standing tree. Widen the road only as much as the tree-line allows." "Since this road goes from Gandhi Chowk in Wardha to Gandhi’s Ashram in Sevagram, we want it to be named ‘Shanti-Path’. Let Wardha and Sevagram be recognised as a place of confluence of heritage, sustainability and modernism,” said Dr Vibha Gupta, director, Magan Sangrahalay Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trees-near-bapu-kuti-safe-panel-to-look-at-alternatives/articleshow/78027481.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid school plan, education min +ve||Chandigarh: The Haryana education department’s efforts to restart select government schools on trial were slowed down on Wednesday as state education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar tested positive. Gujjar and officials, who had been in contact with him, went into isolation. An official said they were making preparations to restart classes at two government schools which have been selected on trial basis, and they could extend the experiment to other schools too. “Apart from strict adherence to SOPs announced by the Union government, we may incorporate couple of changes related to category of students and system to be followed in calling students to school,” said the official. The official added that everything would be finalised by Monday. “Some instructions have already been forwarded to school principals and district education officers,” he said. Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the Private Schools Association, Haryana, said the government should have taken the decision long ago. “We hope education in the state will be back on track with this decision, at least partially,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-school-plan-education-min-ve/articleshow/78027478.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||3 critical care centres planned||Chandigarh: Alarmed by a fresh spike in Covid cases, deaths and critical patients, the Haryana health department has decided to establish critical care centres for infected people at three places in the state. The state government has also decided to hire final-year students of nursing and pharma to monitor the health of thoe who have been home-quarantined after testing positive. These centres will be set up at Kalpana Chawla Memorial Hospital and Medical College, Karnal; Agroha Hospital in Hisar, and PGIMS, Rohtak. The three places will cater to critical Covid patients from across the state. “We are closely monitoring the situation. These critical care units will have 100 beds each and wukk cater to critical patients from all districts,’’ said health minister Anil Vij. “Irrespective of their institutions being private or government, final-year students of paramedical courses will be put to service,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-critical-care-centres-planned/articleshow/78027483.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Patients seek transparency in hosp expenses under health schemes||Pune: Covid-19 patients seeking medical care either under the state government or the civic body’s health schemes are complaining about not being informed about the treatment expenses at designated private hospitals.At present, a beneficiary gets free-of-cost treatment of up to Rs2 lakh for himself/herself or a registered family member under the state and PMC-supported health schemes for Covid-19. Poornima Chikarmane of Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat, a union of waste-pickers, said, “Quite a few of our members didn’t get the itemised bills of treatment sought under the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health scheme at the empanelled private hospitals. This has led to confusion and distrust among them.” Health activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More said, “I have also come across quite a few families with instances of the treating private hospitals not provided the bill receipt for Covid-19 care sought under either the state or the PMC-sponsored health scheme. We have brought this to the notice of the PMC's health department, but nothing has happened so far.” Health schemes such as the Maharashtra government’s Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and the PMC’s Urban Poor Health Scheme are operating on the floater basis for each family. For example, the first scheme provides health insurance to the tune of Rs1.5 lakh per year per household. Similarly, the PMC scheme provides insurance cover for Rs2 lakh per family per year.Sanjay Pathare, medical director of Ruby Hall Clinic, one of the empanelled hospitals for the state and PMC schemes, said, “As far as Ruby Hall Clinic is concerned, we are giving all the details of treatment along with the bills for treatment expenses to all the patients, irrespective of whether the patients settle the bills directly or the same gets settled or reimbursed by a third party insurance or state government and the PMC. All Covid-19 treatment bills are duly audited and certified by the PMC auditors stationed in the designated hospitals.” PMC health department chief Ramchandra Hankare said, “Every beneficiary should know about the expenses incurred under the scheme. We will look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patients-seek-transparency-in-hosp-expenses-under-health-schemes/articleshow/78027490.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||No bias in drugs scandal probe, no one will be spared, says Karnataka home minister||BENGALURU: Amid allegations from political and social quarters of the police and administration going after “soft targets” in the ongoing probe into the drug scandal, the state government on Wednesday maintained that an impartial probe is being conducted without any discrimination on the basis of gender or political clout of the accused. “If you just look at the list of accused we have booked so far, you will know there is no discrimination on any basis whatsoever. We are not interested in the person’s gender or background or social standing. For us he or she is just a criminal, if found to be involved in the crime,” home minister Basavaraj Bommai said. The minister’s statement comes in the backdrop of questions raised by opposition leaders and social commentators on the line of investigation and recoveries made. Two Sandalwood actresses — Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani — have been arrested, alongside drug peddlers and event managers who allegedly pushed high-end drugs in celebrity parties across the city. Besides the actors, four people, including high-profile party organiser Viren Khanna, have been arrested so far. Among those named in the FIR filed by Cottonpet police is Aditya Alva, son of late politician Jeevaraj Alva, and realtor Prashanth Ranka. “It is wrong to say we are laying hands on soft targets. People like Viren Khanna are big in the city social circles and another arrested person is a model. Investigation is on and whenever we come across evidence, we will take action,” city police commissioner Kamal Pant said. The opposition has alleged that the government probe has come too late and not pointed. “They are not arresting those who were supplying narcotics but are just tarnishing the image of the film industry by arresting a few artistes,” said Bengaluru Rural MP DK Suresh of Congress. “Why were they sleeping all these days or was there no drug menace in Karnataka till now? The state government and the police are solely responsible for the drug menace in the city.” Another politician asked: “Are they claiming that only female actors in Sandalwood are into drugs? They are only going after the small fish.” “They (police) have not seized any drugs from the two heroines so far despite searching their houses, instead they have been linking everything to a narcotics case that was booked two years ago. The two movie stars are nothing but soft targets,” said a regular in city’s party circuit, refusing to reveal his identity fearing police harassment. On allegations regarding seizures, Pant said: “We have got some incriminating items, including psychotropic substances, seized during these searches. Seizing of ganja from the possession of the accused is not just the evidence; we also have digital evidence to establish the allegations. Since the matter is under investigation, we cannot reveal more on the digital evidences we have got. We shall submit the same digital evidence in the court of law and everyone will come to know then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-bias-in-drugs-scandal-probe-no-one-will-be-spared-says-minister/articleshow/78026126.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Pune labs flouting report norms to face action||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started taking action against the private labs causing a delay in providing details of patients’ Covid-19 positive tests, leading to mismanagement of data. The PMC plans to impose a fine on such labs. Further, if labs continue to fail in providing data on time, the civic body will initiate the process to close the labs, officials said. PMC has already issued notices to three such labs. The civic body is initiating action against all labs in municipal areas that aren’t following ICMR guidelines. The labs are conducting RT-PCR and antigen tests. A PMC official said a process has been finalized for better coordination of information regarding patients. Labs are supposed to provide data at the earliest so it can be used for contact tracing. Patient details are shared with 800 civic teams conducting the house-to-house survey. “The data has to be shared with government and other concerned authorities so it has to reach PMC in time. But it is observed these labs are not sending it on time,” said additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/labs-flouting-report-norms-to-face-action/articleshow/78027487.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Need Rs 155cr to repair NHs: Min||Hyderabad: The Union road transport and highways ministry is not releasing maintenance fund for repairs of national highways (NHs) in Telangana for the last one year, roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said on Wednesday.“The roads and buildings department has completed temporary repairs of the roads damaged due to rains to ensure free flow of vehicular traffic. For long-term repairs, we need Rs 155 crore and we will again pursue it,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/need-rs-155cr-to-repair-nhs-min/articleshow/78027493.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||3 more casualties take Himachal toll to 61, total cases cross 8k||Shimla: Three Covid-19 patients, including a journalist, died in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, a day when the state reported 316 new positive cases of the virus, with which its tally rose to 8,147. Also, 142 patients were discharged. When this report was filed, 2,487 cases were active, 5,586 patients had recovered, 61 had died, and 11 had migrated out of the state. A 41-year-old man from Nagheta, Sirmaur, who had breathing problems, died at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla. After he tested positive, he was first admitted to a facility in Paonta Sahib, then Nahan and later taken to Shimla. One more Covid-19 patient died at IGMC on Wednesday. The deceased journalist was aged just 30 years, but had diabetes. He hailed from Behdala in Una district. He visited the regional hospital at Una on Tuesday and complained of fever, but doctors asked him to get tested for Covid-19. He then went back home. On Wednesday morning, his parents rushed him to hospital in a critical condition and doctors referred him to PGIMER, Chandigarh, but he died. His Covid-19 report came positive. The third Covid fatality, whose details were awaited, also took place at Shimla’s Indira Gandhi Medical College. A CID personnel on duty at the assembly complex in Shimla was among the new patients. A doctor at ayurvedic hospital in Hamirpur also tested positive. As many as 36 employees of a private company in Bharmour in Chamba district were found infected during the day. The district administration is locating the contacts of infected persons as many more employees were suspected to be infected. A total of 48 new cases were reported from Chamba, 15 from Bilaspur, 28 from Hamirpur, 36 from Kangra, one from Kinnaur, seven from Kullu, four from Mandi, 19 from Shimla and 40 from Sirmour, 69 from Solan, and 49 from Una. The patients who recovered included 20 from Chamba, 11 from Bilaspur, 21 from Hamirpur, 18 from Kangra, 27 from Sirmaur, and 45 from Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-more-casualties-take-himachal-toll-to-61-total-cases-cross-8k/articleshow/78027501.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Home Minister Deshmukh gets more threat calls||NAGPUR: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh received two more threat calls at his Civil Lines residence here on Wednesday. Earlier, on Sunday and Tuesday too he had received such calls. All the calls were pertaining to the controversy involving actor Kangana Ranaut. “Do not interfere in Kangana Ranaut’s matter or else we will blow you up, was what the caller said,” said police sources. As per preliminary investigations of the crime branch, these calls were made from different locations in Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. Police sources said that the minister received about five calls from Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. He got two more calls at around 6am on Wednesday. A complaint has been lodged with the commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar. A special police squad has been formed to trace the callers. Security has already been beefed up at Deshmukh’s residence. The minister is currently in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-deshmukh-gets-more-threat-calls/articleshow/78027498.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Monsoon likely to stay till October in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The monsoon in Delhi this year is likely to have an extended run till October against September 21 earlier, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. IMD scientist Kuldeep Srivastava said it would most likely stay till first week of October and also help in keeping the air quality index (AQI) in the “satisfactory-to-moderate” range. Another scientist at IMD said the average withdrawal date of September 21 was calculated considering the record of the past 30 years. However, since 2003, the monsoon has been withdrawing only after September 25. Last year, it withdrew on October 10. Monsoon withdrawal begins from west Rajasthan and reaches Delhi via some parts of Punjab and Jammu Kashmir. “The ongoing week will have a dry spell, while Delhi will receive light rain next week,” said Srivastava. At 467.2mm, the seasonal rainfall in Delhi is in the “normal” category. This season, north Delhi is the only district in “excess” category with 619mm rain. East, north East and North West districts saw “deficit” rainfall, while Central Delhi, with 250.2mm rainfall, fared the worst with a “large deficit” of 60%. The AQI in the capital on Wednesday was in the “moderate” range at 105. “As the wind direction will not change in October, the air quality will remain good. Following the lockdown in March, the emission, industrial and other activities were controlled. Hence, the air quality will be the best in 2020,” said Dipankar Saha, former head of Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monsoon-likely-to-stay-till-october/articleshow/78027502.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Chennai||‘Fill gaps in making disaster mgmt plans disability-friendly’||Chennai: For five weeks in March, international para-athlete Justin Jesudas was in home isolation with zero access to supplies. As he applied for an e-pass to visit his 15-month-old twins and wife living in another state, he also struggled with a system that wouldn’t grant him an e-pass, as they didn’t understand what could possibly necessitate a person paralysed neck below, to travel in the first place. At a virtual discussion on disability-inclusive disaster management organised by US Consulate General Chennai, and Ability Foundation, Justin explained why people with disabilities must be part of discussions on disaster management. “While there were caregivers and helpers available, few were willing to visit. Bigger questions soon loomed large — how would someone with a disability find access to medical care, supplies or maintain assistive devices like wheelchairs and clutches,” he said. The panelists also threw light on the lack of access to important bulletins and media reports by persons with certain disabilities. Shruthi S Raghavan, senior programme manager (education and media), Ability Foundation, said organistions and MNCs needed to understand cross and multiple disabilities as well in order to create inclusive disaster management plans. “They don’t think beyond locomotive disabilities but some disabilities are invisible. In a panic situation, many of these people get left behind,” she said. It was these nuances that Joe John George, state project officer, Kerala State Disaster Management Authority, said they tried to address during Covid. “We started video calls with interpreters and experts available 24/7, to help those with speech impairment, and also provided batteries to people to replenish hearing aids and other devices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fill-gaps-in-making-disaster-mgmt-plans-disability-friendly/articleshow/78026132.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
September 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Cabinet nod for free Covid tests, 3,700 oxygen beds||BHOPAL: State cabinet on Tuesday decided that all Covid-19 tests will be done free of cost at the fever clinics. Council of ministers approved increasing number of fever clinics, if required. “Cabinet also decided to add another 3,700 oxygen beds in hospitals along with 564 more ICU beds in the next one month,” home minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday. He added that the state already has 11,700 oxygen bed and 2,388 ICU beds. The minister explained that Gwalior and Jabalpur will get a fair share of these increased number of hospital beds. “Since the lockdown has been lifted, Corona infection is spreading rapidly. People are not being adequately cautious and hence, departments of panchayats and rural development, consumer protection and urban administration have been authorised to educate people on the safety measures and ensure that passengers wear masks in buses,” Narottam Mishra said. Mishra claimed that the cabinet decided to approach industrial areas and other regions like Bhilai for supply of oxygen. Two days ago, Maharashtra government told manufacturers to divert 80% of oxygen produced for industries to the hospitals. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will speak to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on oxygen supply to the state. If needed we will go to high court,” the home minister said. The minister added that the state has 30,000 general beds and so there is no need to panic. In a major decision, government decided to increase the Deendayal Rasoi Yojana providing meals at Rs 10. “The scheme is operational in 51 cities and towns and will be extended to religious towns and increase the existing kitchens from 56 to 100. Mishra said. He said implementation will be done by the departments of food and civil supplies, consumer protection and urban administration. State will provide residential facilities on rent to labourers who have migrated here from other states, the minister said. Prime Minister’s SVANidhi Yojana will see 80% beneficiaries from Madhya Pradesh, Narottam Mishra claimed. PM Modi is scheduled to interact with Street Vendors from the state on Wednesday when he transfers Rs 10,000 loan to 1.4 lakh street vendors. On September 16, eligibility certificates for PDS rations will be distributed to 37 lakh poor who do not have ration cards. Griha Pravesh ceremony of houses constructed under PM Awas Scheme will be done on September 12, Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cabinet-nod-for-free-covid-tests-3700-oxygen-beds/articleshow/78005716.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Boost for six-lane speedway from Akshardham to Baghpat||NEW DELHI: The government has approved the first package of a six-lane access controlled highway, which will be part of the direct and seamless connectivity from Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Akshardham to Dehradun. The NHAI Board on Tuesday gave the go ahead to the highways authority to award the work for 31.6 km section from Akshardham to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) at Khekra near Baghpat. This stretch will pass through east and north-east Delhi and Loni. According to NHAI, the government will spend around Rs 3,400 crore for this project. “Nearly 17 km of this 31.6 km stretch will be elevated. While six-lanes will be access controlled for through traffic, there will be three lane of service road on each side for local traffic. The first section of this 210 km corridor up to Dehradun will decongest north-east Delhi in a big way. September 30 is the last date for receiving bids for the first section,” an NHAI official said. The foundation stone for this was laid on January 26 last year before the Lok Sabha election. Sources said the entire 210 km stretch from Delhi to Dehradun has been approved as a economic corridor under the Bharatmala highway development programme. The travel time between these two cities will reduce to barely two and half hours, once the entire corridor is completed. NHAI officials said at least 93% of the required land is available on the Delhi-EPE portion. While the Public Works Department has the land with it in the case of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh government has enough land required for the work. “Since the road has been notified as an NH, PWD will hand over the land and this process will start soon,” said the NHAI official. He added that in Delhi portion, there will be a couple of major structures including two interchange at Shastri Park Khajuri Khas and a major elevated stretch across the Old Loha Pul or Old Yamuna Bridge. The NHAI has set two years’ deadline for completion of the project from the date of appointment (when work starts).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boost-for-six-lane-speedway-from-akshardham-to-baghpat/articleshow/78027517.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 10, 2020||Pune||Plasma to be sought now at the time of discharge||Pune: The district administration, to increase blood plasma donations, will now be seeking consent from recovered Covid patients right at the time of discharge. As of Tuesday, officials said they have received only 265 units (200ml each) from the entire Pune division, which covers 27 blood banks. It’s a very low number, considering 80% of patients in the division have recovered. The new strategy, officials said, will ensure a discharged patient’s records and consent are sought by the hospital itself, which can then pass on the details to the blood banks. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The move will also help us create a directory of former patients. Ready details will ensure families don't have to run pillar to post trying to find a donor.” Families have been desperate for plasma from recovered patients. One relative of a patient said, “Not many citizens are even aware of plasma donation. There needs to be a dashboard for families of patients, just like the one for bed vacancies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plasma-to-be-sought-now-at-the-time-of-discharge/articleshow/78027516.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured makhna ‘Bulldozer’ found dead on Kerala border||Coimbatore: After almost three weeks of being tracked and treated intermittently by forest officials in Coimbatore and Palakkad, an injured makhna elephant was found dead 6 km into the Kerala border on Wednesday morning.Nicknamed ‘Bulldozer’ because of its penchant for damaging houses, the 25-year-old tuskless elephant was found motionless on the side of the Anaikatti-Sholayar Road in Kerala. In July this year, it had damaged over 20 houses in Palakkad district.Officials said there was a large injury on its tongue that may have resulted in an infection. “The cause of the tongue injury is not clear, because a country bomb will affect at least one side of the elephant’s teeth and cheek, which is not there. It must be due to a fight or an infection,” said a forest department official.“It entered Coimbatore at Devarayapuram in mid-August from Sholayur, and from there moved to Marudhamalai, Mankarai, Thadagam and then crossed over into Kerala again,” said district forest officer D Venkatesh. “It destroyed three houses in Devarayapuram and Marudhamalai during its first foray,” he said. The injury on its tongue had already occurred by then.On August 24, the ailing male elephant was tranquilised by the Mannarkkad forest division officials in Kerala after they found its tongue damaged. They cleaned its wounds, administered antibiotics and sent it back into the forest.It re-entered Coimbatore border in the first week of September and was found roaming around Devarayapuram, Marudhamalai, Thadagam, Kanuvai, Nanjundapuram, 24 Veerapandi, Mankarai, Anaikatti and the Periyanaickenpalayam range. The forest department was giving daily updates to people to stay indoors as the elephant had damaged six houses in its second foray into the district.The elephant had crossed over into forest areas of Kerala on Tuesday, officials said. A postmortem will give a better clue on the exact cause of its death, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-makhna-bulldozer-found-dead-on-kerala-border/articleshow/78027508.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Minister flags off ambulances for Covid duty||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Wednesday inaugurated 12 ambulances to cater to the Covid-19 patients in the Coimbatore region.While nine of the new vehicles have basic life support, the rest are four-wheel drives to be used in the Nilgiris, Valparai and Seeliyur Hills. The vehicles reduce exposure to the staff and non-Covid-19 patients. The 108-ambulance service has 15 vehicles exclusively for the patients.The service has 41 ambulances in total. The new ambulances will be able to transport 75 to 100 Covid-19 patients to the care centres at Codissia, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI hospital a day. “We get at least two calls a day about Covid-19 patients who are critical,” said an official attached to the service.Though the usual response time of the ambulances in the district is eight minutes, since they transport up to six Covid patients at a time, it takes up to five hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/minister-flags-off-ambulances-for-covid-duty/articleshow/78027504.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Paperless passport office in Telangana from 2021||HYDERABAD: Come 2021, the regional passport office here would become paperless as all the existing data will be digitised. It is estimated that data pertaining to about two lakh passports was preserved in paper records and files. “Following the decision taken by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) all the records before the year 1995 will now be digitised and uploaded on the official portal,” said E Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, regional passport officer (RPO). “Once the data has been digitised it would be easy for our passport staff and police to track credentials of applicants,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paperless-passport-office-in-t-from-21/articleshow/78027589.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||Case of mysterious disappearance of five-member family||PILIBHIT: The special operation group (SOG) team of district police entrusted with probing the case of the mysterious disappearance of a five-member family from village Kesarpur Talluke Ananadpur under Madhotanda police station on September 5, has concluded that the head of the disappeared family, Ramautar, has been killed by his wife, Rekha Devi, and elder son, Sagar. The SOG team succeeded in recovering Ramautar’s dead body on Tuesday night, buried deep under a heap of wheat straw in his own house. Police have lodged an FIR in the matter and intensified the search for the suspected killers. According to superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, the SOG team headed by inspector Naresh Kashyap had been assigned to solve the case after preliminary information indicated Ramautar had been murdered. The SOG had received leads that Sagar had taken shelter at the house of his aunt (mother’s sister) Champa Devi in village Amraiyya Khata under Puranpur Kotwali police station. After the team took Champa Devi and her husband Raghuveer into custody, they confessed during interrogation that Sagar and his mother had slit his father’s trachea with a scythe, dug a pit in the straw chamber, buried the body and covered it with straw, said the SP. He said a special police team has been sent to Jharkhand to arrest the two accused, as Rekha Devi’s parental home is in village Chatauk under Madhupur tehsil in district Deoghar, which is where her mobile phone was traced as being active. Although the exact motive behind the murder can be revealed only after the two accused are arrested, police had been informed that Sagar indulged in criminal activities like theft and gambling, over which he had been punished by his father, said the SP. Locals told media persons that Rekha Devi was involved in illicit relationships with other persons, and wanted to get rid of her husband. Shahroz Anwar, the SHO of Madhotanda police station, said based on the complaint filed by Malkhan Singh, the elder brother of the deceased, police have booked Rekha Devi and her son Sagar under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/case-of-mysteriously-disappeared-family-nearing-closure-head-of-family-killed-by-wife-and-son/articleshow/78021419.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Ambulance on demand on zone helplines: NMC||NAGPUR: Correcting the mistake of not providing ambulance service after allowing home isolation amid a surge in cases, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased its ambulance fleet to 65. The civic body now claims to have ambulance services on call from all 10 zone offices. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Wednesday flagged off 25 ambulances added to the fleet. Ambulance will be provided free of cost to Covid-19 patients at all 10 zones. People should contact given helpline numbers of respective zone, NMC said. The civic body had allowed home isolation for positive patients from July-end. Similarly, home quarantine of high-risk contacts was also allowed. There was steep rise in cases in August. This led to the need to facilitate ambulance service to Covid hospital and back. But the civic body had only 20 ambulances, which were busy at Covid Care Centres, testing centres etc. The family of a deceased had even alleged the patient died due to delay in ambulance reaching their home. Also, positive patients are themselves driving to diagnostic centres and hospitals. Asymptomatic patients are taking symptomatic relatives in their own vehicles to hospitals. Such instances create a good chance for spread of the disease. During their visit to the city, experts from Mumbai had also suggested NMC should add 100 more ambulance last week. Accordingly, NMC had increased the number to 40 last week. On Wednesday, 25 more were added, taking the fleet to 65. NMC has only 7 ambulances and had taken over 11 of state government’s 108 Ambulance Service vehicles in April. For admission and discharge of patients from government-run Covid Hospitals, 12 mini city buses are also being used as bus ambulance. Then, the civic body hired 10 private ambulances last week. The new fleet of 25 ambulances is also on rental basis. NMC has provided 4 ambulances each to 5 zones while remaining 5 zones have 5 each. Three ambulances will be at NMC head office, one each at IGR DCHC and five Covid Care Centres. Another 11 ambulances will be on emergency call. A day ago, mayor Sandip Joshi had requested RTO to give permission to convert school vans into ambulance on temporary basis so that number of ambulances can be increased and drivers and owners can get some income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambulance-on-demand-on-zone-helplines-nmc/articleshow/78027512.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 10, 2020||Pune||PMR’s 24-hour tally hits new high, 69 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added its single-day highest Covid-19 tally of 4,885 on Wednesday, with a lion’s share of the caseload coming from the Pune municipal limits. Besides, 69 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 4,794. Among the new cases, the PMC limits recorded 2,078, while 1,240 were added in PCMC the limits and 1,567 in the rural and Cantonment areas. With this, PMR’s Covid-19 case burden has risen above 2.06 lakh. The recoveries in the region also increased to 3,085 on Wednesday, pushing the total cured count in PMR to more than 1.63 lakh. A report by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that active cases in the region jumped to 38,505 on Wednesday, including 23,763 being treated at hospitals and 14,742 in home isolation. Authorities from the health department said testing had gone up in the urban and rural pockets in the district, pushing up the daily tally. “Besides, the lockdown restrictions have been eased,” a health official said. “The region is conducting around 14,000 tests almost every day now. On Wednesday, 16,378 tests were conducted in PMR. The on-field staff has been instructed to take up rigorous contact tracing and conduct the tests of suspected residents,” a senior health department official said. PMC officials said the testing camps were being held at the micro-containment zones to ramp up the checks. “On Wednesday, over 7,600 tests were conducted in the city. More people are coming ahead to get tested for Covid-19,” a senior civic official said. PMR has recorded over 4,000 cases on daily basis since the last two weeks, with rapid rise in rural tally. A PMC report said 927 patients were at critical stage on Wednesday, of whom 483 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-24-hour-tally-hits-new-high-69-more-dead/articleshow/78027503.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mind the gap but address issues of people, police chief tells cops||NEW DELHI: Senior officers of Delhi Police have been asked to set up a communication system to interact with common people and address their grievances while maintaining social distancing norms. Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava has asserted that no senior officer should let hearing of public grievances take a back seat during Covid-19. In an order issued on Wednesday to all deputy, joint and special commissioners, Shrivastava said, “With the movement of public turning near normal, the increased activities will require police intervention for addressing the grievance of the public. While it is not desirable to meet complainants in person, it can be done through a videoconference.” The DCP (crime records officer and information technology) has been asked to set up an email ID that will be put up on the Delhi Police website and a complainant can use it to seek an appointment with a senior officer after providing necessary details. Following this, the complainant will be provided with a time, date and place of meeting by the officer concerned to visit the local DCP office and sit at a conference room for the interaction. Complainants can even ask for a meeting with the police commissioner himself if they are not satisfied with previous interactions. While hearing out the grievances, senior cops can also contact their subordinates through the same video link and arrange for a one-to-one meeting in their presence so that a complainant doesn’t have to visit another police station. Before the lockdown, a DCP-rank officer used to meet around 20-25 complainants through the day, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mind-the-gap-but-address-issues-of-people-police-chief-tells-cops/articleshow/78027566.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Maratha leaders, BJP blame MVA govt for SC stay on quota||Nagpur: Maratha community leaders have blamed Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for Supreme Court stay on the reservation for community and charged it with not being serious enough over the issue. While BJP leaders have also slammed the MVA for failing to defend Maratha reservation, Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN) has hailed the apex court verdict. Prashant Mohite, former NU registrar and one of the coordinators of Maratha quota movement in city, charged the state government with deliberately going easy over the reservation issue. “It has insulted our 58 morchas. We will launch agitations again for our right and get what is our due,” he told TOI. Maratha royal family scion Raje Mudhoji Bhonsale said state government has failed in forcefully putting up the cause of Marathas in SC. “We now hope that constitutional bench gives us justice. We don’t want injustice to be done to any community, but Marathas must get their due,” he added. Bhonsale lamented that the reservation was fast becoming a political issue. “This is a social issue and there should be no politics in it,” he said. Another Maratha leader Datta Shirke said that SC had granted stay due to weakness of the state government. “The whole process of reservations in admissions and jobs for our community is now in limbo. The government failed completely in this regard. If it had argued properly, there would have been no stay as the case history shows. We got reservation after a lot of struggle. Now, there is little hope for us,” he added. Rajesh Nimbalkar, a Maratha activist, wondered whether SC was biased towards the Maratha community. “It has not stayed reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS). Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have more than 50% reservations. So why the cap only when it comes to Marathas. There is tremendous unrest in the community,” he said. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government for undoing the good deed of the BJP government. “We had given reservation to Marathas and got a green signal from Bombay high court, but all that is lost. The state government was not serious about the issue right from the beginning. Sometimes its lawyers were absent from the court, sometimes they did not file submissions on time,” he told media. Shrirang Choudhary, Maharashtra legal adviser of Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN), however, hailed the judgment. “This historic decision has been applauded by all open category people led by SMSN, who are not against reservation for needy Marathas, but only want that it should be within 50% cap,” he said. Dr Anil Laddhad, president of SMSN also hailed the judgment and urged the activists to gird up for another struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maratha-leaders-bjp-blame-mva-govt-for-sc-stay-on-quota/articleshow/78027525.cms||Ashish Roy
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Kabaddi players seek nod for tournaments||Barnala: One of rural India’s favourite games, Kabaddi suffered due to various Covid-19 restrictions over assembly of persons. This has put kabaddi players in a precarious position as they remained out of action for the last nearly six months. All local, district, state and international tournaments — sources of their earning — came to a grinding halt. The last kabaddi tournament in Malwa area of Punjab was held on March 16. Now kabaddi players have handed over a memorandum to the Barnala deputy commissioner (DC) asking government to allow the games so that they may start earning again. International kabaddi players Kala Singh, who had met the DC along with Pamma Thikriwal and Bhalwan Maur, said, “Kabaddi tournaments used to be held round the year with some lean period in the peak summer. Many players used to visit the US, Canada and Australia to play in various clubs and used to earn handsomely and returned after a few months. Here too they used to earn regularly by playing as almost all the villages used to hold tournaments. But for the last couple of months, they are going to the ground only for practice and no tournament has been allowed.” Kabaddi promoter Daljit Singh said the players are facing lots of hardships because of Covid-19 restrictions. “We are approaching the authorities to allow the game to be played with certain restrictions.” Another international player Sukhwinder from Bajakhana in Faridkot said villages used to put up handsome cash prizes, but everything came to a standstill because of coronavirus. Former minister and Punjab Kabaddi Association president Sikander Singh Maluka said, “Though not many tournaments used to be held in the summers, some players used to get invites from abroad. But now things have come to such a pass that many players find it hard to run households. We are approaching state and union governments to allow the activities at least from October so that the players may start earning.” Barnala deputy commissioner T P S Phoolka said the memorandum would be sent to the state government for consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kabaddi-players-seek-nod-for-tournaments/articleshow/78027535.cms||Neel Kamal
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur cop dies of Covid-19||Coimbatore: A 53-year-old head constable attached to the Anupparpalayam police station in Tirupur city died of Covid-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Tuesday night. The deceased, D Arulkumar, was discharged from a private hospital in Tirupur on August 31 after undergoing angioplasty. He started vomiting on the next day and was again hospitalised on September 2. The next day, he was referred to a private hospital in Coimbatore city, where swab samples were taken. He tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to CMCH on September 4.The body was buried with 21-gun salute at a burial ground in Kavundampalayam in Coimbatore on Wednesday.Arulkumar, was a native of Vinnampalli village near Sathyamangalam in Erode district. He was staying at Palankarai near Avinashi in Tirupur district and is survived by his wife Padmakumari, son Rajesh and daughter Ramya. Tirupur city armed reserve police constable Vasu had died of Covid-19 in Madurai on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78027524.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||NIA seizes gold ornaments, money from Coimbatore jeweller||COIMBATORE: National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths raided a gold jewellery manufacturing unit on Pavizham Street in the city on Wednesday in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case in Kerala. The officers seized 38 sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 2.25 lakh, two hard discs and three mobile phones from Sri Senthur Jewels and from the house of its owner J Nandagopal, 41. “The prime accused in the smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, had handed over some gold bars to Nandagopal. They conducted hawala transactions also,” a source said. The NIA team, led by DSP Sahul Hameed, had reached the city from Kochi on Wednesday morning. The officers began the raid at the unit at 6am. They also searched Nandagopal’s house on the second floor of the building. The sleuths interrogated Nandagopal for a few hours and later took him to the NIA office in Kochi. The investigating agency has named Nandagopal as an accused in the gold smuggling case as he acted as a middleman by buying the smuggled gold, the source said. “He made gold jewellery and handed them over to Swapna.” NIA seized several documents and mobile phones following raids at two places in Kozhikode and a place in Malappuram in connection with the case on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nia-seizes-gold-ornaments-money-from-city-jeweller/articleshow/78027521.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Drugs scandal: Karnataka govt promises to go after politicians’ kin too||BENGALURU: Police officers probing the drugs scandal in the state are reportedly under tremendous pressure as their investigations have exposed a nexus between the drugs mafia and close relatives of some politicians. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has already named 14 accused in its first information report (FIR) —one of whom is Adiyta Alva, the son of late former minister Jeevaraj Alva. Home department sources said there are at least a dozen in the trade who have direct links to politicians and some of them are sons of established politicians — regardless of party affiliation — who represent Bengaluru. “It does not seem as if the government has given a free hand to CCB sleuths to investigate the drugs trade especially since several politicians’ sons are involved,” said a senior BJP functionary. “If they have been given a free hand, then why are the police not booking them when their names are already doing the rounds?” However, several ministers of the BJP government insist they will not spare any one. Tourism minister CT Ravi recently admitted political pressure is being mounted on investigators. “The government will not come under any political pressure and I am confident that my party will also not yield to such pressure tactics,” Ravi said. Filmmaker and journalist Indrajit Lankesh, whose comments triggered the whole sequence of events over the past few days including the arrest of actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, insist he has given ample evidence to prove the involvement of family members of politicians. He said it is up to the government and CCB sleuths to use the information judiciously. “I have given the names of politicians’ sons and film personalities [to the police]. I am confident that these people will be booked since the investigation is on the right track so far,” said Lankesh. Lankesh and others involved in the investigation say many recent seemingly unrelated incidents, including a couple of road accidents involving high-end cars, a brawl at a luxury shopping mall and a honey-trap case, are all directly linked to the drugs racket. They say the focus is now on those involved in these incidents. However, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said investigators are examining all possible angles and reports on the involvement of kin of politicians and those will political connections are all speculative at this point. “As such, investigators have no evidence to conclusively suggest the involvement of children of politicians,” Bommai said. “Whether they are indeed involved will depend on the kind of evidence investigators gather. I have asked them not to spare anybody, but at the same time this should not be a witch-hunt for political reasons,” the home minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-scandal-govt-promises-to-go-after-politicians-kin-too/articleshow/78026229.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 10, 2020||Chandigarh||School heads told not to insist on TCs||Chandigarh: The Punjab education department has issued instructions to government school heads not to insist on students submitting transfer certificate (TC) for admission. Education secretary Krishan Kumar issued the instructions to district education officers and school heads in this regard. Earlier, Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla directed officials to remove the need for a TC for admission in government schools, so students did not face difficulty in getting admission. According to a spokesperson of the department, the need for a TC for admission in government schools had been lifted and school heads asked to admit such students by taking a written application from parents of students who do not have the certificate. District authorities have also been asked to keep a check on schools not issuing transfer certificates. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-heads-told-not-to-insist-on-tcs/articleshow/78027522.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Meerut||A day after murder of Meerut jeweller, gym trainer shot dead||MEERUT: A 45-year-old gym trainer, Parvinder Singh, out for morning walk, was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants near Daurala area around 6.30 am on Wednesday. Singh received 5 bullets and was rushed to a city hospital where he was declared “brought dead”. Police claimed that two persons have been nabbed later in the day. The murder took place in less than 24 hours after a jeweller was shot dead in a busy market area here on Tuesday. Eyewitnesses said other morning walkers tried to catch hold of the attackers but they managed to flee. According to SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan, "Preliminary investigations suggest monetary dispute as the primary reason for the murder." SSP Ajay Sahani said, "We have arrested two partners of the deceased -- who used to work as small time contractors for the civic body. We cannot disclose the names of the accused as of now. We are also looking at monetary dispute angle." Meanwhile, Medical Police Station SHO Kulvir Singh has been suspended for the murder of jeweller Aman Jain on Tuesday. A delegation comprising city's prominent jewellers also met senior police officials on Wednesday to discuss issues regarding their safety. "We have received CCTV footages of the area and have also managed to retrieve pictures of the suspected attackers. A hunt is on to nab the culprits involved in the murder of the jeweller," said SSP Sahani. Local politicians and members of trade associations came out and protested against the police for the two murders on Wednesday. Samajwadi Party workers staged a protest outside the jeweller's shop and launched a scathing attack on the BJP-led state government for the deteriorating law and order situation. Even local BJP leaders did not spare the police administration. "Mere suspension of an SHO will not serve the purpose. We want speedy arrest of the culprits and a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the aggrieved family that has lost its only son," said Vineet Sharda, state secretary of BJP Vyapaar Prakosht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-day-after-murder-of-meerut-jeweller-gym-trainer-shot-dead/articleshow/78024747.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 10, 2020||Meerut||Denied new phone, 14-year-old hangs himself in UP’s Bijnor||BIJNOR: A 14-year-old boy allegedly hanged himself in UP’s Bijnor district, with his family claiming that he was upset as his demand for a new phone was not met. The Class VI student was found hanging by his cousin on Wednesday morning. Both of them worked at a roadside eatery in Bijnor’s Nehtor area after school hours and the boy allegedly killed himself there, police said. Station house officer (SHO) of Nehtaur, Satya Prakash, said that the body of the boy has been sent for post-mortem examination. “Exact cause of the death will come out only after its report arrives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/denied-new-phone-14-year-old-hangs-himself-in-ups-bijnor/articleshow/78024752.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for molesting daughter||Coimbatore: A 42-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for molesting his 15-year-old daughter at his residence near Ganapathy.The accused hailed from Arur in Dharmapuri district and worked for a solar equipment manufacturing unit, police sources said. “He was heavily drunk when he molested the girl at his house on September 5. He threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the matter to anyone. However, the girl told her mother about the incident. She lodged a complaint with the all-woman police (east),” a police officer said.Inspector R Prabhadevi registered a case against the man under sections 9 (n), 10, 11 (1) and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and sections 323 and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code.Though he managed to escape to his hometown, a police team arrested him on Tuesday night. He was produced before a special court for Pocso cases and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-molesting-daughter/articleshow/78027520.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Dr Radhakrishnan Award conferred on 13 teachers||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Wednesday handed over the Dr Radhakrishnan Award for best teachers to 13 schoolteachers in the district at an event that was organized at the district collectorate.Of the 13 awardees, six were from the government and aided high and higher secondary schools, as many others from the government and aided elementary and middle schools, and one from a private school. The teachers were given a certificate, a medal and a cash award of Rs 10,000 each.In addition, three staff members of the District Institute of Education and Training, including its principal, were honoured with congratulatory certificates for producing video lessons for online learning.It is to be noted that the award ceremony was conducted in several other districts over the past four days. Teachers in the district had expressed concerns over the delay in holding the award ceremony and officials withholding the list of awardees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dr-radhakrishnan-award-conferred-on-13-teachers/articleshow/78027549.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Bareilly||‘Made to wait’ at hospital gate for 5 hours, Covid-19 patient dies||BAREILLY: On Wednesday morning, Vijay Kumar (name changed), was holding his phone firmly. Suddenly, the device had become very dear to him. “I have my father’s call recordings in it, and one can easily feel the pain,” the youth, 32, said outside a hospital in Shahjahanpur. About 12 hours ago, Vijay was running from one corridor to the other to complete paperwork so that his father gets a bed in the hospital. He couldn’t. And when a bed was finally allotted to the critical Covid-19 patient, 54, he was dead. The family says it took the hospital five hours to provide a bed to the Covid-19 patient, a crucial time during which his life could have been saved. The son said, “Despite his critical condition, my father was denied admission for five hours. With time running out, we kept on running between L1 and L2 facilities just to get the paperwork done.” “When I took my father to L2 hospital, I was told that I should first get him referred from L1 hospital. So I rushed back to L1 and spent about two hours in paperwork. When I rushed back, there was some paperwork waiting for me at L2 also. Officials didn’t show any sympathy even as my father’s condition was worsening. He was finally admitted but not put on oxygen support. He was not even given anything to eat and outside food was also not allowed. And he died,” the son said. “I don’t think that this hospital is safe for common man. Staff members are not sensitive towards the patients. I have my father’s call recordings and one can easily feel his pain,” Kumar added. The hospital, on its part, alleged that the family took away the patient soon after he was allotted a bed. “We were shifting the critical patient to L2 facility when the family members forcefully took him away,” the hospital said in a statement. Pooja Pandey, spokesperson of the hospital, said, “The condition of the patient was critical and doctors were trying to shift him to ICU in L2 facility. But his family members forcefully took him along and delayed his admission. The treatment was delayed because of his family members.” Eight persons have died due to Covid-19 in the past two days in Shahjahanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/made-to-wait-at-hospital-gate-for-5-hours-covid-19-patient-dies-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78023581.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Record 85 deaths in Vidarbha, Nagpur district accounts for 59||Nagpur: All districts of Vidarbha barring Gadchiroli reported Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday. Total 85 fatalities — highest in a single-day so far — were reported in the region, taking the toll to 2,199. Alarmingly, 610 deaths have been reported in just first nine days of September.Nagpur recorded highest 59 deaths, followed by Bhandara (5), Akola (4), Wardha (3), Gondia (3), Amravati (3), Yavatmal (3), Chandrapur (2), Washim (2), Buldhana (1). Earlier, the region had reported 76 deaths in a day on September 6. Case fatality rate, however, came under 2.6% for the first time in last 45 days. But this was not due to effective death control. In fact, more Covid-19 positive cases are being reported as a result of increased testing. So, although deaths have increased, the case fatality rate has come down. The day also 2,979 new cases in the region — Nagpur (1,612), Chandrapur (276), Wardha (185), Buldhana (172), Akola (155), Amravati (125), Yavatmal (120), Bhandara (119) Gondia (116) Washim (79) Gadchiroli (20). With this, the case burden has reached 84,857. On recovery front, 1,835 patients were discharged in a day. Nagpur recorded 1,105 recoveries, Amravati (133), Chandrapur (132), Akola (98), Buldhana (89), Gondia (76) Yavatmal (73) Bhandara (38), Wardha (35), Washim (35), and Gadchiroli (21). Now, total 56,135 patients have recovered. The recovery rate remained steady at 66%. But it is still less than Maharashtra’s 74% and national average of more than 77%.AMRAVATI: Posting a spike of 125 cases and three Covid deaths, the district took its case burden to 7,638 and toll to 163 on Wednesday.A report from civil surgeon office stated that a 60-year-old woman from Badegaon in Achalpur and two men (80 and 68) from Kedia Nagar in Rajapeth and Dastur Nagar died during treatment.The day also saw 133 patients getting discharge, taking the number of recoveries to 5,795. The district has 1,680 patients under treatment, including 15 admitted to Nagpur and 399 in home isolation.The rural belt accounted for 62 of the day’s 125 cases, taking its count to 2,302. Twenty-four cases each came from Anjangaon Surji and Chikhaldara tehsils while Paratwada and Warud reported four and two. Eight villages reported a case each while one case was reported from Murtijapur in Akola district.In city, nine prisoners from Amravati Central jail tested positive while five cases came from jail quarters bus stop premises. Arjun Nagar reported four cases while three each came from Sai Nagar and Badnera. Amar Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Rajapeth, Gopal Nagar and Khandelwal Nagar reported two cases each. Other localities together reported 28 cases.BHANDARA: Record five Covid-19 deaths in a day rocked Bhandara district, taking toll to 42. A surge of 119 cases took total cases to 2,335 while 38 patients got discharge, taking number of recoveries to 1,113. Now, district has 1,180 patients under treatment. AKOLA: Four Covid-19 deaths, and a surge of 155 cases mean Akola is on the path to witnessing fresh spike after keeping the pandemic in check in last two weeks of August. The death toll reached 172. New deaths came from Akot Fail, Dabki Road, Balapur and Murjizapur – places that were Covid-19 hotspots in May and June. The district now has 4,964 cases and all set to surpass the 5,000-mark on Thursday. Of them, 3,726 patients have been discharged, and 1,066 are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The Covid count surged to 4,662 as the district took leap of 276 positive patients on Wednesday. With two more deaths reported during the last 24 hours, the toll has reached to 53. The day also saw the discharge of 132 patients and the figure of cured patients has now climbed to 2,364, leaving 2,245 patients under treatment.The two deceased include a 72-year-old person from Aazad ward in Warora and 60-year-old person from Nandgaon in Bramhapuri tehsil. Both were comorbid patients suffering from pneumonia. Both of them died at Chandrapur GMCH.District administration has given call for four-day janata curfew at Chandrapur city, areas on periphery like Padoli, Durgapur and Urjanagar along with Ballarpur town from Thursday. All the grocery stores, vegetable, fruit stalls, paan kiosks and street stalls along with all the establishments will remain closed. Medical services, medical stores, government offices, factories, banks, WCL mines will continue to operate.Yavatmal: Surge of 120 cases, including three deaths took Yavatmal’s tally to 4,664 and toll to 129 on Wednesday. The deceased include a 50-year-old man from Arni, a 24-year-old man from Pandharkawda, and a 60-year-old from Digras. After recovery of 73 patients in a day, the district has 1,280 patients under treatment. Of them, 966 are in hospital while others are in home isolation. The district has tested 57,833 samples, just next to Nagpur in Vidarbha region. Still, more than 3,000 reports are awaited in Yavatmal district.WARDHA: The district saw highest single-day jump in Covid cases and crossed 2,000-mark of positive patients on Wednesday. A 37-year-old man from Pulgaon, 62-year-old woman from Wardha and 50-year-old woman from Hinganghat died on Wednesday, taking the toll to 37. On Wednesday, 796 test report were received. Of them, 185 (102 men and 83 women) were found positive, taking the caseload to 2,111. The highest 89 cases were reported from Wardha tehsil, followed by Hinganghat (37), Deoli (17), Selu (12), Samudrapur (10), eight cases each came from Arvi and Ashti while Karanja reported four cases. The day also saw 35 patients getting discharge after recovery. Now, there are 983 patients under treatment. GONDIA: Three patients succumbed to Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday. While 116 new cases emerged, 76 patients were given discharge after recovery. Of the 1,194 active cases, 407 patients are under home quarantine. Deceased include an 82-year-old man from Ram Nagar, a 60-year-old from Kanhartoli and a 68-year-old from Sadak-Arjuni. Gondia now has 2,607 cases, 1,375 recoveries, and 38 deaths. Gondia district has tested 20,389 samples so far, and sample positivity rate here is nearly 13%. BULDHANA: The day saw spike of 172 cases, death of a Covid-19 patient, and discharge to 89 patients. A 59-year-old man from Buldhana died during treatment on Wednesday taking district’s toll to 60. Total 770 reports were received in a day and 172 tested positive, which means sample positivity rate is more than 22%. Total cases in district reached 4,363, including 3,097 recoveries. Now, 1,206 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: The district reported two Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 46, including a suicide. Both deceased were men and 65 years old. The district reported spike of 79 cases, taking the tally to 2,377. Total 35 patients recovered in a day, taking their number to 1,651. With this, 680 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Gadchiroli was the only district in Vidarbha on Wednesday where no Covid-19 death was reported. In fact, Gadchiroli has recorded only one death so far. The deceased was a resident of Gadchiroli but died in Telangana in the first week of June. Gadchiroli is so far the least affected district in Vidarbha with 1,349 cases, 1,104 of them recovered and 244 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-85-deaths-in-vidarbha-nagpur-district-accounts-for-59/articleshow/78027557.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM takes stock as cases breach daily record||NEW DELHI: After a record-breaking, single-day addition of Covid cases on Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called an emergency meeting of the health minister, top government officials and heads of government hospitals to review the management of the pandemic in the city. Directing the hospitals and authorities to take all preventive measures to check infection and bring down daily mortality numbers to zero, the CM also ordered a further increase in the tests. After conducting a record 54,517 Covid tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen, in a single day, the number of new cases went up by 4,039 on Wednesday, breaching the mark of 3,947 logged on June 23. After the meeting, Kejriwal tweeted, “I have directed all MS (medical superintendents) and authorities to take all possible steps to prevent the spread of Corona and assured the hospitals of full support in this regard.” He maintained that Delhi’s model of controlling the virus was being discussed “widely across the country”. “In the last few days, we have doubled the testing in Delhi from 20,000 to 40,000 and are encouraging everyone to get tested since it no longer requires a doctor’s prescription to get tested,” Kejriwal told the meeting. “If any hospital is experiencing any problems, they can directly reach me, and I will extend all possible help in this regard.” He specifically instructed that no one who wanted to voluntarily get tested was to be denied. The CM directed all officers to strictly enforce all state and central government standard operating procedures against the spread of Covid, warning of action against complacency. Kejriwal also ordered ambulance services not to refuse any calls from patients for transfer to hospitals. In addition, he asked the hospitals to ensure that Delhi government’s Corona App was updated with real-time information on the number of available beds and ventilators to prevent panic among people. The state government is pulling out all stops to ensure zero death and fool-proof containment of affected localities. Areas reporting more than three positive cases in clusters are being converted into containment zones to allow the authorities to keep them under official monitoring. Almost all economic activities have been permitted in the city though with strict guidelines for appropriate Covid behavior. Alongside, the capital is also seeing the return migration of people from other states in search of jobs and livelihoods. Through phone calls and messages and other modes of communication, Kejriwal is directly reaching out to around one crore Delhiites to make them aware of the measures needed to avoid infection. The CM instructed the hospitals to take due care to prevent Covid spread within the hospitals, particularly in OPDs and other crowded places. The government has also taken other steps like constituting committees of senior and highly experienced doctors to review the pandemic preparations in Delhi’s hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-takes-stock-as-cases-breach-daily-record/articleshow/78027584.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI admissions put on hold indefinitely||Nagpur: The Supreme Court’s decision to put on hold admissions with social and economically backward classes (SEBC) quota in Maharashtra, has resulted in some late evening changes to the schedule of Std XI admission. The school education department, which oversees it through Common Admission Process (CAP), has put everything on hold indefinitely. The declaration of allotment list for Round-2 in CAP was scheduled to be released on Thursday. In view of SC’s order, that has now been put on hold and a new schedule will be communicated to students after government’s approval. An official told TOI that admissions done so far may not change. “Already under Round-1, the reservation matrix was implemented. My interpretation is that it won’t change since it was done last week itself. Now we will await government orders on how to proceed further,” said the official. Admissions to the 3-year polytechnic diploma is now at the application stage with the last date being Thursday. Whether this schedule will get postponed and how the new admission matrix will work is still unclear. Deepak Kulkarni, in charge principal of Government Polytechnic in Nagpur, said, “We are a government institute and all orders from state will be followed. As of Wednesday evening, no communication had been received regarding this. However, we are still at application stage. So there is no doubt that before actual admissions start, government will provide clarity on the issue.” Due to Covid-19, students can now make use of e-scrutiny format for documents. Ram Nibude, joint director of Nagpur regional office of the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), said, “In this process, the student has to first register on the website of the DTE from home with the help of laptop or computer and then fill up the admission form online. The required documents or certificates are to be scanned and submitted online.” Polytechnic diploma in engineering makes a student eligible for admission to a degree course directly in second year. Those looking for a specialized approach prefer admissions in polytechnic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-admissions-put-on-hold-indefinitely/articleshow/78027561.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Two Pak smugglers shot dead by BSF near border in Sriganganagar||Jaisalmer: BSF jawans shot dead two Pakistani intruders at the international border adjoining Sriganganagar early Wednesday at around 2am. The two were reportedly trying to smuggle drugs and weapons into the country. In a search operation by the BSF on Wednesday morning, 10 packets of heroin weighing 8kg, two foreign pistols, 28 live cartridges, four magazines, a night vision device (NVD) and Rs 13,000 in Pakistani currency, were recovered. A pistol cover, small knife and a wallet were also recovered. A Pakistani identity card in the name of Shahbaz Ali, s/o Mustaq Ahmed, 33, has been seized. Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha said it was a successful operation. “We got some intelligence of some type of operation going to happen in the border and the team was ready to deal with this,” he said, adding that it was for the first time an NVD device was being recovered. “This is very surprising for us and we are investigating what was their plan. It is for the first time in Rajasthan frontier that an NVD has been recovered from an intruder,” he said. BSF Rajasthan frontier DIG M S Rathore said that at 2am on Wednesday, jawans of 91st battalion at Khyaliwali border outpost, adjoining Sriganganagar, noticed some movement across the border. They saw two intruders enter the Indian side of the border and throw heroin packets near the fencing. The jawans warned them and asked them to stop, but the intruders paid no heed and were shot dead. DIG said that two local smugglers, who were reportedly to receive the consignment at the Indian border, fled on hearing the shots. The entire area has been cordoned off and BSF has increased vigilance. The search operation is going on in nearby areas also. Rathore said a flag meeting will be held with Pakistan in this regard and a protest note will be handed over on the incident. In the last few days at the international border adjoining Abhoar in Punjab, three consignments of heroin from across the border were caught. Following these incidents, strict vigilance was being maintained at the international border adjoining Sriganganagar and Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-pak-smugglers-shot-dead-by-bsf-near-border-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/78027563.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Man hangs self after bride leaves him||Coimbatore: A 29-year-old man who married a 20-year-old woman on September 6, committed suicide by hanging after his wife left him three days after their wedding. The family members of the deceased blocked the road in front of the collectorate on Wednesday night, seeking action against the parents of the woman for abetting the suicide.The deceased was identified as N Govindaraj of Perumal Kovil Street at Sennanur on the city outskirts. He was a welder.Govindaraj had fallen in love with his neighbour B Manjula Devi six months ago and decided to marry her, his mother Kanchana, 46, wife of Narayanasamy, said in her complaint to the Perur police. “But Devi’s parents were against the marriage. But he married her with the help of his friends in a temple at Sundakkamuthur on September 6. Though the couple had our blessings, Devi’s father Balasubramanian, mother Rajeswari and grandmother Sasikala fought with us on September 7,” she said.Kanchana lodged a complaint with the Perur all women police over the family dispute and police invited both the families to the station for inquiry on Tuesday. During the inquiry, Devi told police that she wanted to go with her parents. She removed her gold ornaments including mangalsutra and handed them over to Govindaraj.“Balasubramanian verbally abused my son on Tuesday night. He was depressed and committed suicide on Wednesday around 4.30am. Manjula’s parents and grandmother are responsible for his death,” the complaint said.Police registered a case under Section 174 CrPC (unnatural death).Postmortem was carried out at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. However, Govindaraj ‘s parents refused to receive the body and along with their relatives, sat on the State Bank of India (SBI) Road, seeking action against the trio.The Race Course police held talks with the protesters and dispersed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-hangs-self-after-bride-leaves-him/articleshow/78027556.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Exempt disabled from Class X exams: Forum||Coimbatore: Representatives of the Samadrishti, Kshamata Vikas Evam Anusandhan Mandal (Saksham), a forum for people with disabilities, on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seeking exemption for disabled private candidates from writing Class X exams, and announce them as promoted.In their representation, they said they learned that the Class X board exams will be held for private candidates this month. “Normally, candidates with learning difficulties write Class X in private mode and they have to depend on a helper or a scribe to write the exam. So, there can’t possibly be personal distancing between them,” the petition said. “Disabled students are vulnerable to infections and it is risky for them to travel to exam centres. Due to these reasons, to safeguard the physical and mental well-being of such candidates, they should be exempted from Class X board exam and be declared as promoted.”The supplementary exams for Class X are scheduled to be held from September 21 to 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/exempt-disabled-from-class-x-exams-forum/articleshow/78027527.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Business||EPFO to pay 8.5% interest rate in tranches of 8.15% & 0.35%||NEW DELHI: The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has decided to recommend to the finance ministry 8.5% interest rate on provident fund for formal sector employees for 2019-20. However, it it will be paid in two tranches because of a shortfall in EPFO’s income due to the impact of Covid-19 on financial markets. The first tranche of 8.15% will be paid from the debt income and the balance 0.35% from sale of exchange-traded funds subject to their redemption by December 31, an official statement said. This is being treated as a one-time measure in view of the exceptional circumstances. The 8.5% rate is the lowest in seven years and the staggered payment is the first of its kind in the retirement body’s history. Sources said the total payout would be about Rs 61,000 crore. TheEPFO’s shortfall is estimated at Rs 2,500 crore. It will sell its holding worth Rs 2,800 crore. The retirement body has been plagued by shortfalls over the years and has struggled to pay the interest rate which still fetches one of the best returns when compared to other instruments in the market. The 8.5% rate will be notified after the labour and employment ministry gets the finance ministry’s nod. At 8.5%, it works out to over 11% pre-tax return for those in the 30% tax bracket. The public provident fund is now at 7.1% while fixed deposit rates have turned negative for now due to a rise in retail inflation rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/epfo-to-pay-8-5-interest-rate-in-tranches-of-8-15-0-35/articleshow/78029227.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||10% Rajasthan Covid deaths in first nine days of September||JAIPUR: Over 10% of total deaths due to Covid-19 in the state have been reported in the first nine days of September. So far, 122 persons have lost their lives to the virus in the state, with 17 deaths in Jaipur this month. While the highest number of deaths has been reported in August, in September too, fatalities are being continuously reported from different parts of the state. On Wednesday, 14 persons died, taking the state toll to 1,178. As many as 12 different districts reported deaths. Jaipur and Kota reported two deaths each, taking their fatalities to 292 and 85, respectively. Meanwhile, Jodhpur reported its 114th Covid death, Bikaner 85th, Udaipur 32nd, Sikar 21st, Sirohi 17th, Rajsamand and Bhilwara their 16th each, Dungarpur 12th, Chittorgarh 10th and Jhalawar its sixth fatality. But the health department claimed that they have managed to bring down the mortality rate due to Covid significantly. “We have managed to bring down the mortality rate to 1.2%. In September, it is just 0.8%, which is the lowest in comparison to other months,” said a health department official. “We have expanded our facilities to ensure that not serious and critical patients get proper treatment but also asymptomatic cases and those with mild symptoms are treated by increasing the number of dedicated Covid hospitals in Jaipur,” the health official said. The state also recorded another grim milestone after it reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,610 new infections. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (311), Jodhpur (220), Kota (179), Ajmer (87), Alwar (85), Bikaner (65), Bhilwara (52), Chhittorgarh (48), Jhalawar (46), Pali (46), Baran (45), Dholpur (36), Hanumangarh (33), Nagaur (33), Bundi (32), Barmer (32), Sriganganagar (30), Sawai Madhopur (27), Jalore (26), Rajsamand (25), Udaipur (23), Churu (21), Bharatpur (20), Banswara (20), Dungarpur (18), Sirohi (18), Sikar (16), Pratapgarh (13), Jhunjhunu (2) and Tonk (1). In Jaipur, active cases rose to 4,830, which is a new high for the district, followed by Kota (2,437) and Jodhpur (1,676).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-raj-covid-deathsin-first-nine-days-of-sept/articleshow/78027593.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Meerut||Meerut hospital asks Rs 20,000 fee & refuses to discharge woman||MEERUT: A private hospital in Meerut's Kharkhauda area has refused to discharge a woman who gave birth to a stillborn after they got her delivery done by a ward 'aaya', her family alleged on Wednesday. The hospital, according to them, has demanded a Rs 20,000 fee. The family claimed that they had already deposited the same amount before the operation and now though they have been handed over the deceased child, they haven’t discharged the woman yet. The same amount is being asked at the time of discharge as well, they complained. “I had admitted my wife to the hospital on Wednesday with labour pains. However, the hospital got her delivery done by a ward 'aaya'. My wife gave birth to a stillborn due to negligence and now the hospital is asking for a Rs 20,000 discharge fee,” said Mubarak, the woman’s husband. The family then approached the district magistrate to complain about the matter. A probe has been ordered. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajkumar has sent a team to investigate. “The woman has been discharged and the family's money has been returned. Negligence of the hospital has been found and a notice will be issued for the lapse,” the CMO said. However, as two persons at the CMO's office tested Covid positive on Wednesday, the notice will be issued only by Friday. The office will remain closed for the said duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-hospital-asks-rs-20k-fee-refuses-todischarge-woman-who-gave-birth-to-stillborn/articleshow/78024778.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||Every depression curable, all suicides preventable, say doctors||Nagpur: While all are worried about the increasing deaths due to Covid-19, suicides due to various reasons during the pandemic have been silent killers. Nagpur has witnessed 1,458 deaths due to Covid-19 since March, and nearly 600 reported suicides, unreported apart. While senior citizens are more prone to get seriously ill due to Covid-19; the young, healthy, earning or learning age-group between 15- 29 years of age are most vulnerable to commit suicide due to various after-effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. TOI spoke to doctors on the eve of World Suicide prevention day. They said that students are at highest risk and 1 in 7 persons is suffering from mental health issues during and post lockdown. Major reasons for suicide during Covid time are depression, stress, finance, study and relationships. Loneliness and hopelessness are the drivers for depression and suicide. “Stressful life events like relationship issues, work and academic pressures, prolonged medical illness, and mental illnesses such as depression, anxiety, addictions, psychoses are some of the common risk factors for suicide. In Covid times, isolation/disconnection from people or activities that give no hope or meaning are new risk factors,” said Dr Suyog Jaiswal, Associate professor in psychiatry department of AIIMS Nagpur. Suicide is a cry for help and not a sign of a weak mind, said Dr Sonakshi Jyrwa, assistant professor of psychiatry from AIIMS. “It is an act of despair to escape unbearable pain or bring an end to a situation in which a person feels trapped/sees no way out. It is the loss of will to live, rather than wanting to die,” she said. Dr Shreelakshmi V from AIIMS told about common warning signs of suicidal tendency. “Loss of interest in activities, aloof or withdrawn behaviour, increased risk-taking behaviour, increased consumption of alcohol/drugs, abrupt changes in appearance, sleep/appetite/weight changes are some of the prominent signs,” she said. Dr Suleman Virani, consulting psychiatrist from city shared some valuable tips. “Always share your feelings with your loved ones/friends. Being connected with each other is the key. As a community, it’s our responsibility to protect and empower the vulnerable persons from the risk of suicide,” he said. “When you feel like giving up, just remember the reason why you held on for so long,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/every-depression-curable-all-suicides-preventable-say-doctors/articleshow/78027596.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 10, 2020||Nagpur||‘Scrapping 70:30 formula will hit Vid students’||Nagpur: The scrapping of 70:30 regional admissions formula for medical colleges has not gone down well with pro-Vidarbha activists. Already reeling under decades of neglect, activists feel Vidarbha students’ will be hit due to this decision.Advocate Mukesh Samarth said this was a ‘big injustice’. “Students from Mumbai and Pune are not only more in number, but also are higher scorers. The infrastructure that a Chandrapur student has cannot compare with someone in Mumbai. It will be grave injustice to our students,” he said.Advocate Tushar Mandlekar feels with 70:30 gone, there is not much left for Vidarbha to now catch up. “We were capital of a state before being brought into Maharashtra. At that time a written pact was made guaranteeing our people reservation in government jobs. Nothing happened with that. Now with this regional quota gone, Vidarbha will suffer more,” he said.Mandlekar added that already financial and physical backlog was pending for Vidarbha. “Rs 40,000 crore financial pendency may never get fulfilled,” he said.Dinesh Naidu, a social activist, said the long term impact for Nagpur was ‘scary’. “Nagpur is a medical hub and almost all doctors are from local medical colleges. When a Nagpurian graduates, he is more likely to stay here and practise. Now with regional quota gone, Mumbai and Pune students will grab seats and after graduation they will go back,” he said.In the context of shortage of doctors coming to the fore due to Covid-19, Naidu said it was crucial to have local medical fraternity. “If medical students keep moving out, then over a couple of decades we will have acute shortage of medical professionals,” he said.Nitin Ronghe, convenor of Maha Vidarbha Jan Jagaran, said it would have been better had government provided people with proper data to support the scrapping of 70-30. “I am witholding my reaction because I am not aware of what study, what data was used to reach this conclusion. We know very well why this was implemented, so government should let us know what changed,” he said.Ronghe added that such problems were the exact reason why he supported statehood. “When others make decisions for you, it’s always detrimental,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scrapping-7030-formula-will-hit-vid-students/articleshow/78027592.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 10, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Government asks all districts to complete sweater procurement||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked all districts to complete the procurement of sweaters for the students studying in state-run schools by September 20. The government has also sought a daily record of the procurement process. Earlier a deadline of October 31 was fixed for completing the distribution of the sweaters for UP government school students as a part of their uniform. “This is to bring to your notice that all the districts should complete the procurement of sweaters by September 20 and regularly update about the statistics to the state government authorities”: reads the order issued by Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh, UP education director (basic). The sweaters will have to be procured keeping in mind the size and cost. The sweater’s cost should not exceed Rs 200 each. TOI had earlier reported that the procurement of sweaters should be strictly conducted via government e-marketplace portal, according to the norms. The sweater distribution has to be completed by October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-asks-all-districts-to-complete-sweater-procurement-for-state-run-schools-by-sep-20-seeks-daily-record/articleshow/78024763.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plasma therapy’s life-saving abilities in question, doctors caution on its use||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported about an ICMR study that showed administering convalescent plasma to Covid-19 patients did not reduce death risk, top doctors of AIIMS, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and Lok Nayak Hospital stressed the need to rethink who should get the therapy. “Plasma therapy for Covid-19 can continue. But we have to be very selective about who needs it. Also, donor selection has to be right,” Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS, said. In the trial by Indian Council of Medical Research, which involved 464 hospitalised, moderately-ill Covid-19 patients, researchers observed that some participants had higher antibody positivity than their plasma donors. “The difference in age and severity of illness, with donors being younger and having milder disease, could have driven this difference. While all Covid-19 survivors were encouraged to donate plasma, an overwhelming majority of the donors were only mildly sick, young survivors. Recovered patients who had moderate or severe disease were generally reluctant to return to hospitals for plasma donation,” the ICMR study noted. According to Dr S K Sarin, director of ILBS that houses India’s first plasma bank for Covid-19 patients, many institutions in initial stages did not check the level of neutralising antibodies in the donor, which led to poorer outcomes. “The ICMR study re-affirms our assessment based on a trial conducted on 29 patients who received plasma therapy at ILBS. It showed no mortality benefit. However, there was significant benefit in terms of clearing of viral load in those who received the therapy in addition to standard care compared to who received only standard care,” he said. The ILBS director added that only patients with mild-to-moderate illness should be given convalescent plasma. “The therapy has to be given within 24 to 48 hours of diagnosis. Also, detailed assessment of presence of sufficient levels of neutralising antibodies in the donor should be mandatory,” Dr Sarin said. At least 100 Covid-19 patients at the state-run Lok Nayak Hospital have been given plasma therapy till date. Dr Suresh Kumar, its medical director, said larger studies might be needed to assess its benefits. “Remdesivir did not show significant benefit in Covid-19 treatment in some studies. Still, the drug is being used in select patients because it has certain benefits and there is no other known cure. Similarly, plasma therapy may not help reduce death risk but our experience shows it does help in faster recovery in a small subset of patients,” he said. ILBS and Lok Nayak Hospital are conducting a study involving 400 Covid patients to assess the benefits of plasma therapy. Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital is also taking part in the study. The ICMR study was conducted at 39 tertiary care hospitals — 29 teaching and 10 private — across the country. According to the study, released on MedRXIV, a preprint service for medicine and health sciences, mortality was documented in 13.6% patients who received plasma therapy in addition to standard care and 31 (14.6%) patients who received only standard care. The trial results also indicated that there was no difference in progression to severe disease among moderately ill patients treated with convalescent plasma along with the best standard of care. Watch Covid-19 in Delhi: Doctors caution on use of plasma therapy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plasma-therapys-life-saving-abilities-in-question-docs-caution-on-its-use/articleshow/78027619.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 10, 2020||Jaipur||Wait’s over, Rajiv Jain is new V-C of RU||Jaipur: The wait is over for Rajasthan University (RU) as it got its new vice-chancellor on Wednesday. Dean, faculty of commerce and management in Kota University, Professor Rajiv Jain has been appointed as the new V-C of RU by chancellor Kalraj Mishra. Professor Bhagirath Singh, former vice-chancellor of Ganga Singh University, Bikaner has been appointed as new vice-chancellor of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Shekhawati University, Sikar. The tenure of last RU V-C R K Kothari was over on July 11 and since then the position was lying vacant. The acting V-C is Professor J P Yadav. From 1981–2004, Jain was a faculty in department of business administration at Rajasthan Vidhyapeeth University, Udaipur. He joined as a professor at University of Kota in 2012. Jain has invested almost 34 years of life in the field of management education and research. He has visited countries like US (New Heaven Connecticut State), Malaysia, Bangkok, Dubai, Ethiopia and Manila, Philippines for various academic and administrative pursuits. His past roles include working on director and dean positions at Rajasthan Vidyapeeth University, Udaipur in faculty of management studies. He also taught students at the JIMMA University, Ethiopia for two years (2000-2002). Jain’s credentials start with gold medal in his masters of business administration degree, recognitions by Rajasthan Hindi Granth Academy, research projects by UGC, member of advisory board of famous institutions and reputed journals and governor’s nominee at JNVU, Jodhpur. The academic arena of Jain portrays 24 PhDs under supervision, over 31 national and international conferences and 22 text, references, cases and research books and 35 research articles published in referred journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waits-over-rajiv-jain-is-new-v-c-of-ru/articleshow/78027601.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: 164 bus breakdowns in 5 days cast shadow on maintenance||PUNE: As many as 164 bus breakdowns were reported in the first five days since the city’s transport utility resumed its service from September 3, triggering posers on the maintenance of the vehicles — most of them stranded for about five months because of the lockdown-related restrictions. On September 3, as many as 37 buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) developed snags. The number stood at 30, 35, 33 and 29 on September 4, 5, 6 and 7, respectively. The PMPML has been running 25% of its fleet or around 460 buses per day. The breakdown figures for September 8 and 9 are awaited. TimesViewThe large number of bus breakdowns since the resumption of PMPML’s services reflects lack of maintenance of vehicles when they were stranded for over five months. Upkeep of engines when they are idle for a long period is elementary in mechanical engineering. If PMPML had reacted to the situation on time, commuters would not have faced the daily hassles now.Dattatray Phadatare, a regular commuter, said, “The PMPML was running more than 200 buses for those involved in essential services since mid-March from select depots. They should have rostered the trips in such a way that buses from all the 13 depots were used, ensuring their check-up and maintenance.” Senior officials of the PMPML have floated an idea of changing the working style in the bus depots. They are planning to start periodic night maintenance of buses. After visiting the depots, Chetna Kerure, the joint managing director of the PMPML, stressed on changing their working style. “We are talking about regular night maintenance of buses, periodic and preventive maintenance, and altering the working hours of technicians in the depots. We have plans to introduce the system of maintenance of buses during holidays too,” she said, adding that still many old buses were plying on roads and a proper scrapping policy was needed. Stressing that the breakdowns exposed the PMPML’s poor planning, PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole said, “Isn’t it strange that the PMPML is talking about these reforms now? The former chairman and managing director, Tukaram Mundhe, had spoken about these in 2017. What was the PMPML administration doing in the past five months, when the buses remained non-operational?” The PMPML chairman and managing director, Rajendra Jagtap, had earlier said action should be taken against the employees responsible for the bus breakdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/164-bus-breakdowns-in-5-days-cast-shadow-on-maintenance/articleshow/78027599.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 10, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts heavy rain in Maharashtra ghats, river basins||PUNE: River basins and ghats in parts of Maharashtra might receive heavy rainfall at isolated places during the next few days, said the Met department. According to a forecast issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday, Pune may receive moderate showers next few days. These showers could be accompanied with thunder and lightning activity till September 11, said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune. Some parts of the city have been receiving intense spells of rain because of convective activity, as the day temperatures has soared to above-normal levels. On Wednesday, the highest temperature in Shivajinagar was 33.1°C — as much as 4.6 degrees above normal. In Lohegaon, it was 32.9°C, around 4 degrees more than normal. As per the IMD records, the rainfall in the two locations was nil from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Wednesday. But there were reports of sporadic showers in different parts of the city late in the evening. Kashyapi said, “Mainly, the upper air circulation and offshore trough are supplying moisture in southern-western parts of our state. But monsoon current does not seem much strong till September 11. There would be instances of clouding interspersed with sunlight for a couple of days because of this reason. The day temperature in Pune may hover between 32°C and 34°C, which could result in isolated to scattered (in some parts of the city) local instability. As a result, there could be formation of convective clouds during the evening with moderate rain, along with an intense spell, and thunder activity till September 11.” Kashyapi said the monsoon is expected to be strong for a couple of days again in Maharashtra from September 12, in association with the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal on September 13. It means, the rainfall in parts of Maharashtra is likely to increase from September 12-13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-maha-ghats-river-basins/articleshow/78028417.cms||---
September 10, 2020||Pune||Lockdown effect: Surge in distress calls over finances, unemployment in Pune||PUNE: The helpline numbers of Connecting NGO Pune and BJ Medical College’s Mansamvad have seen a surge in the number of distress calls over financial matters and unemployment-related issues, especially after the lockdown was imposed in March. According to experts working with the helplines for suicide prevention and counselling, distress calls related to finances and unemployment, personal relationships and domestic violence have increased. Connecting NGO programme coordinator Virendrasinh Pawar said that people in distress are reaching out to them over the phone as well as via e-mails. “We have received over 5,000 calls from January 2019 to September 2020. Of the total, around 1,500 calls were made during the lockdown and more than 450 e-mails were received. Earlier, the calls were largely related to personal relationships among the youth. But, after the lockdown, we have observed that unemployment, financial issues, uncertainties and rising anxiety have topped the charts. There were calls about quarrels among family members in the first half of the lockdown,” he said, adding that life in the lockdown had a negative impact on almost all strata of the society. Pawar stated that people manning the helpline had to ascertain the caller’s state of mind. “We have to listen to them and make sure to draw them out of their passive state of mind. The rising uncertainty due to the pandemic is creating a negative impact on people. However, these conditions are temporary and these too shall pass,” he claimed. Pawar said many callers contact them regularly or sometimes express themselves via e-mails giving them space to be vocal about their feelings. Krishna Kadam, senior psychiatrist at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said that they had started the Mansamvad helpline on March 31 to allow citizens to talk about their distress and mental health issues due to the lockdown. “We have received over 2,000 calls ever since. The focus has been on unemployment and finances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-effect-surge-in-distress-calls-over-finances-unemployment/articleshow/78027607.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 10, 2020||Chennai||DMK gears up for future with seamless transition at the top||Chennai: From now on, I will be a new Stalin, DMK president M K Stalin had said in his acceptance speech, after taking over as president of the party on August 28, 2018, following the demise of his father and former chief minister M Karunanidhi.A little over two years later, Stalin has proved that he has stood by his word. Casting aside naysayers, Stalin on Wednesday steered the proceedings as the party geared up for a transition by elevating senior leaders S Durai Murugan and T R Baalu as DMK’s new general secretary and treasurer respectively. Unlike the past, when the party’s founding members -- C N Annadurai and later Karunanidhi and K Anbazhagan held sway at the top for decades, the elevation of Durai Murugan and Baalu reflected the growth and recognition of the two who came up from the ranks.Even while the party is being accused of grooming heirs from the family, when Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi was made the youth wing president last year, it has dwelled deep into its resources to also elevate loyalists K Ponmudi and A Raja as deputy general secretaries. Months earlier, while Trichy strongman and another veteran of the party K N Nehru was made the principal secretary, another old-timer Anthiyur P Selvaraj was not only made a Rajya Sabha MP, but also appointed party deputy general secretary, when the BJP pulled away DMK’s serving deputy general secretary V P Duraisamy into its fold.Each one of these elevations, through elections and appointments, had the stamp of Stalin, who has succeeded in taking both young and the old along in the party. "Durai Murugan and Baalu have not come to these positions overnight. They worked hard for long and came up step by step," Stalin said, driving home the point that he is one among them.Both Durai Murugan and Baalu, despite being in their 80s, continue to work hard and remain in touch with present-day developments. And it showed in their speeches. "The Dravidian movement came around and started growing when a handful of brahmins were dominating the happenings and the majority were living on their mercies. Still, the parties at power in the Centre, had faith in democracy and things moved smoothly. The biggest challenge today is the emergence of a power centre in Delhi, which has no faith in democratic principles and this is where our party’s youth and student wings should get to the forefront and counter the new challenge being posed now for democracy," Durai Murugan said at the party’s general council, while looking at the youth wing president Udhayanidhi."We should be ready to work hard to strengthen this party further. I am willing to work 24x7 and our partymen can reach me 24 hours on my mobile to handle any issues," Baalu said, glossing over the fact that he is already 80. Ponmudi and Raja appreciated efforts of DMK president for giving the responsibilities for both young and experienced leaders. Following his elevation, Ponmudi’s district secretary post may go to a younger leader, with his loyalist N Pughazhendhi as a likely choice. Dravidian movement historian K Thirunavukkarasu observes that it is interesting that the DMK for the first time has five deputy general secretaries, two of them – Raja and Anthiyur Selvaraj - are from the scheduled castes, though the former is an adi dravidar and the latter from the arunthathiyar community. Until now, the DMK used to have only three deputy general secretaries, with one representation each from women, SC and open category. "With two of the posts being filled by leaders from oppressed communities, the DMK can erase the charge of not doing enough for oppressed classes. That is a charge that was there since the days of the Justice Party and Periyar’s self respect movement," Thirunavukkarasu said.Political analyst M Kasinathan agrees. "It is an election year and DMK is using the opportunity to fill vacancies and the general council to address the core vote bank of the party — vanniyars (Durai Murugan), non-vanniyar (Ponmudi) and SC (Raja) in north Tamil Nadu. At a time, when PMK founder S Ramadoss is talking about sub-quota for vanniyars in reservation, the elevation of Durai Murugan will blunt that campaign," Kasinathan said.Amid all these, there are some segments that feel aggrieved too. With the top state-level posts being filled by those mostly from north, central and western districts, representatives in the south feel let down, with I Periyasamy being the sole leader at the top. One is not sure, whether Stalin’s step-sister and DMK MP from Tuticorin Kanimozhi, who is heading the party’s women’s wing, was expecting an elevation too. Though she was seen appreciating the developments, by Wednesday afternoon social media was abuzz with resentment from associations affiliated to Kanimozhi’s Nadar community, dominant in the southern districts. Given his two-year track record, one can expect Stalin to handle fissures such as these too by taking along all segments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-gears-up-for-future-with-seamless-transition-at-the-top/articleshow/78026249.cms||D Govardan
September 10, 2020||Pune||Civic water dept’s office ransacked||Pune: The Swargate police filed a case of rioting against five members of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) for damaging the office of Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) water supply department at Khadakmal on Tuesday night. The MNS members were demanding proper water pressure and supply to various localities in the Swargate area, but after reaching the spot around 7.50pm, they started ransacking the office and threatened the civic officials. Atish Jadhav, an officer from the Swargate water supply office, stated in his complaint that the protesters damaged property worth Rs36,000 in the office. The protesters, waiving MNS flags, claimed that localities on Shivaji Road, Shukrawar Peth and others were not receiving proper water supply and the water pressure was low. Senior police inspector Bramhanand Naikwadi of Swargate police station said, “However, while arguing with office bearers, the MNS workers picked up chairs and smashed the glass table tops and other furniture in the office. They terrorized the office bearers of the water supply department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-water-depts-office-ransacked/articleshow/78027620.cms||---
