September 11, 2020||World||Vaccine trial stopped after neurological symptoms detected||LONDON: A woman who received an experimental coronavirus vaccine developed severe neurological symptoms that prompted a pause in testing, a spokesman for drugmaker AstraZeneca said on Thursday. The study participant in late-stage testing reported symptoms consistent with transverse myelitis, a rare inflammation of the spinal cord, said company spokesman Matthew Kent. "We don't know if it is (transverse myelitis)," Kent said. "More tests are being done now as part of the follow-up." On Tuesday, AstraZeneca said its "standard review process triggered a pause to vaccination to allow review of safety data." It did not provide any details other than to say a single participant had an "unexplained illness." The vaccine was initially developed by Oxford University after the coronavirus pandemic began this year. Kent said an independent committee was reviewing the study's safety data before deciding if and when the research could continue. The study was previously stopped in July for several days after a participant who got the vaccine developed neurological symptoms; it turned out to be an undiagnosed case of multiple sclerosis that was unrelated to the vaccine. Late last month, AstraZeneca began recruiting 30,000 people in the US for its largest study of the vaccine. It also is testing the vaccine in thousands of people in Britain, and in smaller studies in Brazil and South Africa. Several other Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in development. Dr Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization's chief scientist, said the UN health agency wasn't overly concerned by the pause in the Oxford and AstraZeneca vaccine trial, describing it as "a wake-up call" to the global community about the inevitable ups and downs of medical research. Temporary holds of large medical studies aren't unusual, and investigating any serious or unexpected reaction is a mandatory part of safety testing. AstraZeneca pointed out that it's possible the problem could be a coincidence; illnesses of all sorts could arise in studies of thousands of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/vaccine-trial-stopped-after-neurological-symptoms-detected/articleshow/78047757.cms||---
September 11, 2020||India||India, China foreign ministers talk for 2 hours in bid to ease LAC crisis||NEW DELHI: India and China held discussions aimed at seeking a resolution to the prolonged military crisis along the LAC in east Ladakh, with foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, meeting in Moscow for over two hours on Thursday. Close to midnight Indian time, there was no official word on the outcome of the meeting, which involved intense discussions on the crisis, the future of bilateral border management agreements and the state of the bilateral relationship itself. India has repeatedly made it clear that peace on the borders is now a requisite for healthy bilateral ties. The first in-person meeting between the foreign ministers of India and China was keenly watched around the world. It began after a luncheon huddle of the RIC (Russia-India-China) trilateral grouping. Hosted by Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, it was intended to be an ice-breaker before the bilateral talks began. China maintained tough rhetoricIn the past week, fears of an escalated conflict between the two sides heightened even as Indian forces defended their newly-acquired positions on the heights of the south bank of Pangong Tso while Chinese forces have stepped up probing advances. Army sources said Indian forces strengthened defences and positions in areas such as Gurung Hill, Magar Hill, Rezang La and Richen La. This, and similar pushback initiatives by the Indian Army, have reversed the tactical disadvantage that India found itself in the Pangong area. The signal to China has been clear that it would have to risk conflict in trying to dislodge Indian troops or consider the need for a purposeful dialogue to resolve issues. China has been loud and angry, and according to sources, PLA troops have been incessant in challenging Indian positions and while also moving tanks in the Chushul region and carrying out live fire drills. These developments indicate how difficult it would be to work out a political understanding. If a breakthrough were indeed to happen here, it could still take a while for it to reflect on the ground. Jaishankar has reiterated that any resolution would have to be political and achieved through diplomacy. “I would say that I am totally convinced that a solution to the situation has to be found in the domain of diplomacy. And I say that with responsibility,” he said earlier this week. China has maintained a steady stream of tough rhetoric. Chinese defence minister Wei Fenghe, who met Rajnath Singh in Moscow last week, was quoted to have said, “The root and truth of the current tensions is very clear. The Indian side is entirely responsible. Not an inch of China's territory shall be lost. The Chinese military is absolutely determined, capable and confident in safeguarding national sovereignty and territorial integrity.” Singh, in turn, told the Chinese leader that India will not concede any territory and will be seeking restoration of status quo on the LAC. Jaishankar met Lavrov on the evening of September 9 for a bilateral discussion. Russia has been working behind the scenes to try and bring about some discussion between India and China. The MEA spokesperson said, “This was the first physical meeting after the Covid situation and there was excellent discussion on bilateral matters, regional developments and international issues of concern. The two ministers also followed up on outcomes of PM’s visit to Vladivostok for the 5th EEF in September 2019.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-foreign-ministers-talk-for-2-hours-in-bid-to-ease-lac-crisis/articleshow/78048745.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 11, 2020||India||Symptomatic but negative? Must retest: Health minister to states||NEW DELHI: Amid a record single-day surge of over 95,000 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the Centre has again urged all states and Union Territories to mandatorily retest all those found to be symptomatic negative in rapid antigen tests (RAT). The retests are to be done through the more reliable RT-PCR method to ensure a positive case does not go undetected. The Centre’s advisory came even as around 60% of the total new cases were reported from just five states. Maharashtra alone contributed 23,577 and Andhra Pradesh had 10,418 cases on Wednesday. Health ministry sources said the Centre was keen on ensuring more testing, particularly in states with a high positivity rate, but also pointed to the laxity that has crept into public behaviour. They said only widespread use of masks would help reduce incidence of the disease. Click here for latest updates on CoronavirusDeaths are also rising every day. Of the total 1,172 deaths in the past 24 hours till Thursday morning, 69% were concentrated in five states and Union territories — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra alone accounted for 32% of new deaths. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In a letter written jointly by health ministry and Indian Council of Medical Research, the Centre said it was necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases under RAT do not remain untested and do not spread the disease among their contacts. Read AlsoIn a first, Union health ministry introduces 'on demand' Covid-19 testing without prescriptionFor the first time, the Union Health Ministry has allowed on-demand Covid-19 testing without a prescription. The new advisory has been made on the recommendations of the National Task Force on the novel coronavirus. Individuals who wish to get tested and those undertaking travel to countries/IndianIt was also emphasised in the letter that while RAT was being used to increase access and availability of testing in the field, RT-PCR remained the gold standard of Covid-19 tests. The protocols have to be followed closely, the Centre has insisted, pointing to the need to test symptomatic negatives and follow asymptomatic negatives for a few days to ensure they too are tested if they develop symptoms. The total number of active cases in the country stood at 9,19,018 on Wednesday, the ministry said. Watch Symptomatic but negative? Must retest: Health ministry to states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/symptomatic-but-negative-must-retest-health-minister-to-states/articleshow/78048886.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 11, 2020||India||Backwardness can’t justify 50% cap breach: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has said that social, educational and economic backwardness or inadequate representation of a community in public services cannot be a ground to grant it reservation in breach of the 50% ceiling fixed by the court. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said relaxation of the “strict rule of 50% can be made in certain extraordinary situations”. The bench stayed operation of the Maharashtra law to grant reservation to Marathas holding that the government prima facie failed to make a case to justify its decision. The judgment underscores the primacy of the quota ceiling the SC laid down in the Indra Sawhney case and will serve to constitute a high threshold for governments seeking to provide reservation in breach of it. Can’t let law be applied during pendency: SCThe bench said, “The social, educational and economic backwardness of a community, existence of quantifiable data relating to inadequacy of representation of the community in public services and deprivation of the benefits flowing from reservations to the community are not exceptional circumstances for providing reservations in excess of 50%.” “We are of the prima facie opinion that the high court committed an error in treating the above factors as circumstances which are extraordinary, warranting relaxation of the strict rule of 50%,” the bench said while disagreeing with the HC order which had upheld the validity of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act under which reservation for the Maratha community was granted in jobs and educational institutions. The bench said implementation of the law during pendency of the case would cause “irreparable loss” to the candidates belonging to the open category as it would be difficult to cancel the admissions made in educational institutions and appointments made to public posts at a later stage if the law is declared invalid and unconstitutional. Watch Backwardness can’t justify 50% cap breach: SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/backwardness-cant-justify-50-cap-breach-sc/articleshow/78049220.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
September 11, 2020||Business||No loan to be termed new NPA till September 28: SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre is considering modalities of relief to borrowers and will decide within two weeks on banks charging compound interest during the six-month moratorium period which ended on August 31, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Thursday as he sought to avert a likely stay on interest on interest on loan instalments deferred during this period. Arguing before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, C A Sundaram and Rajiv Dutta raised the pitch on what they said were insurmountable difficulties faced by borrowers — individual, industrial and corporates — in repaying loans during the lockdown when the economy shrank dramatically owing to loss of production and earnings. They said on one hand the government was terming the pandemic as a ‘force majeure’ situation to allow deferment of payment of loans, but on the other hand banks were charging interest on interest and seeking to downgrade credit rating and asset classification because of non-payment of instalments towards debt servicing. The bench continued till September 28 its earlier interim order directing banks not to declare any loan as non-performing asset due to non-payment of instalments, if it was not so declared till August 31, when the moratorium period ended. Before allowing the government two weeks to chart out clear responses to the issues raised by the petitioners, including charging interest on interest and the downgrading of credit rating and asset classification, the bench said it was inclined to pass an interim order directing banks not to debit interest on interest for loans during the moratorium period. However, Mehta strived hard and succeeded in dissuading the court against passing any interim order without considering its grave repercussions on the economy and health of the banking sector. He said the government, at the highest levels, was alive to the difficulties faced by borrowers and industrial sectors and was engaged in finding a mechanism to extend benefits to them in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and commercial banks. RBI counsel V Giri too stepped in to dissuade the court from passing any interim order. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for the Indian Banks’ Association, said no interim order should be passed at this stage without considering banks’ stand. If an interim order stopping interest on interest was passed, it would play havoc with the accounting system of banks, he added. Appearing for the largest commercial bank, State Bank of India, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi argued that the court could not look into the plight of borrowers alone. “There are millions of depositors. Will the court also say that banks do not have an obligation to pay interest on interest on their deposits?” he asked. The bench said, “All decisions taken by the government of India, Reserve Bank of India or different banks should be placed before the court for consideration. Specific instructions with regard to charging of compound interest and credit rating/downgrading during moratorium period shall be obtained, so that appropriate order be issued on the next date of hearing.” It posted the matter for further hearing on September 28. Watch No loan to be termed new NPA till September 28: SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-loan-to-be-termed-new-npa-till-september-28-sc/articleshow/78049327.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 11, 2020||Business||RIL offers Amazon 40% in retail unit for $20 billion?||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has offered a significant stake in its local retail unit to Jeff Bezos-led Amazon.com, a deal, if it is finalised, would turn the two billionaires and business rivals into strategic partners in one of the world’s largest consumer markets, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday. The deal would also trigger a three-way battle between Amazon-Reliance, Walmart-Flipkart and other players in the world’s second most populous country where the Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated a shift in consumer behaviour from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce. Reliance and Amazon have held discussions for a potential transaction, with the former having offered to sell as much as 40% stake in its retail unit, the Bloomberg News report said. The deal could entail Amazon investing $20 billion in Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL), the holding company of RIL’s retail business, and if transacted, will be the biggest inbound M&A in India, the report said. RIL declined to comment on the report when contacted by TOI. “We cannot confirm or deny any transaction which may or may not be in the works,” said RIL, adding, “It evaluates various opportunities on an ongoing basis.” The report said that any transaction between the two players would also boost their alliance that was indirectly forged last month through an unrelated purchase by RIL when it bought assets of Future Retail. Amazon had invested in Future Retail in 2019 and later expanded the partnership. Besides Amazon, global private equity funds are also exploring an investment in RRVL. Rules allow foreign investors, including strategic players, to hold up to 49% in an Indian owned and controlled company. Reports about potential deals in the retail unit boosted RIL’s shares on Dalal Street, with the company recording a market capitalisation of $208 billion on Thursday. At this valuation, RIL became the first Indian company to cross the $200 billion mark and the 40th most valued outfit in the world. Ambani had said earlier that he had received strong interest from strategic and financial investors in the retail business and would be finalising deals and partnerships in the coming quarters. He had also said that RIL will hold an IPO of the consumer business in the future. Reports said that the billionaire offered small stakes in the retail business to existing financial investors of his telecom and digital services venture Jio Platforms. While Silicon Valley fund Silver Lake was the first to come on board, other US and Middle Eastern investors, including KKR, L Catterton, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Saudi Arabia Public Investment Fund and, Mubadala are in discussions to acquire a piece of RRVL, which is valued at $57 billion. Retail consulting firm Technopak founder Arvind Singhal said, “The deal makes sense for Amazon only if it wants to exit India and become a portfolio investor. Given the flip-flops in policies in favor of domestic retailers, I will not be surprised if they want to do so,” adding that “for Reliance, however, it makes a lot of sense. Despite being the leading brick-and-mortar retailer in India, it has found it difficult to crack the e-commerce market, which is a tough business. And Amazon, is the best at it.” If the deal fructifies, then this will bring together the largest offline and online retailers in India. The combined entity can leverage the deep offline retail network of Reliance Retail and established logistics network of Amazon to harness cross-selling and omni-channel opportunities, leading to a faster growth in e-commerce penetration in India, Credit Suisse said in a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-offers-amazon-40-in-retail-unit-for-20billion/articleshow/78049418.cms||---
September 11, 2020||India||Should convicted politicians get poll life ban, queries SC||NEW DELHI: On course to ensure speedy trials in 4,442 criminal cases pending against former and sitting MPs and MLAs across states, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to respond to a new prayer in a pending PIL seeking a life ban on politicians convicted of heinous offence from contest elections. Appearing for advocate-cum-petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay, senior advocate Vikas Singh said there was a long list of serious crimes in which conviction of a public servant led to his disqualification from holding a government job for his lifetime. “Why can’t the same yardstick be applied to politicians who, under the Representation of People Act, get away lightly by getting debarred from contesting elections for a period of six years after serving the jail term?” he asked. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy sought the Centre’s response in six weeks on the petition, in which the court had sought reports from all high courts on the cases pending trial against sitting and former legislators. Amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita had compiled the data and submitted to the court. The bench said in its order, “Even though we had granted time to all HCs to furnish the requisite information, only the HCs of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Jharkhand and Gauhati have done so... We grant two days time to the remaining HCs to provide requisite information of pending cases and their stages”. The bench noticed a peculiar case, a 1983 murder case of a doctor in Tarn Taran, Punjab, in which former Akali Dal MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha is an accused. The trial court framed charges against the politician after 36 years in 2019 and the case is a long way from completion. It asked the HCs to furnish all the details by Sunday and posted the matter for further hearing on September 16. Hansaria said though the SC had directed states to set up special courts to fast-track trial in these pending cases, the states of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal had set up just one special court each for such cases. The amicus said one of the reasons for delay in trial was that the accused exerted money and muscle power to influence witnesses who turned hostile and suggested that the court direct authorities to strictly implement witness protection measures. Moreover, there are many cases where non-bailable arrest warrants issued by trial courts to ensure presence of the accused legislators are not executed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/should-convicted-politicians-get-poll-life-ban-queries-sc/articleshow/78049503.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 11, 2020||India||JP Nadda accuses Mamata Banerjee government of being anti-Hindu||KOLKATA: BJP president JP Nadda on Thursday called the Trinamool Congress government “anti-Hindu”, putting on record for the first time in Bengal politics the issue of discrimination on the basis of religion. Nadda buttressed his argument by pointing to the “minority appeasement politics” of Trinamool, portraying Hindus as victims. Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien refuted Nadda’s allegations that the state government was hindering development in Bengal. He said the Trinamool government had launched Swasthya Sathi scheme in 2016, two years before the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat. As many as 7.5 crore people in the state benefited under Swasthya Sathi while the Centre issued 12.5 crore e-cards under Ayushman Bharat for the country, of which 4.68 crore were state cards, he said. Nadda also spoke of the Ram Mandir bhumipujan of August 5 in Ayodhya, but with a difference. “Ram Mandir is linked to the aspirations of crores of Indians. When the entire country was watching the bhumipujan, Mamata didi imposed a lockdown in Bengal and prevented people from taking part in the celebrations,” he said. “But the same government lifted the announced lockdown on July 31 on the occasion of Bakrid. We have no problem with the government calling off lockdown during Bakrid celebrations. But why was the government so firm when it came to Ram Mandir?” said Nadda, addressing the BJP state executive committee’s first meeting on Thursday. The BJP president called for breaking away from an “anti-Hindu” mindset. “Anti-Hindu mindset is all pervasive in Bengal and needs to change. Trinamool is politicising this mindset,” said Nadda. He urged BJP activists to take the issue to the people ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. Taking the cue, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya termed the Trinamool regime a government for “30% of Bengal’s population”. Nadda said the “hobe na” (won’t happen) mindset of the state government should change as it hampered development. “Mamataji says hobe na. Ki hobe na? Sab kichhu hobe (What won’t happen? Everything will happen eventually),” he said, while setting a tall target of BJP winning 50% vote share, up 10% from the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The state government has put up blockades in the way of the Centre providing health insurance benefits to 4.75 crore people under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Farmers have been deprived of crop insurance schemes of the Centre. They have changed names of projects like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Grameen Sadak Yojana while the Centre has been funding these,” said Nadda. Pointing to the rising vote share from 2% in 2011, Nadda said people in Bengal “have blessed the BJP”. “This is how we will move ahead and dislodge TMC in 2021. They should be sent on a very long vacation...lock, stock and barrel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jp-nadda-accuses-mamata-banerjee-government-of-being-anti-hindu/articleshow/78049556.cms||---
September 11, 2020||India||50% of children complete Class X in vernacular: NSO||NEW DELHI: Amid a raging debate over “imposition of languages”, official data point to over 50% of students completing their secondary level of education with one of 12 Indian languages and senior secondary level with one of eight home languages, other than English, as the medium of instruction. According to the National Statistical Organisation’s (NSO) latest report on education, 70% or more students whose home language is Assamese, Bengali and Gujarati completed their school education in these vernacular languages. However, more students whose mother tongue is Malayalam, Telugu, Manipuri, Punjabi, Urdu, Sindhi, Konkani or Nepali opted for English as the medium of instruction at least till Class X. In general, a significant shift towards English as medium of instruction is seen at senior secondary level- Classes XI and XII. The National Education Policy 2020 reiterates the three-language formula and suggests medium of instruction in home language at least till Class V. The RTE Act also suggests that mother tongue should be be considered as medium of instruction where ever possible. The NSO survey reveals that 91.1% of students whose mother tongue is Assamese are learning in their home language at the primary level, the highest for any mother tongue at this level, followed by Odiya at 90.5%. At upper-primary or middle school level, 93.7% of the students whose mother tongue is Odiya are learning in their home language, followed by Assamese (89.8%), Bengali (86.5%) and Hindi (81.5%). On the other side of the spectrum are Sanskrit, Urdu, Manipuri, Bodo, Konkani, Nepali and Sindhi, where the percentage of students studying in their home language is significantly low. As per the survey, there are no students attending classes in Sanskrit medium. In the primary and middle-school level, just 8.7% and 4.7% of students have opted for Manipuri medium, while it is 11.4% and 28.6% for Nepali. The figures for Urdu as home language and medium of instruction are 11.8% (primary), 14.5% (middle-school) and 14.2% at secondary level. The report points out that majority of those with home language of Malayalam, Telugu, Manipuri, Punjabi, Urdu, Sindhi, Konkani or Nepali, opted for English as the medium of instruction. For example, 79.8 % of students whose home language is Telugu are learning in English medium at pre-primary level, 58.6% at primary level, 53.1% at middle-school, 49.2% at secondary level and 74.5% at senior secondary level. The survey also showed that preference for English as a medium of instruction is more prevalent at the starting phase of schooling and at senior secondary level. It says 90.6% of students whose home language is Tamil are starting their education at pre-primary level with English as medium of instruction. Preference for English as a medium of instruction at senior secondary level increases significantly with an exception for students with Bengali as the mother tongue, where just 4.9% are attending classes with English as medium of instruction. The report on “Household Social Consumption: Education”, released in July, surveyed 1.13 lakh households spread across over 8,000 villages and 6,000 urban blocks between July, 2017 and June 2018. It involved 1.52 lakh students across different levels of study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-of-children-complete-class-x-in-vernacular-nso/articleshow/78049695.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
September 11, 2020||Patna||Mothers pray for children’s prosperity, health||PATNA: Many women observed fast on the occasion of Jivitputrika, popularly known as ‘Jitiya’, and prayed for the longevity of their children in the state capital on Thursday. They also heard the story of King Jimuti. Bailey Road resident Manorama Kumari celebrated the festival happily in the presence of her New Zealand-based son, who is in town to look after his parents amid the Covid-19 pandemic. She said, “For the first time in five years, my son is with us on this auspicious occasion.” While the festival is traditionally celebrated for the prosperity of sons, many mothers also observe fast for their daughters. Salimpur Ahra resident Seema Sinha told this newspaper, “A mother loves all her children — be it a son or a daughter. Every year on Jitiya, I pray for the prosperity of my daughter too and give her the Jivitputrika thread.” Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Acharya Kunal Kishore also pointed out that Jitiya was celebrated for the well-being of children irrespective of their gender. “In the Sanskrit language, the word ‘putra’ signifies both son and daughter just like the word ‘pita’ signifies both father and mother. Hence, contrary to the popular belief that the festival is only for sons, many mothers observe fast for their daughters as well,” he added. According to the Hindu lunar calendar, Jivitputrika ‘vrat’ is observed every year on Krishna Paksha Ashtami in the month of Ashwin. The three-day festival, which started on Wednesday with ‘nahai-khay’, will conclude with ‘paran’ when mothers will break their ‘nirjala fast’ and savour special delicacies like ‘jhor-bhat’, ‘noni saag’ and ‘mandua roti’. Meanwhile, a large number of makeshift shops, selling puja items such as Jitiya thread, coconuts and garlands, were put up across the city. The prices of fruits and certain vegetables also shot up on the occasion. “I sold more than 20kg of ‘noni saag’. The sale of zucchini also increased because of Jitiya,” claimed Dina Nath, a vegetable seller in Anisabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mothers-pray-for-childrens-prosperity-health/articleshow/78046232.cms||Arunima Lal
September 11, 2020||Patna||BJP netas, supporters hail PM||PATNA: Hundreds of BJP workers gathered at the Bihar Veterinary College (BVC) ground here and listened to the virtual address of PM Narendra Modi as he launched the Rs 20,050-crore ‘Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)’ for 21 states, including Bihar, and several other schemes on Thursday. Agriculture, animal and fisheries resources department minister Prem Kumar was also present at the college ground along with BJP workers and supporters. A big LED screen was put up at the ground for the event. The PM inaugurated the embryo transplant-cum-IVF laboratory at BVC-Patna through videoconferencing. Wearing face masks and ‘gamchha’, BJP workers raised slogans and hailed the PM. Many of them were seen carrying flags and posters in their hands. Some painted lotus on their face while others had tied ribbons on their heads with party emblem. Rakesh Kumar Singh, media incharge of state BJP, said health minister Mangal Pandey joined the function through videoconferencing at the party office. “Around 40 workers sat inside the hall at the party office where LED screen was put up along with the minister, maintaining social distancing. State BJP vice-presidents Radha Mohan Sharma and Rajesh Verma and co-organisation secretary Shiv Narayan Prasad were also present,” Singh said, adding LED screens were also put up at Begusarai, Madhepura and Purnia.” The party office on Beerchand Patel Marg and even the roads were bathed with posters, banners and flexes. One of the party workers, Chandan Kumar, said the schemes related to animal and fisheries would boost the state’s economy and provide employment to several people. The event was the centre of discussion at small eateries, shops and even at homes. Residents were glued to their television screens as the PM launched the schemes. Atul Triveni, a resident of S P Verma Road, said the digital platform for farmers in livestock would help the state strengthen the farming sector. Jyotsana Bhardwaj from Kadamkuan said the schemes would generate employment, especially for the migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-netas-supporters-hail-pm/articleshow/78045501.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Three arrested for duping 30 people on pretext of giving loans||Rajkot: Three online fraudsters were arrested for committing frauds worth lakhs of rupees in Shapar-Veraval industrial zone of Rajkot on Thursday. Police said the accused, Bhavin Virani (27), Suhag Veshnani (28) and Jayesh Vadher (30), would publish advertisements in newspapers, inviting those interested in loans can approach them. “When people contacted them, the accused would ask them their OTP number of their online banking accounts and siphon off money. So far, they have allegedly duped as many as 30 people,” said Ajaysinh Gohel, inspector with Rajkot rural special operation group. “The accused would tell the victims to open their online banking accounts with the minimum of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 balance. Then they would ask the victims to share the OTP number when it was generated. If the victims had already had their online banking accounts, they would ask them their OTP numbers, telling them that they needed them for electronic clearing service,” said Gohel.Gohel said that the modus operandi of the accused was that that they would never have the direct transfer of the victims’ money to their accounts. “They would put the victims’ money in bitcoins and later encash the bitcoins,” he said. “The accused would frequently change their cellphone numbers. So far, they have changed 30 SIM cards and duped unsuspecting victims from Rajkot, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Morbi and Ahmedabad,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-for-duping-30-people-on-pretext-of-giving-loans/articleshow/78046370.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Business||RIL stock’s 7% rally contributes 450 pts to sensex’s 646-pt gain||TNN Mumbai: A 7% rally in index heavyweight Reliance Industries and strong buying in bank stocks, on the back of the Supreme Court’s interim order on loan moratorium, sent the sensex 646 points or nearly 2% up on Thursday to close near the 39K mark again. An over 2% rally in Nasdaq on Wednesday night, preceded by a 10% correction in the tech-heavy exchange since the previous week, also boosted sentiment, market players said. The day’s rally on Dalal Street got a boost from new reports that said energy-to-retail conglomerate RIL had offered up to 40% stake in its retail venture to global sector leader Amazon for $20 billion. Of the nearly 650-point gain in the sensex, almost 450 points came due to the rally in RIL, BSE data showed. Strong buying in Infosys, Axis Bank, Asian Paints and HDFC also aided the rally, BSE data showed. In the international markets on Thursday night, the Reliance global depository receipts (GDRs) were up nearly 6%, backed by the strong surge in the domestic market earlier in the day. Going forward, according to Ajit Mishra, VP — research, Religare Broking, investors on Dalal Street will look at global cues as well as the upcoming domestic macroeconomic data, like IIP and CPI for signs about the health of the economic recovery. “Besides, the on-going tensions between India and China would also be on investors’ radar,” Mishra said. Also as it happens after a strong rally the market may take a breather and hence show some muted trades on Friday, dealers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-stocks-7-rally-contributes-450-pts-to-sensexs-646-pt-gain/articleshow/78048692.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hubballi||Vidyagama essential to keep children connected to school||Dharwad: With uncertainty over reopening of schools continuing, Vidyagama scheme introduced by the government will go a long way in keeping children connected to the school and the learning process, said primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, he said the Centre has issued fresh guidelines allowing reopening of schools for classes 9-12 subject to several conditions and the guidelines for commencing physical classes for classes 1-8 are yet to come. There is no clear idea about when the schools will reopen. Under such circumstance keeping children away from schools and learning activities will result in many students dropping out and losing interest in studies. Once that happens, it will be difficult to bring such students back to the mainstream Kumar said and added that Vidyagama project has been introduced to keep students and teachers connected. Under the programme, instead of students coming to the school, the teachers visit localities where students live and teach them. The teachers need to be congratulated because they have been sincere in implementing the programme effectively, the minister said. He said some people have suggested that the children should be called to the school ground and taught there. But this cannot be done during the pandemic as the students have difficulty in reaching the school as they expose themselves to the risk of catching the virus. He lauded the teachers who successfully conducted SSLC and II PU examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vidyagama-essential-to-keep-children-connected-to-school/articleshow/78049093.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Digital platform to sharpen skills of budding entrepreneurs||Kolkata: At a time when many have faced pay cuts or have lost their jobs, a unique initiative — Map of Me (MOM) — was launched to celebrate the entrepreneurial dreams of young minds. The brainchild of Lisa Heydlauff, the interactive platform launched in August aims at honing the entrepreneurial skills of high school and college students to help them become self reliant. Heydlauff said, “The stories of the young entrepreneurs of Kolkata are very inspiring. They are dynamic and good at innovating. Map of Me will provide them with a platform to follow their passions, give them access to proper mentorship and prepare them for risks and show how to overcome them.” She added that the digital channel is creating a repository of more than a hundred videos of those who have chosen the unbeaten track and dared to dream big so that the young entrepreneurs can learn from these experiences. Praising the efforts of MOM, Devanshi Rungta, co-founder of Art Rickshaw, said she had her shares of highs and lows while running her enterprise. Sharing her story with MOM, she found it inspired her to continue her fight. Sobhan Mukherjee, who has installed low-cost sanitary napkin boxes in washrooms across the city, said, “The idea of MOM is encouraging for people like us who work to spread awareness on social stigma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digital-platform-to-sharpen-skills-of-budding-entrepreneurs/articleshow/78047106.cms||Dipawali Mitra
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||32 politicians involved in drug racket, says Muthalik||Mysuru: Sri Ram Sena president Pramod Muthalik and MP Pratap Simha on Thursday alleged that drug trade is rampant in Mysuru, especially among students. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, they urged the state government to take the ongoing investigation to a logical end. Muthalik said he will soon submit a list of 32 politicians who are part of the drug racket in the state. “I will soon meet home minister Basavaraja Bommai and DG-IGP. I will share the details with them,” he said. “Politicians are part of this mafia. Their children run this business. This mafia is destroying the nation’s future,” he added. Endorsing Muthalik’s statement about drugs being available at educational institutions in the district, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha urged the state government and police to intensify investigation. “Drugs are available at schools and colleges, but I will not name the institutions. Let police investigate,” he added. Simha urged police to investigate Congress leader and former minister BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan named by a few in the drug scandal. “Police must investigate Khan too as he is also named in the drug mafia. This mafia is not limited to Sandalwood,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/32-politicians-involved-in-drug-racket-says-muthalik/articleshow/78048848.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 11, 2020||Business||Hippo Video raises $4.5m in series A||Chennai and US-based SaaS company Hippo Video has raised $4.5 million in series A funding in a round led by Alpha Wave Incubation (AWI), a venture fund managed by Falcon Edge Capital, and Exfinity Venture Partners. Existing investors Sequoia Capital India’s Surge, and KAE Capital also participated in this round. Hippo Video said it will expand its presence in the Gulf region and other global markets using the funds, and will also build a team of data scientists, product managers, and engineers located in Abu Dhabi. Founded by former Zoho employees, Hippo Video offers solutions across creation, delivery, and measurement of metrics for personalized videos. It also offers services such as online pro-editing, on the fly in-video personalization at scale, reporting and analytics, and enterprise grade security. The company’s development team of around 70 members is based in Chennai. “With the increasing role of video in communication and social media, Hippo Video looks to capitalize on video as a key decision influencer and trust driver…Through personalized videos created by Hippo Video, sales teams can achieve productivity increases of up to 3x,” Karthi Mariappan, founder and CEO, Hippo Video, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hippo-video-raises-4-5m-in-series-a/articleshow/78047395.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records highest 1-day spike of 7,042 Covid cases||LUCKNOW: A record 7,042 cases and 94 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. This is the largest single day spike in terms of cases and deaths reported so far. With this, the total number of cases and deaths in the state reached 2,90,029 and 4,206 on Thursday. Of the new cases, Lucknow (917), Prayagraj (496), Kanpur (427), Gorakhpur (381), Gautam Budh Nagar (251), Meerut (206), Aligarh (199), Ghaziabad(179), Varanasi (176) added nearly 46% (or 3232) cases. Among deaths, eight new casualties took Kanpur’s Covid-19 toll burden to 504 casualties. Eleven deaths in Lucknow made it the district with the second highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the state. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the number of active cases in the state reached 66,317. He also stated that 4,605 recoveries in the past 24 hours took the total number of recoveries to 2,21,506. Meanwhile, in the meeting with team-11, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asserted on surveillance and contact tracing once again. Taking stock of the situation in high burden districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, the CM said that there was no room for any slackness. With specific reference to Prayagraj, he said that the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) set up during Kumbh in Prayagraj should now be used asCovid Command and Control Centre. Laying emphasis on caution, he said there should be constant mass awareness programmes to sensitise people about Covid 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-records-highest-1-day-spike-of-7042-covid-cases/articleshow/78049230.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 recovery rate goes past 89% in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 1,53,735 on Thursday with 1,543 more people testing positive for the virus. With the virus claiming lives of 10 more people in the last 24 hours, including six in Patna, the state’s toll has jumped to 785. However, with 1,37,271 recoveries, active cases stand at 15,677 in the state. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,480 people recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 89.29%. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,12,199 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of tests in the state so far to 45,62,913. “Efforts are on to ramp up RT-PCR testing in the state. The facility will be started at Pawapuri Medical College and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in a couple of days. In the next phase, RT-PCR facility will be made available at district level,” Lokesh said. As per the health department, six fresh deaths in Patna took the district’s toll to 184. Bhojpur, Munger, Rohtas and Saran districts registered one death each on Thursday. AIIMS-Patna administration has reported three fresh Covid deaths and the victims include a 48-year-old man of Keshaura village in Nalanda, a 55-year-old woman from Koluha village in Muzaffarpur and a 66-year-old man from Biharsharif. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said three patients were discharged and 17 new patients admitted on Thursday. “A Covid-19 positive woman gave birth to a girl child at the hospital on Thursday and the baby is healthy. Her sample has been sent for Covid test,” Dr Sanjeev added. One fresh death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital where a 44-year-old man from Dalmiya Nagar succumbed to the virus. As per a press release issued by hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, three new patients were admitted and one was discharged on Thursday. Of 1,543 fresh cases recorded on Thursday, 202 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 23,395. However, with 21,154 recoveries and 184 deaths, active cases in Patna stand at 2,057. Bhagalpur recorded 96 fresh cases on Thursday, Purnia 92, Katihar 80, Muzaffarpur 72, Araria 67, Madhubani 63 and Gopalganj 52.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-recovery-rate-goes-past-89-in-state/articleshow/78045303.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 11, 2020||Business||Zomato plans IPO in 2021, ex-staff get $30 million cashout||BENGALURU: Online restaurant discovery platform Zomato has started preparations to go for an initial public offering (IPO) in 2021, making it the first among India’s most valued consumer internet companies, or unicorns (valued at over $1 billion each) to plan a market debut. The 12-year-old company, co-founded by IIT-Delhi engineer and former Bain consultant Deepinder Goyal, is planning its listing in India, said sources familiar with the matter. In the run-up to its public offering, the Gurgaon-based company is also in the process of closing a $30-million share sale for its former employees, which will be one of the most significant ESOP liquidity events in India. Zomato is in the process of raising its pre-IPO round of $600 million, as a part of which it raised $100 million from Tiger Global. Before that, it raised close to $150 million from Singapore’s Temasek, China’s Ant Financial and UK-based Baillie Gifford. The company’s valuation is expected to cross $3.5 billion with the new round, if it closes. “Our finance/legal teams are working hard to take us to IPO some time in the first half of next year. The value of our business is going up dramatically, all thanks to the hard work and commitment of our team,” said Goyal in a mail to company employees. While the initial start of the lockdown in March-April due to Covid-19 hit revenues of Zomato and rival Swiggy hard, the company said last month food delivery has recovered 75-80% of its pre-pandemic sales, while dining in at restaurants is still at just 8-10%. But at the same time, it has cut monthly losses from $45 million in March 2019 and $20 million in October 2019, which came down to $1.5 million in June this year. The company said it does not have any immediate plan for the cash it has raised. “We are treating this cash as a ‘war-chest’ for future M&A, and fighting off any mischief or price wars from our competition in various areas of our business,” Goyal told employees in the mail. In the past, Zomato and Prosus Ventures-backed Swiggy have held discussions for a merger, but talks have not progressed. Several Indian internet companies like classifieds owner Info Edge, which also owns a 25% stake in Zomato, besides online travel portal MakeMyTrip and business-to-business commerce portal IndiaMart — none of the highly valued unicorns — have till now gone for a listing. In July, online financial services portal PolicyBazaar had reportedly said it plans an IPO by September 2021. Before the pandemic, companies like ride-hailing giant Ola and e-commerce major Flipkart had talked about an IPO by 2021 and 2022, though the status of those plans is not clear. “The pandemic has helped companies with resilient business models break out even more rapidly. While many companies took a short-term hit, some have bounced back fast and with improved economics. Zomato has been sharing its annual financial report in spite of being a privately held company through both ups and downs — their culture of transparency is truly commendable,” said Tarun Davda, MD at venture capital firm Matrix Partners India, which has backed companies like Ola, Dailyhunt, Razorpay and Five Star Finance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zomato-plans-ipo-in-21-ex-staff-get-30m-cashout/articleshow/78048656.cms||Madhav Chanchani
September 11, 2020||Business||Indiabulls plans to raise Rs 2,200 crore||MUMBAI: At a time when most NBFCs are struggling to raise money through the equity route due to the Covid-related issues, Indiabulls Housing Finance is on track to raise about Rs 2,200 crore through a combination of stake sale to institutional investors and partial divestment in one of its associate companies. On Thursday, Indiabulls said it has sold part of its stake in OakNorth, a digital-only bank in the UK for about Rs 440 crore. It is in the process of selling further portions of its stake in the UK-based bank. These inflows are in addition to the ongoing QIP by the company through which it’s expected to mobilise about Rs 800 crore. Sources said the company is in advanced talks to sell some more stake in the UK bank for another Rs 1,000 crore. The fund mobilisations by Indiabulls will add to its regulatory net worth, boosting its capital adequacy ratio. Indiabulls had bought a 40% stake in OakNorth Bank in November 2015 for about Rs 663 crore. In November 2017, it sold one-third of its holdings to CIC, the Singapore government’s investment arm for Rs 770 crore. Prior to this round of fund mobilisations through equity sale and stake dilutions in an associate company, Indiabulls had raised over Rs 9,500 crore from the debt market in the first quarter of FY21. It’s also is the process of running down its developer loan book. All of this comes at a time when the tide seems to be turning for the NBFC/HFC sector, which has been beleaguered for over two years now following the IL&FS default in September 2018. Housing sales have also strongly picked up and the market has opened up with borrowing rates at all-time lows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-plans-to-raise-rs-2200cr/articleshow/78048408.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Business||RIL becomes 1st Indian co to hit $200 billion mcap||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) on Thursday became the first Indian company to cross the $200-billion market capitalisation mark after its stock surged over 8% on the back of reports that global retailing giant Amazon has been offered a $20-billion worth of stake in its retail venture. From being an entity with a market cap of nearly $43 billion a little over five years ago and a pure-play business-to-business (B2B) entity, RIL’s market value has risen almost five times as it scaled up its two consumer-focused businesses — telecom and organised retail — during the intervening period. In the process, it has leap frogged to become one of the 10 most valued companies in Asia and also among the top 40 globally. RIL is the only Indian company in these exclusive clubs, Bloomberg data showed. Data analysed by TOI shows that in the last two years, while the BSE’s market cap has remained stagnant at around Rs 155 lakh crore, RIL’s market cap has almost doubled from close to Rs 8 lakh crore to Rs 15.3 lakh crore. So if RIL is taken out from India’s total market cap, the fall in value is about Rs 7.5 lakh crore. Seen another way, while RIL’s market cap has grown about 92% since September 2018, the combined market cap of all other Indian companies has shrunk by 5%. The phenomenal rise in RIL’s market cap came during the past five years as it again transformed itself from being a major B2B focused company to a business-to-consumer (B2C) entity, in a country with over 1.3 billion people, said Arun Kejriwal, director at investment advisory firm KRIS. “Reliance began as a textile company and in the ’70s and ’80s its brand ‘Only Vimal’ was well known, when the increased demand for polyester and polyester fabric was strong. Its B2C focus changed when the company entered the refining business around the turn of the century in a major way and became a petroleum and refining company — a B2B player,” Kejriwal, a veteran of Dalal Street, said. As its refining business grew at a fast clip, RIL tried its hands at petro-product refining, but that didn’t take off as was expected. “In its current avatar, it’s back to being a major consumer-focused company with data turning out to be the driving force. It may also be highlighted that the acquisition of Future Group assets would add clout to its retail business, which is again a B2C venture,” Kejriwal said. K R Choksey Shares & Securities MD Deven Choksey, also a market veteran, pointed out that the current state of RIL’s market value, at Rs 15.3 lakh crore, could be gauged by the fact that it’s almost equal to the market cap of all the banks in Nifty bank index. Also, RIL’s market cap is half of that of the Nifty index. This index consists of 50 blue-chip stocks. Watch Reliance Industries becomes 1st Indian co to hit $200 billion mcap||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-becomes-1st-indian-co-to-hit-200bn-mcap/articleshow/78049441.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Exemption over, MC officer to meet zone I, II contractors||CHANDIGARH: After giving complete fee waiver for the Covid-19 curfew and lockdown period of April and May, the municipal corporation gave fee exemption of 45% and 35% to the paid parking contractors of zones I and II, respectively, from June (when paid parking resumed) to August. Now as this three-month period is also over, the joint municipal corporation commissioner has been given the task to hold a meeting with both the parking contractors to decide on fee. There are 89 paid parking lots across the city, with 32 falling under zone I and 57 under zone II. The parking branch is also preparing an agenda to decide if more fee exemption should be given to the contractors or not and the matter will be taken to the general house for members’ consideration. “Since majority of the people were refraining from going to the markets and other commercial areas, the civic body authority, after holding a meeting with the contractors, had decided to exempt fee by 45% and 35% for zones I and II for the past three months. But since things have improved now and there is no odd-even system, the civic body will either decrease the exemption fee or stop giving any waiver. However, the final decision will be taken by the members of the general house after a discussion,” sources said. The parking lots of southern and eastern sectors of the city have been kept under zone I, while zone II has northern sectors and is the busiest. Many new paid parking lots were added to zone II and majority were situated in key commercial areas, besides some in tourist spots of Rose Garden and Shanti Kunj. The earnings The municipal corporation had auctioned both these paid parking zones for over Rs 5 crore per annum. Thus, the civic body was to earn over Rs 10 crore from paid parking fee, but due to the pandemic, they lost a huge amount of revenue. The exemption MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “The contractors were earlier given a complete fee exemption for curfew and lockdown period of April and May and later they were given 45% and 35% fee exemption due to the Covid-19 crisis for further three months. Now I have asked the joint municipal commissioner to hold a meeting to decide things. We will take the matter to the general house, where a decision will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/exemption-over-mc-officer-to-meet-zone-i-ii-contractors/articleshow/78047097.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 11, 2020||Business||WFH boosts gender parity in high-skill jobs||MUMBAI: Covid-19 could be the great equalizer for gender diversity in high-order skill jobs. Over the last five months, work-from-home (WFH) has gained greater acceptance, with both men and women said to be sharing household chores while also working from their residence. This has removed biases from the WFH concept, which was earlier considered by some as ‘unproductive’ or relegated to those who cannot take up full-time jobs. Working women professionals in high-order skill jobs are unable to take up full-time office-based jobs for reasons such as child care. Read Also88% of workers in India prefer work from homeIn India, 88% of the workforce prefers the flexibility of working from home and 69% believe their productivity has increased while working remotely, as per SAP Concur, an expense management firm's survey. The percentage saying productivity has increased is the highest in the Apac region. However,Diversity and inclusion (D&I) experts believe WFH would help companies in achieving parity in gender diversity. Data from Avtar’s research on second-career women shows that 78 lakh Indian women (who dropped off the career ramp) are seeking to make a return. Over 45% of them are in tier-2 and -3 cities. Avtar Group founder-president Saundarya Rajesh said, “One thing which the lockdown has accomplished with stellar success is the removal of a lot of biases against working from home. If talent managers were to look at this, add additional skilling and make a match for open jobs, we will have a win-win outcome on our hands.” Avtar has seen a steady expression of commitment towards D&I initiatives among its clientele. In many cases, there’s an actual increase in engaging leaders on a refreshed D&I strategy. “Many leaders are already exploring ways in which the acceptance of remote working by business can be leveraged further. Our research says that the aspirational gender diversity ratios of some IT organisations, such as a 45% women ratio, is being seen as doable with the advent of more remote jobs. In fact, IBM has actually expressed interest in hiring women for night shifts (working from home), which until now was unheard of,” said Rajesh. IBM India and South Asia VP & HR head Chaitanya N Sreenivas said, “We are looking to tap into the pool of talented women candidates who would not usually consider a shift due to various reasons, including travelling at odd hours. The pandemic has offered the proof of the concept of work from anywhere and that work to an extent can be managed remotely. It’s early to put a number on how many women would we be able to hire as remote workers, but we are excited about this opportunity that the pandemic has created for us and the industry.” Read AlsoWorking from home may prove ‘taxing’Work From Home may feel lighter on your pockets now without the cost of a daily commute or leisure travel. Employees might end up paying over 70% more income tax for FY21, assuming remote work continues till the end of the fiscal. As professionals work from home, salary components such as conveyanceMahindra Logistics VP and HR head Mehernosh Mehta said, “The pandemic could be a game changer. A lot of companies are looking at WFH very differently since Covid. The stigma that was attached to WFH as a concept has gone. It offers tremendous flexibility for women to come back to the workforce. At Mahindra Logistics, we are looking at formalising our workplace flexibility policies for office-based employees soon.” Randstad India head (strategic account management) Sanjay Shetty said organisations too are moving towards an outcome-driven culture, which blends beautifully for those who can only operate from home or remotely. “Women workers in particular, because they are typically the primary caregivers at home, drop out of their careers because traditional jobs require them to be present in the office for a certain duration of hours. Remote working has opened the floodgates for the section of the workforce which can put in greater efforts at work as well as spend quality time caring for their families,” said Shetty. Rajesh said women who hold professional degrees, combined with robust work experience, who have had to take breaks in careers due to various reasons, can use the newly-minted acceptance of remote working, to get back on board. However, in the lower and middle order skills, which is where women’s jobs are largely concentrated, more women have lost their jobs during this pandemic. Watch Work-From-Home gives a boost to gender parity in high-skill jobs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-boosts-gender-parity-in-high-skill-jobs/articleshow/78048374.cms||Namrata Singh
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||Duo who shot at woman in Yakutpura nabbed||Vadodara: The crime branch sleuths on Thursday arrested two assailants who had allegedly fired on a former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) worker in Yakutpura area. One of the accused duo, Moin Sheikh, is the brother-in-law of the victim, Ameena Sheikh, who was shot at in broad daylight at her home. Sheikh, who suffered bullet injuries on her chest, is under treatment and in stable condition. Police said that property dispute and personal enmity between Sheikh’s husband Naeem and Moin led to the murderous attack. “We received information that the accused had fled to Ahmedabad after committing the crime. Our team tracked down Moin on Wednesday and nabbed him late in the night. He then led us to another accused Amjad Dewan,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). According to the police, Moin (49) and Naeem (34) had been involved in an ancestral property dispute for many years. The duo had even filed cases against each other in the past. “Moin felt that Naeem and Ameena were not giving him his due. Also, Moin was very angry with Ameena as she had misbehaved with his mother. The accused was waiting for an opportune moment to take revenge and he chose Ameena as his target,” Jadeja told TOI. On Tuesday, Moin asked Amjad to accompany him to the Yakutpura area. While Amjad drove the two-wheeler, Moin was riding pillion. “When they reached Ameena’s home, Moin asked Amjad to call Ameena under the pretext of giving a marriage invitation card. When she came out, Moin opened fire at her with his pistol. He tried to fire a second round but the pistol got jammed following which the duo fled from the spot,” Jadeja added. The cops began investigations on the basis of the CCTV footage that showed two masked men approaching Ameena at her residence. Moin had wrapped dupatta around his face to appear as a woman. The police had picked up six suspects hours within the firing incident. Investigators are now trying to ascertain how Moin got the pistol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/duo-who-shot-at-woman-in-yakutpura-nabbed/articleshow/78045301.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Surat||Bizman suicide: Key papers found||Surat: Property and land dealing documents were found on Thursday from the office of police constable Vijay Shinde, one of the 10 accused in the abatement of suicide case of millionaire quarry owner Durlabh Patel. Shinde is posted at Udhna police station. A team of Surat rural police conducted search at Shinde’s office while investigating 74-year-old Patel’s suicide case. Patel had ended life by jumping in his water-filled quarry at Khanjroli village in Mandvi district of Surat during early hours on Monday. Patel was depressed over a land deal for which he as allegedly being threatened and harassed by the accused. Shinde’s office is located in Giriraj Society. He also resides in the same society, said police. The documents recovered from Shinde’s office suggest that he was involved in land dealings, sources in police informed. “It is surprising that a police constable was having his own private office. The documents sized will become part of the investigation,” a source in the police, adding that the documents are most likely to be connected with the suicide case. Police also seized the digital video recorder as well from the office. Of the 10 people booked for abetting Patel’s suicide four are cops including Shinde, inspector L P Bodana and constables Ajay Bhopala and Kiransinh Parmar. The other accused include Raju Bharwad, Hetal Desai, Bhavesh Savani, Kanaiyalal Narola and Kishore Kosiya, had submitted application in Rander police station against Patel. Shinde and another accused Mukesh Kulkarni had threatened Patel many times with regard to the land deal. Meanwhile, body of a labourer Sandip Gamit was found at Patel’s quarry on Thursday. Police investigation revealed that Gamit died of heart attack. He was employed at the quarry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-suicide-key-papers-found/articleshow/78045611.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 11, 2020||Surat||Diamond artisans’ leader ends life due to fin crisis||Surat: The body of the president of Surat Ratnakalakar Vikas Sangh (SRVS), Jaysukh Gajera, 53, was found on the banks of river Tapi near Kathore village on Thursday morning. Gajera had gone missing since Wednesday evening and his family members could trace his motorcycle to the bridge over Tapi and alerted the police. They said that extreme financial crisis pushed Gajera to take the drastic step. The body was found from behind Lokhat Hospital at around 10 am after cops started searching for him at around 11.30 pm on Wednesday following the recovery of his motorcycle and sandals on Amboli Bridge, over Tapi on National Highway 48. Ironically, Gajera’s suicide coincides the World Suicide Prevention Day on Thursday. Meanwhile, police registered a case of accidental death and have started an investigation. “There is no allegation against anyone by the family members,” said a police officer at Kamrej police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-artisans-leader-ends-life-due-to-fin-crisis/articleshow/78046476.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Four eunuchs held for beggar’s murder in Adipur||Rajkot: Four eunuchs were arrested on Thursday for a beggar’s murder in Adipur of Kutch district. Police said the accused, Komalde Simrande (43), Bhartide Shobhanade (50), Pujade Bhartide (23) and Suhanide Pyaride (23), had allegedly beaten up Prakash Kod (35) and hit his head with a blunt object that resulted in his death on Monday. “The eunuchs had objected to Kod carrying out begging activity at Lilasa Circle in Gandhidham, the area to which they staked their claim as their own. They had asked Kod not to come there which Kod refused, resulting in an altercation and the subsequent attack,” said K P Sagathiya, inspector with Gandhidham A division police station. “The eunuchs forced Kod into an autorickshaw and dumped him near his house on Gandhidham-Adipur Road after beating him black and blue. Seeing him unconscious, Kod’s family members took him to Rambag government hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” said Sagathiya. The eunuchs were traced on the basis of the CCTV cameras installed around the spot of the crime. During their interrogation, they confessed to their crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-eunuchs-held-for-beggars-murder-in-adipur/articleshow/78046326.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Forest dept in DK to use smart system to mitigate human-animal conflict||Mangaluru: The forest department is leveraging technology in order to minimise incidence of human-animal conflict and to that end has installed the Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System (ANIDERS), a smart system that will help the officials monitor the situation in real time, on an experimental basis in the Sullia Range. Depending on the success of the initiative in Sullia, the system will be installed in forest ranges that have reported many instances of human-elephant conflict. Dakshina Kannada deputy conservator of forests (DCF) V Karikalan said that ANIDERS used both passive and active infrared sensors to track movement of animals, which, when detected in human habitats, would trigger a signal to sound an alarm, acting as a repellent. “The device, which costs Rs 30,000, we have procured from Jhansi, and have installed at two places in Sullia range as part of our pilot project,” Karikalan told TOI. Incidentally, locals noticed a herd of four elephants reportedly moving from Kokkada in Belthangady to Kowkradi village, before they turned back along the same route. Farmers have reported of crop loss along the way, and the movement of the jumbos has been brought to the notice of the forest department. Karikalan said that local foresters had been intimated about the movement of elephants. “Several small herds of elephants move between Madikeri and Sullia, Kerala and Sullia, Uppinangady and Hassan. We have chalked out a comprehensive plan to tackle human-elephant conflict for the next five years. The proposal for this Rs 15 crore project will be submitted in two days,” said Karikalan, adding that Dakshina Kannada had an elephant proof trench dug across a length of 180km. “The plan is to have the trench across an additional length of 80km, and we are hoping to complete work on around 15-20km this year. We are encouraging farmers to erect solar-powered fences to deter elephants from entering fields. Although erecting such a fence across a length of 1km costs Rs 3 lakh, the government is willing to offer a 50% rebate. Meanwhile, we have set up anti-depredation camps in ranges where movement of elephants has been recorded. Members of this camp patrol the forest at night and can respond to distress calls by farmers. Each range has an anti-poaching camp,” Karikalan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/forest-dept-in-dk-to-use-smart-system-to-mitigate-human-animal-conflict/articleshow/78048873.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 11, 2020||Hubballi||Union govt agrees to rename railway station after Siddharoodha seer||Hubballi: The Union government has approved the long-pending demand of Hubballi resident to rename the Hubballi railway station after Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji. Lalita T Hedaoo, undersecretary to the government of India, ministry of home affairs, has stated in a letter addressed to the principal secretary to the government, revenue department, Karnataka, that the Union government has no objection to rename ‘Hubballi Railway Station’ as ‘Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station Hubballi’. She has referred the letter of chief minister BS Yediyurappa dated November 22, 2019. She has enclosed the copy of letter dated July 7, 2020 received from the ministry of science and technology intimating the spelling of the new name in Devnagri and Roman scripts along with her letter and has requested the state government to issue required gazette notification spelling the new name accordingly in Devnagri (Hindi), Roman (English) and in regional language. She has urged the state government to send a copy of the notification to eight authorities concerned of the Union government for their records. The railway station was renamed as Hubballi railway station from Hubli in 2015. “Renaming the station after the seer was the long-pending demand of North Karnataka people. People of all religions and castes from Karnataka, Maharashtra and other states visit the mutt here. Even Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Gyani Jail Singh and other great souls have visited it. The struggle to rename the station was on since SWR headquarters was accorded to Hubballi. Now we request the state government to issue a gazette notification without any delay,” said Mahendra Singhi, former Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) member and former chairman of Shree Siddharoodha Math Trust Committee, Hubballi. It’s good news: Shettar Dharwad district minister Jagadish Shettar said, “It’s good news from the Union government that has honoured CM Yediyurappa’s request. We will ensure a gazette notification in this regard at the earliest.” SWR general manager Ajay Kumar Singh said, “The ministry of home affairs has signified approval / no objection for the proposal forwarded by the government of Karnataka to the proposed change of name. The name change will be done soon after the government of Karnataka formally issues a gazette for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/union-govt-agrees-to-rename-railway-station-after-siddharoodha-seer/articleshow/78049070.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||Somashekar writes to BSY on making Varuna a new taluk||Mysuru/ Chikkamagaluru: Mysuru district minister S T Somashekar has directed the Mysuru DC to submit a report on forming a separate Varuna taluk at the earliest keeping in view the interest of locals. He has appealed to CM BS Yediyurappa and revenue minister R Ashoka to consider the proposal. In his letter, Somashekar pointed out that the people of five hoblis of Varuna assembly constituency are now distributed between Nanjanagud, T Narasipura and Mysuru taluks. They are forced to spend an entire day travelling for their works as these taluk headquarters are not well connected with their hoblis. The minister proposed forming a separate Varuna taluk with Biligere (57,336 population), Chikkayyana Chatra (55,579), Doddakaulande (60,190), Kasaba (70,195) and Varuna (80,181). The proposal gained importance as the constituency is currently represented by Yathindra Siddaramaiah, son of former CM Siddaramaiah. Varuna is considered a bastion of Congress. In the 2018 assembly elections, BY Vijayendra was planning to contest from here as a BJP candidate. However, the party nixed his plans and fielded staunch party worker Thotadappa Basavaraju, leading to an easy win for Yathindra. Demand for Kalasa taulk At Kalasa town in Chikkamagaluru district, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje was shown black flags for allegedly not responding positively to the demand of forming a separate Kalasa taluk. The incident happened when the MP and Mudigere BJP MLA M P Kumaraswamy arrived at the town for laying foundation stones to various development works on Thursday. Kalasa Taluk Horata Samiti and JD(S) leaders tried to stop the vehicle on the highway in support of their demand. The MP neither responded to their appeal nor stopped the vehicle, and this is said to have angered the residents, who, along with JD(S) workers, picketed her. The protesters raised black flags and raised slogans against the MP and also demanded that a separate Kalasa taluk be formed at the earliest. Police took them to the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/somashekar-writes-to-bsy-on-making-varuna-a-new-taluk/articleshow/78048977.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hubballi||Illegal sale of liquor rampant in Dharwad||Hubballi: Unabated sale of liquor in villages in the district continues despite efforts by the police and excise departments to nab the culprits. Recently, the excise department seized tetra packs of the liquor being transported in a multi-utility van, while Alnavar police seized 32 tetra packets of alcohol. In Kundagol police station limit, cops nabbed Parshuram Pujari of RM Lohia Nagar red-handed while selling whiskey packets procured from wine shops at the Hanchinal Cross. They seized 48 such packets and on the same day, Gudgeri police seized liquor worth Rs 6,000 being sold illegally, said the Dharwad police. On August 31, the Navalgund, Kalghtagi and Garag police seized illegal liquor being sold in various areas in their limits. The Kalghatagi police seized 16 litres of whiskey of several brands and arrested one Ningappa Harijan of Hunasikatti village in Kalghatagi taluk for selling them illegally at a chicken shop in Hunasikatti village. According to sources in the police department, the miscreants, to make quick money, procure liquor from liquor outlets and sell them in villages without wine shops. Speaking to TOI, Manjunath Areguli, office superintendent at excise office, Dharwad said the department and the police are taking all measures. “We are seizing the alcohol being transported or sold illegally,” he said. The excise department, however, refused to give out the number of cases registered so far. Dharwad superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar said said the department is taking efforts to end the menace. She also requested the public to share information on illegal sale of liquor with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/illegal-sale-of-liquor-rampant-in-dharwad/articleshow/78049137.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Mentally disturbed man reunited with family in Rajasthan||Mangaluru: A mentally disturbed man, who was roaming on the city streets in rags and throwing stones at shops for the past three years, has been reunited with his family, thanks to a Mulky-based rehabilitation centre. Founder of Maimoona Foundation Apathbandhava Psycho Rehabilitation Centre, Mohammed Asif had shifted him to their rehabilitation centre in August, and provided him food, shelter and treatment in a hospital for one month. After recovering fully, the man recalled the phone numbers of his family members and the address of his family in Rajasthan, and the NGO made arrangements to send him back with his family members.  “He was sleeping outside a temple on Car Street. Locals made many attempts through the police to find out about where he was from, and about his family. A resident informed me about him and sought our help. Hence, I brought him to our centre, cut his hair, gave him a bath and provided him new clothes, and we called him Raju. After two days at our centre, we admitted him at Yenepoya Hospital in Deralakatte for treatment. Recently, he started showing signs of recovery and told us about his family. He also remembered the phone numbers of his family members. Hence, we came to know that his name is Mahesh and that he hails from a Patel family from Dhawa village in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan,” Asif said. After completing his graduation, he got a job with the railways in Mumbai, but due to some mental conflict he left the place three year ago, he said. “Soon after we informed his family, his father and brother left their village to come to Mangaluru to see him. However, due to delay in the connecting flights from Mumbai to Mangaluru, they could not reach on time. Hence, we sent Mahesh home along with the members of Dakshina Kannada Anjana Patel Samaj in the presence of Mangaluru North police inspector Govindaraju,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mentally-disturbed-man-reunited-with-family-in-rajasthan/articleshow/78048962.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Online tickets, sanitization breaks to be normal at zoos||KOLKATA: The state forest department is working on a set of SOPs before throwing open the zoos and national parks to tourists and visitors. A senior official said all safety protocols will be in place before operations resume, most likely by the end of this month. While the ticketing system at the zoos may go completely online to ensure social distancing, watchtowers at national parks may stay out of bounds to tourists to check spread of infection among forest staff. This apart, the mandatory thermal checks, use of masks, face shields and sanitizer will be in place as usual. TimesViewThe plans to reopen are an acceptance of the premise that we may have to deal with the virus for some time. They should always factor in adequate safety precautions. Citizens, too, need to be careful in their daily behaviour at home and in public as we try to return to normality.State forest minister Rajib Banerjee said, “We are reviewing a host of proposals forwarded to us by the state zoo authority, including making the ticketing system online. Besides, other steps to check crowding are also being worked out.” On resuming tourism in national parks, the minister said that a review meeting has been called next week before the parks can be thrown open to tourists “this month”. A senior forest department official said though the final SOP will be cleared by the minister himself, several changes are in the offing as far as visiting zoos or national parks is considered. “We are in touch with zoos in other states as well. Among the steps that are being considered are cap on number of visitors, change in visiting hours, ensuring distance between visitors and enclosures, extensive sanitization measures and regular thermal checks on visitors,” he added. The Alipore zoo witnesses a yearly footfall of about 30 lakh, and, during the Christmas and New Year season, the daily footfall crosses the 60,000 mark. On usual Sundays, it gets over 4,000 visitors on an average. “So capping the number of visitors and reducing visiting hours, like keeping the zoo open only on some days of the week, are some of the proposals we are working on,” said the official. The zoos in the state were closed to visitors on March 17 following the Covid-induced lockdown. On the forest tourism front, too, a host of new measures are in the offing. “We will strictly follow the guidelines issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). In a safari vehicle, we will allow only four tourists. Once inside the forest, they won’t be allowed to get off the vehicle, not even at the watchtowers,” said Subhankar Sengupta, field director of Buxa Tiger Reserve. Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director Tapas Das said safety of the forest staff would be of utmost importance. “We haven’t yet finalized anything on resuming tourism in the Sunderbans. We will take a call after reviewing the situation,” he added. On June 15, Sunderbans was thrown open to tourists. But it was suspended in July after a spurt in corona-positive cases in local villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-tickets-sanitization-breaks-to-be-normal-at-zoos/articleshow/78047094.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Cops wait for rescuer’s statement in Bypass case||Kolkata: Two key witnesses in the Anandapur molestation and attempt-to-culpable homicide case — Nilanjana Chatterjee’s husband Deep Satpati and the 31-year-old bank official who was allegedly assaulted by accused Abhishek Kumar Pandey — recorded their statements before a magistrate on Thursday. This heralded the beginning of the collection of crucial evidence. The development comes barely a day after Pandey was questioned on the sequence of events — right from when he picked up the woman from her Nayabad home till the time he was nabbed. On Thursday, senior officials, led by DCP (east) Gaurav Lal, met Chatterjee at Ruby Hospital. Later, senior cops, including those from the scientific wing at Lalbazar, visited the incident spot about 300m from Ruby crossing and decided to reconstruct the crime through a 3D medium. The evidence, once ready, is likely to be submitted in court. The detective department also hinted it might record Chatterjee’s statement on Friday. “The reconstruction helped us analyze the case,” an officer told TOI. “We are happy the 31-year-old bank official volunteered to record her statement, which is now admissible in court. However, given the sequence of events, it is likely that we need to concentrate on how Pandey hit Chatterjee while trying to flee. Chatterjee’s statement will be crucial, based on which we will seek legal opinion,” said a police source. Police said they are also comparing the statements of Pandey and the bank official. The latter was questioned yet again on Thursday. “Once we get Chatterjee’s statement, we will ascertain if these two are speaking the truth. For example, Pandey is claiming he had declared before Chatterjee that it was a personal issue even while he was trying to reverse the car. No such confirmation has come from either Satpati or Chatterjee,” said a source. Talking to TOI, Satpati said they were keen on slapping an attempt-to-murder charge on the accused. “The senior cops met us on Thursday and assured help. I told them it was a clear attempt at killing my wife. I met the 31-year-old victim in court and she asked about the well being of my wife,” said Satpati. He added that his wife had started using a walker. “We are hoping she will be released this Saturday. She has resolved to help cops in every possible way,” said Satpati. On Saturday, Pandey had picked up the bank official from her Nayabad flat and they dined at a Patuli restaurant where they wanted to sort out their differences regarding buying a flat. They were barely 300m from Ruby crossing, when she wanted to get out. “Pandey claimed that during arguments, the woman often left the car and hailed app cabs. But it was late by then and Pandey was not sure she would get a cab. That’s why he tried to hold her back after stopping. She cried for help, catching Chatterjee’s attention,” an officer said. “Pandey started reversing his car and, on his third attempt, slammed on the accelerator when he allegedly found Chatterjee in front, trying to stop him. He claimed he panicked after hitting Chatterjee and fled. The fact that he hit her on the third attempt is something that is under scrutiny,” the officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-wait-for-rescuers-statement-in-bypass-case/articleshow/78047135.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 11, 2020||Patna||Centre’s schemes to help Bihar farmers: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday showered praises on PM Narendra Modi for inaugurating and laying foundation stone for projects worth Rs 294 crore related to fisheries, dairy and agriculture sectors in Bihar, saying the schemes would go a long way in increasing the income of farmers. While the PM stressed on adopting technology and innovative measures to improve the fish and dairy farming, the CM explained how he had personally supervised the development of ‘chaur (low land that remain waterlogged for most of the months)’ in the state. The state has ‘chaurs’ of 9 lakh hectare area. The CM said he had personally visited the ‘chaurs’ in the course of supervision. “A part of the chaurs has been converted into pond for farming fish, while the other side has arable land for growing vegetables. Further, to protect the crop from nilgais, lemon and ‘khas’ grass is grown all around it,” the CM said. Nitish addressed the function from his Samvad auditorium through videoconferencing, while the main state function was held on the campus of veterinary college, where governor Fagu Chauhan, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar from the BJP and Neeraj Kumar from the JD(U) were present. The CM said the state government provided 80 acres of land for the establishment of frozen semen station at Maranga (Purnia), besides creating 59 posts and providing Rs 47 crore for the smooth running of the institute. Similarly, the PM inaugurated the building for school of agri business and rural management constructed on the campus of Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University. The PM also laid foundation stones for the construction of a boys’ hostel, stadium and international guesthouse in the university. The CM said the groundwork for boosting the production of fish, eggs, meat and milk in the state was done through three agriculture road maps from 2007. “Farmers engaged in fish production were given training at Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh) and Kolkata, which promoted scientific fish farming in the state. At the same function, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the ‘fodder scam’ that hit the animal husbandry department had paralysed its functioning. “However, the NDA government revived its activities to the extent that its budget has increased from Rs 72 crore in 2005-06 to Rs 1,178 crore in 2019-20,” he added. The deputy CM later said the PM would launch three projects worth Rs 901 crore related to petroleum and natural gas in the state on September 13. They include the 193km of the Durgapur-Banka gas pipeline (Rs 634 crore), an LPG bottling plant in Banka (Rs 131 crore) and another LPG bottling plant at Sugauli (Rs 136 crore).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-schemes-to-help-bihar-farmers-nitish/articleshow/78045442.cms||Abhay Singh
September 11, 2020||Patna||Plasma therapy starts at Bhagalpur hospital||BHAGALPUR: Plasma therapy, which has helped several critically ill patients recover from Covid-19, began at the Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur on Thursday. Although a plasmapheresis machine was installed at the hospital’s blood bank in the third week of August, procurement of a no objection certificate from the drug controller of the government and a clearance certificate from the Indian Council of Medical Research for starting plasma therapy took around 20 days. According to JLNMCH blood bank incharge Dr Rekha Jha, plasmapheresis is a process in which plasma is separated from the blood cells. “Plasma is extracted from the blood of the people, who have recovered from Covid-19 and developed antibodies. It is then transfused to other critically ill patients,” she told this newspaper and added that a blood bank technician was the first to donate plasma at the hospital. All other departments of the hospital have also been informed about the commencement of plasma therapy. “Attendants of the Covid patients have to bring the donors for starting the transfusion which will be done in the ICU,” Dr Rekha said. JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha pointed out that plasma therapy could save critically ill Covid patients and those with autoimmune disorders. Earlier, members of the Indian Medical Association and several doctors had raised the demand for starting plasma therapy at the JLNMCH when health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit was here on July 31 to review the facilities at the hospital. Subsequently, a committee, headed by medicine department’s Dr Binay Kumar, was formed. Other members of the panel included Dr Mrityunjay Kumar, Dr Hem Shankar Sharma, Dr P B Mishra, Dr Satyendra Kumar and Dr Rekha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plasma-therapy-starts-at-bhagalpur-hospital/articleshow/78045324.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 11, 2020||Hubballi||Cannabis grown in north Karnataka villages supplied to religious institutions||BELAGAVI: Against the backdrop of an explosive drug scandal that has turned into a major controversy owing to the involvement of Kannada film stars, police across the state are cracking down on growth and sale of narcotic substances. However, cultivation of cannabis, the plant that provides the basic material for the preparation of ganja, is common in some North Karnataka villages, where the leaves are supplied to religious institutions. A farmer in Yadgir said that he had been cultivating cannabis on his fields in Raichur and Yadgir districts. “The cannabis grown on my farms, I supply to temples of the Aruda sect, and the devotees and the priests there have always been grateful to and their blessings keep me happy. I have faced some legal trouble, but I have no problems continuing with cultivation of cannabis,” the farmer said. The Tinthini Mouneshwara temple in Yadgir, Handi Badaganath in Belagavi and Amba Mutt in Sindhanur in Raichur are among the shrines in the surroundings of which growth of cannabis is prevalent. Gangadhar Nayak, a member of the Tinthini Mouneshwara temple committee, refused to divulge the names of those who supplied ganja to the shrine during the celebrations of its annual fair. “The locals are passionate about ganja. This is not the only temple; there are many such institutions where weed is used. Cannabis grass is sacred to us,” Nayak said. A source familiar with the origins of the traditional use of ganja said that in those North Karnataka villages, where there is a practice of providing room to the Sharana saints, the habit of cultivating cannabis was prevalent. “But it is cultivated for a purely spiritual purpose to be given as prasadam to the saints in their homes. Moreover, ganja is not addictive. The current controversy around the substance is unnecessary,” he said. Moreover, the use of marijuana is fairly common at the Shishunala Mutt in Haveri. KG Devaraj, Haveri superintendent of police, admitted to being aware of the practice. “I have been working towards stopping this practice. Cannabis is transported to Haveri from Hubballi and Saundatti in Belagavi. Before I took charge, it was sourced locally. But we are cracking down on cultivation of cannabis, mostly grown in Hanagal taluk in sugarcane fields,” Devaraj told TOI. Belagavi SP Laxman Nimbaragi said that they had been acting against those engaged in the cultivation of cannabis in the district. “If we receive complaints against religious institutions in this regard, we will initiate action against them as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cannabis-grown-in-north-ktaka-villages-supplied-to-religious-institutions/articleshow/78049077.cms||Shreyas HS
September 11, 2020||Patna||Magadh University pensioners seek change in fixation formula||GAYA: Patna-based Magadh University (MU) pensioners have sought changes in the pension fixation formula. Teachers and non-teaching employees of the 25 constituent and three government-funded minority colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts, who retired from services on or before March 31, 2018, are getting their pension from the MU fund as PPU was carved out of MU in March 2018. Through a representation addressed to the special secretary, education department, the pensioners said that instead of calculating pension benefits on the basis of average basic pay of the last 10 months preceding superannuation, the last pay drawn should form the basis of pension calculation. According to a representation signed by Dharm Deo Rai, president, Patna chapter of MU Retired Teachers’ Association, “The state government, vide letter number 592 dated March 6, 2019, directed the university to consider both the last pay drawn as well as the average basic pay of the last 10 months preceding superannuation and make the fixation in such a way that the pensioners get the better of the two modes of calculation. But in practice, the average pay formula has been applied, which goes against the interests of the pensioners as well as the intention of the government to make the calculation on the basis of a pensioner-friendly formula.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-pensioners-seek-change-in-fixation-formula/articleshow/78046268.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||UT cop goes berserk, damages cars, snatches phones||CHANDIGARH: A high drama was witnessed at the temporary fruit and vegetable market at Sector 17 bus stand when an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the UT police created a ruckus and allegedly damaged vehicles and seized mobile phones of vendors and others at the mandi. Some passersby recorded his activities in their phones and later the videos found their way to various WhatsApp groups in the city. The video shows ASI Jasvir Singh breaking the wiper of a SUV and also quarrelling with the policemen in a PCR van. As he was fighting with everyone and not ready to listen to anybody, the policemen forcibly put him into the van and took him to Sector 17 police station. Those present on the scene said the ASI was deployed at the mandi from 4am to 12pm. He suddenly started stopping people and taking their phones. He also started damaging vehicles and assaulting the passersby, after which he was taken away in the PCR van. The UT police PRO, DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, said they got his medical examination done and he was not found under the influence of liquor. Now the department is verifying whether the ASI is facing some mental issues. Another video of a head constable of the UT police also went viral in the social media, in which the cop seems apparently drunk and quarrelling with people and trying to hit them with a hockey stick near GMCH-32 in the early hours of Thursday. The video shows head constable Rajbir Singh is not able to walk properly and can be heard abusing the person making his video. The cop had reportedly consumed liquor in his private car near GMCH-32 at around 2am. As someone saw him and started recording his act, he came out of his car with a hockey stick and chased him away. The people claimed that Sector 49 SHO Surinder Kumar, who was on night checking duty, also reached the spot later. But, the SHO said he had gone to GMCH-32 in connection with a different case and did not see any drunken cop there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-cop-goes-berserk-damages-cars-snatches-phones/articleshow/78047105.cms||Pawan Tiwari
September 11, 2020||Varanasi||Nine held for assaulting minor couple in Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj district||GORAKHPUR: The Maharajganj police on Thursday arrested nine persons for tying a minor couple with a pole and beating the boy. The action was taken after a video of the incident that took place 10 days ago went viral on social media on Wednesday. As per reports, the minor couple was found by villagers in Maharajganj district when the boy went to meet his girlfriend in her village. The video clip shows villagers beating the minor after tying the couple with a pole. “Through the video that went viral on social media, the matter came into cognizance of police and three cases were registered in this regard with Gughli police station in Maharajganj district,” SP Maharajganj, Rohit Singh Sajwan said on Thursday. “The first case is against the boy under POCSO Act on the written complaint of the girl’s family and the boy has been taken into custody by the police. The second case is against those who tied the couple and beat them while the third case is against a social media account holder, who made the video viral under Section 228 A (disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences, etc.) of IPC. The police have arrested nine villagers in the second case,” the SP added. One Durgesh Choudhari of Ghughli area and his two aides have been booked for making the video viral on social media, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/9-held-for-assaulting-minor-couple-in-maharajganj-dist/articleshow/78046827.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 11, 2020||Patna||Patna schools make arrangements for partial reopening from September 21||PATNA: Schools in the city are making all arrangements to ensure safety of students as the Centre has allowed partial resumption of activities for students of classes IX to XII from September 21 as part of Unlock 4.0. As per the guidelines, students from Class IX onwards are permitted to visit the schools to seek guidance from teachers only with the written consent of their parents from September 21. All the educational institutions were abruptly shut in March as coronavirus began to spread in the country. As a result, online classes became the new normal for students. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said they were awaiting guidelines from the state government for partial reopening of schools. “We will have to see how many parents allow their kids to visit the school. Accordingly, we will make sitting arrangements for them. Seeing the present situation, I don’t think that schools should reopen in Bihar as the virus infection is at its peak. However, if the schools partially reopen, we will follow the safety protocols,” she added. Sr M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School, said, “The school will follow the standard operating procedure issued by the Centre, including thermal screening of students, hand sanitisation at the schools gate and in classes. We are awaiting a clear guideline from the district administration.” Several schools have decided to conduct classes on alternate days to maintain social distancing, reduce school timing and divide each class into three. V S Ojha, principal of D A V Public School, BSEB, said the school would go for physical guidance classes twice a week for each set of students. “Each section will be divided into three. There will be enough distance between each desk in a classroom. Similarly, we will engage the teachers in such a way that they are able take physical as well as online classes. The students of secondary and senior secondary sections will appear for the board exams next year and the school has to clear the doubts they are having in understanding the topics,” Ojha said. Principal of Baldwin Academy Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said, “We will partially reopen the school if the state government allows us to do so. Students can come and consult teachers to clear their doubts taking consent of their parents.” Vaishnavi, a Class XII student, said, “I have many doubts that I want to clear with my teachers, especially in physics and chemistry. Without lab practical, it is not possible to understand some theories.” Rahul Gupta, a Class X student, said, “Although, we appeared for the online exam, it was not like the exams we used to give in classrooms. My performance was affected as I was not used to virtual exams.” Satish Kumar Ranjan, whose daughter studies in Class IX, said, “Reopening of schools, even for remedial classes, is not a good idea under the present circumstances. Online classes are good enough and there is one year left before my child appears for the board exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-schools-make-social-distancing-safety-arrangements-for-students-staff/articleshow/78045599.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 11, 2020||Patna||Spl Vikramshila Exp to run from Sept 12||BHAGALPUR: With the resumption of Delhi-bound Vikramshila Express as ‘Special Vikramshila Express’ (with new train number 02367/02368) from Bhagalpur to Anand Vihar Terminal (ANVT) from September 12, passengers of Bhagalpur and Banka districts heaved a sigh of relief Ticket bookings for the special train will commence on September 10. Everyday, the train will start at 11.15 am from Bhagalpur and reach Delhi (ANVT) the following day at 8.10 am. Equipped with a new electrical engine, the special train has 22 Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches. These coaches will carry 1,456 passengers that include 10 passengers in AC-I, 80 in AC-II, 288 in AC-III ( four coaches), 880 passengers in 11 sleeper coaches and 198 in two general coaches. Three rakes are being prepared as it is the first train originating from Bhagalpur to New Delhi after a prolonged suspension of train services since March 22 midnight till May 31 due to Covid-19 pandemic.  A limited option to the passengers of this region was provided from June3, when the 05955 UP Dibrugarh-Delhi special train, originating from Dibrugarh (Assam) via Bhagalpur railway station to Delhi had resumed. In addition, a weekly train--Deoghar-Agartala (having number (05625/05626) via Banka-Bhagalpur-Munger-Naugachia to Agartala--with 14 passenger coaches, will also start from September 14. It will originate from Deoghar at 18.45pm and reach Agartala in 37 hours. DRM Yatendra Kumar said, “Safety and maintenance department of the railways is preparing the train rakes and checking the railway tracks, apart from undertaking the sanitization procedure as per Covid-19 protocol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spl-vikramshila-exp-to-run-from-sept-12/articleshow/78046179.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 11, 2020||Patna||Govt’s refusal for more land puts NOU existence at stake||PATNA: The state government’s refusal recently to allot more than 10 acres of land for development of its new campus in Nalanda can force the UGC to derecognize the 33-year-old Nalanda Open University (NOU). The university needs at least 40 acres of developed land for its campus, as per the UGC norms. Protesting the government’s refusal to allot more than 10 acres of land, NOU vice-chancellor H N Prasad has written a letter to the special secretary of state education department for reconsidering the decision. As per the conditions imposed by the Distance Education Bureau of the UGC, an open university must have at least 40 acres of developed land for its campus. Even the state government had itself announced that 40 acres of land would be allotted to NOU, he said. While laying the foundation stone for NOU building at the allotted land in Nalanda on March 1 last year, chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced that he would unfurl the national tricolour on the new campus on August 15, 2020. But, unfortunately, the construction work undertaken by the Bihar Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation (BEIDC) could not be completed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the meantime, NOU received a letter from the state education department about a week ago stating that as per provisions of the Bihar State Private Universities Act, 2013, only 10 acres of land is required for setting up a private university in rural areas. The VC pointed out that NOU is not a private university. It was established by the state government as per the provisions of the Nalanda Open University Act in 1987. Right since its inception, it has been functioning from a rented building in Patna. With enrolment of around 1.25 lakh students in 120 courses, the university is the second largest open university and second only to Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) in the country. It has 220 study centres across the state and students even from outside are seeking enrolment in NOU, the VC added. NOU registrar Sanjay Kumar said the boundary wall on the allotted land has been completed and the administrative block is under construction. The construction of academic buildings with examination halls, counselling centres, rooms for faculty and staff, study materials storage and distribution centres, computer lab, faculty guesthouse and residential quarters for teachers and support staff would be taken up shortly, he said. In the meantime, the process of online admission under University Management Information System (UMIS) is already on and more than 8,000 students have already registered themselves for admission to different courses for the current academic session (2020-21). The last date for online admission is September 30, said NOU joint registrar Amar Nath Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govts-refusal-for-more-land-puts-nou-existence-at-stake/articleshow/78046144.cms||B K Mishra
September 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Vidyagama prevents kids from being labourers in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru: During long school holidays, children studying in government schools, especially those in rural ruals, would go to work in fields, de-husk arecanuts, join hotels or garment shops in order support their families financially. However, the Vidyagama programme has been able to keep children engaged in education, thereby stopping them from turning into child labourers. Officials of the department of public instructions said they feared that children end up as labourers during initial pandemic days when schools were shut. “However, Vidyagama programme has come as a saviour by preventing children from getting into work to a large extent,” says Malleswamy, DDPI of DK district. Sharing her experience, a high school teacher working in Benjanapadavu on the outskirts of Mangaluru explained that children turning labourers is a common practise in rural areas. “While boys work in fields, de-husk areca and other manual labour, girls work as a maids, roll beedis, work in garment shops or small factories (cashew and others). The introduction of Vidyagama programme has stopped this problem. Children are now able to concentrate on education, instead of supporting their families,” the teacher pointed out. Under the government’s ambitious education programme, teachers visit children in their locality on alternate days to keep a tab on their academic performance. “As children have to meet their teachers and show their homework, it is not possible for them to go out and work — they have study and complete the assignments,” said an official under Belthangady BEO limits. A lot of children, especially from high school, from this taluk turn up as agricultural labours during holidays. Fears over school drop-outs As the schools have remained shut for a longer period, officials also fear increase in the number of drop-outs. Malleswamy, DDPI, said that the department, as of now, has no information about student drop-outs and will come to know only when the schools reopen. Another teacher pointed out that the district had drop-outs even when schools were functioning normally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vidyagama-prevents-kids-from-being-labourers-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/78049002.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Minister announces grants for godown, vehicles||Rajkot: The state government would provide grants to the farmers for constructing godowns and purchasing goods carrier vehicles, said state food and civil supply minister Jayesh Radadia on Thursday.“As part of two schemes of the seven schemes for farmers, the state government would release the grant of Rs 30,000 to every farmer for the construction of a godown,” said Radadia while addressing a function at old market yard in Rajkot. “The government would also give the grant between Rs 50,000 and Rs 75,000 to every farmer to purchase mini goods carrier vehicles,” Radadia added.The minister also said that the government had decided to purchase the supply of ground nuts at the support price of Rs 1,055 per tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minister-announces-grants-for-godown-vehicles/articleshow/78046388.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Patna||A poll gimmick, say opposition parties||PATNA: Opposition parties in the state on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first virtual address through which he inaugurated and laid foundation for various projects for the state worth Rs 294 crore as a “poll gimmick” and an “eyewash”. They said the PM should have talked about the status of the Rs 1.25 lakh crore package which he had announced for Bihar before 2015 assembly polls. State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said, “Five years back, Modiji had tried to auction Bihar and people showed him the right path. This time too, he will get a good lesson.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the PM was trying to woo people ahead of election. “Modi has been serving the country as PM for six years. However, he never cared for Bihar. All of a sudden, he has started laying foundation stones for various projects with an eye on elections. Same trick is being used by CM Nitish Kumar, who has laid the foundation for several projects in the past three weeks,” Mishra added. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said instead of laying foundation for various projects, the PM should first pay the GST compensation to Bihar. “The Centre has kept over Rs 3,000 crore of Bihar’s GST compensation,” he said. Vikassheel Insaan Party chief Mukesh Sahni said the PM was trying to woo fishermen and Yadav community as his schemes mainly targeted fisheries and dairy projects. “People of Bihar are politically conscious and will not get trapped. In a way, he is damaging the source of livelihood of fishermen by generalising the trade and we will not let that happen,” Sahni said. The RLSP, however, said the projects launched by the PM would benefit the state. Party’s national secretary general Madhav Anand said, “Though this move is politically motivated, we welcome it as it will benefit Bihar.” Anand, however, said the PM should grant a special economic package to Bihar. “The economic package will help in setting up industries and create employment here,” Madhav said. RLSP’s soft stand on the PM, according to political pundits, reflects its discomfort in the Grand Alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-poll-gimmick-say-opposition-parties/articleshow/78045528.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||2 detained for possessing tiger claws||Chamarajanagar/ Shivamogga: Police-forest mobile squad has detained two persons, including an autorickshaw driver, at Kollegal in Chamarajanagar for allegedly possessing tiger claws. The forest department has taken over the probe after taking the accused into its custody. The squad, led by PSI Muddumahadeva, caught auto driver Narayani, 33, and Nayeem Pasha, 34, both residents of Kollegal town, while they were suspiciously moving around in the auto near the town. The duo taking a sudden turn after seeing the police vehicle led to suspicion. During interrogation, they revealed that they were having two tiger claws and that they tried to flee fearing arrest. A forest officer told TOI that following a complaint by the squad, they have taken up the case and are probing. Police enquiries have revealed that the duo had purchased the claws from an unknown seller. Suspecting the authenticity of the claws, forest officers are seeking assistance from the wildlife institute to continue the probe. Two held, deer meat seizedFollowing a rise in the number of deer deaths in the Malnad district of Shivamogga, the foresters raided Tyavarakoppa and Virupinakoppa on the outskirts of Shivamogga city and seized venison (deer meat). Foresters of Shankara and Ayanuru forest ranges raided the twin villages near the tiger and lion safari and caught Umesh, 52, at Tyavarekoppa and Eshwar, 30, at Virupinakoppa while they were cooking venison at abandoned places. Two other accused, Yelumalai and Govindaswamy, fled the spot. The foresters team, led by RFO Jayesh and DRFO Abdul Majeeb, recovered raw and cooked venison and utensils. The accused were produced in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-detained-for-possessing-tiger-claws/articleshow/78049027.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot’s Soni Bazar’s shutdown may impact jewellery supply||Rajkot: The gold jewellery supply to important markets across Gujarat and many parts of the country is likely to be his the manufacturing hub for the yellow metal Rajkot will shut down for a week starting September 12 following rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths.In past three months over 400 gold traders and workers from the Soni Bazar of Rajkot have tested positive for the virus, while nearly 35 people have succumbed to it. Two persons — one trader and a worker — died of the infection on Thursday.The traders had earlier shut down shops in July after the cases spiked. They had also limited it’s timings in August for two weeks. After the markets opened up in June the business has been dull and has just managed to reach 30-40% of the pre-Covid trader,” said Mayur Adesara, vice president of Gems and Jewellery Association in Rajkot.Bhayabhai Soni, president of Rajkot Gold Dealers Association, who lost his brother and sister-in-law in this pandemic two days back said, “We have urged the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) to declare this area as a red zone, sanitize it and do testing of all the people who have come in contact with these people in the market.” “The wholesalers, retailers and workers’ association all have unanimously taken this decision to close the market for a week after discussing the issue for over two days,” he added. According to Rajkot traders, there will be hardly any jewellery shop in the country where their designed or manufactured ornaments are not on display. Shantibhai Patel, president of Jems and Jewellery Trade Council of India said, “As the gold prices have come down the traders from all over India have placed orders with the Rajkot manufacturers. The Zaveri market of Mumbai has not commenced work yet and Rajkot was getting those orders too. This shutdown by Rajkot jewellers will certainly delay our orders and if the market will remain closed for more days it will badly impact jewellers.” Box: Losing shineThere are about 250 big and 500 small jewellery manufacturing shops in RajkotThe yearly turnover of Rajkot’s gold jewellery making sector is Rs 7,500 crore 1.25 lakh workers are employed in the sector, including 50,000 migrantsRajkot is known for its lightweight gold jewellery especially nose pins, earrings and antic jewellery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkots-soni-bazars-shutdown-may-impact-jewellery-supply/articleshow/78046215.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||Two farmers held for growing 70kg ganja in Hassan||Hassan excise officers on Wednesday evening arrested two farmers from Arkalgud in Hassan district for allegedly growing 70kg ganja in their farms. The duo had grown other commercial crops and vegetables to camouflage the banned crop. Kerala merchants, who promote ginger farming in the area, are suspected to be their main buyers. “Two farmers are from Hodenuru village of Arkalgud taluk near the Kodagu border. One of them had grown ganja plants weighing 60kg with ginger crop around, while the other had grown 10kg of the plant along with maize. They both were growing some vegetables too. Police have also found 550g of ganja at the house of an another farmer from the same village. He is absconding,” said excise DC Gopalakrishnegowda. “The 70kg ganja crop, grown over the last three months, is worth over Rs 15 lakh. We started the raids on Monday on the suspicion that Kerala merchants may have given these farmers ganja seeds. Two years ago, they started growing 4-5 plants, and have gradually increased the quantity. It’s suspected that the accused might have destroyed or shifted some ganja plants a week ago when the drug scandal hit the headlines,” the excise DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-farmers-held-for-growing-70kg-ganja-in-hassan/articleshow/78048864.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||Three-month-old infant dies of Covid-19 in Mysuru||Mysuru: A three-month-old baby boy is the youngest -19Covid victim in Mysuru. The baby boy, who was hospitalised at the dedicated Covid hospital on September 7, has died the next day. The death of baby boy has raised concerns about the safety of children, especially the newborns. The other young victims in Mysuru so far had been a 9-year-girl and a 12-year boy. All these children were hospitalised with complaints of breathlessness and respiratory infection. The latest victim too had similar problems. With the death of 13 patients, including the baby, the toll in Mysuru rose to 549, making it the second district in Karnataka — next only to Bengaluru — of recording the highest number of casualties. As many as 635 fresh cases were reported on Thursday. With the discharge of 499 patients, the district has now been left with 6,819 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-month-old-infant-dies-of-covid-19-in-mysuru/articleshow/78048842.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||ICCC cameras to check covid guidelines violation||Rajkot: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) is going to use the cameras of ICCC (Integrated command and control center) installed under the smart city eye way project to monitor the violation of covid guidelines. There are nearly 600 cameras installed across the city which are moving cameras. The primary use of these cameras are supposed to monitor traffic violations. Police are using these camera to track criminal activities at public places. As the cases of Covid-19 positive patients are increasing in the city and per day around 100 people are getting tested positive, the RMC is becoming strict in implementing covid guidelines at public places. The RMC officials are imposing fines on restaurants and shop owners where they find the violation like people not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance and violating other guidelines. The RMC in a statement said that now it would monitor the violation of covid guidelines norms through these cameras. “The people sitting in the control room will monitor these cameras for covid guideline violations and inform the field team to raid commercial premises. The ICCC will take the pictures and send them to the field team which will collect the fine based on the photographs,” said a senior RMC official. The RMC official on Wednesday collected fines of Rs 42,000 from those who did not wear the masks and Rs 20,000 from the tea and Paan shops for not adhering to the rules of social distancing. POLICE TO HELP RMC IN SURVEYING SOCIETIES The RMC is going to take the help of police in surveying the residential societies and commercial complexes to find suspected patients. The RMC had made the team of 1,200 employees to carry out the mass survey and tests to contain the spread of deadly virus. The doctors and para medical staff of these teams complained about the non-cooperation of people and insulting tones. Looking at the grievances the RMC has decided to depute police personnel in these teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/iccc-cameras-to-check-covid-guidelines-violation/articleshow/78046112.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Patna||Covid survivors in Patna complain of exhaustion, muscle pain||PATNA: Many Covid-19 survivors in the city have complained of experiencing post-viral complications like profound exhaustion, muscle pain and headache lasting for weeks or even months after recovery, doctors of at least four dedicated Covid-19 hospitals said. Sukrit, a techie and resident of Kankarbagh, who recovered from Covid-19 on August 18, said he faces deep exhaustion after a gap of every four to five days. “Post recovery, it has been a bumpy ride for me. On some days, I feel completely fine and energetic and on other days, I feel like being hit by a running bus. Sometimes the exhaustion is so intense that I don’t feel like getting out of the bed for daily activities,” he said. Sukrit’s grandparents, aged around 80 years, who also recovered from the virus around the same time, have also complained of tiredness. Several other Covid-19 recovered patients in the city have echoed Sukrit’s tone. A few of them are even contemplating quitting their jobs as they are finding it difficult to battle the lethargy and the stress that comes from not meeting professional deadlines. “I have to answer calls all day. If I don’t meet the targeted number of calls, my teammates have to compensate for that. My boss also expects a lot from me. But I am unable to function like before,” said Kadamkaun resident Pratik Kumar (name changed), who has been experiencing bouts of weakness post his recovery in August. City doctors have said post-covid viral syndrome is the most common complaint of Covid-19 survivors. Former president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Post Covid recovery, many people are experiencing chronic fatigue, myalgia, headache, breathlessness, decrease in memory and concentration. These symptoms may persist for weeks to months.” “Since Covid-19 infections are characterised by persistent tiredness, it is best to avoid resuming work soon after recovery. For people who want to resume workout, the intensity of physical exercise should be low,” he added. Many doctors have advised Covid-19 recovered patients to visit hospitals for medical follow-ups, including blood tests and chest X rays. Dr Samendra Jha, assistant professor of respiratory medicine at PMCH, said many recovered Covid-19 patients have been showing some evidence of lung damage and fibrosis. “A follow-up chest X-ray can help identify such complications,” Dr Jha added. Meanwhile, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said recovered Covid patients experiencing these symptoms should not panic as their ailments can be resolved with simple homecare treatments. “In majority of cases, post-covid viral syndrome will heal itself with dedicated homecare methods such as adequate hydration, good nutrition and mild exercise. People should eat a well-balanced diet, especially fruits and green vegetables,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cured-patients-found-with-post-covid-viral-syndrome/articleshow/78045284.cms||Arunima Lal
September 11, 2020||Patna||Will contest Bihar election on RJD ticket: Anant Singh||PATNA: Don-turned politician, Anant Kumar Singh alias Anant Singh, announced on Thursday that he would contest the upcoming assembly election on an RJD ticket. In 2015, Anant, known as Chhote Sarkar, had won the election as an independent candidate from the Mokama assembly constituency in Patna district. Anant, who was brought to the civil court from jail for his production in a case, told a select group of journalists that he had got the blessings of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family, who asked him to start preparations for the coming polls from Mokama. Anant, who is in judicial custody in connection with an attempt to murder case, also claimed that RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav would be the next chief minister. Anant’s elder brother Dilip Singh had earlier won the election from Mokama as an RJD candidate. After his death, Anant tried his luck and emerged victorious. He was once considered a close associate of chief minister Nitish Kumar, but later he parted ways and contested the previous election as an independent candidate. Their relations got strained after Anant’s wife Neelam Devi threw her hat in the electoral arena and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Munger constituency. She was pitted against Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, a confidante of Nitish. Earlier, Anant alleged that he was being harassed by the authorities on one pretext or the other. “When the court is closed and virtual proceedings are held, I am being taken to the court from jail for production amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” he told journalists on the court premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-contest-election-on-rjd-ticket-anant/articleshow/78045578.cms||Ramashankar
September 11, 2020||Patna||Suicide cases rise by 44% in Bihar, highest in country||PATNA: With 44.7% increase in number of suicides in 2019 when compared to the figures of 2018, Bihar witnessed the highest upsurge in suicide cases in the country, according to the recent data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Punjab was second highest with 37.5% increase in suicide cases, Daman and Diu (31.4%) and Jharkhand (25%). Highest percentage decrease in suicide was recorded in Lakshadweep (100%). Suicide rate in the country stood at 10.4% in 2019 and Bihar accounted for 0.5% or 641 suicide cases. The state ranked 21st in the suicide cases among all UTs and states in the country. In 2018, 443 such cases were reported in the state. Family problems and illnesses were the major causes of suicides in the country, which was followed by drug abuse/addiction, marriage-related issues, love affair, bankruptcy or indebtedness, failure in examination, unemployment, professional/career problems and property dispute. As per the NCRB data, of 641 suicide cases (395 men and 246 men) in Bihar, 234 people took the extreme step due to family reasons and 111 due to marriage-related issues. Altogether 94 people committed suicide due to non-settlement of marriage, 27 over dowry, 14 over extra marital affairs and six over divorce. The other reasons for committing suicide in Bihar include love affair (101), failure in exams (95), mental illness (23), career-related problems (20), addiction (14), infertility (11), unemployment (8), property dispute and poverty (five each) and social stigma, physical abuse and death of dear ones (one each). No suicide of farmer, cultivator and agricultural worker was reported in 10 states and UTs in the country, including Bihar. Patna has accounted for 92 (including 57 women) suicides in 2019 compared to 77 in 2018. The maximum number of suicide in the district was due to family problems (19), failure in exams (18) and love affair (17). Dr Samidha Pandey, a consultant psychologist, said people in the age group of 15 to 30 years are vulnerable to committing suicide. “These people commit suicide due to helplessness, love affair, unknown fear, mounted pressure in academics and anxiety,” she said. Dr Pandey said family members need to be empathetic with people who develop suicidal tendency because such people do not know what’s happening to them. “Such people should be counselled by their family members as well,” she said, adding proper counselling, guidance, medication and exercise was important in handling such patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/suicide-cases-rise-by-44-in-state-highest-in-country/articleshow/78046075.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 11, 2020||Patna||Work from home: Bane for some, boon for many in Patna||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, working from home (WFH) has become an everyday reality for many private sector employees in the city. While many have become accustomed to the new lifestyle, some are eagerly waiting to return to their offices. To working moms WFH is no less than a boon. Sadhana Puri resident Surbhi Sinha says, “Ever since my daughter’s birth, I was not able to spend much time with her. But now that I am working from home, she is always with me.” With major IT firms and other companies allowing their employees to WFH, herds of young professionals working in other states have travelled back to Patna. Utkarsh Dubey, a techie, moved from Bengaluru to his Shastri Nagar residence in March. He says, “In Bengaluru I had to do all the household chores and attend office too. But here my mother takes care of everything — from buying groceries and cooking to washing clothes and paying the bills. WFH is definitely a blessing!” Many management professionals, on the other hand, are facing operational challenges while working from home. Patel Nagar resident Kavya Verma, who interacts with other employees and organizes team activities for them, claims, “Recently I conducted a virtual party where everybody danced in front of their laptops. Even if it was a completely different experience, organizing the event was not easy.” Nishesh Kumar, a consultant by profession, is also not in favour of working from home because his job involves a lot of travelling and interaction with clients. “After I began working from home, the clients started calling me up even on Sundays. There is no work-life balance and I want to return to office as soon as possible,” he rues. Brother-sister duo Smit Sharan and Samujh are finding it difficult to work from home together because they indulge in fights over bandwidth issues. “Many a time, the timings of our meetings clash and the internet slows down. It is really annoying,” Samujh says. With uncertainty looming over reopening of offices, many people feel that WFH is here to stay. Hence, they have set up their workstations in a cosy corner of their houses. “Instead of roaming around from one room to another with my laptop, I work in a secluded corner. I also purchased a study table and some lights to make the space look pretty,” says Ashiana Mor resident Anubhav Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-from-home-bane-for-some-boon-for-many/articleshow/78045381.cms||Arunima Lal
September 11, 2020||Patna||Industrial units have vanished in Bihar: Congress||PATNA: Senior Congress functionary Salman Khurshid on Thursday blamed the NDA government in state led by CM Nitish Kumar for “backwardness” in Kishanganj and Araria districts. Khurshid made the remark while addressing the party’s virtual rallies for the two districts. “All the industrial units are closed in this region. There was a time when the products of jute and rice mills of Araria were sold in Kolkata market,” Khurshid said. In a bid to make a connect with people of Bihar, he said, “I have spent my childhood in Patna and studied at St Xavier’s School. I have beautiful memories of Patna.” Khurshid also raised the issue of India-China conflict and criticised the central government for “not handling the matter properly”. “Never during Congress’s regime such a situation arose at the LAC. Our soldiers are being killed and wounded, but the Modi government is keeping quiet,’ he said. Meanwhile, the Congress also organised a state level convention of its minority wing on Thursday. Party’s minority wing chief for state Minnat Rahmani, who coordinated the convention, christened ‘Aagaz Hai Badlav Ka’, said, “We discussed several issues like representation of Muslims in the assembly and Asaduddin Owaisi factor.” Owaisi-led AIMIM has announced to contest 50 seats in the state this time, mainly targeting Muslim dominated areas. Rahmani accused Owasi of fulfilling the wishes of NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-industrial-units-have-vanished-in-state/articleshow/78045550.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 11, 2020||Patna||‘Kidnapped’ minor Muzaffarpur girl recovered from New Delhi||PATNA: The Muzaffarpur police on Wednesday recovered a 17-year-oldr girl from New Delhi who was allegedly kidnapped by a youth from her house located at Dighra village under Sadar police station of Muzaffarpur district in the night intervening September 3 and 4. Confirming the recovery of the minor girl, IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar said on Thursday that the girl was staying with a youth in New Delhi ever since she eloped with him from Muzaffarpur. The youth, stated to be a resident of Karja Dih village under Karja police station in Muzaffarpur district, was also arrested. She was produced in a Muzaffarpur court on Thursday to record her statement under under section 164 of CrPC. Earlier, Muzaffarpur City SP Neeraj Kumar Singh said that the girl informed the court that she was not kidnapped as claimed by her father in the FIR but she had eloped with her boy friend. She had escaped from her house a day before the incident as claimed by her father, who is a grocery shopowner. She was carrying Rs.10,000 in cash and some jewellery, he added. The City SP said that police ascertained the whereabouts of the girl and her the youth on the basis of tower location of their cell phone in New Delhi and subsequently carried out raids. The girl said that she had already married the youth, who came in her contact while attending coaching classes. The girl has been detained at the women’s police station and would be sent to the sadar hospital for medical examination on Friday. “Further course of action will be taken on the directive of the court,” he told this newspaper over the phone. The youth was booked on charges of kidnapping a minor. Police cracked the case a day after a team of the state women’s commission led by chairperson Dilmani Mishra visited Muzaffarpur and inquired about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-minor-muz-girl-recovered-from-new-delhi/articleshow/78046204.cms||Ramashankar
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Unidentified assailants fire three rounds at BJP leader’s car||RAJKOT: Three rounds were fired on the car of BJP leader Zina Dervadia in Chuda of Surendranagar district on Wednesday night. Dervadia has accused three unidentified assailants of the crime. In his complaint with Chuda police station, Dervadia said that while he was travelling in his car from Gandhinagar to his village Lakhchokiya near Chotila in Surendranagar district, he spotted three persons on a two-wheeler driving on the middle of the road. According to police, Dervadia honked repeatedly, but to no avail. The trio kept driving in the middle of the road. However after some time, the trio gave Dervadia’s car a side. “It was while Dervadia was overtaking the trio, one of them took out a pistol and fired three rounds at the car. One of the bullets hit the glass of the side window, the other bullet hit the rear door of the car and the third bullet hit the boot of the car,” said D B Basiya, Limbdi deputy superintendent of police. Dervadia drove down to Sayla police station which transferred his complaint to Chuda police station. Dervadia had gone to Gandhinagar to make a representation on behalf of the farmers of his area about the loss they suffered due to heavy rains and subsequent floods. Dervadia had lost the MLA election against Congress candidate Rutwik Makwana in the last state legislative assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unidentified-assailants-fire-three-rounds-at-bjp-leaders-car/articleshow/78046411.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||3 succumb, 283 catch virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three patients died and 283 tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday.With this, the city toll tally stands at 80 and the case count at 6,987. The casualties included a 46-year-old man of Manimajra with bilateral pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury with sepsis; a 66-year-old diabetic man of Sector 48; and a 59-year-old woman of Sector 22, who was suffering from pneumonia.The Sector 48 man had succumbed on September 6 and the Sector 22 woman on September 4, but their deaths were taken on record on Thursday.  As many as 191 patients were cured and discharged on the day.The active cases are 2,573 and 4,331 patients have been cured so far.VIRUS TRACKERTotal cases | 6,987Deaths | 80Recoveries | 4,331Active cases | 2,573||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-succumb-283-catch-virus-in-chandigarh/articleshow/78047108.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Low retesting of antigen -ve cases may ‘hide’ real picture||MUMBAI: The Union health ministry on Thursday noted that in certain large states symptomatic patients who tested negative by rapid antigen tests were not being followed up with an RT-PCR, the gold standard test. It said that failure to do so could lead to states missing potential patients who could spread the virus among their contacts. Data accessed by TOI revealed that in Maharashtra only 1.1% of the antigen negative cases were followed up with RT-PCR. The state has performed over 16 lakh antigen tests over the last two months of which 2,47,606 have come positive, indicating a positivity rate of 15%. However, the data pointed out that only 14,674 people were retested with RT-PCR. Pune tops state in rapid antigen tests, but only 800 cases retestedThe data on RAT retesting indicates that of the 13.52 lakh who tested negative only these few thousands had symptoms and qualified for a follow up RT-PCR test. More importantly, of the 14,674 who were retested, around 18% (2,652) turned out to be positive. A senior expert said the high positivity rate in those who got retested only showed that more positive cases could be found if the retesting numbers were increased. In Delhi, reportedly less than 1% of over 7.5lakh people tested through rapid antigen were retested, prompting the Union government to reiterate that it was mandatory to retest symptomatic antigen negative cases. Dr Shubhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said a decision on deployment of antigen test was also being taken at the district level. “It’s possible that some are worried that their positive case number could grow,” he said. A senior medical professor, however, said getting an RT-PCR test was still difficult in several remote districts. Among districts in Maharashtra, Pune has done the highest number of antigen tests (2.34 lakh) and found 58,563 positive. However, less than 800 patients were retested of which 157 came positive. Thane, which is the second highest user of antigen tests in the state, has carried out 1.99 lakh antigen tests of which 26,891 came positive. The district has retested around 5,107 and found 813 positives in them. Similarly, Aurangabad that has carried out over 1.31 lakh tests and found 10,925 positive has done retesting in a handful. Antigen tests are considered less accurate as they could miss up to 50% of positive cases, although a person testing positive is a true positive. A faster turnaround time and ease of use has majorly accelerated its use across the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines state that all symptomatic patients with fever, cough and breathlessness should be retested after a negative antigen. It also says asymptomatic negative cases of rapid antigen who develop symptoms within 2-3 days of being tested negative should also be checked with RT-PCR. The health ministry has also asked for teams to be formed to analyse antigen test details daily and ensure there are no delays in retesting. Maharashtra has completed nearly five million tests and the daily testing numbers are now around 90,000 of which over 60% is done using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/low-retesting-of-antigen-ve-cases-may-hide-real-picture/articleshow/78049236.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Winds of inter-change: Ridership up 60%||NEW DELHI: With the reopening of three more Delhi Metro corridors, ridership made a huge jump on Thursday, reaching 84,841 passengers till 7.30pm. This represented a spike of nearly 60% over Wednesday’s figure of 53,400 till 8pm. The Red (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal), Violet (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh) and Green Lines (Inderlok-Bahadurgarh) resumed train services on Thursday. Though these corridors themselves didn’t see a big rush, their opening increased the number of interchange points to 23, thus helping push up overall ridership figure. “The total ridership in today’s operational hours from 7am to 11am and then from 4pm till 7.30pm was 84,841,” confirmed Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. Delhi Metro’s busiest corridor, the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida City Centre), had 31,234 people travelling on it on Thursday, up from 22,600 on Wednesday. The second busiest corridor, the Yellow Line, had a footfall of 29,656 against 26,900 the previous day, and the Red Line, which usually used to be crowded at peak hours before the Covid lockdown, had 8,037 riders on Thursday. The three oldest corridors of Delhi Metro — Red, Yellow and Blue — accounted for 81.2% of Thursday’s ridership with a combined total of 68,927 passengers, despite constituting only a cumulative 42.5% of the Delhi Metro network. The Violet Line, which remained largely deserted in the morning hours, had 6,373 riders and the Green Line, 3,564, while 5,977 people travelled on the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) its second day after renewed services. “The actual utilisation of a Metro train system is reflected in the number of rides by a passenger on one or more lines (passenger boardings or line utilisation) in completing his or her journey and not by ridership alone,” Dayal reiterated. With Red, Violet and Green Lines witnessing lower than expected passengers, implementing physical distancing on platforms and in coaches was not a problem. At Delhi Metro’s only interchange station where three corridors meet, Kashmere Gate, commuters were seen awaiting patiently as commuters disembarked before entering the coaches. As part of the graded resumption of services, the Yellow Line connecting north Delhi with Gurgaon reopened on Monday but saw a lukewarm response from commuters. With the eventual addition of other corridors from Wednesday onwards, the ridership went up. “I was looking forward to the reopening of the Red Line as reaching my office in Nehru Place is a huge hassle,” said Dilshad Garden resident Gagan Verma. “Many of my neighbours were regular metro users before the lockdown, but with infections rising this month, they are apprehensive of using public transport.” Arvind Kumar who lives in Tughlaqabad said for people without their own cars, travelling to work meant leaving home an hour early. “It took me an extra hour to reach my workplace in CP,” said Kumar. “Initially, it was fine, but now the traffic is back to what it was during the pre-Covid days. I cannot afford to take an autorickshaw daily or spend on petrol. The Metro helps me travel with ease.” Instead of waiting for the bus from Ballabhgarh, sales executive Sumer Singh reached Mandi House before changing to Blue Line to reach his office. “Buses are not convenient because of the limited seats available. I am glad the metro is back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/winds-of-inter-change-ridership-up-60/articleshow/78048503.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Family targets power officials, two injured||KOTA: Two home guards of the vigilance team of Jaipur Vidutt Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) sustained injuries after five members of a family attacked them with iron rods and sticks on Thursday after the squad had reached their house in Ladpura village under Keshoraipatan police station of Bundi district for checking the electricity meter at their house. Police booked the five members of the family under various sections of IPC, though nobody was arrested. The two injured guards were rushed to MBS Hospital in Kota where they are undergoing treatment. The squad, led by assistant engineer Kamlesh Meena from Bundi district headquarters, had reached Ladpura village for checking electricity theft, police said. When the squad entered the house of one Chothmal Meena, he along with his wife Santosh and three sons attacked the squad with iron rods and sticks, police said. Two home guards were identified as Ramhate Meena and Tulsiram Raiger. On a report by Meena, assistant engineer (AEN), JVVNL vigilance squad, police lodged a case under Sections 332, 353, 143 and 308 of IPC against Chothmal Meena, his wife Santosh, sons Vinod and Jamnashankar and one other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-targets-power-officials-two-injured/articleshow/78048433.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh & five others were on our radar, says customs||Kochi: A day after Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was questioned for over 12 hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money trail in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, sources with the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) which busted the racket, said Bineesh was among a handful of persons with political links who were under the agency’s radar since the initial stages of the probe. “We have had confidential alerts which made Bineesh a person of interest for us since the beginning of the probe. These suspicions were not mere conjectures, but information received from believable informants. We also had information about five other political figures who are suspected to have connections with the smuggling racket,” said a senior customs officer. Bineesh became a valuable person for the investigation agencies after it was reported that he had a close connection with Anoop Muhammed, a key accused in the Bengaluru celebrity drug case, and who, in turn, had connections with K T Ramees, the main accused in the gold smuggling case. The fact that Bineesh invested in Muhammed’s restaurant business also cast a shadow of doubt over his dealings even as he has claimed that he was totally unaware of Muhammed’s criminal side. ED sources said they are in the process of analysing evidences and would soon summon Bineesh again in the coming week. He is likely to quizzed over his financial transactions, investments and companies in which he has a stake. “ED joint director who arrived from Chennai would camp here for a couple of days. It is usual for him to visit the Kochi office often but this time around it has obvious significance. We are analysing the statements and details would be shared with NCB,” said an ED source. Meanwhile, another official said ED has lined up several persons of interest who would be questioned in the coming week. Key persons including M Sivasanakar IAS who has already been questioned as well as officials of the Life Mission are among them. Customs sources said they will look whether proceeds of gold smuggling are invested in the drug trade, in the light of the Bengaluru incident. ED had said the other day that it suspects that the accused in the Bengaluru drug case who is being questioned by the NCB, assisted the accused in the gold smuggling case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-five-others-were-on-our-radar-says-customs/articleshow/78045679.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Rs58cr funds for police dept in Naxal-affected districts||Nagpur: A budgetary allocation of Rs58 crore for the year of 2020-21 has been made from security-related expenses (SRE) provision for police department in three Maoist-infested districts in eastern Vidarbha — Gadchiroli, Gondia and Chandrapur. It’s learnt the funds, sanctioned through the efforts of Gadchiroli guardian minister Eknath Shinde, would be spent on various needs of the department including construction of police assistance posts. The funds would also be spent on rehabilitation of surrendered Maoists, compensatory assistance to dependents of civilians who had fallen victim to Maoist violence etc. ‘Jan jagaran melawas’ or public gatherings for awareness programmes conducted in Maoist-affected places by police department to win confidence of the masses would also get boost from the budgetary allocation. Several such melawas have been organized in remote places of the district in 2019 and 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs58cr-funds-for-police-dept-in-naxal-affected-districts/articleshow/78048468.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Golden jubileecelebrationsof Bhavans toconclude today||Kochi: The yearlong golden jubilee celebrations of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB) Kochi Kendra will culminate with a valedictory function on Friday, which would held online. The Kochi Kendra was started in 1970 as part of the expansion of BVB, which was founded by educationist and Independence movement activist K M Munshi in 1938. The event will also feature the golden jubilee goodwill message from Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu. Messages from president of BVB Mumbai Surendralal G Mehta and executive secretary and director general, BVB Mumbai, H N Dastur will also be read out. The valedictory address will be delivered by C A Venugopal C Govind, chairman, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Kochi Kendra. Kochi Kendra director E Ramankutty will preside over the function. The toppers of CBSE Class X and Class XII exams will be felicitated online during the ceremony. The event will also feature a dance by the alumni of Bhavan’s school in Kochi Kendra, a music programme by the current students of all the schools of the Kendra. There are seven CBSE schools and six nursery schools under Kochi Kendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/golden-jubileecelebrationsof-bhavans-toconclude-today/articleshow/78047141.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two girls drown in Jhalawar||KOTA: Two minor girls, who were cousins, drowned while bathing in the Cunder Asnawar police station of Jhalawar district on Wednesday. The bodies were retrieved on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday after they surfaced and were handed over to their family members after postmortem on Thursday morning. Sunita, 14, daughter of Ramlal Gurjar and her cousin Laxmibai, 13, daughter of Narayan Gurjar, were residents of Barodiya village. The two had gone to take bath in the river on Wednesday noon and since they knew swimming very well, they advanced ahead from the shore into deep waters and were likely to have lost control over breathing and drowned, police official at Asnawar police station Balchand Gurjar said. The family members came to know about the incident around two hours later following which they informed police around 4pm on Wednesday. A rescue operation was initiated, but the girls could not be traced till late evening, however, around 10pm one of the bodies was spotted floating afar in the river while the other body surfaced around 1am, he added. According to family members, the deceased girls were good swimmers and would go to the river daily for bath. Police lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC for further investigation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-girls-drown-in-jhalawar/articleshow/78048465.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||‘Hygiene status’ for 3 local bodies||Kochi: Eloor, Kothamangalam and North Paravur municipalities bagged ‘hygiene status’ of Suchitwa mission after they secured more than 60% of marks in the yardsticks set by the mission. As many as 24 panchayats are racing to reach the mark in the first stage of hygiene grading. Meanwhile, Kochi corporation, the largest local body in the district, could not find place in the first stage as it lags behind in yardsticks. Suchitwa mission has set 20 yardsticks for local bodies to attain the hygiene status. Local bodies which meet 60% of the benchmarks will get the status. The mission sends questionnaire to all local bodies on benchmarks. Before submitting the filled-in forms, a committee of district officials verify the answers through field visits. The questions include availability of public toilets for women, children and differently-abled people, cleanliness of roads, waste management, state of waterbodies, solid waste management rules among others. “We secured more than 60% of marks. The municipality collects waste from houses with the support of ‘haritha karma sena’ members. The local body had also distributed bio-bins to treat waste at source itself along with other procedures,” said Eloor vice-chairperson M A James.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hygiene-status-for-3-local-bodies/articleshow/78047159.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on plea for relief to assaulted couple||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a status report from the state government on a plea seeking compensation for a couple who were assaulted, and lack of action on the part of the police thereafter against the perpetrators, despite a retired judge of the Madras high court holding a protest.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an advocate P Rathinam, from Madurai. He said that the couple, Senthil and his wife Priyadharshini, residents of Poolankurichi village in Sivaganga district, were assaulted by Prakash and three other women on August 1. Following the assault, Senthil and his wife sustained injuries and admitted to the hospital.Though a complaint was given by Senthil the same day, the case was registered only the next day. Since no action was taken by the police against those involved in the assault, the villagers along with justice Selvam, who was carrying out agricultural activities there, protested in front of the Poolankurichi police station. Though the judge had brought it to the notice of the higher authorities, no steps were taken.Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai seeking compensation for the mental agony and sufferings experienced by the couple due to apathy on part of the officials. Since an effective investigation is required in this case, the petitioner also sought to transfer the case to the district crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-plea-for-relief-to-assaulted-couple/articleshow/78049242.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Relief for investors: IUML asks Manjeshwaram MLA to refund money||KOZHIKODE: IUML leadership has asked Manjeshwaram MLA M C Kamaruddin to repay the entire amount he collected for Fashion Gold within six months’ time. The decision comes after scores who invested in the company came out against the MLA for not returning their money. A meeting held at the residence of party president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal in Malappuram on Thursday also entrusted Kallatra Mahin Haji, Kasaragod district treasurer of the party, to oversee the repayment procedure. IUML state secretary K P A Majeed said Kamaruddin has been asked to provide details of his assets and liabilities before September 30. The MLA has also been asked to step down as the chairman of the UDF district committee. P K Kunhalikutty, MP, who led the discussions, said though cheating accusations have been levelled against a business done by the MLA in his individual capacity, the party decided to intervene to protect the interests of the investors. “Kamaruddin has agreed to our directions. His individual assets and help from family members and well-wishers will be utilized to repay the amount,” he said. Kunhalikutty said those who have filed cases against Kamaruddin can seek the legal way and the MLA can defend himself legally. Those who want to get their money back can seek the assistance of the mediator, he said. He said there has not been any attempt to swindle money but the problem was that the business flopped. He added that IUML members in different capacities, who are the director board members of Fashion Gold, should step down from their party positions. The proposals were the outcome of the day-long deliberations at the IUML Malappuram district committee office and later at the residence of Thangal. Though Kamaruddin was summoned by Thangal to explain his stand, it was later decided to seek his explanation over the phone. IUML Kasaragod district leaders, including N A Nellikunnu, MLA, held talks with Kunhalikutty and Majeed to find a way out. The party was forced to take a decision as polarisation was developing in the party over the issue. Initially, the IUML did not consider the issue as a serious one and wanted to settle it locally. The IUML district leadership was confident that it could silence the investors using its political clout as majority of them are party sympathisers. The state leadership decided to step in when it was known to them that things are going out of hand. Fashion Gold was started in 2007 by accepting investment from the people. The company was declared closed down in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/relief-for-investors-iuml-asks-mla-to-refund-money/articleshow/78045707.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Maratha quota stay makes students, parents anxious||PUNE: The students applying for various technical and non-technical courses under the Maratha reservation are dejected after the Supreme Court stayed admissions under quota for the community. Students and parents said they had spent nearly three months to get the caste certificate while many had applied and were yet to receive the certificates. Meanwhile, the admissions’ committee for all graduate and postgraduate courses were reviewing the seats and awaiting further clarification from the state government so as to announce the schedule. Shreshtha Raut, who had scored 80% marks in SSC, was hoping for a seat in SP College in the second merit list. “My name did not appear in the first list for science stream, but I was very close to the cut-off mark. So I thought I would easily get through the quota seats under the socially and economically backward class (SEBC) quota. But now, with this stay, my application will be considered in the open category and I may still have to wait.” Rupesh Kale, parent of a student applying for an undergraduate course in a city college, said the government should have allowed to conduct the current admissions as per the previous norms. “It is unfair that the students who got admissions through the earlier rounds took benefit of it, but the remaining round students will suffer. Rules should be uniform for all,” he added. Shailaja Sonawane, another parent of a student, said, “We had decided to confirm the admission by paying the fees on Thursday, but the college refused it after the court announced the stay. It was the most unfortunate thing as we will have to contest the application all over again under the general quota.” Principal of Abasaheb Garware College of Arts and Science, P B Buchade said, “For the graduate courses, we have completed nearly 80% admissions. The FYJC admissions will take place based on what the state government decides, henceforth. But, since our admissions system is completely online and we completed 80% admissions by the time the apex court announced the stay, not many will suffer.” Meena Shendkar, joint deputy director of education who looks after FYJC admissions in Pune, said the state government announced a stay on the second merit list which was to be announced on Thursday. “There will not be any effect on the seats, but the application by the Maratha community students under the SEBC quota may have to be considered under open category. However, we will wait for the decision from the education department. Details will be announced soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sc-stay-sends-anxiety-soaring-among-maratha-community-students-parents/articleshow/78049251.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Two women held for hunting peacock||LUCKNOW: Sitapur police on Wednesday lodged an FIR against two women in a village in Ramkot area for allegedly killing a peacock. The FIR was lodged after the police raided their house and found accused women Gangajali and Ramjanki missing. They were arrested on Thursday evening and sent to jail. Police have recovered the peacock remains and sent them for autopsy. SHO, Ramkot, Brajesh Rai said the women hunted the peacock for a party. As soon as villagers learnt about it, they informed the village head, who alerted the police. “Before a police team could reach, the women escaped. However, various teams were formed and they were nabbed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-women-held-for-hunting-peacock/articleshow/78049247.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||HC puts screening for jury on hold||Kochi: The high court has directed for putting on hold the screening of films for the jury for this year’s Kerala State Film Awards. Justice P V Asha issued the directive after considering a petition filed by filmmakers Satish Babusenan, Shinos Rahman, and composer K Santhosh. The petitioners alleged that nepotism is rampant in selecting the films for the state film awards, which is instituted by Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. Films by relatives of the academy’s chairman and vice chairperson were selected for last year’s awards, the petition said. Aami directed by the academy’s chairman and Carbon directed by the husband of academy’s vice chairperson, were selected in last year’s competition. While Aami received two awards, Carbon bagged six. For this year’s awards, the academy’s chairman is scheming to include a film titled Nine, which was directed by his son, the petition said. Though the academy’s secretary objected to it, he was unceremoniously removed by the state government, stated the plea. Presenting an RTI reply by the chairman of the academy before the court, the petitioners have contended that the academy has a role in deciding the jury members, who are from the film field, and there is a likelihood that this year’s awards would be subverted like last year, the petitioners argued while seeking the court’s intervention. The petitioners are seeking a court order to the academy’s chairman to resign or to direct the jury not to consider the film of chairman’s son for the awards. They are also seeking a directive to amend the regulations so that films made by the academy’s chairman, vice chairperson, members of the general council, or their relatives are not considered for state film awards. Department of cultural affairs should be ordered to form a committee consisting of eminent filmmakers like Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Shaji N Karun, and others with similar international reputation to advise the government in selecting the jury for the film awards, the petitioners have demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-puts-screening-for-jury-on-hold/articleshow/78045727.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||Vijay Singh shifted to Banda district prison from Naini||Prayagraj: The convict in the ex-UP cabinet minister killing, who was lodged at the Naini central jail, was shifted to Banda district jail on Thursday. Vijay Singh, who was convicted for killing ex-cabinet minister Brahmdatt Dwivedi and was lodged in the Naini central jail since 2017, was shifted to Banda jail amidst tight security arrangements on administrative ground. Senior jail superintendent of Naini central jail, P N Pandey told TOI that “after receiving orders from state authorities late on Wednesday night, the convict Vijay Singh, who was brought to Naini central jail on August 17, 2017 from Lucknow district jail, was handed over to police to get him lodged at Banda district jail at around 8:30 am”. Vijay Singh, a resident of Farukhabad., was awarded life term in the case murder case. Senior BJP leader and MLA Brahm Dutt Dwivedi was shot dead in Farrukhabad district in February 1997. The case was later investigated by the CBI. Last month, Bhadohi’s muscleman and Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra was shifted to Chitakoot jail from Naini central jail amidst tight security arrangements on administrative ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vijay-singh-shifted-to-banda-district-prison-from-naini/articleshow/78048432.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Transfers, farmers’ issues dominate at Ajay Maken meet||JAIPUR: AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken has claimed that the meeting with leaders of the six districts of Jaipur division has been fruitful and many suggestions were received for strengthening coordination between the government and party organization. He said about 126 leaders participated in the group meeting from the districts. Maken said the district in-charge ministers’ visit to the respective districts should be a regular feature and after meeting with the party leaders, the minister will take up the issues raised by the leaders with the officials including collector to sort them out. Similar meeting was proposed to be held at the block level so that the complaints of party workers could be addressed. He said this would help avoid the travel to Jaipur to address their grievances. Maken claimed that Rajasthan has been successful in pandemic management than other states of the country. He said the state comes as one of the lowest in the country in infection rate and mortality rate per lakh people in the country. Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said many positive suggestions for the betterment of the organization and government have been received at the meeting with leaders. He said one of the issues raised at the meeting was the problem faced by farmers during vigilance checking report (VCR). The farmers had to first deposit first 70% of the fine in case of differences in power consumption and meter reading before it goes to the compromise committee. This has been found troubling the farmers in times of Covid-19. He said the issue will be taken up with the chief minister. Another issue was related to transfer and postings of government employees. The Congress workers complain that their recommendations for transfer and postings of employees are not complied with. These issues will be sorted out by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transfers-farmers-issues-dominate-at-maken-meet/articleshow/78048481.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||HC gives Tangedco employee last chance to qualify in Tamil||Madurai: Madras high court has granted temporary relief to a petitioner who failed to qualify in Tamil language, mandatory for continuing his job in Tangedco, within the stipulated period of employment. Though the court dubbed his attitude as lethargic, it directed Tangedco authorities to grant time to the petitioner till the next TNPSC exam to qualify in Tamil.The court was hearing a petition for reinstatement filed by M Jaikumar, who joined as junior assistant (accounts) at the Theni electricity distribution circle of Tangedco, in March 2018. He was discharged from service in June this year as he could not clear the Tamil exam conducted by TNPSC within two years of entering service as mandated by Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Service regulations.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that Tamil is the official language of Tamil Nadu which Tangedco had also adopted as its language of administration. “Every employee of the organization must know Tamil and without which it may be difficult for those employees to cope up with the administrative exigencies that will ultimately hamper the administrative skill in the organization,” observed the judge. The judge noted that though the exam was conducted by TNPSC thrice in the past two years, the petitioner had chosen to appear only in one examination held during January 2020, in which he failed. The judge directed the petitioner to submit a representation to the authorities seeking extension till the exam is called for and the result is published. If the petitioner still fails to clear the exam, it is open to the authorities to take action including his removal from service in which case, he cannot seek any sympathy, said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-gives-tangedco-employee-last-chance-to-qualify-in-tamil/articleshow/78049246.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Flood alert in Chanda villages as 17 gates of Gosi dam opened||Chandrapur: District administration has sounded flood alert in villages along Vainganga river in Bramhapuri, Saoli, Pomburna, Mul and Gondpipri tehsils following the opening of 17 gates of Gosikhurd dam on Thursday. Officials pointed out that there was heavy rains in the catchment area of Gosikhurd dam and as a result they have opened 17 doors of the dam by 0.5 meters. There was discharge of 2,067 cumecs by the evening, but authorities have warned that the discharge could rise up to 5,000 to 10,000 cumecs during later hours of the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flood-alert-in-chanda-villages-as-17-gates-of-gosi-dam-opened/articleshow/78048504.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Music director challenges levy of maximum demand charges by Tangedco||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday allowed a petition filed by music director Harris Jayaraj challenging the levy of maximum demand charges and compensation towards low power factor by the Tangedco from March to July on a movie theatre leased by him. The petitioner also sought to quash the bills issued by Tangedco, to rework them and adjust the excess payment in the future bills and to collect only minimum charges till the lockdown is lifted for theatres.The petitioner stated that he was the lessee of a cinema theatre named G V Studio City with five screens at Thanjavur district. The theatre is having a high-tension consumer connection. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, theatres across the state remained closed and the restrictions still continue. Since the theatres remain closed, there was virtually no service activities through the theatres, he said.Jayaraj said that he was aggrieved by the levying of charges, though he had paid the bills. He further stated that the principal seat in an earlier order had ruled against the levy of demand charges and compensation by Tangedco on high-tension consumer connections.Relying on the earlier order of the principal seat, justice G R Swaminathan allowed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/music-director-challenges-levy-of-maximum-demand-charges-by-tangedco/articleshow/78049252.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Amritsar||CTU buses to ply on 16 Punjab, Haryana routes from September 16||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has decided to resume interstate bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) on 16 routes — eight each for Punjab and Haryana — from September 16. The decision to resume bus services was taken on September 4 and the routes were finalised on Thursday. According to the decision, the CTU buses will ply to Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar, Bathinda and Una border up to Mehatpur in Punjab, while in Haryana, the buses will ferry passengers to and from Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi up to Kundli border. Earlier, the UT had partially resumed bus services on June 10, but as the Covid cases saw a spike, the decision was rolled back within three days. As per the latest decision, the buses will start from ISBT, Sector 43. A senior UT administration official said in view of the social distancing and other guidelines, the buses would be operated “point to point” (origin to destination) with only 50% passenger occupancy. Passengers can book tickets either through the online bus reservation management system or in the bus. No ticket booking will be allowed at the ISBT, Sector 43 counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/ctu-buses-to-ply-on-16-pb-hry-routes-from-sept-16/articleshow/78052426.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ludhiana||CTU buses to ply on 16 Punjab, Haryana routes from September 16||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has decided to resume interstate bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) on 16 routes — eight each for Punjab and Haryana — from September 16. The decision to resume bus services was taken on September 4 and the routes were finalised on Thursday. According to the decision, the CTU buses will ply to Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar, Bathinda and Una border up to Mehatpur in Punjab, while in Haryana, the buses will ferry passengers to and from Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi up to Kundli border. Earlier, the UT had partially resumed bus services on June 10, but as the Covid cases saw a spike, the decision was rolled back within three days. As per the latest decision, the buses will start from ISBT, Sector 43. A senior UT administration official said in view of the social distancing and other guidelines, the buses would be operated “point to point” (origin to destination) with only 50% passenger occupancy. Passengers can book tickets either through the online bus reservation management system or in the bus. No ticket booking will be allowed at the ISBT, Sector 43 counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ctu-buses-to-ply-on-16-pb-hry-routes-from-sept-16/articleshow/78052424.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets two per cent more rain than 2019 as monsoon in last lap||JAIPUR: As southwest monsoon is in its last lap and is likely to withdraw from September 15, Jaipur Met office on Thursday said the state had so far has received 2% more rainfall compared to last year. Of the 33 districts in the state, 18 received normal rainfall, eight got excess, one got abnormal rainfall, while six districts received deficit rainfall. Till September 10 last year, Rajasthan had received an average rainfall of 485.95mm compared to 495.35 mm till Thursday. Jaisalmer is the only district which received abnormal rainfall. “In our terminology, abnormal rainfall means a place receiving 20% or above rainfall compared to what it received last year. So, Jaisalmer received almost 24% higher rainfall compared to 2019,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. The districts which received deficit rainfall include Alwar, Bundi, Dholpur, Sriganganagar, Kota and Tonk. “These are the districts where -20% or lower rainfall was recorded compared to last year,” the officer added. This year so far, Jhalawar has received 908.60mm, which is the highest average rainfall in any district of the state. “As far as lower rainfall is concerned, Sriganganagar received 139.41mm, which is the lowest average rainfall recorded by any district in the state,” the officer added. Jaipur so far received almost 14.1% higher rainfall compared to 2019. “This year till Thursday, Jaipur district received a rainfall of 536.53 compared to 470.10mm it received till September 10, 2019. This is almost 14.1% higher when compared to last year,” the officer said. By and large Rajasthan received good rainfall this year in majority of the districts, except six where deficit rainfall was recorded. For the coming days, Jaipur Met office has forecast that monsoon activity will slow down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-gets-2-more-rain-than-2019-as-monsoon-in-last-lap/articleshow/78048497.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 11, 2020||Gurgaon||3 die, record 225 positive in Ambala||AMBALA: Three Ambala residents died of Covid-19 on Thursday, when the district recorded the highest single-day spike of 225 cases. The three casualties included a 60-year-old diabetic woman of Chota Bazaar, Ambala City; a 60-year-old heart patient of Thamber village in Barara; and a 75-year-old man of Babiyal, Ambala Cantt, who was suffering from heart disease and diabetes. With this, the district toll tally has reached 53. Ambala’s mortality rate is 0.99%, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. The 225 fresh cases have taken the case count to 5,276, including 1,014 active ones. Of the new cases, 102 were from Ambala City, 41 from Chourmastpur, 30 from Ambala Cantt, 18 from Naraingarh, 14 from Mullana and 10 each from Barara and Shahzadpur, Dr Singh added. Call center for Covid-19 infoDr Singh said, “The district has set up a call centre to provide information related to Covid-19. For any queries, residents can call up at 9996223030. Three to five call recipients have been deputed to resolve the queries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-die-record-225-positive-in-ambala/articleshow/78047160.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 11, 2020||Madurai||250 undergo endoscopic vessel harvesting in Madurai hospital||Madurai: Apollo Speciality Hospitals here has said that it has effectively treated over 250 patients using endoscopic vessel harvesting (EVH) technique with minimal scar and trauma and without side effects after surgery. A statement said cardiothoracic surgeon Dr Sridhar and his team performed the surgery at the hospital which is among the handful of centres to adopt the technique.EVH is useful in performing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. The procedure uses a smaller incision to obtain a bypass conduit for CABG than traditional vessel harvesting procedures. Smaller incision means reduced infection rate, reduced pain and less scarring—while also leading to faster recovery, better clinical outcomes and enhanced patient satisfaction. EVH is a safe, reliable and reproducible technique, which is seen to reduce morbidity of CABG surgery, it said. The hospital, which has successfully completed more than 8,000 heart surgeries, undertook 25 successful EVH procedures during the lockdown period. The statement further added that they have not had any in-hospital transmission of Covid-19, which is reassuring as surgical procedures can be done safely at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/250-undergo-endoscopic-vessel-harvesting-in-madurai-hospital/articleshow/78049257.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Chief of child rights panel receives threat||JODHPUR: Chairperson of the State Child Rights Protection Commission Sangeeta Beniwal has received threats of dire consequences for not allowing the release of a girl to her mother who had dropped her at an orphanage of the city in 2012 when she was 3 years old. In February, the mother suddenly reappeared seeking possession of her daughter from the orphanage administration, but after the girl refused to go with her, they did not hand her over back to her mother. When her mother again appeared before the Child Welfare Committee and the commission seeking her daughter’s possession, Beniwal decided to meet the girl but she gave in writing that she did not want to go. “I met the girl on Wednesday and she said she did not want to go with her mother. So, I did not permit her release. After that I received threats through phone calls and messages warning me that if I did not give permission, I will have to face dire consequences”, said Beniwal. These threats came from various places like MP, UP and different districts of Rajasthan like Barmer, Jalore, Nagaur and Jodhpur. “I met the police commissioner sharing all the numbers that I received calls and messages from”, said Beniwal. She said that the mother called up her again on Thursday asking her to release the girl by Friday evening. “Otherwise, I will come to your house with my community members,” said Beniwal quoting the mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chief-of-child-rights-panel-receives-threat/articleshow/78048496.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||CTU buses to ply on 16 Punjab, Haryana routes from September 16||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has decided to resume interstate bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) on 16 routes — eight each for Punjab and Haryana — from September 16. The decision to resume bus services was taken on September 4 and the routes were finalised on Thursday. According to the decision, the CTU buses will ply to Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar, Bathinda and Una border up to Mehatpur in Punjab, while in Haryana, the buses will ferry passengers to and from Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi up to Kundli border. Earlier, the UT had partially resumed bus services on June 10, but as the Covid cases saw a spike, the decision was rolled back within three days. As per the latest decision, the buses will start from ISBT, Sector 43. A senior UT administration official said in view of the social distancing and other guidelines, the buses would be operated “point to point” (origin to destination) with only 50% passenger occupancy. Passengers can book tickets either through the online bus reservation management system or in the bus. No ticket booking will be allowed at the ISBT, Sector 43 counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ctu-buses-to-ply-on-16-pb-hry-routes-from-sept-16/articleshow/78047173.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Railways move to cancel 3 key trains draws flak||Kochi/T’puram: The Railway Board’s decision to cancel three special trains – Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Jan Shatabdi, Kannur-Thiruvananthapuram Jan Shatabdi, Ernakulam-Thiruvananthapuram Venad express – from Saturday will virtually suspend train services within the state. The board cited poor occupancy rate as the reason and then, only four trains will be operating from Kerala. Of the remaining four trains, Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Mangala Express operates daily and Ernakulam–Nizamuddin Duronto express runs once a week. Two other trains –Thiruvananthapuram–LTT Netravati and New Delhi Rajadhani services – stand suspended till September 10 and 11 due to works on Konkan route. “The patronage for Jan Shatabdi with a seating capacity of 900, is only 24% ie less than 250 passengers. When it operates from Thiruvananthapuram, there are passengers till Ernakulam and not many people board from other stations. The three special trains together cater to around 1,100 passengers/day. We were hoping that things would improve and more people would take these trains. Government, banks and other sectors are asking employees to avoid public transport. What is the use running trains if no one uses it? If conditions improve and people return to public transport, we will resume these service regularly,” said a railway official from Thiruvananthapuram division. In trains like Jan Shatabdi passengers prefer second sitting instead of AC coaches fearing contracting Covid. Also, MP N K Premachandran has taken up the issue with the Union minister. “I have written to minister Piyush Goyal not to stop these trains that aid daily commutersLess occupancy is related to Covid situation and this shouldn’t be the reason to stop service now,” he said. Passengers too protested the decision, asking government and MPs to rectify the situation. “Three trains are being cancelled when Keralites were expecting more services under Unlock 4.0 If profit is only the criteria for public transport, why did the government permit to operate Metro services with lower rates? If railways doesn’t change its decision we will stage a protest,” said Liyons J, secretary, Friends on Rail. Fraternity Movement also echoed similar views. “It is objectionable that services are cancelled when entrance exams are being conducted. Students depend on Jan Shatabdis to reach exam centres. Government should intervene,” it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/railways-move-to-cancel-3-key-trains-draws-flak/articleshow/78045741.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||XUV runs into biker, pedestrian in Sector 26||Chandigarh: A biker and a pedestrian were critically injured after an XUV ran into them at transport light-point, Sector 26, on Thursday morning.After the crash, the XUV driver fled from the spot, leaving his vehicle behind.Ankit Mishra, the biker, is battling for life at PGI and Balbir Singh, the pedestrian, is admitted to GMCH-32, where his condition is stated to be out of danger. Ankit, 24, is a resident of Kambali village, Mohali, and Balbir lives in Sector 26 transport area.Police said Ankit was waiting for the traffic signal to turn green when the driver of the XUV bearing a Punjab registration number rammed into his bike from the rear and then hit the pedestrian while he was crossing the road around 6am. Passersby informed the police, who took the injured to GMCH-32. Doctors referred Ankit to PGI due to his critical injuries.Bapudham police have impounded the XUV and registered a case against its driver. “The accused has been identified. Efforts are being made to nab him,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/xuv-runs-into-biker-pedestrian-in-sector-26/articleshow/78047156.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||No PMC action against illegal bldgs in 6 months||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has virtually stopped taking action against illegal constructions in the city over the last six months. The civic administration has not undertaken any demolition drive after March this year. Not even a single major illegal construction has been demolished during this period. “No special drive has been conducted for demolition of illegal construction. The lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, humanitarian reasons as well as legal directives have prevented us from conducting demolition drives. Only a couple of extremely dilapidated and life-threatening structures were razed down during this period,” said a senior civic official. Under normal circumstances, the civic administration carries out demolition drives every month. On an average, illegal construction spread across 80,000 sq ft is demolished every month. This year, the figure has reduced by around 5% due to the months-long lockdown. “As per the directives of the court and other government authorities, no coercive action should be taken against illegal constructions for now. So we have not conducted a special drive targeting illegal constructions,” said a senior official of the PMC. According to PMC officials, a structure is treated as an illegal constructions if it is carried out by flouting the norms set by the building permission department. “The PMC is taking legal action against people, who are involved in illegal constructions. The notices have been issued as per the act. The future course of action will be decided based on the directives of the High Court and the government,” said Kailas Karale, a nodal officer of PMC’s building permission department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-pmc-action-against-illegal-bldgs-in-6-months/articleshow/78049256.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 11, 2020||Madurai||SOPs only at start as TNSTC inter-dist buses run crowded||Madurai: When S Arockia Babu, a resident of Aathikulam, set off on a journey to his native place near Tenkasi on a TNSTC bus two days ago from the Mattuthavani bus terminal, he was happy to see the government’s standard operating procedures being followed in letter and spirit. But that was till the bus reached Tirumangalam when a large number of people got on to the bus filling every seat. The SOPs laid out by the government after it allowed inter-district public transport permit only 60% of passengers on the bus who must wear mask and maintain social distancing. To his utter disbelief, the passenger sitting next to him had no face mask and started coughing too. Arockia Babu got up from his seat and alighted at the terminal forgoing his ticket money. “When I asked the man to wear a mask, he got agitated. I noticed that several others also were not wearing a mask. Safety measures are hardly followed once the buses leave the city,” he said.This is the situation on other routes as well. Mofussil buses connecting various destinations in other districts get crowded after a few stops. Passengers say they face the risk of getting infected by Covid-19 while travelling on mofussil buses as many jostle for seats, sit close together and scare the daylights out of others without facemasks. While less frequency of buses is one reason for overcrowding, passengers’ impatience to reach their destination adds to their problem. Yogesh Karthick, founder of Kalari Forest School, who recently visited Pannaikadu on Kodaikanal hills said, “Frequency of buses has come down resulting in passengers boarding already crowded buses. Not only are all the seats filled on Batlagundu-Kodaikanal route, but passengers are allowed to stand and travel. However, there was less crowd on Madurai-Batlagundu route,” he said.TNSTC Madurai has started operating mofussil buses in various districts such as Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, Theni and Coimbatore after the government permitted public transport since Monday onwards. While there was less crowd on the first two days, the situation has changed now with increased passenger movement. An official of TNSTC, Madurai said bus crews have been instructed not to allow passengers more than the specified numbers. They are ready to increase the frequency of buses on routes where there is high demand. He said they will check the crowd movement and take appropriate measures to ensure safe travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sops-only-at-start-as-tnstc-inter-dist-buses-run-crowded/articleshow/78049260.cms||V Devanathan
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Cases, deaths drop in south TN, rise in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state recorded 721 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the lowest number of cases in the region after 71 days. It was on July 1 that the region recorded less number of cases (653), when the total number was 8,416. The region also recorded eight deaths. Meanwhile, the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the central region continued to be a concern as 12 deaths and 700 cases were reported in the eight districts on Thursday. With this, the tally has climbed to 38,860, which include 5,368 active cases. The number of deaths in the south is also the lowest since June 26. Three deaths were reported on June 25, when the toll was 38. The death rate in the region is 1.74%, which is marginally lesser than 1.76% last week. The recovery rate climbed to 91.04% as the number of those who recovered and got discharged crossed 90,000 on Thursday. The deaths in the region on Thursday include that of a 52-year-old man from Tirunelveli without comorbidities. Kanyakumari district recorded four deaths in a day for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The southernmost district accounted for half of the eight deaths reported in the entire region on Thursday. Two of these deaths were happened on Sunday. The youngest among them is a 27-year-old man with seizure, psychiatric illness who was admitted to the hospital on Sunday and died the same day, but he tested positive on Monday. The active cases in Madurai also come down below 1,000 after three days. Tirunelveli (1,092) is the only district with more than 1,000 active cases. Except for Tirunelveli (123) and its neighbouring Tuticorin (112), all the other districts in the region recorded less than 100 cases. Sivagangai (20) and Virudhunagar (31) have the lowest number of fresh cases. In the central region, there was a mild dip in the number of daily fresh cases compared to Wednesday owing to the less number of cases in Nagappattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur. But, Nagappattinam shared the top spot with Trichy as it reported 130 cases. Tiruvarur reported 127 and Pudukottai 99 cases on Thursday. The region has been witnessing a steady increase in the number of cases from the start of August and it continues in September also. The 12 casualties took the toll to 587 on Thursday. As per medical bulletin, Nagappattinam accounted for seven deaths out of the 12. As many as 32,905 patients have been discharged from hospitals and released from home isolation in the region so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-deaths-drop-in-south-tn-rise-in-central-dists/articleshow/78049272.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur Basic Shiksha dept launches its YouTube channel||Gorakhpur: The Basic Shiksha department of Gorakhpur launched its YouTube channel on Thursday. Officials, principals and teachers could now communicate online, said BSA Bhupendra Singh. The YouTube channel ‘Basic Shiksha Gorakhpur’ was inaugurated by Gorakhpur chief development officer (CDO), Indrajeet Singh, on Thursday. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, communication was extremely difficult, and a YouTube channel had become a necessity. With the launch of the channel, at least 100 officials, employees and teachers can communicate with each other online. We will also be able to improve the quality of online classes through the channel,” said the BSA. “I hope this initiative proves to be successful and inspires other districts as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-basic-shiksha-dept-launches-its-youtube-channel/articleshow/78046926.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Get ready to assess your property tax online from Sept 20||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Municipal Corporation will start an online self-assessment property tax service from September 20. According to officials, the civic body is preparing a software on which the property owner will give details about his house/commercial unit, including the total area, previous tax payment records and address. After submitting the details, the taxpayer will get a list of owners under the category of his/her property to match the records. The software will be updated on LMC’s official website on September 20. It will also enable payment through net banking and e-wallets. Objections on tax assessment raised by people will also be answered by officials. The service was scheduled to start from March this year. However, it got delayed due to the lockdown. The move will improve tax collection, said officials. LMC has fixed a target of Rs 410-crore collection through house tax for 2020-21. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “We received many complaints from people that their tax amount is incorrect. The new online service will let them assess their property tax on their own.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/get-ready-to-assess-your-property-tax-online-from-sept-20/articleshow/78049267.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||86% appear for BTech supplementary exam||Thiruvananthapuram: BTech supplementary examinations that began amid protests by a section of students recorded an impressive turnout of 86% on Wednesday, the first day of the exams. University records showed that less than 14% candidates, registered for semester 7 and 4 supplementary exams, were absent on day one. Of the 4,629 students who registered, 3,993 wrote the exams. "A figure of 86% attendance in supplementary exams is generally considered to be impressive. Several students usually skip some supplementary exams as they would be choosing between many of their back papers. It happens more so when supplementary exams are conducted at one go," said university PVC S Ayoob. There were widespread protests and campaigns on social media against KTU’s decision to organize supplementary exams from September 9. It was alleged that Covid restrictions be a hurdle for a large group of students if exams were held. The protest took an ugly turn last week when a group of KSU student activists barged into the office of the university vice chancellor, forcing her to log out of a national meeting on new education policy. The student turnout on the very first day validated the university’s stand that the majority of students are in favour of it conducting the supplementary exam as per current schedule, university authorities claimed. The percentage of students, who attended the first supplementary exam in December 2019, was only 78%. KTU vice-chancellor MS Rajasree had earlier mentioned that supplementary exams are being held without delay so as to help a good number of final year students with one or two back papers. Since many of them got placed during campus recruitments, conduct of supplementary examination was all the more necessary, she had said. University authorities have announced that students would be given an additional supplementary chance as one-time arrangement after the completion of the current schedule is over by November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/86-appear-for-btech-supplementary-exam/articleshow/78045761.cms||B S Anilkumar
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Not much financial aid from Chandigarh administration for MC||CHANDIGARH: Despite the requests for monetary aid, the finance department of the Chandigarh administration did not restore the municipal corporation’s grant-in-aid (GIA) and released Rs 30 crore for August, like the previous month. The move has left the MC disappointed, as it had been halting all the development works for the past many month due to scarcity of funds. Its expenses have also increased due to the pandemic, as it is doing multiple additional works. The committed liabilities of the civic body are of Rs 60 crore. Like July, the authority had to use property tax and water charges amount to fulfil these. “Since salaries, pension, water and power charges are the committed liabilities of the MC, we desperately need money to function. So, we had been requesting the UT administration for help, but got no extra money so far,” sources in the MC said. In the start of this fiscal in April, the UT administration paid Rs 35 crore monthly GIA to the MC in the first quarter, which continued till June, but in the second quarter, staring July, it was reduced to Rs 30 crore due to Covid-19 crisis. Due to shortage of funds, the civic body is able to do only necessary maintenance and emergency works and councillors have been raising a hue and cry for the pending development works. But the BJP-ruled MC has failed to get any financial assistance from the administration. Though the UT released the dedicated grant for road re-carpeting and extension of water storage capacity project last year, basic development works have not been carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-much-financial-help-from-admn-mc-again-gets-rs-30cr/articleshow/78047183.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Commuters forced to walk the extra mile as closed gates lead to confusion||NEW DELHI: Ragunath Gautam, who works at Nehru House on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg in ITO, had to walk a bit more to reach his office from the metro station that reopened on Thursday after five months. Gautam was among those who had their way barred at the ITO station by CISF personnel because only one exit was in use. Nehru House is close to Gate No 4, but it was shut. So he had to exit from Gate No 5, further away. Gautam’s grouse was that there are many offices near Gate No 4 and it would have been logical to have kept that open. Not surprisingly, this gate being closed confused many. Satinder, who wanted to reach Delhi Police Headquarters, which is next to Gate No 5, actually walked away from that gate under the impression that it was not open. At Kashmere Gate, an interchange station, a visibly hassled Suresh Pal spent time searching for the entrance. Though Delhi Metro’s largest interchange hub and meeting point of three corridors —Red, Violet and Yellow — there are only two entry gates for passengers. On the busy Preet Vihar-Laxmi Nagar section of Blue Line, people faced problems because all stations have two entrances — on either side of Vikas Marg. If they chose the wrong gate, they had to cross the busy artery to access the open gate. At the Red Line stations, however, commuters weren’t inconvenienced because most of them have only one entrance. Between Kashmere Gate and Dilshad Garden, all stations on the line are located off GT Road. “Since Delhi Metro services are resuming in a gradual manner with new travel norms because of Covid-19, there is going to be a visible change in the commuting experience from the pre-lockdown days,” explained Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, listing as the new norms regulated entry gates, no cash transactions or tokens and strict social distancing. Dayal added, “DMRC has made adequate arrangements to ease the way of passengers at the stations, and signages have been placed outside the stations to guide them to designated entry/exit gates. Regular passengers will gradually understand and adjust to the new protocols and also get used to the point of entry available at each station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commuters-forced-to-walk-the-extra-mile-as-closed-gates-lead-to-confusion/articleshow/78048507.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 11, 2020||Kanpur||Families of malnourished children to get free cows in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: The state government has decided to give a free cow to families having malnourished children besides Rs 900 per month for cattle fodder under a scheme launched during National Nutrition Month. September is observed as National Nutrition Month in the country every year. Chief development officer Dr Mahendra Kumar said the aim of the scheme is to reduce malnutrition among children up to five years of age and pregnant women. Kumar told officials to identify malnourished and acutely malnourished children, women, and girls in grip of anaemia and advise them to take nutritious diet and proper care. “The families having malnourished children, women and girls should be encouraged to set up kitchen gardens and grow nutrition-rich fruits, vegetables, and medicinal plants. One drumstick plant must be included,” the CDO said. Besides, nutri-gardens should come up on land of government schools, residential schools, Anganwadi centres, and gram panchayats. A sum of Rs 5,000 will be given to all UP Board schools for setting up and maintaining nutri-gardens. District programme officer I P Singh said 2,134 anganwadi centres are active in the district and the child development services project officers should conduct a door to door survey with the help of anganwadi workers to identify the malnourished children. A list of the malnourished should be prepared and submitted. The CDPO will monitor the children in the list and the animal husbandry department would provide a cow to the family of each malnourished child. The availability of milk would help in reducing malnutrition. Online contests, webinars, nutrition panchayats and other programmes would be organized during the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/families-of-malnourished-children-to-get-free-cows/articleshow/78046944.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 11, 2020||Pune||Three out on temporary bail held for spate of thefts in Pune||PUNE: The Wanowrie police on Wednesday arrested three criminals released on temporary bail two months ago for their involvement in 13 cases of burglary and vehicle thefts in the city since August and recovered booty worth Rs32.53 lakh from them. Additional commissioner of police Namdeo Chavan (east region) said, “The suspects have admitted to their involvement in the crimes. We have recovered stolen gold and silver ornaments, cash and seven vehicles, including four and three-wheelers, collectively worth Rs32.53 lakh from them.” Chavan said, “The suspects — Ravisingh Kalyani (22), Bintusingh Kalyani (24) and Hukumsingh Kalyani (28) — were taken into custody from Ramtekdi following a tip-off received by constables Nasir Deshmukh and Navnath Khatal.” A cash reward of Rs15,000 was announced for the detection team headed by senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from Wanowrie police. Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Suhas Bawache said, “The trio was released on emergency bail around two months ago. They stole vehicles and used them to commit burglaries in the unattended flats of the several housing societies.” “Investigations revealed that they had burgled flats in Katraj, Wanowrie, Hadapsar, Yerawada, Dattawadi and Mundhwa. We will initiate a proposal to cancel their bail pleas,” Bawache said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-out-on-temporary-bail-held-for-spate-of-thefts/articleshow/78049273.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 11, 2020||Pune||Class discipline slumps as students at home take to trolling teachers||Pune: In many ways, teachers not so fluent with technology are in the same basket as students struggling to learn online, with many complaining of being trolled that has a crippling effect on them, and their teaching. From accents to pronunciation, to teaching methods and dress sense, students safe in the belief that homestay protects them from immunity, have taken to poke fun at their teachers. “Students are highly active on social media and obsessed with the likes and comments. They make fun of us unmindful of being hurtful and disrespectful. Some change their usernames to ‘reconnecting’ or ‘loading’ during class to pretend that their internet is not working well, some disrupt the class to follow a trend. Online teaching is a new situation and teachers are trying to cover their syllabus,” Roshini Agarwal, a 39-year-old teacher, said. Annoying behaviour during an online class often disrupts the session. “A student would flush the toilet with his microphone on or pretend he could not hear me. I had to tell his parents. Discipline is an issue, and parents must teach them to take class behaviour seriously. Indiscipline cannot be tolerated,” Virendra Swamy, a 47-year-old teacher, said. But students, cooped up at home, claim it is harmless fun. “We miss the feeling of sitting in class with out friends. We don’t want to upset the teacher or be disrespectful. The pranks are a way of coming together as a class for some fun. We tell accommodative teachers about it,” said Pramit Shergil, student. Another student, Sayoni Roy added the student-teacher relationship has changed in the new normal and a prank often creates a rapport. Arti Sharma, principal of Army Public School Kirkee, said the right online platform will help teachers in class control. “We used an app to conduct online classes, but some uninvited people gained access to it and caused trouble. We switched to a more secured platform where only students are given unique passwords to enter the virtual classroom. An online class has to be interesting to capture the attention of students so that they don’t disturb,” she said. Amruta Prabhu, principal of HDFC School said when they faced backlash on one online platform, they switched to another that has a formulised way of dealing with a virtual classroom. “A survey seeking parents’ opinions gave us constructive feedback on better online classes. A parent got in while a teacher was teaching, but we dealt with it. Parents were told to reach out to the school with complaints, suggestions or inputs, and we would take it up with the teacher, but under no circumstances should they interrupt an online class in session,” she said. Parents, busy with work schedules, can sometimes ignore the class decorum at home. “I have a son in standard VII, a daughter in standard III, and one-year-old boy. We also have a pet dog. My husband and I work from home. Sometimes, the baby is crying or the dog is barking, but there’s only so much I can do to keep people quiet. My son and daughter have different timings for online classes, but whoever is free is making a noise,” Abhilasha Sanyal from Wanowrie said. Sushant Singh said he tries to sit with his son during classes, but found that, he is nervous and conscious about asking questions. Small changes can be seen.“Now that tests are happening online too, students are realising that this is serious. Parents need to understand that too. To emphasize that online classes are as important as physical classes, we have our students attend all online classes in their uniforms even though they are at home. We have conducted debate competitions, games, sports, music classes and yoga classes online where they attend dressed in their school uniform,” Sharma added. Younger kids are more responsible even though it is more difficult to control them through video conferencing. Pre-primary teacher Sara Abdul said she used to use a lot of visual aids to class such as puppets and toys to tell stories, walk around the classroom to interact with all the students. “I used to think that online teaching would be difficult with half the class at a time. But surprisingly, the kids are very attentive and respond well. I tell them stories, make them do worksheets and fun activities like making bhel or nimbu paani supervised by parents during the online class and everyone has a lot of fun,” she said,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/class-discipline-slumps-as-students-at-home-take-to-trolling-teachers/articleshow/78049261.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Apartment complexes, gated colonies shift to professional waste management||Kochi: In 2008, Link Valley near Infopark at Kakkanad was one of the first gated communities to have set up their own bio-waste management system. But as the number of residents began to grow it became unmanageable and they became dependent on outside agencies. But when the pandemic struck, waste became a pain point for the community again as collectors stopped dropping in. Apartment complexes and gated colonies in the city like Link Valley are now getting help from Pelican Biotech, a professional group that manages waste generated by them inside their compound itself in a sustainable way and thereby assists the Zero Carbon project of Kochi Metro, which is greening their medians with compost from biodegradable waste. “Overall, the concept is good and it is in tune with our national policy of decentralized waste management. We are also happy to associate with a project that is supported by Kochi Metro. I think this is a unique model which is scalable,” says Link Valley residents association Binod Hariharan, secretary. But the transition was not smooth and they had to face questions on why adopt an agency when you have local bodies providing waste removal support. “Currently, the number of residents have come down because many buildings which were rented out like hostels are empty with many IT employees working from home. An advantage of the system is that we don’t have to worry about scaling up or investing in bins. There is also no need to go in search of labour. Normally, if the person employed for the purpose falls sick, the waste management goes for a toss,” said Hariharan. Link Valley currently has around 150 to 200 residents down from 500 before the start of lockdown. Some of the residents who have land are using the manure from compost in their gardens. Asset Homes Maradu with 44 apartments adopted service by Pelican after they faced difficulty in door-to-door collection of waste following the Covid-19 pandemic. “They are managing it quite professionally but apartments need to ensure that space where segregation and composting is done is sheltered from wind and rain,” says Asset Homes apartment secretary Sajeev Narayanan. Pelican Biotech currently manages waste in around seven apartment complexes in the city by segregating them into biodegradable, non-biodegradable and sanitary waste. “The biodegradable waste is composted and the manure is used in medians of Kochi Metro. The non-biodegradable waste after segregation is taken for recycling and sanitary refuse is burned using incinerators,” said Joe Zacharias of Pelican Biotech. They collect a flat fee of Rs 330 from a house/apartment owner every month. The only other requirement is space for segregating non-biodegradable waste, bio-bins and incinerators. “Generally all fixed assets are installed by us and apartments don’t have to bother about anything provided there are a minimum number of dwelling units,” said Zacharias. A composting bin of 1 sq m diameter would be sufficient for 20 houses while five such bins would be needed for 100 houses. Recently, a startup called Noval had also come up with similar solutions under the brand name Greenlease by offering waste management using machinery within the premises. One of the major concerns of apartment complexes is the unscientific nature of waste processing at Brahmapuram and the uncertainties surrounding the waste-to-energy plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/apartment-complexes-gated-colonies-shift-to-professional-waste-management/articleshow/78047197.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nagarpalikas get Rs 160cr for roads||Gandhinagar: The state government on Thursday allocated a sum of Rs 160 crore for repair and resurfacing of roads which have been damaged in the monsoon in municipalities of the state. The allocation was made from the Chief Minister’s Urban Road scheme and will be used to repair damaged roads of 155 municipalities of the state. Of the allocated amount, Rs 22.6 crore is for 25 nagarpalikas of Ahmedabad zone, Rs 29.9 crore for 26 nagarpalikas of Vadodara region, Rs 13.9 crore for 19 nagarpalikas of Surat region, Rs 24.60 crore for 27 nagarpalikas of Bhavnagar, Rs 46.9 crore 29 nagarpalikas of Rajkot region, and Rs 2.9 crore for 29 nagarpalikas of Gandhinagar region. The state government has allocated minimum fund of Rs 75 lakh to ‘A’ category nagarpalikas, Rs 60 lakh for ‘B’ category nagarpalikas, Rs 45 lakh for ‘C’ category nagarpalikas and Rs 30 lakh for ‘D’ category nagarpalikas for making thermoplastic road paint, road-curb paint, streetlight boards and other safety works on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nagarpalikas-get-rs-160cr-for-roads/articleshow/78047221.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||When SSGH docs turned into disaster management experts||Vadodara: They were at the SSG Hospital (SSGH) to treat patients, but hardly did these doctors know that their skills would be tested on an altogether different front. But for the presence of mind and alertness shown by four doctors at the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid-19 treatment facility at SSGH, a major tragedy would have taken place.When a monitor in the ICU started making unfamiliar noises, Dr Kanchana – a third year resident of anesthesiology – noticed it. Even as she reached it, she noticed sparking inside it. “We immediately started rescuing the patients and I raised an alarm so that others could join our efforts. We were able to rescue all he patients in time and shift them out of the affected floor ,” said Kanchana. Those who rushed to the set of beds closest to the ventilator that went up in flames included senior residents Dr Jwalit Mistry and Dr Priyanka Patel. Dr Kanchana’s junior and a first year anesthesiology resident Dr Jinal Solanki was present in the ICU itself alongside Dr Kanchana.The first person to wield a fire extinguisher and try to douse flames was Mistry, a general surgeon. “As surgeons we are taught disaster management even as a subject. Also, our alertness and presence of mind comes from handing emergencies and difficult cases,” he said.Mistry was actually posted in the recovery room opposite the ICU. He rushed to the ICU to help colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/when-ssgh-docs-turned-into-disaster-management-experts/articleshow/78045341.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Schools hesitant to start classes post-Sept 21, despite Union govt relaxation||PUNE: Schools in Pune are reluctant to start physical classes, even though the Union home ministry has allowed partial reopening for students from standards IX to XII from September 21. Many heads of schools said both parents and teachers have reservations about students coming to school where there can be a high risk of getting infected due to overcrowding. The principals added that the teachers and students have now more or less, adapted to the online teaching mode and practicals can be taken together at a later date. C Madhavi, principal of DAV Public School, said they would not be re-opening the school for regular classes even after September 21. “Students and teachers have adapted well to the online mode and we do not see the need to call the students to school for lessons. Secondly, there are teachers who are near their retirement age, and crowding in the school will put them as well as the students at a higher risk of catching the virus. Parents are not going to send students to school. So, we are planning to call them to school in December or January, just for practicals. This can be done in batches in a staggered way,” Madhavi said. Another principal said while students have had no problems adapting to the new normal, she still thinks that the school may open just for assessment and practicals, that too after Diwali. “When the students appear for board examinations, they would need to sit for three hours and use a pen and paper to write the examination in an examination centre. The students need to get used to the exam pattern, and hence we may call them just for assessment and also practicals, as they too cannot be done at home. But, even when we call them, it will be on a voluntary basis taking into consideration all social distancing norms,” Jayshree Venkatraman, principal at SNBP International School, said. Dinkar Patil, the director of secondary and higher secondary education, said there is no separate circular about the situation from the state government. “The circular by the Union government has mentioned that schools can open partially for students from standards IX to XII from September 21, but attendance is purely voluntary. Schools cannot pressure students to come and I am sure parents too would not send their wards. With predictions that the cases may further rise in the coming weeks, it is best to practise utmost care while going out and ensure proper social distancing and hygiene, even if any school decides to reopen partially for students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-hesitant-to-start-classes-post-sept-21-despite-union-govt-relaxation/articleshow/78049276.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 11, 2020||Kanpur||As tribute to mother, doctor extends help to poor girls in Jhansi||JHANSI: Breaking the stereotype, a doctor in Jhansi, during the Shraadh ceremony of his mother on Tuesday, preferred to donate a fixed deposit worth Rs 5,000 to 25 poor girls instead of feeding the people of his community. Dr Pramod Gupta, a city-based renowned paediatrician, had recently lost his mother Gyandevi who used to stay in their native village Bihuni under Rath tehsil of Hamirpur district. On Tuesday, he performed the Shraadh ceremony of his mother in the village. Traditionally, the shraadh ceremony is followed by a feast for the entire village. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, Pramod and his wife Rashmi decided to distribute the feast money among 25 underprivileged girls for their future endeavours. Talking to TOI, Dr Pramod said, “I was always against this tradition of feasting people. Moreover, in the present Covid times, gatherings are extremely risky. So the idea of utilizing the money for the welfare of poor girls struck us, and we thought of implementing it. With the changing times, we all have to change our thought processes as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/as-tribute-to-mother-doc-extends-help-to-poor-girls/articleshow/78047110.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kanpur||DM scraps Covid facility status of pvt hospital, warns another||Kanpur: Jolted by the high number of Covid-19 cases and casualties in Kanpur, the district administration has adopted a tough stand against laxities in the corona battle and started taking punitive action. A day after recommending the dismissal of four doctors of Kanshiram hospital, Kanpur Nagar district magistrate Alok Tiwari scrapped the Covid facility status of Lifetron hospital in Keshavpuram on Thursday and issued a warning to a nursing home in Kalyanpur. The district magistrate first visited Astha Health centre in Kalyanpur in the morning. After taking stock of arrangements he inquired about specialist doctors. The hospital management told him an anesthetics doctor was called for visit when needed. Tewari expressed his displeasure and said if the doctor was there for 24 hours then why was he not in the hospital. He warned to scrap the covid facility status granted to the hospital if the doctor is not available. The DM then went to Lifetron hospital at Keshavpuram to inspect if the suggestions made by him during an earlier inspection had been implemented or not. However, he found that the hospital administration had overlooked his suggestions for improving facilities. Annoyed by the careless attitude of management, the DM directed the chief medical officer to scrap the private Covid facility status of the hospital and shift the patients to government or private hospitals as per their wishes. The DM then went to Kanshiram Hospital where five patients had died in one day and held a meeting with doctors. Tewari had recommended the suspension of four doctors Dr Mahesh Dwivedi, Dr Swarup Mohanti, Dr Ashish Katiyar and Dr Mahendra Kumar to the chief secretary for their negligence in his report. A three member inquiry committee had reported that the four doctors were lax in discharge of their duties and had a careless attitude. Katiyar, Dwivedi and Mohanit had claimed that they were not on duty on the night when five patients had died and they had been framed. The DM said there should be no shortage of oxygen and each patient should be properly examined and given best treatment with complete planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dm-scraps-covid-facility-status-of-pvt-hospital-warns-another/articleshow/78046954.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||All 11 Vid districts report record 94 Covid deaths in day||Nagpur: Increasing deaths due to Covid-19 are becoming a serious concern for Vidarbha now. On September 10, highest ever 94 Covid-19 deaths were reported from the 11 districts. For the first time ever in the pandemic, all 11 districts reported deaths, with Gadchiroli reporting its second Covid death, after 102 days, on Thursday. Nagpur once again reported the highest 58 deaths while Amravati (12) also registered double digit increase in death toll for the first time. With Yavatmal (6), Washim (4), Bhandara (3), Gondia (3), Chandrapur (3), Wardha (2), Akola (1), Buldhana (1) and Gadchiroli (1), Vidarbha’s total death toll reached 2,293 on Thursday. Out of these, 704 have been reported in 10 days of September, which means average 70 deaths have been reported per day in September in Vidarbha. The number of new cases too continued to be in the 3,000-plus range. With Nagpur (2,065) leading the way here too, Chandrapur had (190), Amravati (168), Yavatmal (158), Akola (156), Wardha (113), Gadchiroli (110), Washim (92), Buldhana (89), Bhandara (80), and Gondia (72). Vidarbha’s addition of 3,293 cases on Thursday took the overall total to 88,150. At this pace, Vidarbha is expected to reach the 90,000 mark on Friday, and may surpass a lakh cases within the next week. While new cases are about to touch 90,000 mark, recoveries are reaching the 60,000 mark, which is a good relief for the region. On Thursday, total 2,411 patients recovered with Nagpur (1,513), Chandrapur (193), Akola (132), Yavatmal (109), Amravati (103), Bhandara (97), Buldhana (95), Gadchiroli (59), Gondia (49), Washim (32), and Wardha (29) reporting discharge of patients. This took total number of recovered patients to 58,548. Recovery rate also saw a slight improvement due to this to and reach 66.4%. Amravati: Posting the highest single-day death figure of 12, the district took its Covid death toll to 175 while a spike of 168 cases took the patients count to 7,806 on Thursday. With 103 discharged today, the number of recovered patients reached 5,898. This left 1,733 active cases including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur and 399 in home isolation. The civil surgeon office said 12 patients died today. They included a 50-year-old male from Kawatha in Chandur Railway tehsil, a 70-year-old female from Sonal Colony, a 72-year-old male from Sai Nagar, a 62-year-old male from Bhajubazar, a 68-year-old male from Atul Mangal Karyalaya premises, a 67-year-old man from Hardasram Society in Kanwar Nagar, a 48-year-old man from Loni Sawanga in Warud tehsil, a 60-year-old man from Bhatkuli, a 55-year-old woman from Ravi Nagar, a 27-year-old youth from SRPF Camp, a 73-year-old man from Shobha Nagar and a 61-year-old man from Amar Nagar here. The rural belt reported 50 of the 168 cases today taking its count to 2,352. Teosa reported eight while Warud reported seven cases. Six came from Achalpur tehsil while three each from Morshi, Daryapur, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Anjangaon Surji, Chandur Railway, Chandur Bazar and Chikhaldara. Paratwada and Nandgaon Peth reported two cases each. A case each was reported from four places. In city, eight cases were reported from Dasturnagar while four each from Vilasnagar, D Sainagar, Parvatinagar. Three cases each came from Tempura, Konark Colony, Ambadevi temple premises and Saat Khiradi areas. Sindhunagar, Yashodanagar, Devdattnagar, Anand SBI colony, Rajapeth and Jainagar reported two cases each. Rest of the cases came from different localities of the city. Yavatmal: The district has recorded six more deaths, which takes the toll to 135. Of the six, three are from the city — 63-year-old man and women of 65 and 75. The remaining three are one each from Mahagaon, Digras and Darwha. Today, there are 158 new positive patients, 98 men and 60 women. Currently there are 1,323 patients under treatment in Yavatmal. 260 of them are in home quarantine.106 swab samples were sent to the lab while 108 patients were discharged. The district has 4,820 positive cases of whom 3,364 have been discharged from hospital so far. Chandrapur: The district registered a spike of 190 patients and three deaths taking the Covid-19 total to 4,852 and toll to 56 on Thursday. The day also saw discharge of 193 patients and number of cured patients climbed to 2,557, leaving 2,239 active patients. All three deceased belong to Chandrapur city. They include 60-year-old woman from Anchleshwar ward, 58-year-old person from Tumuk locality and 55-year-old man from Nagina bagh in city. Officials said there was good response to the public curfew imposed in Chandrapur and suburbs of Durgapur, Urjanagar, Padoli and Ballarpur town on Thursday. All establishments save those related to emergency services remained closed, and streets wore a deserted look during the day. Wardha: A 65-year-old woman and 55-year-old man from Wardha died on Thursday, taking the toll to 39, and 113 new tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total in district to 2,224. Meanwhile, 29 were discharged. Total 651 test reports were received and 113 tested positive, with cases reported from Wardha (47), Hinganghat (24), Selu (13), Deoli (11), Arvi (8), Samudrapur (5), Karanja (4) and Ashti (1). Total recovery from coronavirus reached 1,120 and the count of active positives crossed 1,000 mark and now patients under treatment are 1,065. Gadchiroli: The district reported second Covid-19 death, over 100 days after the first death reported on June 2. A 50-year-old health worker in Kurkheda sub district hospital died on Thursday morning and tested positive for Covid-19 post death. In fact, this is the first Covid-19 death of a Gadchroli resident in Gadchiroli district. In June, a citizen from the district had died of Covid-19 in Telangana state. The district also witnessed a record surge of 110 cases on Thursday while 59 patients were discharged. Now, Gadchiroli has 1,459 cases, 1,163 recoveries, 2 deaths and 294 patients under treatment. Gondia: With 72 new positive cases and 3 more fatalities on Thursday, district’s total caseload pushed to 2,679, and death toll to 41, with total active cases at 1,214. Total 1,424 people have recovered so far in the district. A 79-year-old man from Shri Nagar, 65-year-old man from Kachewani and 56-year-old man from Tiroda died during treatment. Gondia’s death toll is now 41, and 21 of them came in 10 days of September. The district has 2,679 cases, 1,424 recoveries, and 1,214 patients are under treatment. Out of them, 407 are in home isolation. Bhandara: The district has seen deaths of 3 patients with which Covid-19 death toll reached 45. While 80 new cases were reported in a day, 97 patients recovered. Bhandara now has 2,415 Covid cases, 1,210 recoveries and 1,160 patients under treatment. Akola: The district received 740 reports of both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test on September 10. Out of these, 156 turned out to be positive. Akola appears to be eying a second wave of Covid-19 infections after the first peak in May-June. A 71-year-old man died during treatment in Akola on Thursday which took total death toll in district to 173. Cases surpassed 5,000-mark and reached 5,120. Total 132 patients recovered. Now, 1,089 patients are under treatment in Akola. Buldhana: Number of new cases of Covid-19 was 89, which was less than the number of recovered patients (95) in Buldhana on Thursday. An 83-year-old man from Khamgaon died of Covid-19 on Thursday taking Buldhana’s death toll to 61. Now, the district has 4,452 patients, 3,192 of them recovered, 61 dead and 1,199 under treatment. Washim: Registration of three deaths of Washim-based patients outside Washim district and death of a 68-year-old man from Malegaon tehsil added 4 deaths to Washim’s Covid-19 death toll on Thursday. This took death toll of district to 50. Total 92 new cases were detected while 34 patients recovered. Washim now has 2,469 cases, 1,683 of them discharged, and 736 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-11-vid-districts-report-record-94-covid-deaths-in-day/articleshow/78048558.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Startup adopts product made from waste||Kochi: While the use of manure developed from biodegradable waste is common, research and innovation have also resulted in products like soilless media, which are in turn being used by startups to make household farming hassle-free. PlantMe Agro Solutions, an agri-startup is hoping to change the way in which kitchen gardens are managed by combining hydroponics technology utilizing soilless potting medium developed by Pelican Biotech from biodegradable waste. “There are many people who want to take up gardening but it’s not easy for everyone to get soil,” says Ashwin Ramachandran, CEO of PlantMe Agro Solutions, which uses the potting media developed by Pelican. PlantMe, a sister concern of Kanaka Polypack Pvt Ltd, was co-founded by Ramachandran and Nithin Kumar, who is the chief operating officer. “We utilize a technology called Nutrient Film Technique (NFT). With our system even a child would be able to do farming. They only have to read the PH level of water and total dissolved salts by using the tech we provide,” he said. Pelican Biotech founder C N Manoj said the medium was created using coco pith, fish waste compost and ash from boilers. “Finding soil for planting is tedious and difficult in an urban setting. Soilless media solve the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startup-adopts-product-made-from-waste/articleshow/78047207.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Walke murder is ‘robbery gone wrong’, says Goa DGP||MARGAO: Lending a final twist to the Swapnil Walke murder case probe, DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena on Friday said that the police have cracked the case by concluding that “armed robbery gone wrong” was the sole motive behind the killing. The “final and official theory”, as the DGP put it, came the day TOI broke the news that Goa police had formed three different teams to probe three angles – robbery, stolen gold and contract killing. “The motive is very clear. It was robbery,” Meena told reporters at the South Goa police headquarters, Margao. “The robbers had carried out a survey of some shops, and ultimately selected this particular one. Their plan didn’t succeed owing to the scuffle that ensued between the killer and the victim.” To a question about stolen gold being the probable reason for the murder, Meena rejected the possibility. “I am completely rejecting the theory. I don’t know who floated this theory. Till now we have found no link between the deceased and the killer. We have analysed their call details, there isn’t a single call from the accused to this person. So there is no question of disposal of any stolen gold (having a link to this case),” he said. As to why the robbers failed to steal anything from the shop if that was their sole motive, even after one of them engaged the jeweller in a scuffle, Meena attributed it to “lack of proper planning”. “One person went inside, and then there was a scuffle. That man (Walke) was very strong, he gave a fight, however, it’s unfortunate that he died. The second man (other accused) did come to help the first, but their attempt was foiled,” Meena said. On whether the victim knew his killers, the DGP said “till now it is not known” but disclosed that some of the accused had come to Walke’s shop on two to three occassion earlier on the pretext of buying gold ornaments. Though the DGP said that all other leads were being followed, he maintained that “armed robbery is the final and official theory”. The DGP’s explanation supporting the robbery theory has only betrayed various inconsistencies in police versions regarding the probe, and has taken even senior police officers by surprise. Earlier, the DGP held a meeting with a delegation of jewellers from Margao and traders’ associations. “There is a lot of fear psychosis among the people of Margao following the incident. This reflects on the police performance also. This type of incidents shouldn’t happen again. We held a meeting with them to reassure them that police are with them,” Meena told reporters later. Installation of CCTV cameras across the town and enhanced police patrolling were some measures, Meena said, that the police will put in place to ensure security of the people of Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/walke-murder-is-robbery-gone-wrong-says-dgp/articleshow/78048908.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Case against boy, mom for rape of girl||MADURAI: Police have booked a 17-year-old boy and his mother after receiving a complaint from a 14-year-old girl that she was forcibly confined by them for two days and sexually assaulted. According to police, the juvenile in conflict with law was in love with the girl and took her to his house on Saturday and kept her there till Monday. He forcibly tied mangalsutra on her, and when she resisted, he and his 50-year-old mother beat her up. The boy then raped her. The accused left the girl at her house on Monday. The victim’s parents initially feared repercussions from the accused but her father registered a complaint on Wednesday night. A case was registered under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Indian Penal Code. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-against-boy-mom-for-rape-of-girl/articleshow/78049275.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Non-woven bags are plastic too, says study||NEW DELHI: The non-woven bags that you have been using, thinking that they are an eco-friendly alternative to plastic bags, contain polypropylene (a form of plastic), a study published on Thursday has revealed. The study titled “Environmental illusion: The non-woven bag” released by environmental NGO Toxics Link claimed that non-woven bags were also plastic bags. It revealed that 45% of its respondents had replaced plastic bags with non-woven bags. Though the study was conducted in Delhi, the secondary research by Toxics Link suggested that non-woven bags were used across the country. During the research, five samples of non-woven bags were sent to an accredited laboratory wherein polypropylene and polyester (both plastic resins) were found in them. The test results confirmed that consumers were made to believe that non-woven carry bags with a cloth-like appearance were biodegradable, which was false. “The lowcost of non-woven bags, compared with other alternatives, is a big reason why establishments prefer to hand out these. Since the materials used to make non-woven bags are also plastics, these bags, too, pose an equal threat to the environment and are clearly not the lesser of two evils,” said Priti Mahesh, chief programme coordinator at Toxics Link.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/non-woven-bags-are-plastic-too-says-study/articleshow/78048511.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Class X students to face a test on September 13 to assess online teaching||CHANDIGARH: In order to know how successful government schools’ online classes have been, the UT education department has decided to conduct an online test for Class X students on Sunday. The test has been named Chandigarh Assessment Survey (CAS) and will be of four subjects: maths, English, science and social studies. It will be a multiple-choice question (MCQ) test, which will contain 40 questions: 10 for each subject and will carry 80 marks (each question of two marks). Timings of the test will be from 9am to 10.30am and after 10:30am, no submission will be accepted. Syllabus will be all that is covered up to August 15 and its details will be shared soon. Online link will be sent 15 minutes before the test at 8:45am. Sources said the test, which was earlier planned in the last week of August, would be bilingual and conducted through Google Forms. UT has conducted achievement tests for Class X in the past as well to know the learning levels of students, but those weren’t online and were held after months’ of preparations. Class X’s learning outcomes are tested at state level by the UT education department and at national level by the ministry of human resource and development and NCERT. Similar surveys are also conducted for classes III, V and VIII as well. For the national-level survey, the budget is allotted by the MHRD. For 2020, Rs 2 lakh is the estimated amount for conducting training programme and TA/DA provision for field investigators for the national achievement survey for classes III, V, VIII and X. The national-level survey this year was postponed due to the pandemic. Officials said the assessment being conducted on Sunday would not be very elaborate, but would help the department know the learning levels of students, topics of low understanding and areas that need focus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-evaluate-online-teaching-class-x-students-to-face-a-test-on-sept-13/articleshow/78047213.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 40-year-old drunk man hangs self in Kota district||KOTA: A 40-year-old drunk man hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his room on intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday at Dabhadeh village under Modak police station in Kota district. The police lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC and handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Thursday morning. The deceased has been identified as Phoolchand Odde, a resident of Dabhadeh village in Kota. Modak police station SHO Bharat Singh said odde had been consuming liquor in his house for the last two days. Therefore, he didn’t accompany his wife who went to attend a condolence meeting at her parental home in Bundi. He was sleeping with his 14-year-old son in the room where he committed suicide in the night. In the morning, his son saw him hanging and told the neighbours who informed the police, he said. Singh said, the reason of suicide suicide would be ascertained only after receipt of post-mortem report and completion of investigation into the matter. Further investigations are continuing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-year-olddrunk-man-hangs-self-in-kota-district/articleshow/78048516.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad hospitals face medical oxygen crunch||AHMEDABAD: It was an emergency shifting of eight Covid-19 positive patients from Parekhs Hospital near Shyamal crossroads to Sola Civil Hospital on Thursday evening. While the patients were not critical, they needed oxygen and the hospital authorities revealed that they would run out of it by Thursday night. Dr Ketu Parekh, director of the hospital, told TOI that they have shifted eight patients after a request to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). “Our regular supplier of medical oxygen sent us 25 cylinders on Thursday morning, telling us that he would not be able to send any more oxygen due to the lack of supply. We tried to procure it from the suppliers of other hospitals, but we could not get it,” he said. Dr Parekh added that almost all Covid-19 patients require oxygen and thus, they did not want to take any risk. “We approached the deputy municipal commissioner and municipal commissioner over the issue and appraised them of the situation. They then intervened and sent the patients to Sola Civil Hospital and elsewhere. We have been assured from Gandhinagar that the supply would be restored by tomorrow afternoon,” he said. The TOI had reported on September 8 that the oxygen supply – especially for the mid and small size hospitals – had become an issue in the wake of Covid-19 situation. On Wednesday, the state deputy chief minister and health minister, Nitin Patel, had instructed the oxygen producers to keep 350 tons of stock as reserve to address any contingency. In a statement, the AMC officials mentioned that according to the bed requisition MoU, the oxygen, medicines, food and other amenities must be provided by the private hospitals. “The AMC is monitoring the oxygen supply condition. We are in contact with the suppliers and producers and they have been instructed to ensure adequate supply to the hospitals,” mentioned an AMC note. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that several of the city-based hospitals were facing oxygen shortages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-hospitals-face-medical-oxygen-crunch/articleshow/78047223.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Restoration of polluted Varaga nadhi begins in Theni||Madurai: The restoration of the 26km-long Varaga nadhi in Theni district was kickstarted by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Wednesday evening. Major part of the river that originates at Sothuparai reservoir before it flows into the Vaigai at Kullapuram village flows through Periyakulam taluk, and irrigates 6,602 acres through 28 tanks.Initiative to clean the river polluted by sewage, garbage was taken based on representations from the Varaganadhi Pathukapu Matrum Meetpukulu (Varaga river protection and restoration committee), which was formed comprising officials from various departments and stakeholders. The restoration began in a public private partnership model and the work has begun with three earthmovers to clear garbage, silt and to remove bushes from the river. “The earthmovers will be engaged for the next four weeks in the first phase” T Thiyagarajan, district revenue officer for NHAI and coordinator of the project told TOI.Periyakulam town is not only the major benefactor, but also accounts for a large share of pollution in the river. Despite implementation of underground drainage (UGD) system in the town, wastes dumped into rainwater drains continue to land in the river. Efforts are being taken to construct retaining walls for two stretches for a total length of 975m on the river banks at Rs 31.6 crore through the public works department. It will be built near the bridge at Thandupalayam-Theni to Periyakulam Main Road and where Pambar River joins Varaga Nadhi near the bridge at Bangalapatti.“Efforts are being taken to establish an UGD at Rs 10.5 crore in Keelavadakarai. Proposals will be sent for implementing the same in other villages on the banks of the river in a phased manner,” Thiyagarajan said. “Metal meshes will be erected for a 12 feet height on both sides of the three bridges across the river to prevent devotees dumping waste into the river,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restoration-of-polluted-varaga-nadhi-begins-in-theni/articleshow/78049302.cms||M K Ananth
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||3 more properties owned by Atiq attached in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: Continuing the crackdown against jailed mafia don-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad’s properties accumulated through illegal means, the district police on Thursday attached his three more properties worth crores of rupees at Khuldabad area. Last month, Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had ordered attachment of six immovable properties owned by Atiq under the Gangster Act. He had also asked for a status report to be submitted on or before September 14. SP (City) Dinesh Singh said, “Police have attached three properties of the jailed don Atiq on Thursday and also started process to attach three other properties in the coming days. The real value of the attached properties is being assessed.” The decision to attach the properties was taken after senior district police authorities had recommended action in a report to the DM. They had reasoned that the properties were allegedly accumulated through illegal means. After going through the available records, the DM had on August 28 ordered to attach all the six properties. The SP, meanwhile, claimed that all the six properties located at Karbala, Chakia, Sultanpur Bhava (Khuldabad) and Gaus Nagar (Kareli) are being attached under the Gangster Act on the directives of the district magistrate. Three of them under the limits of Khuldabad police station were attached on Thursday. In August, the police had attached seven properties worth Rs 60 crore of the former MP and jailed don Atiq in different parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-more-properties-owned-by-atiq-attached-in-prayagraj/articleshow/78048416.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||New VIP guest house comes up at Butler Palace||LUCKNOW: A guest house for state dignitaries constructed at Butler Palace for a whopping Rs 57.49 crore is almost ready, while a multispeciality medical facility, being constructed at SGPGI, would be ready by next year. This would be the fifth guest house in the state capital with spacious 14 suites and 59 single rooms. So far, Rs 51.56 crore has been spent on the project. While the building work has been completed, a fund of Rs 2.93 crore is being awaited for the completion of development work outside the guest house which is also expected to be completed in a couple of months. On Thursday, an inspection of the ground floor and the first floor was done by divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram, who expressed satisfaction over the quality work. “The guest house will have a front lawn and a pond as part of landscaping. It will be much more spacious in comparison to other guest houses in the state capital,” said divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram. Later, Meshram and chief development officer Manish Bansal conducted an inspection of a medical facility at the SGPGIMS which is under construction. “The facility will have multispeciality medical services like emergency, medicine department and kidney and liver transplant facility,” said divisional commissioner. “The building construction would be completed by next year. During the inspection, we found that low quality brick was being used. We directed the construction firm to equip their 350 labourers with safety gears like helmets and boots,” added the divisional commissioner. “Further, we ordered officers to plant saplings along the boundary walls of the building,” divisional commissioner further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-vip-guest-house-comes-up-at-butler-palace/articleshow/78049298.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Nine fishermen rescued from Lankan waters||Madurai: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) in a coordinated operation with the maritime rescue sub centre (MRSC) and fisheries department rescued a mechanised fishing boat with nine fishermen that got stranded in the sea about 160km off Tuticorin. The boat drifted on to Sri Lankan waters after its engine developed a snag on Wednesday. Owner of the boat Francis, 45, of Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district, said they had gone fishing on August 27. Though the engine seized 58 nautical miles (107km) off Tuticorin, the boat drifted nine nautical miles (16km) and crossed the international maritime boundary line (IMBL). “Strong winds up to 50km/hour made it impossible to get the boat towed by another fishing boat,” he said. Information was shared to the MRSC, and in turn to the ICG, which used ship Vaibhav for the rescue.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nine-fishermen-rescued-from-lankan-waters/articleshow/78049299.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Won’t allow any slum dweller to be displaced: AAP||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is making plans to ensure that no slum dweller is displaced from his or her home. This statement came on Thursday after the Supreme Court ordered the removal of 48,000 shanties along railway tracks in the city last week. The state government may also approach the court if needed to help the affected people. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with officials on Thursday regarding the rehabilitation of the affected people. Notices have been put up outside trackside houses in Tughlaqabad and other areas by Northern Railway asking the residents to vacate the encroached areas. Some notices have asked the occupants to leave by September 11, others by September 14. A notice under the signatures of a senior section engineer of Northern Railway warned the “illegal encroachers of railway land” of necessary administrative action if they did not vacate the occupied sites. The notices triggered sharp political reactions on Thursday. Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Raghav Chadha attacked BJP over the demolition notices and said that so long as CM Kejriwal was alive, no slum dweller would lose his or her home. Armed with copies of the notices, Chadha said at a press conference, “A notice put up on houses in the Tughlaqabad area stated the dwellers must vacate their house by September 11, after which their houses will be demolished. In some other areas, notices said the evacuation must be completed by September 14.” Chadha added, “The CM is making a foolproof plan for the slum dwellers that will ensure no slum dwelling will be demolished. If there is such a need, we will move the Supreme Court and also fight this battle on the streets.” The AAP functionary claimed that the Kejriwal government cared for people living in slums and accepted them as family members. “BJP is issuing such notices and threatening to demolish the houses within September itself. These notices are against humanity and also against the basic principle of the Constitution allowing every citizen to live life with dignity,” Chadha argued. Tearing down the notices, Chadha said, “The slum dwellers should not worry because CM Kejriwal, who is their brother, will not allow any displacement of the slum dwellers in Delhi.” He said the AAP government would prepare a proper relocation plan for those affected by the Supreme Court’s order, but added that without providing the affected people with alternative houses and rehabilitation assistance, “no slum dwellers’ houses will be demolished in Delhi”. BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri dismissed AAP’s allegations. “AAP should stop this drama of tearing notices and instead the Delhi government should allot ready-to-move houses to slum dwellers immediately,” Bidhuri said in a statement. He pinned the blame for the planned removal of the slums on the state government and warned, “If Delhi government demolishes slums, BJP workers will shift people living in these places to vacant houses owned by Delhi government.” Delhi has a large number of shanty clusters and temporary hutments, and many of them are situated on railway land close to the tracks. Since the population of these habitations is huge and most of the residents are voters, their fate is a political hot potato. At election time, all parties have assured slum residents of welfare measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wont-allow-any-slum-dweller-to-be-displaced-aap/articleshow/78048523.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shift in Covid times a worry, thousands despair about their lives going off track||NEW DELHI: After hearing the Supreme Court had ordered the demolishing of all shacks along the railway lines, Geeta Devi has been in panic. The court decision is the latest setback for the doughty 30-year-old, whose husband is disabled and unable to earn anything. Devi, who has been living along the railway tracks near Wazirpur Industrial Area for six years, only recently resumed work at a factory, having gone without any income for some months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. To cope, she had to dip into the family savings and is now financially vulnerable. Any rehabilitation at this time, she says, is not only inconvenient but also a coronavirus risk. Last week, the Supreme Court directed Indian Railways to remove all illegal encroachments along railway tracks within three months. Around 48,000 illegal homes are set to be demolished when this order is implemented. Most residents of such shanties that TOI spoke to expressed a desire to indeed move to a pucca house, but, they said, the timing of such a shift is questionable and leaves them at risk of Covid infection. “We are not against the court ruling, but we are barely making ends meet. The entire economy has collapsed, so how is one expected to cope with a demolished home at such a time?” argued Devi, adding the government should wait until the pandemic was under control before relocating them. The stretch along Azadpur and Wazirpur industrial areas is among the most impacted of railway tracks. Already, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has earmarked this stretch as one of three high priority sites for clearance. The other two are a similar rail track habitation in north Delhi’s Dayabasti and a JJ cluster in central Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. A closer look along the railway line shows how shacks have been transformed into permanent structures overlooking the tracks, barely a few feet either side of the train’s passage. Vegetable seller Vijay Kumar, who claims to have been living here for the best part of three decades, disclosed that new hutments came up all the time, stretching this unauthorised cluster all the way to Azadpur. “The houses at the ends are barely five years old. But as you proceed along the tracks, you will find houses that were constructed over a decade ago, some even 30-40 years ago. This is where we live,” said Kumar. “Thousands now reside on this section, and following the tough business conditions created by the pandemic, we are feeling anxious about this court order.” Moinuddin, who sells fruit at the Azadpur Sabzi Mandi, claimed the houses were built not out of choice, but for survival. Asking for more time to shift in a safe manner, he said, “I will be happy with a new home, but I hope I am not kicked out overnight and my belongings thrown on the roads. This is our biggest fear.” Seema Devi is not willing to capitulate so easily, and declares residents will lie down on the tracks in protest if they are not given alternative dwellings. “Where will we go during a pandemic? We need a roof over our heads, otherwise we will always be exposed to the virus,” muttered Devi, a handkerchief crudely covering her mouth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shift-in-covid-times-a-worry-thousands-despair-about-their-lives-going-off-track/articleshow/78048553.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 11, 2020||Pune||IMD hints at over a week’s delay in monsoon withdrawal||PUNE: Model forecasts of the India Meteorological Department have indicated a delay of a week to 15 days in the beginning of monsoon withdrawal from the extreme northwest of the country. The India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s GFS model suggests the withdrawal would begin only after September 20. But its extended range forecasts on Thursday indicated that the withdrawal might start around or after September 25 from the extreme northwest of India — almost a week after the normal date. Sources in Skymet Weather Services predicted the start of monsoon withdrawal by as far as September-end, which could be a delay of almost a fortnight in comparison to the normal withdrawal start date of September 17. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “As per the new normal, monsoon starts its withdrawal from the northwest India around September 17 as against the earlier normal date of September 1. Extended range forecasts further indicate that Maharashtra is likely to get its last ‘good’ spell of monsoon rainfall during September 12-17, after a low-pressure system forms over the Bay of Bengal around September 13. This spell would only be followed by receding rains here after September 17, except falls associated with convective activity and thundershowers.” As per the new normal monsoon withdrawal dates, the monsoon exits from a very small part of extreme north of Maharashtra around October 1. Kashyapi said the beginning of withdrawal from the extreme north of Maharashtra might start after October first week. He cautioned that these observations were based on the latest model-based forecasts and might change in the latter part of September. GP Sharma, president, Skymet Weather Services, told TOI, “The likelihood of the formation of a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal will delay the start of monsoon’s exit from the extreme northwest Rajasthan. The system may move across other parts of Maharashtra (Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan), Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan till September 17.” Sharma said the upcoming weather systems would keep the monsoon winds active over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. “The easterly winds regime will dominate the Indo-Gangetic plains, going up to Rajasthan. This is likely to delay the process of withdrawal of monsoon. The commencement of monsoon withdrawal may thus get delayed by almost 15 days or so from Rajasthan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-hints-at-over-a-weeks-delay-in-monsoon-withdrawal/articleshow/78049301.cms||Neha Madaan
September 11, 2020||Kanpur||Probe ordered into escape of 2 minor girls from shelter home||KANPUR: A day after two minor girl inmates escaped from the government shelter home in Swaroopnagar, the district authorities on Thursday ordered a detailed investigation into the matter. This is the second such incident in the past few months. Earlier, two girl inmates of the government shelter home, who had tested positive for Covid-19 along with 55 others and were lodged at a quarantine facility at KDA Greens in Panki, went missing on June 26, 2020, but were later traced. The girls had alleged that they had escaped following torture at the hands of other inmates. An FIR against three staff of shelter home, besides four women homeguards has been lodged at Swaroopnagar police station. One among two girls was stated to be from Agra while the other of Etawah district. The in charge of Swaroopnagar police station Ashwini Pandey, said the girls - age 16 and 17 — escaped during the wee hours of Wednesday after scaling the 20-ft-high wall of the shelter home building. Both the girls, who had allegedly eloped with their boyfriends, were detained and brought to shelter home on September 4, 2020. The Inspector further said an FIR following a complaint by shelter home superintendent Urmila Gupta against three staff of shelter home and four women homeguards has been lodged and raids were underway to trace the girls. The senior authorities of the shelter home, said the role of the three employees deputed at the shelter home was being verified. “Action will be taken against employees if their involvement in the escape of the girl inmates comes to light. A detailed investigation into the incident is on. ACM VI has been deputed by district authorities to conduct a probe,” said district probation officer Abhay Kumar, adding that the CCTV footage has shown the girls standing near a medical store and then they were seen heading towards Gol Chauraha. The police of their native districts have been put on alert, added, a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/probe-ordered-into-escape-of-2-minor-girls-from-shelter-home/articleshow/78047080.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||HC stays demolition of resort owned by Azam’s wife for 6 weeks||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has stayed for six weeks the order for the demolition of ‘Hamsafar Resort’ at Rampur, which is owned by senior Samajwadi Party leader and MP Azam Khan’s wife Dr Tazeen Fatima. The petitioner, Dr Tazeen Fatima, had requested the court to quash the order dated August 27, 2020, passed by the Rampur Development Authority (RDA), directing demolition of the resort. The RDA had passed this order alleging that the resort was made without prior sanctioning of map by the authority concerned. While finally disposing of the writ petition filed by Dr Fatima, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Piyush Agrawal directed the petitioner to avail the statutory remedy provided under the UP Urban Planning and Development Act. Passing the above directive, the court observed: “For a period of six weeks or till the disposal of the appeal, whichever is earlier, no coercive measures shall be taken against the petitioner.” During the course of hearing, counsel for respondent authorities informed the court that the writ petition was not maintainable, as the petitioner had an ‘efficacious alternate remedy’ by way of an appeal before the authorities concerned. The court directed the petitioner to approach the appellate authority within two weeks. As per the direction, the appellate authority shall decide the matter expeditiously, preferably within four weeks from the date of filing of the said appeal, in accordance with law by a speaking and reasoned order after giving opportunity of personal hearing to the petitioner. The court also made it clear that in case the petitioner does not file an appeal before the competent authority within the stipulated period, as indicated herein above, the benefit given to the petitioner under this order shall cease to operate. Established in the year 2016, Humsafar Resort is a top player in the category resorts in Rampur. The resort is alleged to have been made without sanction of map by the authorities concerned and accordingly, the RDA had passed an order of demolition on August 27, 2020. Hence, the present writ petition was filed challenging the order dated August 27.  The order was passed on September 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-stays-demolition-of-resort-owned-by-azams-wife-for-6-wks/articleshow/78048508.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Coronavirus labs shifted from Sector 11 market to Sector 10||CHANDIGARH: Following the directions of UT adviser Manoj Parida, two private labs shifted their corona testing facility from Sector 11 market to an open space in Sector 10 in front of the government museum. Both the labs started testing on Thursday. In the wake of a protest by Sector 11 market shopkeepers and the area residents, the UT administration, on September 7, had ordered shifting of the testing centres. A visit to the site revealed that the testing facility has been established in an open parking area between government museum and Leisure Valley in Sector 10. The site has sufficient space for parking of vehicles of patients and there is no residential and commercial area close to it. Traders and residents of Sector 11 had recently staged a protest, alleging that there was no discipline and checks by the centres and their lives were at risk. Area councillor Mahesh Inder Sidhu had also raised the issue with the administration, the health department and the municipal corporation. Apart from Sector 10, the UT administration has identified different places, including Parade Ground, Sector 17; Exhibition Ground, Sector 34; IT Park; Sector 42 lake; and Manimajra for testing facilities. Sources said in the coming days, labs would be set up at other locations as well. 3 succumb, 283 catch virus in ChandigarhThree patients died and 283 tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the city toll tally stands at 80 and the case count at 6,987. The casualties included a 46-year-old man of Manimajra with bilateral pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury with sepsis; a 66-year-old diabetic man of Sector 48; and a 59-year-old woman of Sector 22, who was suffering from pneumonia. The Sector 48 man had succumbed on September 6 and the Sector 22 woman on September 4, but their deaths were taken on record on Thursday. As many as 191 patients were cured and discharged on the day. The active cases are 2,573 and 4,331 patients have been cured so far. Call center for Covid-19 infoDr Singh said, “The district has set up a call centre to provide information related to Covid-19. For any queries, residents can call up at 9996223030. Three to five call recipients have been deputed to resolve the queries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corona-labs-shifted-from-sec-11-market-to-sec-10/articleshow/78047241.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Viral message says 64 AMC doctors have tested positive||Ahmedabad: A message that went viral on various social media on Thursday says that 64 doctors at Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) run hospitals have tested positive for Covid in recent times. These doctors are from SVP Hospital (26), LG Hospital (30) and Shardaben Hospital (8). The message even alleged that the AMC had stopped screening, especially for junior doctors.The AMC authorities denied the claim and said that the number was 20. They added that all who tested positive were junior doctors. AMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar told TOI that the messages were rumours. “When we are going in for aggressive testing, any one can walk to a urban health centre or SVP Hospital and get himself or herself tested,” he said.A junior doctor with an AMC hospital told TOI on the condition of anonymity that they would get tested after every 12 days of Covid-19 duty. “Earlier, it was RT-PCR test. But it has been now replaced by rapid antigen testing (RAT), which doesn’t have the same level of accuracy. We demanded resuming RT-PCR testing after the duty,” said the doctor. AMC norms recommend a break of seven to 10 days for symptomatic doctors. A senior officer said the corporation was going in for RATs only. “RT-PCR is suggested only in cases where the person shows symptoms and has taken an RAT which returned negative. We also suggest chest HRCT scan which can be a good indicator,” said the officer.Testing among doctors has remained a prickly issue. While some authorities claimed it was a tactic of junior doctors not to report for duty, doctors alleged high-handedness by the authorities even when they are doing the best to serve Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viral-message-says-64-amc-doctors-have-tested-positive/articleshow/78047262.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Varanasi||We will surround homes of BJP MPs and demand reservation: Sanjay Nishad||Gorakhpur: NISHAD party has once again raised the issue of reservation for the fisherfolk community in Uttar Pradesh. National president of the party Sanjay Nishad, during a press conference on Thursday, said that the BJP government promised to give reservation to the Machuara and other fisherfolk societies. But the promise hasn’t been fulfilled yet, and people from the community are getting restless now. Nishad added that people from the community would surround the residences of the BJP MPs on September 11 and demand reservation. It is to be noted Nishad’s own son Praveen Nishad is the sitting BJP MP of Sant Kabir Nagar. “MPs are representatives of the people. The community will vote for the MPs only if the promise made to them fulfilled is waiting for the promise to be fulfilled and now people are asking that when their promise will be fulfilled,” he said. “We’ll also demonstrate at Jantar Mantar, Delhi on September 25. The Uttrakhand government has issued an order stating that Shilpkar (skilled artisans) is not a caste but a group of castes. On the same lines, we want reservation and SC certificate for Machuara and other castes of fisherfolk,” added Nishad. “The Congress had deceived us, and in the reign of the Samajwadi Party, a member of our society was killed in police firing during a demonstration for reservation on railway tracks. We are friends of the Bharatiya Janata Party and we extend our support to them. When chief minister Yogi Adityanath was the MP, he advocated for the reservation of Machhuara samaj in the parliament,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/we-will-surround-homes-of-bjp-mps-and-demand-reservation-sanjay-nishad/articleshow/78046870.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||RLA adds counters to ensure social distancing||Chandigarh: The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has added two more counters to handle rush and ensure social distancing on its premises in Sector 17 here. With the increase in the number of counters and deployment of staff at the entry and inside the premises, social distancing enforcement has improved at the office. On Monday, when RLA was opened after four days, there was a huge rush and social distancing norm was ignored. RLA, secretary, Virat said, “We have deployed staff at the entry point and inside and nobody is allowed to enter the building without an appointment. Friends and relatives, who would come along with an applicant, are also not allowed inside the building.” As RLA is a public dealing office for registration of vehicles and issuance of driving licences, the number of online appointment slots cannot be reduced. About 600 to 800 appointment slots are given daily. But to manage the rush, a counter in the licensing branch and another in the registration branch have been added. “I himself attend the applicants in emergency cases. We are trying to improve crowd management outside the building where people wait,” he added. At the entry point, people could be seen in queues without maintaining social distancing. Recently, six staff members of RLA had tested positive. The authorities had conducted Covid test of all staff members and the office was closed for four days for sanitisation. Earlier, RLA had reduced the number of online appointments to nearly 300 per day in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rla-adds-counters-to-ensure-social-distancing/articleshow/78047249.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s Chokkalinga Nagar residents complain of water-logging after rain||Madurai: Residents of Chokkalinga Nagar in zone one of the Madurai Corporation have complained that whenever it rains in their locality, they are forced to wade through knee-deep water. They said that they have been facing the problem only for the past eight months, after a storm water drain connecting the Kiruthumal channel was altered. Some of the residents have constructed a concrete structure for about two feet height to prevent the water from flooding their homes.The drain is higher than the ground-level due to which water is not getting drained. They said that they have to call up corporation officials every time it rains to help drain the water.Sridhar Nedunchezhiyan of Naanal Nanbargal, an environmental organization, said the city is experiencing rains for the last few weeks following which Chokkalinga Nagar main street and first street are inundated.“The civic body workers clear the water to make the roads commutable. We want a permanent solution for the issue,” he said.P Velmurugan, another resident said there was a small tank (Oorani) close to the area, which is now closed. He wanted the corporation officials to restore the tank by desilting it. The water getting logged there can be drained into the tank. It will not only solve the water-logging issue, but will also improve the groundwater table.An official from the engineering wing of the corporation said they laid a pipeline for draining water only 10 days ago after repeated complaints from the residents of water-logging. “I received feedback that water is now getting drained quickly. I will take stock of the issue again and will take measures based on the requirement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-chokkalinga-nagar-residents-complain-of-water-logging-after-rain/articleshow/78049304.cms||V Devanathan
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||Job market on an upswing as industries resume ops||Shrinivasa.M Mysuru: Five months after the first lockdown and Covid-19 crisis, the district economy is witnessing a green shoot of recovery in the job market. Around 85% of the small and medium scale industries out of over 3,900 units in the district have reopened. In a big relief to job seekers, the hiring process has re-started in many sectors including hospitality. According to several manpower service providers in the city, the job market has opened up and fresh graduates and those with 1-2 years of experience are getting opportunities. An executive in a placement service firm from Kuvempunagar here told TOI that the job market has improved compared to the summer days. “Those with one-year experience are preferred by companies and factories. Demand is back on track. We are witnessing pre- Covid-19 era like demand. It is expected to improve further in the coming days,” she said. Prajwal Ravindrantha, founder of a PR consultancy said, “Employers are now filling those vacancies which fell vacant after employees migrated back to their native places. However, salary is still a concern and employers are assuring a salary revision once things return to normal,” he said. Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) former president Sudhakar S Shetty said, “The big concern is many are still not ready to report to work. There is the demand for skilled workforce.” KB Arasappa, chairman, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association said, around 85% of small and medium scale industries have started operations. “We need employees,” he said, adding “We are ready to join hands with the department of skill development and entrepreneurship and livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/job-market-on-an-upswing-as-industries-resume-ops/articleshow/78045826.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19: 1,332 cases, 15 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat reported 1,332 new Covid-19 cases, taking is total so far to 1.09 lakh. This was the second consecutive day and ninth day overall that the state clocked more than 1,300 cases in a day. The new cases included 278 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 124 from Vadodara, and 105 from Jamnagar. The number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 33,289, 23,347, 9,439 and 6,250, respectively. This was the first time Rajkot district reported 150 new cases in a day. The state also recorded 15 deaths of Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,167. These deaths include four each in Ahmedabad and Surat, two in Amreli, and one each in Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha and Vadodara districts. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 1,748, 676, 146 and 108, respectively. Some 1,415 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of such persons to 90,230. The discharges included 334 in Surat, 201 in Jamnagar, 166 in Vadodara, 134 in Ahmedabad and 128 in Rajkot. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,230, which is 14.8% of the total number of cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1332-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78050622.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: 1,332 cases, 15 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat reported 1,332 new Covid-19 cases, taking is total so far to 1.09 lakh. This was the second consecutive day and ninth day overall that the state clocked more than 1,300 cases in a day. The new cases included 278 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 124 from Vadodara, and 105 from Jamnagar. The number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 33,289, 23,347, 9,439 and 6,250, respectively. This was the first time Rajkot district reported 150 new cases in a day. The state also recorded 15 deaths of Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,167. These deaths include four each in Ahmedabad and Surat, two in Amreli, and one each in Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha and Vadodara districts. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 1,748, 676, 146 and 108, respectively. Some 1,415 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of such persons to 90,230. The discharges included 334 in Surat, 201 in Jamnagar, 166 in Vadodara, 134 in Ahmedabad and 128 in Rajkot. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,230, which is 14.8% of the total number of cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1332-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78050624.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||174 new cases take Pkl count to 3,632||Panchkula: As many as 174 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula on Thursday, taking the district case count to 3,632, including 1,187 active ones.  Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Of the 174 positive cases, most are from Pinjore, Kalka, sectors 8, 15 and 25.” To date, 2,407 patients have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/174-new-cases-take-pkl-count-to-3632/articleshow/78047276.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: 1,332 cases, 15 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat reported 1,332 new Covid-19 cases, taking is total so far to 1.09 lakh. This was the second consecutive day and ninth day overall that the state clocked more than 1,300 cases in a day. The new cases included 278 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 124 from Vadodara, and 105 from Jamnagar. The number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 33,289, 23,347, 9,439 and 6,250, respectively. This was the first time Rajkot district reported 150 new cases in a day. The state also recorded 15 deaths of Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,167. These deaths include four each in Ahmedabad and Surat, two in Amreli, and one each in Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha and Vadodara districts. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 1,748, 676, 146 and 108, respectively. Some 1,415 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of such persons to 90,230. The discharges included 334 in Surat, 201 in Jamnagar, 166 in Vadodara, 134 in Ahmedabad and 128 in Rajkot. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,230, which is 14.8% of the total number of cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/1332-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78050621.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 1,332 cases, 15 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat reported 1,332 new Covid-19 cases, taking is total so far to 1.09 lakh. This was the second consecutive day and ninth day overall that the state clocked more than 1,300 cases in a day. The new cases included 278 from Surat, 167 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 124 from Vadodara, and 105 from Jamnagar. The number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 33,289, 23,347, 9,439 and 6,250, respectively. This was the first time Rajkot district reported 150 new cases in a day. The state also recorded 15 deaths of Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,167. These deaths include four each in Ahmedabad and Surat, two in Amreli, and one each in Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Sabarkantha and Vadodara districts. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot districts are now 1,748, 676, 146 and 108, respectively. Some 1,415 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of such persons to 90,230. The discharges included 334 in Surat, 201 in Jamnagar, 166 in Vadodara, 134 in Ahmedabad and 128 in Rajkot. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,230, which is 14.8% of the total number of cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1332-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78047296.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kanpur||Paddy grower beaten to death over monetary dispute in Auraiya||Kanpur:A paddy crop grower was allegedly beaten to death by a rice mill owner and his aides under the limits of Sadar Kotwali police station in Auraiya district over a monetary dispute, on Wednesday night. The victim, Kailash Narain Dikshit (65), from Dibiyapur area of Auraiya used to supply rice on large scale to a local mill owner. On Wednesday evening he disappeared under mysterious circumstances after he had left his Dibiyapur house for nearby rice mill belonging to one Kunwar Bahadur. His son Vinay Dikshit, after failing to locate him, alerted Sadar Kotwali police station. On Wednesday night, police received a call stating that a man was lying dead at Saundhemau Jaura road in Jakha village. A team rushed to the spot and found Dikshit’s body lying in a pool of blood. “Preliminary findings indicated that Dikshit succumbed to serious head injuries. His family members reached the spot and identified him,” said a senior police officer. “We have arrested Kunwar Bahadur and his aide Hakim. They have confessed to killing Dikshit along with two others over some monetary issue,” said SP Auraiya, Suniti. “They had offered paddy crop grower tea laced with sedatives. It was when he he was knocked out of his senses, the two attacked him with bricks following which he succumbed to wounds. They later dumped Dikshit’s body at Saundhemau Jaura road in Jakha village and returned to the mill. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” the SP added. A senior police official further said that Vinay Dikshit, son of the deceased also informed that his father was carrying with him Rs 10 lakh in cash, when he had left house for the mill. He said that his father, a paddy crop grower, used to supply rice crop to Kunwar Bahadur since the past one decade. “He further told that his father was having a dispute with the mill owner Kunwar Bahadur over Rs 50 lakh against which he had supplied rice crop to him,” said an official privy to the investigations, who added, “We are now on lookout for two other aides of Kunwar identified as Sudhir Shukla and Rajiv Rathore, who are on run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/paddy-grower-beaten-to-death-over-monetary-dispute-in-auraiya/articleshow/78047009.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Mullaperiyar dam water level recedes by 10 feet||Madurai: The water level of the Mullaperiyar dam has receded by ten feet in 26 days after rainfall softening in the catchment areas. The catchment areas received good rain last month with the inflow to the dam going up by many cusecs and it touched the 137-ft-mark on August 15. However, the rain decreased gradually reducing the water level to 126.05 feet on Thursday, a 10-ft decrease in just 26 days. The inflow to the dam on Thursday was 955 cusecs and 1,200 cusecs of water was discharged from it. However, the water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 61.16ft against its maximum level of 71ft, with an inflow of 1,025 cusecs. Rain that lashed the Theni district a few days ago also stopped and the district received an average rainfall of 2.10 mm in the last 24 hours ending at 8am on Thursday. Meanwhile, the day remained cloudy in Madurai on Thursday, and the district received widespread rainfall in the evening. The average rainfall received by the district was 12.12mm, with Kallandiri receiving the highest of 45.60 mm. Tallakulam in the city received 28.20 mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mullaperiyar-dam-water-level-recedes-by-10-feet/articleshow/78049303.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: FIR against Gayatri Prasad Prajapati & rape complainant for ‘striking deal’||LUCKNOW: An FIR has been lodged against former UP cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati and the woman, who had earlier accused him of raping her, for allegedly striking a deal to drop rape charges. Gayatri was arrested in 2017 and was recently granted bail for two months on medical grounds. The FIR was registered at Ghazipur police station on Thursday on the complaint of the rape complainant’s former lawyer Dinesh Chandra Tripathi. The advocate said, in February 2019, the woman asked him to submit an affidavit in favour of Prajapati and other co-accused in the gang rape case and when he opposed, she threatened him of dire consequences. Tripathi alleged that on March 26, 2019, she got news published against him in newspapers and hired other advocates for her case. She took money, plots and houses from Prajapati in return for turning hostile in the case, he said. Tripathi claimed that when he said that her conduct was against the spirit of law and justice, she lodged a case against him in Chitrakoot in June 19. “Police did not find anything substantial and submitted final report in the case,” he said. “In connivance with Prajapati, she then lodged a case of rape against me at Gautampalli police station on July 7, 2019. She took a plot worth Rs 1.5 crore in Aashiana from Prajapati in return of her daughter turning hostile in the case against Prajapati,” Tripathi alleged. He further claimed that she asked him to talk to Prajapati when the latter was in jail. “Prajapati threatened to get me killed once he is released from jail. The woman also threatened to get me killed by Prajapati’s men once he comes out of jail. Now unidentified miscreants chase me when I go out for work and when I return home,” Tripathi claimed, requesting police for help. SHO Ghazipur Brijesh Kumar Singh said an FIR on charges of dishonesty, criminal intimidation, forgery for the purpose of cheating and fraudulently using a genuine document has been lodged against the former cabinet minister and the Chitrakoot-based woman, her daughter and her unidentified aides. The woman had lodged an FIR against Tripathi on charges of rape, sexual assault, causing hurt by poisoning, dishonesty, punishment for wrongful confinement, and Posco Act, 2012 along with Ram Singh Rajput and Ashu Gaur and two unidentified persons on December 27, 2019. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-prajapati-rape-complainant-for-striking-deal/articleshow/78049316.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Keeping terrorist’s arrest under wraps may have averted 2008 blasts’||NEW DELHI: There was a “good possibility” of the five serial bomb blasts in Delhi on September 13, 2008, being averted but for the requirement for police to disclose the arrest of a Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HUJI) terrorist, Babu Bhai, who scripted the serial bombings, captured by the UP Special Task Force on June 23, 2007. As per the D K Basu guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court, seen as a boost for human rights, the police have to inform the friends or relatives of an accused about the detention along with the place of his custody within 12 hours. The law does not allow an exception for hardened terrorists like Babu Bhai who was a prize catch for the security forces. Babu Bhai was a key accomplice of Indian Mujahideen, and the ISI proxy carried out a spate of bomb blasts in Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Faizabad, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Delhi since 2005 and security agencies believe the national capital could, perhaps, have been spared the audacious terror attacks in September 2008 if his arrest by UP police had been kept a secret from his family and associates. The disclosure was made by Karnal Singh, the then chief of Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit in his book ‘Batla House’, named after a locality where his team eliminated the head of IM, Atif Ameen, in an encounter on September 19, 2008. Highlighting the implications of “one-size-fits all” implementation of laws enacted with good intent, the 1984-batch IPS officer recalled the chilling frequency with which IM conducted its terror campaign across the country. “The success of the IM module depended on logistical support from HuJI, which had established its network in India through Babu Bhai,” Singh wrote, adding that it was the latter who sent Atif Ameen to be trained by ISI and jihadi commanders in Pakistan in 2004. Babu Bhai, alias Jalaluddin Molla, had supplied 20 kg RDX to Atif Ameen aka Guru at Gate No.1 of Jama Masjid in 2005. He followed that up by with several consignments of arms and explosives to Guru, helping the IM commander and his young associates to bleed many cities as police tried to uncover the identity of the elusive gang of bombers. Guru and his accomplices had become so confident after carrying out a series of blasts that he started sending emails to news organisations before the explosions (using email: guru_alhindi@yahoo.fr). His first email was sent on November 23, 2007, at 1.18pm when three explosions rocked courts in Lucknow, Faizabad and Varanasi between 1.03pm and 1.32pm. The second email by IM came a day after serial blasts in Jaipur with Guru, in this instance, sending a clip of a cycle on which explosives had been strapped. It was then that UP police, in a breakthrough, managed to nab Babu Bhai. The arrest, however, could not be kept under wraps and its disclosure alarmed Ameen and his jihadi comrades to exercise caution before they struck again on September 13, 2008. “If information about arrest of Babu Bhai could have been withheld from the ones known to him for a day or two, there was a very good possibility that Guru, the head of IM, could have been apprehended and/or perhaps his whole network,” Singh said. Twenty-two people were killed and 131 injured, scores of them grievously, in the blasts which cast a spell of fear ahead of the festive season. IM had been using RDX before the arrest of Babu Bhai, and after his arrest, it started using ammonium nitrate as explosives. The arrest of Babu Bhai choked the supply of RDX to IM, but that did not restrict the terror outfit from carrying out serial blasts. Between 2007 and 2008, IM carried out major blasts in six cities, including Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Delhi. While Ameen, originally from Azamgarh in UP, was killed, and one of his accomplices arrested after the shootout at Batla House, two managed to slip out. Delhi Police lost its most decorated officer, inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, in the encounter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/keeping-terrorists-arrest-under-wraps-may-have-averted-2008-blasts/articleshow/78048563.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||Parents away, 15-year-old dragged to the terrace and raped by stalker in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: A 15-year-old girl, who was asleep with her younger brother and sister, was allegedly dragged to the terrace of their house in Kavi Nagar and raped by a man who had been stalking her for several days. The Class 8 student told police that she was also molested by six of his friends. The alleged assault took place on September 3 when the girl’s parents had gone to Aligarh to get a health check done for her mother, an epilepsy patient. The three children were alone in the house. The girl’s father, a daily wage labourer, said that his daughter had called him up around 11.30pm on the day of the assault and started crying. “She was pleading with me to return as soon as possible. She said she was not feeling well and was under a lot of pain. I gave the phone to my wife. When she asked her repeatedly what had happened, she said she had been raped by one of the youths who would often harass her when she went to school,” he added. Some of the accused had scaled the wall of the house while the others had entered the girl’s room through the terrace. The teenager was allegedly gagged with a piece of cloth and dragged to the terrace, where she was then raped. Her siblings remained asleep and didn’t realise what had happened. “They also made a video of the assault and posted it on their WhatsApp groups. Before leaving, the accused threatened to kill her brother and sister if she reported the crime to anyone,” the girl’s father said. Immediately after she called them, the girl’s parents took a bus back to Ghaziabad. “My daughter was still on the terrace, unconscious. We took her to a hospital and then went to the police station,” he added. The parents alleged inaction on the part of police. They said the cops dilly-dallied on their complaint for some time and finally registered an FIR after six days. The accused have been identified as Shehzaad, who allegedly raped the girl. The others named in the complaint are Sartaj, Sehroj, Afroz, Shanu, Asraf and Waheed. While Shehzaad (22) has been arrested, the others are absconding. “ Shehzaad worked at a restaurant in Mumbai, but returned to Ghaziabad after losing his job during the lockdown,” a police officer said. Devendra Bisht, the SHO of Vijay Nagar police station, said that while Shehzaad has been charged under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and relevant provisions of the Pocso Act, the other accused have been booked for molestation. “We have recorded the girl’s statement. She told us that Shehzaad had raped her while the others made a video and molested her repeatedly. The girl said that the main accused would often stalk her when she went to school,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/parents-away-15-year-old-dragged-to-the-terrace-raped-by-stalker/articleshow/78048629.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
September 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Demand surges for training in coconut plucking||Deepthi.Sanjiv Mangaluru: The pandemic induced lockdown had a severe impact on the job market. The nation saw youths returning to agriculture. In a related development, ICAR- Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Dakshina Kannada, has been flooded with requests from rural youths to re-introduce coconut tree climbing programme conducted in 2013-14. “These training programmes have been successful and the youth have been requesting for them. This has encouraged us to write to the Coconut Development Board (CBD), Bengaluru, to sponsor training programmes,” Rashmi R, scientist, horticulture, ICAR- KVK told TOI. ‘Friends of coconut tree’ training programme was conducted almost six years ago. Out of 200 rural youths trained more than 25 of them including Anush from Surathkal, K. Vittala Gowda from Sullia, M Vishwanatha, Ramesh from Belthangady and Dinesh from Bantwal are earning up to Rs 60,000 per month. Anush, for instance, has trained a team of coconut climbers. These climbers with the help of tree climbing machines can climb about 80- 100 trees per day and charge between Rs 30-Rs 45 per tree. Rashmi said it took some time to study the impact of the training programme. CDB sponsors six-day training across the state. The programme was initiated by Hanumantappa H, the then programme coordinator and TJ Ramesha, senior scientist and head, ICAR- KVK. “The objective of the programme is to develop a professional group of youths for harvesting and plant protection operations in coconut and to tackle the problem of unavailability of coconut tree climbers,” Rashmi said. “ About 30% of the seats are reserved for women. Each participant during the training gets Rs 150 per day as stipend and a coconut tree climbing machine worth Rs 2,100 for free. On completion of the training, participants are also given an insurance cover of Rs 1 lakh,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/demand-surges-for-training-in-coconut-plucking/articleshow/78045897.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||Ram Van Gaman Circuit: AU, PWD split over Arts boundary||Prayagraj: Amid resentment over reports that a wall on campus might have to be demolished as it is obstructing the construction of the Ram Van Gaman Path Circuit, officials of public works department and Allahabad University (AU) would jointly inspect the stretch on Friday to figure out an amicable solution. According to a letter from PWD to AU on August 13, the district administration wants to shift a part of the boundary of Arts campus as it is hindering the construction of the proposed Ram Van Gaman Path Circuit, between Ayodhya, Praygaraj and Chitrkoot. The 102-kilometre stretch — starting from Mohanganj of Pratapgrah and Rajapur of Chitrakoot — would pass via Shringverpur and is a part of the main stretch of the circuit between Ayodhya, Prayagraj and Chitrakoot. It would pass via Shringverpur and is a part of the the tourism circuit. The circuit will be constructed along the mythological route taken by Lord Ram, Sita and Laxman during their exile in Ramayana. The proposed move has become a bone of contention between AU and PWD as the varsity is against losing a part of the campus. Ever since the knowledge about the letter become public, resentment has also been brewing on campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ram-van-gaman-circuit-au-pwd-split-over-arts-boundary/articleshow/78048515.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beats wife for objecting to visit of Covid positive in-laws||AHMEDABAD: A 29-year-old woman from Satellite, Megha Dutt, lodged a complaint at the Women’s police station (West) against her husband, Amit Dutt, his parents Nirmal and Saroj Dutt and his brother and his wife, Sumit and Kailash Dutt, for allegedly harassing her after she objected to them coming to their house because they had tested positive for Covid-19. She also alleged that her in-laws taunted her for not bearing children and pressurized her to divorce her husband so he could marry again. The complainant stated that she married Amit Dutt in December 2015 and they used to live in a joint family at Chandlodia. According to the FIR, soon after the weddin, her in-laws started to quarrel with her over petty issues and also demanded a dowry from her parents. “She alleged that at the instruction of her in-laws, her husband used to beat her up and she had twice gone back to her parents because of this. She returned to salvage their marriage,” added a police official. According to the FIR, they later struck a compromise and went to live in a separate house in Ghatlodia. The complaint states that this July, Saroj and Sumit tested positive for Covid-19. “The complaint states that as the complainant refused to bring them home for fear of getting infected, her husband got angry with her and taunted her about not bearing children and said she ought to be driven out of the house.” The complaint also states that her husband demanded a divorce and threatened to kill her parents if she didn’t sign the divorce papers. “We are verifying the details stated mentioned in the complaint and are gathering evidence, based on which we will summon the accused,” said a police officer of the Women’s police station (West).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-wife-for-objecting-to-visit-of-covid-ve-in-laws/articleshow/78047349.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Thief involved in several inter-state burglaries nabbed||Chandigarh: Haryana police have nabbed a notorious thief involved in many cases of robbery and house break-ins at Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. A country-made pistol and two cartridges were also recovered from him. A spokesperson of the Haryana police said the crime branch arrested him on a tip-off about his presence near Tau Devi Lal Stadium. The accused has been identified as Parminder Singh alias Kirori, a resident of Bhangarh village in Bhiwani. He is a member of the Satpal Fauji gang, which is involved in major robberies and house break-ins. Rajasthan Police had been conducting raids for his arrest. During preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed to have looted gold and cash in more than 40 robberies and house break-ins in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. The accused, along with his accomplices, used to scour big towns and conduct robberies in locked up residences. He had already been sentenced to imprisonment for eight months in a theft case. In February 2020, he, along with other associates, committed two house break-ins at Jaipur and Rajasthan, stealing cash and gold worth about Rs 12 lakh. In July, the accused stole gold worth about Rs 55 lakh in Pali, Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thief-involved-in-several-inter-state-burglaries-nabbed/articleshow/78048594.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||Kangana Ranaut brave, has support of seers, says ABAP||PRAYAGRAJ: Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut has won the support of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) — the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders in the country — in her showdown with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri on Thursday described Kangana Ranaut as a brave and courageous daughter of the nation who has busted the racket of drug mafia and Bollywood. “The fearless voice of the actress against the domination of a particular community in Bollywood and drug mafia has caused ripples. This has scared the drug mafia while the state government is feeling threatened of being uprooted,” said Giri. This is the reason why the Uddhav Thackeray government is in fear and has demolished Kangana Ranaut’s office to suppress her voice, he added. “The Maharashtra High Court has given relief to Kangana by ordering a stay on demolition. The bravery with which she has faced the drug and Bollywood mafia in Sushant Singh murder case, has made many people angry and they are targeting her,” said Giri. All the saints and countrymen are with Kangana in this battle, he further said while thanking Himachal Pradesh and Union government for providing a security cover to the actress. “The law and order situation in Maharashtra is very bad. The Maharashtra government has not taken any action in the case of mob lynching of two saints in Palghar. The Akhara Parishad demanded a CBI inquiry in the Palghar case, but the state government has failed to act,” he added. ABAP also condemned the fraudulent withdrawal of money from the account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The ABAP president demanded stern action against the culprits. He said the incident must be investigated properly and any link of bank employees should also be probed. The trust general secretary Champat Rai would definitely take concrete action in this matter, Giri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kangana-brave-has-support-of-seers-says-abap/articleshow/78048530.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University declares results of PhD entrance, interviews next week||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University declared the PhD entrance test results on Wednesday for admission to its 452 PhD seats. The university will conduct interviews of candidates who have cleared the entrance test next week onwards. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the university has given both online and offline option for interview to candidates. The PhD entrance test could not be held in March as scheduled due to the announcement of complete lockdown. It was held on September 1 in which around 2,000 candidates appeared. “Candidates can either give the interview via video conferencing or by visiting the campus,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. The final merit list of candidates will be declared once interviews are conducted. According to the University Grants Commission, the entrance test accounts for weightage of 70% while the remaining 30% is on performance in the interview or oral presentation. “We will have a meeting to finalize how these 30 marks will be awarded. It’s likely that 15 marks will be for the oral presentations of the research topic while 15 will be for the interview,” Rai added. The university will update the detailed interview schedule on its website shortly. No personal interview letter would be sent to any candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-declares-results-of-phd-entrance-interviews-next-wk/articleshow/78049343.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Car sales recover, two-wheeler registrations still down 46%||AHMEDABAD: After the lockdown, car sales finally reached pre-Covid levels in August, however demand for two-wheelers continues to remain low. According to data from the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Associations (FADA), registrations of two-wheelers declined by 46% from 85,284 in August 2019 to 46,486 in August this year. Industry insiders say liquidity issues and closed colleges are the major reasons for low uptake in the two-wheeler segment. Pranav Shah, the Gujarat FADA chairman, said, “As colleges have not opened, students who usually buy two-wheelers at this time of the year have not made purchases. The exodus of migrant workers, who also buy two-wheelers, has meant that they haven’t made purchases either. Other two-wheeler buyers are in financial stress with income shortfall and job and pay cuts forcing them to defer purchases.” “Finance companies have also tightened lending norms, due to which customers who want to buy two-wheelers on loans are unable to do so,” Shah added. Industry estimates suggest that 50% of two-wheeler buyers are opting for financing. On the other hand, the car market has been performing well. FADA data suggests some 16,821 cars were registered in August 2020, a 2.4% decline against 17,232 last year. “Demand is good in the entry-level segment and we are witnessing more traction from first-time buyers. Auto companies however, haven’t resumed full production and there is a waiting period for several models,” said Rajnish Arora, CEO of a car dealership in Ahmedabad. The worst affected is demand for three-wheelers and commercial vehicles. Three-wheeler registrations have declined by 91% and that of commercial vehicles was down by 61% in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-sales-recover-two-wheeler-registrations-still-down-46/articleshow/78047350.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Gender test racket busted, 2 held, cop among 5 booked||Ambala: In a joint operation, health department teams from Ambala and Kurukshetra districts have busted a sex determination racket reportedly based in Sangrur district of Punjab and arrested two persons in this connection. The accused have been handed over to Ambala police. A complaint was lodged by Ambala deputy civil surgeon and PNDT (pre-natal diagnostic techniques) in-charge Dr Balwinder Kaur against five accused, including a lady constable of the Punjab Police, at Ambala Sadar police station on Thursday morning over the matter. Based on the complaint, a case was filed against the accused under the provisions of Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of misuse) Act and the Indian Penal Code. Ambala Sadar SHO sub-inspector (SI) Suresh said, “Two persons were nabbed by the Ambala and Kurukshetra health officials for running a sex determination centre in Sangrur. Arrested accused have been identified as Jasdev Singh of Mehtabgarh in Julkan of Patiala district and Sunita Rani of New Lakshmi Nagar, Jandali, Ambala City.” Both Jasdev and Sunita were presented in the Ambala court on Thursday, which sent them to a day’s police remand, he said. Dr Balwinder told the police, “On Wednesday, on a tipoff by Kurukshetra civil surgeon, a joint team of Ambala and Kurukshetra was formed to trace the sex determination center. A decoy pregnant lady of Kurukshetra district was arranged for the task and a deal was fixed with the tout of the centre for Rs 45,000. She was taken to the centre where she was told that she has a female child in her womb. The team immediately nabbed the two accused Jasdev Singh and Sunita, to whom the decoy had given the money for the test. The decoy said she was taken to Sangrur district for the test by Jasdev’s son Taranjit and his wife Pradeep Kaur. They took her to a man whom they called a doctor. He performed the sex determination test on the woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gender-test-racket-busted-2-held-cop-among-5-booked/articleshow/78048595.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Three arrested for raping minor girl in US Nagar||Rudrapur: The Kashipur police on Thursday arrested three persons on the charges of raping a 15-year-old girl. The accused identified as Satyendra and his friends — Sonu Singh and Mukul Kumar — are all in their twenties and are residents of Gopipura village. They have been charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to Kashipur’s senior-sub inspector (SSI) SC Kapdi, the father of the victim in his complaint has stated that on Monday evening Satyendra lured his minor daughter and took him to a jungle. The accused gave her a spiked drink and sexually assaulted her and later called his friends who also raped the girl. The victim managed to reach home around midnight and narrated the ordeal to her parents. The victim told the police that the accused threatened to kill her if she opened her mouth. "After the girl's medical examination was performed, we have arrested the three accused and we are now collecting evidence against them,” said SSI Kapdi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78045924.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Zoo to open on Sundays too, but with entry curbs for kids||LUCKNOW: There’s double delight for zoo lovers as the zoological garden will now remain open on Sundays from September 13. The toy train will also resume operations. The disappointing news, however, is that restriction on entry of children below 10 years and elderly above 85 years. After a gap of about six months, the zoo will now open from Tuesday to Sunday, with closure on Monday every week as it was in the pre-lockdown period. The decision was taken after the state government lifted weekend curbs, which were implemented in view of the pandemic. Zoo officials said saftey protocols and restrictions on the number of visitors will continue to keep a check on Covid-19 cases. “Only 14 visitors will be allowed to sit in the train at a time. Adults above 65 years of age and children below 10 years will not be allowed,” they said. For contactless payment, tickets will be available online on the zoo’s official website. Entry will be allowed in batches. Only 500 visitors will be allowed to enter in one batch. The first batch will be allowed from 8.30am to 10.30am, the second batch from 11:30am to 1:30pm and third from 3pm to 5pm. All the visitors will be thermal scanned at the gate and allowed entry only if found body temperatures are normal. Masks will be mandatory and people will also have to use the footwash and handwash equipment, as well as hand sanitiser kept at the entry gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zoo-to-open-on-sundays-too-but-with-entry-curbs-for-kids/articleshow/78049365.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||Rs 10 lakh worth grains sold off, three booked||Vadodara: Three persons were booked under the Prevention of Black Marketing & Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act and for cheating and forgery as they were found selling government wheat stock in the open market. The local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police had seized 1,067 sacks of wheat in July from a flour mill in Waghodiya under the suspicion that the grain stock had belonged to the government and was being sold in the open market illegally. After the seizure, the LCB sleuths informed the civil supplies department of the district administration about it and conducted its own investigation. During probe it came to light that 1,067 sacks worth Rs 9.8 lakh was part of government stock to the flour mill in Waghodiya. “When we seized the stock, the truck drivers produced bills of different grain trading firms operating in Alirajpur in MP and at Anklav in Anand district. But on checking at the addresses, we found out that no such firms existed and everything was bogus,” said a police official. Based on the report an offence was registered on Wednesday. The trio are — Pradeep alias Pappu Jaiswal from Chhota Udepur, Laxman Solanki, of Anklav, and Sameer Shah, of Khodiyarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rs-10-lakh-worth-grains-sold-off-three-booked/articleshow/78045369.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Surat||Diamond artisans’ leader in Surat ends life||SURAT: Body of president of Surat Ratnakalakar Vikas Sangh (SRVS), Jaysukh Gajera, 53, was found on the banks of river Tapi near Kathore village on Thursday morning. Gajera had gone missing since Wednesday evening and his family members, who were searching for him could trace his motorcycle to the bridge over Tapi and alerted the police. They said that extreme financial crisis pushed Gajera to take the drastic step. The body was found from behind Lokhat Hospital at around 10 am after cops started searching for him at around 11.30 pm on Wednesday following the recovery of his motorcycle and sandals on Amboli Bridge, over Tapi on National Highway 48. Ironically, Gajera’s suicide coincides the World Suicide Prevention Day on Thursday. About 13 jobless diamond workers have committed suicide since the start of the lockdown in March. Meanwhile, police registered a case of accidental death and have started an investigation. “There is no allegation against anyone by the family members,” said a police officer at Kamrej police station. Manubhai, 60, elder brother of Gajera, told the police that his brother was upset due to the financial crisis as was informed to him by Rakesh Bhadyadra, a friend of the deceased in Nadiad. However, people in the know claim that the financial crisis cannot be the reason behind Gajera’s suicide. Gajera is survived by his wife, a son studying in Class XII, and a daughter in Class V who live at a rented flat in Shravan Apartment in Varachha’s Yogi Chowk. President of Shravan Apartment, Ramesh Patel, however, said, “I don’t believe Gajera was facing financial problems. Our building is constructed by his close friend and he was not required to pay any rent for his flat.” “I talked with Gajera and Babu Vekariya in a conference call at around 8.17 pm on Wednesday. Gajera was upset and offered to step down from the post. Since I was out of the station I told him that we will discuss it once I return to the city,” said Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council. Founded by Gajera around 10 years ago, SRVS lends its voice to the issues of diamond artisans. So far, he helped about 30,000 jobless diamond workers get jobs and compensation in the industry. Even during the lockdown, Gajera distributed ration kits, helped workers reach natives in private vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-artisans-leader-in-surat-ends-life/articleshow/78045642.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Street children high on drugs need swift rehabilitation in pandemic time: Experts||Lucknow: In the second month of the lockdown, three minors barely in their teens fled from a quarantine centre in search of intoxicants after seized with severe drug withdrawal symptoms. Rescued from a city street at the height of the pandemic, the trio was nabbed within 24 hours and sent to a government-run children’s home. Four months later, one of the boys who hailed from Lakhimpur Kheri, again slipped out and was later rescued from Chowk with a critical head injury after he was assaulted for stealing Rs 15 to buy tyre repair glue, which he sniffed for a kick. Early Tuesday, three teenage boys were rescued from under a flyover near Kotla Chungi Chouraha of Firozabad when they were inhaling intoxicants. After interning them at a children’s home for a day, the trio was handed over to their relatives. Child activists, however, say the kids will again scour for drugs and a de-addiction or a rehab centre could have been a better option. “A minor from a poor family with no parents or careless guardians, often turns to drugs to ease the pain of alienation, hunger and insult. One of the minor boys rescued from Firozabad had alcoholic father and his mother had committed suicide. He found solace in his peer group on the street and would inhale tyre puncture glue or gulp cough suppressants for a high. Children like him need love, but also rehabilitation. Phycologists can counsel and engage the kids in activities to help them recover from trauma,” said Zafar Alam, a Firozabad-based child rights activist. “We have rescued scores of drug-addict minors at Mathura railway station and in Firozabad city alone, we have rescued 15,” he said. Sangeeta Sharma, member, child welfare committee, Lucknow, said, “Thirteen minors, including a three-year-old were rescued last year in Lucknow. While most of them were inhaling intoxicants, few were forced into drugs by parents or acquaintances. They are poor and spend most of their time on streets. These vulnerable children can easily get infected with Covid and spread the virus. A rehabilitation centre is the need of hour. Most importantly, we must guard against relapse. Many times, these kids return to the street and get hooked to drugs again.” Speaking to TOI, Brijendra Singh Rajan, additional chief probation officer, state directorate of women and child development department, said, “We have five shelter homes for physically and mentally challenged children, but none for kids addicted to drugs. Also, we don't have a specific category for these kids.” Other activists have a different opinion and prefer to snuff out the source of drug. “Rehabilitation centres are a superficial, simplified solution for kids addicted to drugs. The society and government machinery needs to target the origin of drugs and eliminate easy its availability,” said Sachi Singh, a city-based social worker. On December 14, 2016, a Supreme Court bench had stated in its judgment on a writ petition filed by Bachpan Bachao Andolan that “there’s a need for availability of specialized treatment of children using drug substances”. “Detoxification should be available at government-run de-addiction centres with rehabilitation in NGO/community setting. Rehabilitation efforts should focus on skill building and vocational training,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/street-children-high-on-drugs-need-swift-rehabilitation-in-pandemic-time-experts/articleshow/78049383.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 11, 2020||Mysuru||Muda acquires land in Sathagally for Rs 15 cr||Mysuru: The Mysuru Urban Development Authority on Thursday acquired 3 acres and 27 guntas of land under the limits of Sathagally located on the outskirts of city after paying Rs 15 crore compensation to land owners. As this land was in prime location and hindering the layout development process, the civic agency acquired it after reaching a mutual agreement with the land owners for the proposed layout development. Muda officials carried out the acquisition process as per instructions from their commissioner D B Natesh. Clears encrochment, recovers property In another development, Muda officials also cleared encroachment of its three plots measuring 40x60 on Paduvana road in Kuvempunagar on Tuesday. The plots had been encroached by private persons after constructing a shed and compound. The total market value of all the three plots worth Rs 1 crore, according to a release. On Wednesday, Muda officials demolished illegal structures in its property worth Rs 2 crore at Bannimantap. According to Muda commissioner D B Natesh, illegal structures were constructed at its property in Bannimantap B Layout in the city. The miscreants had occupied the place by forging property documents to run a truck transport office.  Muda authorities had issued a notice on Monday. A team led by zonal officer Narendra Babu, assistant engineer Mani and police took up the drive and demolished the illegal structures using earth movers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-acquires-land-in-sathagally-for-rs-15-cr/articleshow/78045941.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Rev Act to simplify mutation, property tax assessment||Hyderabad: The revenue reforms will not only save property owners the trouble of running around for mutation (transfer of ownership), but also simplify the process of property tax assessment for those living within the GHMC limits. Earlier, while the mutation fee was collected at the sub-registrar’s office during property registration, the buyer had to visit the GHMC’s citizen service centre — along with a demand draft, latest encumbrance certificate, affidavits, link documents of property etc — to complete the process. This was followed by a field visit for verification, post which the mutation certificate was issued, if all criteria were met. With the new rule, this entire process will be completed right at the time of property registration. The buyer will be handed over the mutation certificate the same day, on submission of a demand draft in favour of GHMC commissioner towards mutation fee — 0.1% of market value of the property. “This is a welcome move as in this era of e-governance, submitting documents manually is a task. Also, transfer of ownership on the day of registration will reduce chances of corruption,” said A Narshimhan president of Golf View Apartment, Financial District who said that delay in ownership transfer has caused several issues in their housing society in the past. Another benefit of the revenue reform: Self-assessment of property tax. Once rolled out, the new norms will weed out the traditional method of assessment where GHMC tax inspectors and bill collectors manually measured every property. Instead, owners will assess the tax themselves and submit it accordingly. To keep a check on this process, a penalty system will be put in place by the civic body. “If the property is under-assessed by the owner or false plot measurements including plinth area are furnished, heavy penalty as per the Municipal Act will be levied,” said a GHMC official. As per the Act, the penalty for false submission of details, to under-assess the property tax, is 25 times the actual property tax . So, for instance, if the actual property tax sums up to Rs 10,000 and the owner furnishes a false property tax assessment report, he/she will need to pay Rs 2.5 lakh in penalty, if found guilty. As on date, the penalty clause is not a part of the GHMC act and only applies to properties outside its limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rev-act-to-simplify-mutation-property-tax-assessment/articleshow/78047388.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt schools decline flat fee-cut plan||Ahmedabad: The private schools’ federation on Thursday told the Gujarat high court that the state government’s formula of flat 25% cut in fees is not acceptable to them and asserted that it has its own scheme to grant concession to parents whose income is affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The schools filed a reply in response to the state government’s application seeking HC directions. The government told the court its negotiations with private schools had failed twice, as the schools refused to reduce fees by 25%. To this, the federation has submitted that the private schools have already accepted reduction in fees, when they decided not to hike fees for the current academic year and will continue with the fee structures of last year. Though the Fee Regulatory Committee has granted a hike in fees for the current year, the schools have waived off the rise. On the other hand, none of the medical and dental colleges reduced fees or stopped charging them, though there is no imparting of education till date. The private schools have been working from day one of the lockdown. The schools have also reiterated that they should be permitted to go on with their Covid financial aid scheme on case to case basis by applying their parameters. Those parents whose income is affected can get concession from 10% to 100% in fees. The formula of 25% flat cut would rather benefit those parents more, who do not deserve it. Moreover, nearly 90% of private schools across the state charge up to Rs 15,000 per year. Such flat reduction will hit them hard. The schools have submitted that there is already less recovery this year due to the state government’s controversial GR banning collection of fees as long as the schools remain shut, and also because there is no new admissions as schools have not opened for pre-primary level. The HC is likely to hear the issue on Friday. The state government moved the HC last month complaining that the schools refused to accept the 25% fee cut formula and they require directions. This was because the HC had on July 31 quashed the GR prohibiting private schools from collecting fees during the time the schools remain physically shut, and ordered the government to come up with a fresh resolution after negotiating with the schools with open mind and open heart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-schools-decline-flat-fee-cut-plan/articleshow/78047408.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teachers exhausted by salary cuts, threat of job loss||Ahmedabad: Students of Class IX of a city-based school were shocked when their Science teacher started screaming during an online class for no reason. After consultation with a psychologist, it was found that the teacher is a victim of depression and anxiety as she was facing financial issues after salary cut and was kept on toes by the school management. The scene was no different for an educator in Bapunagar, who turned into an electrician, after the school where he was teaching offered him half salary (Rs 2,500) during the corona pandemic. Another educator is selling vegetables, along with teaching, to make the ends meet. Shouldering the responsibilities of four senior citizens, an educator in an elite school is braving the salary cut, but eaten by anxiety over fears of job loss if the pandemic goes on. These are not isolated cases. Almost all educators are suffering from anxiety and financial stress as they teach students online with extra efforts and less salary. An educator said, “We have updated ourselves and are working hard to ensure smooth online classes, facing salary cut and the threat of job loss.” Another educator points out, “ I was not tech-savvy, but took a laptop on loan for online classes. I don’t wish to give management any excuse to sack me.” The Private School Teachers Association has till now received 90 applications over salary cuts or job losses. Talking to TOI, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “We have not received a single complaint till date pertaining to job loss or salary cut.” Ahmedabad School Management Association president Amrut Bharwad says, “Many schools have formed teacher's committees to collect fees. This is to ensure transparency between school management and educators as school fees ensure teacher salaries.” Schools may deny, but almost all have imposed salary cuts. Bharat Gajipara, president of Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Federation, says, “It is when students pay the fees, teachers get their salary, and almost 20 per cent of schools have gone for salary cuts. This is also because after the Fee Regulation Committee (FRC) savings of schools have gone down drastically and they have no corpus fund left to pay salaries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-exhausted-by-salary-cuts-threat-of-job-loss/articleshow/78047420.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Judge in Jaipur blast case wants his security cover to continue||JAIPUR: The judge who issued the death sentence to four accused in the Jaipur serial blast case on December 20 last year has said that he and his family was still under threat from terrorist organizations and his security be continued. Four constables and two PSOs guard the judge. The Jaipur serial blast on May 13, 2008 had killed 81 people, while 250 suffered injuries. The sentence of the lower court is yet to be ratified by the high court. Judge Ajay Kumar Sharma, who had retired on January 31, in a letter to DGP Bhupender Singh said the accused had connections with ISIS and its sleeper cells are working as Indian Mujahedeen in the country. He said some of the terrorists involved in the blast are still at large and could target him or his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/judge-in-jaipur-blast-case-wants-his-security-cover-to-continue/articleshow/78048643.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Retired IAS officer under lens in Medak graft case||HYDERABAD: A day after arresting four revenue officials, including an additional collector, in a land deal in Medak district, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) investigators are verifying the role of a retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in the case. While lodging a complaint against Medak additional collector G Nagesh, businessman K Linga Murthy of Serilingampally also gave audio recordings of conversations between him and the officer about the bribe. “In one of the recordings, Nagesh mentioned that he has to give a share of the bribe to someone else (I have to give him also). We suspect that Nagesh was referring to a senior official, but he has not named anyone yet,” an ACB official said. ACB sleuths have also found out that on the day of his retirement at the end of July 2020, the senior official had signed on NOC for the 112 acres of land intended to be purchased by the complainant and sent it to the registration and stamps (R&S) department advising to remove the particular survey numbers of Chippalaturthi village in Narsapur mandal of Medak district from the prohibitory list. On the same day (July 31, 2020), additional collector G Nagesh demanded Rs 1.12 crore bribe from the complainant at the rate of Rs 1 lakh per acre and collected Rs 19.5 lakh as initial instalment. On August 7, Nagesh had obtained Rs 20.5 lakh cash as second instalment of bribe from the complainant. As the complainant expressed his inability to give the remaining Rs 72 lakh in cash due to ongoing pandemic situation, Nagesh asked him to register 10 acres from the land in Chippalaturthi in his benamidar K Jeevan Goud’s name. “As the complainant reasoned with Nagesh saying 10 acres of land with Rs 1.5 crore value is a lot more than what was agreed for, Nagesh allowed the complainant give an agreement of sale for five acres of land in Jeevan Goud’s name on August 21 along with eight signed cheques from the complainant as surety for registration of the same,” an ACB official. Despite collecting Rs 40 lakh cash and five acres of land, the accused had not completed survey and mutation of the property in favour of the complainant, saying it would be done only after registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retired-ias-officer-under-lens-in-medak-graft-case/articleshow/78047414.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||District 148 short of 50k cases, city gets nod for jumbo hospital||Nagpur: Even as Nagpur district logged 2,000 plus cases in a day for the first time since Covid broke out in March, taking it to 148 short of the 50,000 mark, guardian minister Nitin Raut told TOI that all the decks have been cleared for the jumbo hospital to come up at the Mankapur indoor stadium. On Thursday, Twitterati broke out with serious problems they faced while seeking hospitalization and treatment for positive relatives. ‘My father could have been saved if the hospital wanted; took us 2 days to find a bed and ambulance with ICU; after waiting 2 days for ventilator, my relative died; before I could shed a tear for my dead father, the hospital started harassing for money’, were some of the comments made separately to TOI. Raut, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Radhakrishnan B announced measures to curb the rising cases especially in city. The guardian minister, who was in Mumbai, said he plans to hold an “urgent review meeting with administrative officials”. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has sanctioned and allotted funds for the 700-bed jumbo hospital. We will start the hospital on a war footing to solve the problem of shortage of beds,” Raut told TOI. The Rs85-crore jumbo hospital will be privately managed. Doctors, paramedical staff, sanitation workers and other support staff will be provided by the operating agency. As for availability of beds, NMC has set up Covid control rooms in all 10 zones with dedicated officers and special telephone numbers. But, those manning them are not in a position to help as they are unable to direct patients to hospitals with vacant beds. “What can we do,” was a response given by an attendant to TOI’s queries. Saying that the “situation is horrible”, Nitin Raut admitted there is a “shortage of beds and I have taken serious cognisance of this”. Radhakrishnan admitted the crunch in beds is due to spike in cases. “We are taking all necessary measures. We got great results for walk-in interviews of medical staff and we will begin appointing them immediately. For lack of oxygen facility, we have approached the district collector. All problems will be resolved in two days or so,” he said. Gadkari held a meeting with Radhakrishnan and asked him to improve the situation immediately. Serious action will be taken against NMC control room. They should at least take an effort to arrange a bed rather than outrightly refusing. I will lodged a complaint with the CM — Nitin Raut, guardian minister Though there are hundreds of beds available in hospitals, the real problem is shortage of manpower which we are trying to address. We have appealed to the private doctors to come out and provide their services wholeheartedly — Radhakrishnan B, civic chief In case of difficulty in getting beds, call my official Jayant Dixit (9921024700) — Nitin Gadkari, Union min||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-148-short-of-50k-cases-city-gets-nod-for-jumbo-hospital/articleshow/78048708.cms||Manka Behl
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail denied to pastor in Pocso case||Ahmedabad: A special Pocso court on Thursday refused bail to a pastor of a local church, Gulabchand Masih, 39, in connection with charges of molestation and criminal intimidation levelled against him by a 16-year-old. Additional sessions judge Ashok Sharma denied regular bail to Masih with observation that the charges in this case are serious in nature. The accused had stalked the victim girl in person as well as on phone. He had made the victim undress herself during video calls and clicked her photographs. He threatened her. While rejecting Masih’s bail plea, the court also took into consideration the accusations levelled by the victim that the pastor was trying to convert her into Christianity and used foul language to refer to Hindu religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-to-pastor-in-pocso-case/articleshow/78047425.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese gambling racket’s organisers trained victim||Hyderabad: In the investigation into the Chinese online gambling, probed by Central Crime Station, Hyderabad, the police came to know that the organisers of gambling portal, made the victim undergo online training and taught them how to invest money in gambling. Hoping to earn money after attaining training, the gamers end up losing money, due to the alleged manipulation done by gaming organisers. It was a Hyderabad-based man, who brought it to the notice of police. He placed bets while he was in Doha. “I got a link on Telegram. Subsequently, they asked me to join the group (boninwealth) Boninclubs.com. After I joined, they gave me training on how to invest in boninclubs.com. During the training they suggest predictions in colour game,” FIR registered by Santosh Nagar police, said. The victim during his initial two bets earned profits and in his subsequent bet, lost money. In his complaint, he said that he lost Rs 7 lakh. The victim mentioned three different websites, in which he played gambling by placing bets and lost money. Few days ago, Santosh Nagar police filed a petition in Nampally court seeking the custody of Beijing T Power Company South-East Asia head Yah Hao and their two Indian associates. Since the victim’s bank accounts are located in Hyderabad, the Hyderabad police registered a case. Three accused were questioned by CCS officials few days ago after seeking court’s permit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-gambling-rackets-organisers-trained-victim/articleshow/78047422.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM orders vigilance probe into 2 suspended IPS officers’ assets||LUCKNOW: Cracking the whip against corrupt officers, CM Yogi Adityanath on Thursday ordered a vigilance probe into the assets of two suspended IPS officers, Abhishek Dixit and Mani Lal Patidar. An FIR was also lodged against Patidar in Mahoba, where he was working as the police chief till Wednesday. Dixit, who was Prayagraj SSP, was suspended on Tuesday for corruption and failure to control crime while Patidar was suspended on Wednesday for allegedly seeking bribe from the Maoba traders. On Thursday, acting on a complaint from Nitish Pandey, the director of one PP Pandey Infrastructure Private Limited, Mahoba police registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and extortion against Patidar and two other police officers, SHO Charkhari, Rakesh Saroj, and sub-inspector Raju Singh at Kotwali Nagar police station. The firm had earlier alleged that Patidar was seeking bribes when he was Mahoba SP.Both Dixit and Patidar have been attached to the office of the UP's director general of police in Lucknow for the period of their suspension. Dixit is an officer of 2006 batch and currently in Uttar Pradesh on deputation from his parent cadre, Tamil Nadu while Patidar is 2014 batch UP cadre officer. Apart from the vigilance probe, the CM also issued instructions to DGP HC Awasthy to investigate and carry out an independent probe on the role of other cops involved in such cases and also punish them soon. "The CM has directed for a probe by the vigilance establishment into properties of the two IPS officers -- Patidar and Dixit," the official statement issued by the home department on Thursday says. Patidar was suspended hours after a stone crusher dealer, Indrakant Tripathi, was shot at in Mahoba. Prior to that, Tripathi in a viral video said Patidar had been illegally demanding money for running of vehicles, engaged transportation of stone chips and appealed to the CM for action against him. Dixit, suspended on Tuesday, was also accused of not following the instructions of the government and police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-orders-vigilance-probe-into-2-suspended-ips-officers-assets/articleshow/78049410.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Fresh highs for single-day cases, tests in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 4,308 new cases of novel coronavirus infection on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far. The tally breached the 2.05-lakh mark in the city where a record 58,340 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Thursday’s single-day spike surpassed Wednesday’s figure of 4,039 cases, which took the caseload to over two lakh. Wednesday was the first time when the new cases crossed the 4,000 mark. On June 23, the national capital had recorded a single-day spike of 3,947 cases, which was the previous highest single-day spike before Wednesday. Twenty-eight fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,666, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The tally of active cases rose to 25,416, up from 23,773 the previous day, while the total number of cases in the national capital has climbed to 2,05,482, officials said.  Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the last few days. Barring August 31 when over 14,000 tests were conducted and 1,358 fresh cases reported, since Sunday, the daily cases count has been recorded in excess of 2,000. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 9 in that order are: 14,389 (1,358); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) 38,895 (2,973), 36,046 (3,256); 22,954 (2,077); 45,797 (3,609); 54,517 (4,039). The number of tests done per million, as on Thursday, was 1,03,269. The positivity rate on Wednesday stood at 7.38% while the recovery rate was 85.36%, the state health department said, adding that the case fatality rate stood at 2.27%. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 10.47%. Since August 18, cases again have been coming in four-figure count in the city. According to the health department, out of the total 14,228 Covid beds in the city hospitals, 8,453 are vacant. Also, 2,516 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights, it said. According to the bulletin, 1,75,400 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation stands at 13,518. The number of rapid antigen tests conducted on Wednesday stood at 49,336 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests’ figures were 9,004, in all adding to 58,340. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 19,62,120. Health minister Satyendar Jain and Delhi chief secretary held separate meetings to review city’s Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-highs-for-single-day-cases-tests/articleshow/78047446.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: One labourer killed, two injured in accident at construction site||JAIPUR: One labourer was killed and two others injured after they slipped from the terrace of an under-construction house at Sirsi Road area under Karni Vihar police station in the city on Thursday. The accident took place while they were removing the bamboo plates on the terrace.  According to police, the incident took place at 3.30pm when three labourers were removing the temporary plates used to hold the false ceiling of the house on the first floor. Some workers on the ground floor. Soon after the incident, three injured labourers were rushed to a nearby hospital. “After we were alerted about the incident, we took them to the hospital. One of the deceased, identified as Dharmendra (30) and a native of Bihar, was declared brought dead by the hospital. Two others, who suffered injuries after falling down, have been identified as Rajkumar (24) and Lokendra (28),” said a senior police officer. Police said that none of the workers were wearing helmets and had safety gadgets. “We will question the contractor,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-labourer-killed-two-injured-in-accident-at-construction-site/articleshow/78048658.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal dists to get mega seafood parks||Mangaluru: As Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) on Thursday, the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC) is hoping to set up mega seafood parks in three coastal districts of Karnataka under the scheme. PMMSY aims to bring about blue revolution through sustainable and responsible development of the fisheries sector. Assuring that the project will revolutionise the sector, fisheries minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said seafood parks will be one part of the PMMSY and a detailed project report will soon be prepared. KFDC has been looking for land close to the airport and port for the pet project of the fisheries minister. For Dakshina Kannada, land has been identified at Moodabidri, but the department is also looking at other options in Puttur and Mangaluru. The park is expected to come up in Gangolli of Udupi district. Officers in Uttara Kannada have been asked to identify land near Karwar, said KFDC managing director ML Doddamani. Speaking to TOI, KFDC assistant executive engineer Amarnath Jain said, “The purpose of setting up the seafood park is to encourage exports, especially to the European Union. It will give a big boost to entrepreneurs who are into fish processing, production of value-added goods, cold storage, packaging and related activities. The plan is to provide A to Z facilities for the entrepreneurs and include all aspects of fish export.” The fish production in India has registered an average annual growth of 7.5% during the last five years and stood at an all-time high of 137.5 lakh metric tons in 2018-19. The export of marine products stood at 13.9 lakh metric tons and valued at Rs 46,589 crores in 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-dists-to-get-mega-seafood-parks/articleshow/78045993.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,461 clear GPSC prelims||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) has announced the provisional results for the competitive (preliminary) exam conducted by the commission on October 13, 2019 in which 2,461 candidates have qualified. The results are in accordance with the recent HC order on reservation of the candidates. Those who have qualified will now have to take the main written exam scheduled to be conducted on January 24 and January 31 next year at Ahmedabad or Gandhinagar centre. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2461-clear-gpsc-prelims/articleshow/78047429.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Madurai||Voice for arrest of officials gets stronger||Madurai/Trichy: The farmer community has charged that unless the officials of the agricultural department were hand-in-glove with the fraudsters, more than five lakh ineligible beneficiaries could not have been added to the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu. They have demanded stringent action, including criminal prosecution, against the officials involved in the scam. Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association president P Ayyakannu has demanded arrest of all the officials involved in the scam. Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association president N Palanichamy said when genuine farmers were struggling to collect Rs 16,000 crore dues from sugar mills, people faking as farmers were swindling government money with ease. He disputed the contention that ineligible beneficiaries could have been added to the scheme only during the lockdown period. The entire list of beneficiaries, starting from the beginning of the scheme in December, 2018, should be scrutinised to weed out people swindling public money, he said.  Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore has demanded a CBI inquiry into the scam to detect similar frauds across the country. V Ilayaraja of Sunambur village in Keeranur panchayat in Madurai district said he had sent petitions to the chief minister’s cell and vigilance department. Suspicion arose when a lady agriculture officer, who visited the village for verification of applications a few weeks ago, found it difficult to locate the applicants’ addresses. “We offered to help the officer and in the process we found that there was something fishy about the whole process. We found 167 ineligible people from three nearby villages had applied for the cash assistance,” he said. Most of them have received two instalments, he said. His own family, despite being a small farmer family, did not apply for the dole as his brother is a policeman. Ilayaraja has named an agriculture department official in his petitions for his active role in the scam. A key link in the scam, Ayyappankumar of the same village, is already involved in a financial fraud. He was booked for swindling Rs 45 lakh from Thiruvathavur branch of IOB by creating fake accounts of sugarcane farmers. Many influential local politicians were involved in the scam, said Trichy district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Ayilai Sivasuriyan. If agriculture department officials had done proper verification of the applications, ineligible applications could have been weeded out, said N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam. While every financial transaction of people is linked to PAN, Aadhaar and mobile number, land survey numbers have not yet been linked. Once it is done, such frauds would not happen, he said. Meanwhile, owner of yet another browsing centre in Salem district was arrested by the CB CID sleuths on Wednesday night for facilitating many ineligible people avail of PM Kisan Scheme benefits. In all, about 20 people have been arrested so far across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voice-for-arrest-of-officials-gets-stronger/articleshow/78049414.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||124 out of 2,940 tested found infected||Vadodara: Despite a significant rise in the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the city and district since Wednesday night, the number of new cases detected in the city went down marginally. Out of 2,940 tests conducted in the city and district, 124 persons were found positive. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district went up to 9,295. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more Covid-19 deaths taking the total number of deaths up to 157 excluding those Covid-19 positive persons who may have died due to comorbidities or other diseases. The healthy discharge rate of patients also continued with 166 persons being discharged from hospitals or home isolation. The fresh round of discharges took the total number of discharged patients to 7,800. As many as 1,338 persons remain hospitalised or in self isolation after being found Covid-19 positive. These include 57 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 147 persons breathing with the aid of oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/124-out-of-2940-tested-found-infected/articleshow/78045393.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Cuckoo from Mongolia, which set a migration record, returns to Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Battling high winds, a record-setting common cuckoo, fitted with transmitters by scientists in Khurkh Bird Ringing Station in northern Mongolia in June 2019, reached close to Jaipur city on Thursday, a second time. Called ‘Onon’ after a Mongolian river, this pigeon-sized adult common cuckoo has come to Rajasthan a second time, covering a distance of 5,426km after crossing the borders of three countries, namely Mongolia, China and Myanmar. Experts claim that the male cuckoo reached Bhagalpur in Bihar on September 3. On Thursday morning, the location of the bird was recorded 160km (aerial distance) away from the state capital. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra said, “As per the GPS coordinates, the bird has been found in the southeast direction of Jaipur near Kaila Devi Sanctuary. The bird has flown to Rajasthan for the second time. Observing, the pattern last year, the bird was expected to come to Jhalana in Jaipur as it has been following the same route in Rajasthan.” The bird is expected to stay in India till the end of September before it embarks on the final lap of its migration to Africa, where it will spend the winter. Last year, one oriental cuckoo and four common cuckoos, fitted with transmitters from the Mongolian centre, were spotted here. Experts claimed that the cuckoos, which went to Gujrat and flew over Arabian Sea to Africa, did not return this year. However, Onon crossed Rajasthan to Pakistan and then flew to Ethiopia. During its first flight, this cuckoo had set a record by completing the longest migration by a land bird. Onon crossed 16 countries in its “mammoth first journey”, covering a total of 26,000km, before it reached Mongolia on May 27 , 2020. On July 13, 2020, the cuckoo started its second journey once again after breeding at Mongolia for nearly six weeks. ‘It’s one of the best data sharing projects’Sumit Dookia, an assistant professor at the University School of Environment Management, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi, said that the birds are tagged under the Mongolia Cuckoo Project, which is a collaboration between the Wildlife Science and Conservation Centre in Mongolia, the British Trust for Ornithology and Birding, Beijing, and supported by the Oriental Bird Club. “It’s one of the best data sharing projects. Following the migration pattern, we can learn the cuckoo has flapped to Rajasthan for consecutive years. Collecting scientific data and tracking the migration path of the bird, we can learn more about their journeys. This would be helpful for better conservation of habitat in the state".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cuckoo-from-mongolia-which-set-a-migration-record-returns-to-state/articleshow/78048661.cms||Ajay Singh
September 11, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh may stay back in RJD after Lalu Prasad’s letter||PATNA: Senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who earlier on Thursday indicated his exit from the party that he helped Lalu Prasad found more than three decades ago, is most likely to reverse his stand following a letter from RJD chief Lalu Prasad, currently serving a prison term in Ranchi. Earlier in the day, Raghuvansh in a hand-written letter in Hindi addressed to Lalu, stated, “I stood by you (Lalu) for 32 years ever since the death of Karpoori Thakur, but now no more”. The RJD veteran, who is currently undergoing post-Covid treatment at AIIMS-Delhi, added, “I got immense affection from the party’s leaders and workers as well as the common people, but please forgive me.” Hours later, Lalu, too, issued a similar hand-written letter in Hindi addressed to Raghuvansh, saying, he would not allow his old friend to go. “A letter, purportedly written by you (Raghuvansh), is being circulated in the media. I do not believe it is by you. For now, I, my family and the RJD family nurtured by us, want to see you recover soon and be amidst us,” read the letter signed by Lalu and bearing the stamp of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda central jail’s superintendent. A close confidant of the senior RJD leader told TOI, “He is most likely to reverse his stand after the letter from Lalu Ji. He will officially clear his stand to the media in a day or two.” In his letter, Lalu further stated, “For the past four decades, we have sat together and discussed every political, social and even family issues. You first recover and then we will sit and talk. You are not going anywhere. Please bear that in mind,” Though Raghuvansh didn’t mention in his letter the reason behind his decision, sources said he was disappointed as nobody from the party took care to be with him when he was admitted to AIIMS-Delhi. The sources added that CM Nitish Kumar facilitated his travel from Patna to New Delhi during the lockdown and also enquired about his health from time to time. “He was feeling neglected in RJD. He had no role to play in the organisational setup nor was being consulted by top leaders like Tejashwi Yadav on issues such as induction of new leaders in the party. Even state president Jagadanand Singh was not on good terms with him after the former raised questions over the latter’s style of functioning,” a senior RJD leader said on condition of anonymity. Earlier in June this year, Raghuvansh had resigned as the party’s national vice-president while undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-Patna. One of the reasons attributed for his decision was the likely entry of LJP MP from Vaishali and muscleman Ram Kishore Singh, alias, Rama Singh into the party. However, his resignation was not accepted by party chief Lalu Prasad and Rama Singh’s induction event into the RJD was put on hold. Tejashwi had also tried to persuade him and even met Raghuvansh at AIIMS-Delhi a fortnight ago. “He was against the entry of Rama Singh and is also not happy with Jagdanand Singh being given more responsibilities. Both belong to the Rajput community. While Lalu Ji knew how to handle both, Tejashwi is more inclined towards Jagdanand and Raghuvansh babu felt ignored,” said another senior RJD leader. However, the ruling JDU welcomed Raghuvansh’s decision. Asked if JD(U) will welcome Raghuvansh, JD(U)’s secretary-general and national spokesperson KC Tyagi said, “He is such a renowned and respectful leader and we will welcome his decision. Raghuvansh babu was the leader of United Janta Dal and one of its founding members. He belongs to all of us and not the RJD.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-may-stay-back-in-rjd-after-lalus-letter/articleshow/78045673.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 11, 2020||Patna||PM Narendra Modi lays foundation for Rs 295-crore projects in Bihar||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi showcased the NDA’s bid to retain power in Bihar on Friday by launching from Delhi a Rs 20,050 crore countrywide fisheries project ‘PM Matsya Samapada Yojana’ (MSY), which will also benefit Bihar. The PM began his speech in Bhojpuri saying that the wellbeing of farmers of Bihar and augmentation of the village wealth were high on the agenda of his government. Endorsing CM Nitish’s leadership, PM Modi said, “Under CM Nitish Kumar’s leadership praiseworthy work has been done in the state,” adding, that 1.5 crore families had been provided with piped safe drinking water in the state. At the event, Modi inaugurated several completed projects in the state while laying the foundation for new projects altogether amounting to Rs 294.53 crore. It included a frozen semen plant at Purnia that would cater to the dairy farmers of both Bihar and the northeastern states. “The money earmarked for PMMSY would be spent over the next five years to create infrastructural support for scientific fish farming using right technology across the country,” the PM said. The PM further said that Rs 1,700 crore has been released on Friday for the implementation of the MSY. He added, “The aim is to augment fish production by 70 lakh tonne by tapping sea and river water fishing, including of the ornamental variety of fish, to make the country’s presence felt in the burgeoning export market.” He also launched the e-gopala app for milk producers, who can get information on milch cattle, milk production and markets among others. While the Thursday’s event was the start of five such functions to be addressed by the PM on September 13, 15, 18, 21 and 23 to unveil his development agenda before the Election Commission announces the poll schedule, the PM stayed away from political rhetoric. Earlier, Union animal husbandry minister Giriraj Singh, in his welcome address, said that under PM Modi’s leadership, 24,000 hectares of new ponds, including 1,000 hectares in Bihar, had been constructed. The PM further said that the binding drive of the MSY is “Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan, Jai Anusandhan”, and dwelt at length on the use of scientific fish farming, dairy activities and agricultural practises by the farmers to double their income. He quizzed four farmers from the state – a woman dairy farmer Monica Bharti (Purnia), a fish farmer Jyoti Mandal (Madhepura), a dairy farmer Brajesh Kumar (Begusarai) and Raju (Patna) – and made them narrate personal accounts of their struggles and success stories, and also their understanding of the potential expansion of their ventures. “The MSY will help villages grow into ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in the 21st century. It will be dependent on ever-expanding blue revolution (fish farming), white revolution (milk production and dairy sector) and also sweet revolution (honey production),” the PM said, adding that merely Rs 3,086 crore had been spent in the fisheries sector after Independence. The PM praised the people of the state for braving the difficult situation caused by the flood and coronavirus pandemic. “Despite the twin problems, farmers in the villages maintained their crop and milk productions. Record milk production was made and foodgrain production also increased in the country,” the PM also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-focuses-on-bihar-as-he-launches-msy-project/articleshow/78045646.cms||Abhay Singh
September 11, 2020||Surat||Four from UP held for daylight armed robbery at jewellery shop in Bharuch||Surat: The Bharuch police on Thursday arrested four persons involved in the sensational daylight robbery that took place on September 7 at a jewellery shop located in Panch Batti in Bharuch town. According to the police, the robbers hail from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh and were residing in Surat. Ashish Pandey, who planned the robbery, is a textile engineer and working in a textile unit located in Surat’s Udhana area. Bharuch police have recovered the entire stolen booty of 27 gold chains worth Rs 27.46 lakh, five mobile phones worth Rs 25,000 and a wrist watch worth Rs 1,000 from the robbers. Four robbers, who had come on two motorcycles, had targeted Ambica Jewellers located at Navdeep complex. Two of them entered the shop posing as customer and then looted gold chains branding a pistol. Nikhil Soni, owner of Ambica Jewellers was shot at in the abdomen.In the ensuing melee, Mahesh Soni, owner of the adjacent jewellery shop rushed to save Nikhil and the robbers fired at him as well, injuring his finger. Police stated that the accused were identified as Ashish Ramdev Pandey, Ajaykumar Pandey, Suraj Yadav and Rinku Yadav—all resident of Sachin in Surat and hailing from Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh. Police said that after the robbery the accused drove in different directions towards Palej and Dahej in Bharuch. Two robbers then boarded the Avadh Express from Surat railway station and that the other two boarded bus towards UP’s Jaunpur. The railway police team at Ankleshwar railway station was alerted and that the robbers were arrested from the train and the other two were nabbed from the transport bus in Surat itself.SP Bharuch, Rajendrasinh Chudasama said, “The robbers are closely acquainted and three of them are involved in the crimes including illegal weapon trading, chain snatching in Jaunpur district in UP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-from-up-held-for-daylight-armed-robbery-at-jewellery-shop-in-bharuch/articleshow/78045699.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Agra||After 143 yrs, AMU to put away second cache of history in ‘time capsule’||AGRA: Reliving a moment in history from 143 years ago and preserving one for posterity, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) will bury a time capsule on its campus to mark its centenary celebrations in December this year. The first had been placed in 1877, to mark the foundation day of Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, which later became AMU in 1920. “It will be a grade 410 (corrosion-resistant) stainless steel container, coated with PVC. These containers have a life of more than 300 years. It may be filled with an inert gas so there is no chemical reaction inside. The documents placed inside will be on acid-free paper, placed on a polythene sheet,” said Prof MK Pundhir from the department of history at the university. Pundhir is among six members of a committee set up by vice chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor to decide what goes into the capsule, where it will be placed and how it will be done. The others are Prof Mirza Faisal (chairperson of mechanical engineering), Rajiv Kumar Sharma (university engineer from the building department), Dr Mohd Shahid (deputy director, Sir Syed Academy), Rahat Abrar (director, Urdu Academy) and Abdul Hamid (registrar). A decade ago, IIT-Kanpur had undertaken a similar exercise. So, AMU has brought it on board as a consultant. So far, the plan is to have a biography of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, academic calendars, convocation records and a history of the university inside the capsule. “The documents may be scanned and soft copies uploaded on servers as backup,” said Pundhir. The panel has zeroed in on four possible spots — one in front of Victoria Gate, another in front of the Maulana Azad Library, the Kennedy Auditorium and the Sir Syed Academy. The first time capsule in the university had been buried under Strachey Hall in the presence of Sir Syed and then Viceroy of India Edward Robert Lytton, which finds mention in the Aligarh Institute Gazette’s 1877 issue. “Newspaper reports of the time said the capsule had records of donors (who helped establish the college) and documents about the struggles of Sir Syed. A few gold and silver coins had also been placed inside,” said Dr Abrar. “Whether that’s all will only be known when it’s dug up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-143-yrs-amu-to-put-away-second-cache-of-history-in-time-capsule/articleshow/78046007.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid positivity rate rises in Rajasthan, goes over 6% in Sept||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 positivity rate in the state has risen from 5% in August to over 6% in September. According to health department figures, out of every 100 tests done, five tested positive in August and it is six in September. For both these months, the average number of tests done daily are almost equal, but the positivity rate is higher in September, showing that more people are being infected by the virus. In August, the average number of tests done daily was 25,407. In comparison, it is 25,336 in September. Till September 9, 14,043 persons tested positive in comparison to 39,610 found infected in August. Since March, the state government has continuously increased the number of tests in the state.  The average number of tests carried out daily was 182 in March, 3,268 in April, 9,873 in May, 13,814 in June, 22,669 in July, and 22,669 in August. The trend for these months also shows that the positivity rate has been on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-positivity-rate-rises-in-state-goes-over-6-in-sept/articleshow/78048679.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH jr doctors boycott enters third day||Hyderabad: For the third day in a row, junior doctors at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) boycotted elective duties on Thursday over the issue of poor infrastructure facilities which they say have impacted patient care. While this delayed consultations by 1-2 hours on Thursday, services were not badly hit at Osmania General Hospital (OGH).  Nevertheless, senior doctors and faculty members were pressed into service in additional numbers to manage workload due to the absence of nearly 200 junior doctors from wards. “This is the main tertiary care hospital in the state. With lack of operation theatres, proper lighting, oxygen beds etc, patients have no where to go. We have been demanding proper infrastructure for the sake of patients,” said Dr Vaibhav, a representative of the Osmania Junior Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-jr-doctors-boycott-enters-third-day/articleshow/78047470.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad may get rain on Sunday: IMD||AHMEDABAD: India Meteorology Department (IMD) forecast on Thursday mentioned that the city may experience light thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds on Sunday. Heavy rainfall is expected in southern districts from Saturday onwards. The maximum temperature in the city went a notch higher on Thursday at 36.2 degrees celsius, which was 3.1 degrees higher than the normal. The minimum temperature was at 26.2 degrees celsius for the city, which was 1.6 degrees higher than normal. Due to lack of wind, citizens got drenched in perspiration as use of air-conditioners again saw spike in the recent days. The IMD forecast that light rainfall can be expected on Friday in some parts of the city. On Saturday, light thunderstorm with lightning is expected in all districts of south Gujarat along with Kheda, Dahod, Panchmahal, Anand, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somath and all Union territories adjoining Gujarat. Surat, Narmada, Valsad and Navsari may receive heavy rainfall, mentioned the forecast. While the heavy rainfall is expected to continue in southern districts, light thunderstorm is expected in Kheda, Dahod, Panchmahal, Ahmedabad, Anand, Botad, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Rajkot and Junagadh. As on Thursday morning, the state has already received 1,013mm rain, which is 121% of the seasonal rainfall. Except east-central districts, all the regions in the state have received more than 100% of the seasonal rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-may-get-rain-on-sunday-imd/articleshow/78047479.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid effect: Bizman incurs loss, ends life||Hyderabad: A 33-year-old businessman from Somajiguda, consumed poison allegedly after facing loss in catering business due to the pandemic. He gave poison to his father too, saying it was Covid preventive medicine. He died, while his father is critical. The victim, Aneesh Reddy from Hill-Top Colony, Khairatabad, was running canteens in three IT companies and had faced financial loss during the lockdown. “He came back home at around 11.30 pm and gave his father, a liquid saying, it is a Covid-19 prevention medicine while his mother was in the kitchen,” said Panjagutta SI D Nagaraju. “As his mother, Sarvani Reddy had not consumed the poison she rushed both of them with the help of locals, to a private hospital,” added the officer. Aneesh died soon after, while his father, Ram Reddy is said to be in critical. “The mother suspect’s that Aneesh was depressed after facing loss in business and took the extreme step,” said the officer. A case of suspicious death has been registered in Panjagutta police station. The victim, Aneesh Reddy from Hill-Top Colony, Khairatabad, was running canteens in three IT firms and had faced financial loss during the lockdown. He was struggling with debts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-effect-bizman-incurs-loss-ends-life/articleshow/78047505.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s a saving grace for patients from other states||NEW DELHI: A 58-year-old man suffering from diabetes and hypertension and infected with Covid-19 was rushed to Delhi in a semi-conscious state last month after his condition deteriorated at a private hospital in his hometown Gwalior. His lungs were badly affected and he was on oxygen support. To save his life, the family members of Anil Kumar Upadhyay chose to travel to Delhi on August 9 instead of Bhopal or Lucknow. They put the critical patient on oxygen support in an ambulance and after nearly seven hours landed at Lok Nayak Hospital. “We do not have the required health infrastructure in Gwalior. All our friends and family members agreed that Delhi would be the best place for treatment. We had heard about the good treatment facilities at Lok Nayak, so rushed him there,” Amit Upadhyay, the patient’s son, told TOI over the phone from Gwalior. Amit took his father to the private hospital in Gwalior in the first week of August when he started suffering from high fever and breathing difficulty. “We got terrified when his condition worsened. In Delhi, he was in the ICU for over 15 days. He was also given plasma therapy,” he said. Upadhyay is among many critical Covid patients from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar and other states who have been rushing to Delhi for treatment because of the good healthcare infrastructure. Another reason is lack of confidence among people in their own state’s healthcare facilities. Avinash Rani, a 65-year-old woman from Ludhiana with heart ailments, came to Delhi after testing positive for Covid-19 as she didn’t want to get admitted in a government hospital in Punjab. “Our friends suggested that we take her to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid hospital,” Shishwala, Rani’s relative, told TOI over the phone from Punjab. After the woman’s condition deteriorated a day later, she was referred to Lok Nayak Hospital where she ultimately recovered. Patients dying in some states due to lack of plasma therapy was another reason for people making a beeline at Delhi’s hospitals. Delhi government has opened two plasma banks, the one at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences being the first in the country. Abhishek Khandelwal, a 47-year-old businessman, rushed to Delhi from Shahjahanpur after testing positive for Covid-19. He later discovered that he had D-dimer, a blood condition found in some Covid patients. “After doctors detected clotting in my blood, they advised me to go to Delhi,” he said. He recovered after 12 days. The rush of patients has led to an increase in bed occupancy in Delhi’s hospitals. Out of 500 patients admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital, nearly 90 are from other states. Around 50% of those dying daily are from outside Delhi. Doctors said the mortality was high among such patients because most of them were brought to Delhi in a serious condition. Currently, 5,200 out of 14,000 Covid-designated beds in the capital are occupied, 30% by non-residents. An official said the rush could increase further because Covid cases were increasing across the country and the growth had overwhelmed the health infrastructure, especially in small towns. Health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi government was prepared to handle all situations. “Around 30% people admitted in Delhi are from outside. People are coming here because Delhi has the finest health infrastructure. Currently, there is no shortage of beds,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-a-saving-grace-for-patients-from-other-states/articleshow/78047536.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 11, 2020||Agra||98 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 98 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 3,742. A 40-year-old woman also passed away while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. The Sikandra locality resident was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 112 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 86 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 3,742 cases reported in the district, 2,889 [77%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 742 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/98-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78046063.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||30% of India’s ‘manhole deaths’ in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In 2019, 30 persons lost their lives in Gujarat after they fell into manholes. India recorded 100 such deaths last year and Gujarat accounted for 30% of the national deaths, the highest in India. Maharashtra came second with 19. In year-on-year comparison, the deaths increased by 50% compared to 20 recorded in 2018. It was the state’s highest death tally in the category in past four years. The state also recorded deaths of 92 persons due to fall into pits, which is second highest in past five years. Experts said that the deaths could both be the accidental fall into an open manhole or the accidental death when someone enters into the manhole for cleaning purpose. Kirit Rathod, a Dalit rights activist, said that deaths of those entering the manhole for cleaning is a grave issue. “Annually, we get to know 20-odd such incidents. Just recently, two persons lost lives in Surat on a similar account. In Rajkot, three persons barely escaped such a fate. Despite explicit ban on such activities, it continues due to economic reasons,” he said. Parshottam Vaghela, director of Manav Garima NGO, said that they have approached judiciary on several such instances to hold those responsible accountable for deaths. “It’s unfortunate that we still lose lives due to gross negligence. While the NCRB figures are not clear whether the deaths were of the labourers, in any case the practice must stop,” he said. The deaths due to fall into borewells reported downward trend from 2017 onwards – compared to 16 that died due to the fall in 2017, the figure got reduced to 10. Experts said that it’s predominantly kids that fall into unguarded borewells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/30-of-indias-manhole-deaths-in-gujarat/articleshow/78047520.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2 kids to undergo life-saving therapy||Thiruvananthapuram: In a unique financing model, the central and state governments and the Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association have come together to fund for the life-saving Enzyme Replacement Therapy on two kids: 2- and 3-year-olds which will begin at Kozhikode medical college. These kids have been diagnosed with a rare Pompe disease, a form of lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). While the first patient from Kannur (2-year-old) will receive her infusion therapy on Friday, the second patient, a resident of Mannarkkad, will have her infusion therapy in November. The infusion therapy is being started following an order by a division bench of the high court on August 14. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by the Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society (LSDSS), a patient advocacy group, set up to fight the cause of rare disease patients across the country. The court had directed Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KeLSA) to explore possibility of raising funds for providing treatment to the children who suffer from rare diseases. While the Centre allotted Rs 1.5 crore, the state sanctioned Rs 50 lakh for the treatment of these two rare disease patients. The members of the Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association, following an appeal by the high court, also mobilized Rs 5 lakh for the treatment of the rare disease patients. “This is a commendable effort by the high court to raise money for rare disease patients who have been ignored for a long time. However, we need a solid premise for sustainable treatment funding in the National Policy for Rare Diseases 2020 and attention also needs to be paid to other specifics such as cost of medicines and special exemptions in the policy, said Dr Muhammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM). Rare diseases like LSDs are complex and heterogeneous and requires a sustainable support mechanism for diagnosis and treatment. The genetic and rare diseases are seriously chronic, debilitating and fatal disorders, often requiring long-term specialised treatments, management and sometimes causing severe disabilities, said Dr Mohandas Nair, head of department, paediatrics, Kozhikode medical college. This innovative financing model is a step in the right direction, and could be explored by other states to provide sustainable funding support to LSD patients, awaiting treatment without any institutional support so far, said Manoj Manghat, state coordinator of Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2-kids-to-undergo-life-saving-therapy/articleshow/78046102.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Guard seeking job sets self ablaze on busy road||Hyderabad: A 57-year-old security guard set himself on fire near the busy Ravindra Bharati chowrasta on Thursday noon. The assembly building and the DGP’s office are only a stone’s throw away when N Nagulu doused himself in petrol and torched himself to the horror of passers-by and motorists. Thanks to a posse of cops present at the spot, Nagulu was rescued and taken to Osmania General Hospital for treatment. Police said Nagulu suffered 30% burns. He had burns on his chest and back. DCP, centre zone, P Viswa Prasad said Nagulu resorted to the extreme step distraught over lack of financial support and a job. After setting himself on fire, Nagulu even shouted slogans. “His wife works as a housekeeping staffer in a private hospital. The couple have been struggling to make ends meet and unable to afford their sons’ education. Nagulu is believed to have slipped into a depression due to the financial stress,” said Prasad. Police said Nagulu came walking to the busy spot with a bottle of petrol and hid behind a truck. “He doused himself and then came to the main road even as curious people watched,” police said. Nagulu’s family resides in Keesara. Cops said he is a native of Kadthal in Mahbubnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guard-seeking-job-sets-self-ablaze-on-busy-road/articleshow/78047514.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Solar power park to be ready in 3 months||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has completed a majority of structural work on the city’s first-ever solar park coming up at Panchapur sewage treatment plant (STP), as part of the smart cities mission. The civic body is now awaiting the arrival of photo-voltaic (solar) panels, and said that the 2.4MW facility will be commissioned in the next few months. Officials said that the underground cable installation work from the solar power park till the Tangedco substation at Crawford, civil work like establishing power room, pillars for the solar panels and fencing of the 13 acre site, have been completed. “We are awaiting the arrival of the solar panels, delayed due to the lockdown restrictions. Rest of the work is accomplished. The project will be commissioned within three months,” a senior corporation official said. The local body will supply the electricity from the solar plant to Tangedco’s power grid. In return, it will get compensated for the electricity generated while paying their consumption charges. The move is expected to save Rs 2.25 crore for the civic body per year. Sources said that Tangedco will conduct a safety audit to give the green signal for commissioning the plant that has a minimum lifetime tenure of 25 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/solar-power-park-to-be-ready-in-3-months/articleshow/78048717.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||80,219 to take NEET from state||Ahmedabad: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exam, to be held on September 13, is expected to see participation of 80,219 candidates in Gujarat. The seating arrangements of over 500 candidates have been changed in various centres including Surat, Rajkot and Bhavnagar in view of the prevailing Covid-19 crisis. The exams will be conducted in pen and paper or offline format. Over 16 lakh students from all over the country will appear for the examination. The examination will be conducted from a total of 214 centres in 10 cities in Gujarat including Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Bhavnagar, Valsad, Vadodara, Patan, Panchmahals and Anand. In 2019, about 76,000 students had taken the NEET exams. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80219-to-take-neet-from-state/articleshow/78047525.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Virus count now 4 times that of July||LUCKNOW: With fresh Covid-19 infections crossing 900-mark in 24 hours for the fourth time this month on Thursday, the transmission rate in the first 10 days of September has surged to nearly four times of what was recorded in July. Total 917 more persons were diagnosed with the infection, taking the caseload to 36,036 since the outbreak in March and 8,855 in September. Of the total recorded cases so far, about 26,637 (74%), including 591 on Thursday, have recovered, while 480 (1.2%) died during treatment. As many as 8,919 (24.7%) are recuperating in hospitals or in home quarantine, and of these, about 5% are in critical care. The exponential growth in infections could be gauged from the fact that average daily count in July was 229, which soared to 620 in August and now stands at 885. Area-wise, Gomtinagar recorded the highest 53 cases, followed by Alambagh 42, Aliganj 41, Jankipuram 34, Aashiana and Talkatora 31 each, Indiranagar 29, Hazratganj 25, Hasanganj 23, Chinhat and Mahanagar 23 each. Experts said that no relief is expected till people make safety protocols an integral part of their lives and authorities conduct contact tracing on a war-footing. “While social distancing and masks are conspicuous by their absence at public places, there are a number of reports that authorities are not conducting contact tracing or carrying out sampling of a patient’ primary contacts. Together, the two factors are fuelling the growth with the humid weather acting as a catalyst,” said a KGMU professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-count-now-4-times-that-of-july/articleshow/78049420.cms||Yusra Husain
September 11, 2020||Agra||Wanted criminal held after 37 years by Mathura police||AGRA: The Mathura police on Thursday arrested a wanted criminal carrying a reward of Rs 20,000 after 37 years of him committing a crime. The accused, Raghunath Singh, is a resident of Aligarh and was wanted in a case of motorcycle loot way back in 1983. SSP Gaurav Grover said that three persons were booked in the looting of the motorcycle from a bank manager in 1983. Two of them had earlier been arrested and remanded to judicial custody and the motorcycle was recovered from their possession, the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/wanted-criminal-held-after-37-years-by-mathura-police/articleshow/78046085.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife goes to cops over man’s ‘affair’||Ahmedabad: A woman from the Sola area filed a complaint with police on Wednesday alleging her husband has begun living with another woman. Gyarshi Regar, 46, mother of six kids, states in her FIR with Sola police that her husband Kundanlal Regar often beat her as she could not deliver as many sons as he wanted. After four daughters, she gave birth to a boy, but even after that he wanted another boy. But when she gave birth to their fifth daughter, he began blaming her for delivering four daughters. She had earlier approached police multiple times over beatings from her husband, but struck a compromise each time thinking about her children. After learning recently that her husband was in a live-in relationship she went to Sola police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-goes-to-cops-over-mans-affair/articleshow/78047545.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Man killed lover over theft, dumped body in toilet||HYDERABAD: Two days after a partially decomposed body of a woman was found inside an abandoned public toilet in Secunderabad, police arrested the offender for murder charges on Thursday. The body was found at an unused sulabh complex, near Bible House railway bridge with injuries on her shoulder and chest. During the course of the investigation, police identified the deceased as Bhoolakshmi (40) from Prakasham, AP. The accused, Mangamuri Venkata Chennaiah (35) from the same district was staying in Secunderabad since February. Venkata met the victim five months ago when she was sitting alone at the Uppal bus stop. During that time, they had an affair. According to police, earlier Bhoolakshmi had taken Rs 5,000 from Venkata’s pocket without his knowledge. Bhoolakshmi again took money from Venkata to consume alcohol on August 6. The duo quarrelled over this. Later that night when he came back home drunk, he kicked her brutally. At night he took the body to the public toilet and dumped it there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-killed-lover-over-theft-dumped-body-in-toilet/articleshow/78047539.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Man tries to rob bank, flees as alarm goes off||Hyderabad: A man made a vain bid to attempt a burglary in a bank under Edulabad in Ghatkesar on Wednesday night. Ghatkesar police said that the unknown person entered the bank building by opening the window using a rod. After he entered the bank, the sensors got alerted and sent an alarm to the bank control room, who alerted the local police. On hearing the alarm the accused fled. Later police reached the spot and concluded that the accused fled immediately after hearing the alarm and did not even reach upto the strong room. Police verified the closed-circuit television footage and found that only one person had entered the bank. Police registered a case and are on the look out for the accused. Later police reached the spot and concluded that the accused fled immediately after hearing the alarm and did not even reach upto the strong room of the bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-tries-to-rob-bank-flees-as-alarm-goes-off/articleshow/78047548.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Agra||Mathura’s Youth Cong workers bookedfor candle march against govt||Agra: Police in Mathura have booked more than 30 workers of Congress' youth wing on Thursday for violating prohibitory orders and taking out a candle light march against the government a day earlier. An FIR has been registered against the District Youth Congress president Yaten Mukaddam along with seven identified ones and 25 unidentified persons for violating prohibitory orders under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of IPC and sections 3 and 5 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Police claimed that the protestors had not taken prior permission for the march and they were not following social distancing norms. Besides, they did not wear face masks while taking out the procession. However, Congress workers claimed that they had informed the local intelligence officer and other officials concerned about their nine-minute candle march at Holygate Chowk, but they did not object then, and later they registered an FIR against them. Talking to media persons, Mukaddam said that the march was taken out to raise the voice of unemployed youths. He said that the Central government had betrayed the youths by promising to provide employment to two crore people. “Even after spending a lot of money on education, youths are not getting jobs and our aim is to raise their voice by organising the programme - 'Ek Lau Jalao',” Mukaddam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathuras-youth-cong-workers-bookedfor-candle-march-against-govt/articleshow/78046113.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beats wife for checking his chats||AHMEDABAD: Vaishali Patel, 30, a resident of D-cabin locality in Sabarmati filed a complaint on Thursday with police alleging that her husband had beaten her severely after he found her checking his cellphone and his chat with another woman. In her FIR with Sabarmati police she states she had married Pritesh Patel 10 years ago and the couple has a seven-year-old daughter. She said she had woken up at around 4am as her husband’s phone rang with a message alert tone. She then checked her husband’s cellphone and found a woman named Neelam Soni had sent a message. She began reading her husband’s chat with that woman. Later, she checked the phone further and began listening to her call recordings with Pritesh. At that time, her husband came there and Vaishali confronted him about the woman. He got angry and began beating her. She suffered minor injuries and went to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-wife-for-checking-his-chats/articleshow/78047559.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No more barking up the wrong tree, help is just a phone call away||NEW DELHI: An integrated wildlife helpline number that will allow tree and animal-related complaints to be handled under one roof by Delhi’s forest and wildlife department is going to be launched in the next couple of days. The existing helpline is limited to tree-related complaints, which the department admits is also not attended to round the clock. With the launch of the new helpline — 1800118600 — not only will the department be maintaining fresh data, but also allowing a wider redressal of animal and tree-related complaints. TimesViewIn recent years, environmental and wildlife awareness has increased manifold, especially among the young. But many are unable to help in their preservation and protection in the absence of a proper platform. The expanded, integrated helpline will enable everyone to play a proactive and constructive role. The important thing, however, is to run the helpline efficiently, round the clock. Good results will follow.A senior forest official said that owing to lack of manpower, data for only the last couple of years was available. No database was maintained on the exact number of calls received or redressed each day. Now, each complaint would be listed under a different section, including illegal tree pruning, felling, concretising or animal rescue, and an online database would be maintained on the department’s website. “We have been trying to procure ambulances for animals. Even in court cases, we couldn’t give the exact data of rescues carried out over the past few years. The new helpline will allow us to maintain a healthy database and also pinpoint where the most tree felling or pruning complaints are coming from. We will also mobilise NGOs to help us prepare the database,” said the official. The department will now note down the caller’s number, name and location, including prominent landmarks of occurrence, for tree-related complaints. This would also apply to wildlife-related offences or for rescuing animals in distress. “In case of animals in trouble, information about the species, status of its mobility, location (ground, tree, building top, etc) and the manner of distress will be recorded. For wildlife-related offences, the number of offenders, whether they are local residents or outsiders, species involved and nature of the offence will be recorded. Regarding tree-related complaints and offences, information about the species, location, name of the land-owning agency and nature of the complaint will be noted down,” said the official. Each offence would be assigned a case number and the complainant would be able to directly contact the deputy conservator of forests of the area to get details about redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-more-barking-up-the-wrong-tree-help-is-just-a-phone-call-away/articleshow/78047615.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||First organ donation after gap of two months in Telangana||Hyderabad: The first organ donation after a gap of two months was conducted in Telangana recently, taking the total number of cadaver donations to 38 so far this year. The 38 donations have translated into 102 organs being donated including kidney, liver, heart and lungs. While organ donations were hit badly during the Covid-19 pandemic, going down from 11 in February to zero in May, organ donations in the state has once again started picking up. The state recorded the first organ donation after family members of Komire Naveen, who was declared brain dead by doctors on September 8, gave their consent to donate organs of their deceased son. According to the data available with Jeevandhan Cadaver Transplantation Programme, there were six donations in the month of June, whereas July and August recorded zero organ donations from within the state. “In some cases, even during the time when donations were scarce in the state, we had organs coming in from other states as and when there was a requirement. We have had no donations in the state during May, July and August months,” said G Swarnalatha, in-charge of Jeevandhan programme. While there were no donations from within the state in May, July and August, a total of four transplantations took place after organs (four lungs) were flown in from other parts of the country. Last year a total of 134 organ donations were recorded (345 organs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-organ-donation-after-gap-of-two-months-in-t/articleshow/78047565.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Surat||GDWU demands high-level probe||Surat: The Gujarat Diamond Workers’ Union (GDWU) has demanded a high-level inquiry into the suicide of the president of Ratnakalakar Vikas Sangh (RVS), Jaysukh Gajera on Thursday. GDWU office-bearers stated that the person, who fought for the rights of the diamond workers and provided counselling for not taking extreme steps has himself committed suicide due to extreme reasons. At a time when 13 jobless diamond workers have committed suicide due to financial crisis, the suicide of Gajera has raised many question. Ramesh Jilariya, president of GDWU told TOI, “A person who was president of RVS for so long, wanted to step down suddenly. There must be some pressure from the strong diamond lobby in Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gdwu-demands-high-level-probe/articleshow/78045730.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Orange alert for north Kerala||KOCHI: The southwest monsoon continues to be active in the state with an orange alert of 11-20 cm rainfall sounded for north Kerala districts Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod for Friday. The central districts Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad are expected to get rainfall of 7-11 cm on Friday. An offshore trough at mean sea level runs from Maharashtra coast to Kerala coast. The east-west shear zone runs roughly along 14°N across peninsular India between 3.1km and 3.6 km above mean sea level and is likely to persist during next 4-5 days. Under their influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm and lightning are likely over peninsular India. Coastal districts are on alert too, with high waves in the range of 2.5-3.3metre forecast along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds are expected to vary between 44-70 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea during the period. Sea will be rough near shores along and off Kerala-Karnataka coasts and Lakshadweep area. On Thursday, Mannarkkad in Palakkad recorded the highest rainfall of 11cm while Koyilandy in Kozhikode got 9cm. Thodupuzha, Irinjalakuda, Pattambi, Manjeri, Vythiri and Thalassery got 7cm rainfall each. Palakkad, Ottappalam, Thrithala, Kurudamannil in Pathanamthitta and Ponnani recorded 6cm each. Thiruvananthapuram city, Kozhikode, Vadakara, Kannur, Vellanikkara, Vadakkancherry, Kollam, Mavelikkara, Piravom, Peermade and Perinthalmanna got 5cm of rainfall each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/orange-alert-for-n-kerala/articleshow/78054992.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||‘Rabid’ dog bites man, livestock at Pilibhit village||Pilibhit: Residents of Pilibhit's Takia village, under Gajraula police station, are living in a state of panic for the past three days after a stray dog bit 13 domestic animals and some people, including children, without any provocation. They suspect the dog has turned rabid and fear the rabies infection, which is fatal if not treated on time, will spread. A veterinary team visted the village to treat the afflicted animals but failed to find the dog. Om Prakash, Radhe Shyam, Deep Chand and Vijay Pal who were bitten by the dog told TOI that the "rabid" dog barges cattle sheds, bites the animals and runs away. On Wednesday, it bit a 10-year-old girl, Pinki. She has been shifted to the district hospital, where she was administered anti-rabies vaccination. Chief veterinary officer, Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg, said a veterinary team visited the village and all 13 afflicted cattle were vaccinated and their dog bite wounds treated. Efforts are on to trap the dog that has so far eluded capture, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rabid-dog-bites-man-livestock-at-pilibhit-village/articleshow/78041227.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly most vulnerable to suicidal thoughts||HYDERABAD: Seventy five-year-old Ranga Swamy (name changed) jumped into Hussainsagar lake the other day to end his life. He was depressed and felt abandoned. However, he was pulled out of the waters by a good samaritan. Swamy’s is not an isolated case. Several senior citizens like Swamy, who have been undergoing stress during the pandemic, are not only vulnerable to suicidal thoughts but also resort to extreme step. As World Suicide Prevention Day is observed on September 10, medical experts and health professionals said senior citizens’ concerns are one too many. Confinement, loneliness, financial problems and stress are some of the factors driving them to suicide. “To address their stress, we have been conducting virtual workshops by involving experts from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) on how to handle stress during this pandemic” said Shyam Kumar, advocacy officer, Helpage India. Elderly people account for at least 14% of the total suicides in Telangana, as per NCRB’s recent data. Fifteen elderly people were saved this year alone by the Lake police when they tried to jump into the Hussainsagar to end their lives. “Around 6% of the people who are saved are elderly. Most of them take the extreme step owing to financial woes and mental and physical harassment from their children,” said B Dhanalaxmi, inspector, Lake police station. She also said loneliness is one of the big factors driving the elderly people or couple to attempt suicide, especially after they are abandoned by their sons and daughters. “We get at least 15 such cases every year. We try to reason with the family members and counsel them,” said Dhanalaxmi. Shiva, a social worker, who retrieves bodies of suicide victims, has taken out 19 bodies from the lake. Eleven of them were elderly people. In the past two months, of the 14 bodies he had retrieved, nine were elderly people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-most-vulnerable-to-suicidal-thoughts/articleshow/78047556.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Orange alert for north Kerala||KOCHI: The southwest monsoon continues to be active in the state with an orange alert of 11-20 cm rainfall sounded for north Kerala districts Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod for Friday. The central districts Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad are expected to get rainfall of 7-11 cm on Friday. An offshore trough at mean sea level runs from Maharashtra coast to Kerala coast. The east-west shear zone runs roughly along 14°N across peninsular India between 3.1km and 3.6 km above mean sea level and is likely to persist during next 4-5 days. Under their influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls, thunderstorm and lightning are likely over peninsular India. Coastal districts are on alert too, with high waves in the range of 2.5-3.3metre forecast along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds are expected to vary between 44-70 cm/sec. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea during the period. Sea will be rough near shores along and off Kerala-Karnataka coasts and Lakshadweep area. On Thursday, Mannarkkad in Palakkad recorded the highest rainfall of 11cm while Koyilandy in Kozhikode got 9cm. Thodupuzha, Irinjalakuda, Pattambi, Manjeri, Vythiri and Thalassery got 7cm rainfall each. Palakkad, Ottappalam, Thrithala, Kurudamannil in Pathanamthitta and Ponnani recorded 6cm each. Thiruvananthapuram city, Kozhikode, Vadakara, Kannur, Vellanikkara, Vadakkancherry, Kollam, Mavelikkara, Piravom, Peermade and Perinthalmanna got 5cm of rainfall each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orange-alert-for-n-kerala/articleshow/78046152.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 5% chance of Nirav Modi getting Covid at Arthur Road jail, say expert||There is a high risk of further Covid-19 outbreaks at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai where Nirav Modi will be housed if extradited and holding him there in solitary confinement will lead to a further deterioration in his mental health, Westminster Magistrates’ Court heard. “There is a 5 % chance of Nirav Modi acquiring Covid and if he did get it severely there is a 15% chance of him dying,” Professor Richard Coker, emeritus professor of Public Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in London, said, appearing as a witness on behalf of Nirav. "That amounts to a 0.75% chance of him dying from the virus." Coker said the lockdown at the prison in March - which preceded a Covid outbreak in May in which 182 inmates tested positive - demonstrated its measures were insufficient. He added the jail’s screening and testing methods appeared inaccurate and ineffective. “Prisons are perfect settings for infectious diseases to get into and explode,” he said, pointing out Covid prevalence was 57% in Mumbai’s slum population and 16% in the rest of Mumbai. “I think there will be further outbreaks.” Helen Malcom QC, representing the government of India, pointed out three Indians from the investigating agencies were watching proceedings in the London court – having arrived from India - and been exempt from the mandatory 14 days quarantine to allow them to attend and by meeting them she was putting herself at risk of Covid-19. “We all have to accept some level of risk,” she said. “Nirav’s removal will not be for at least another year – we cannot predict the situation in Mumbai then,” she said, adding “You accept that Barrack 12 is at significantly lower risk of Covid than Wandsworth because it’s empty and Modi may be there on his own, or with small number of others, separated from the rest of the prison, in a large airy cell?” Nirav watched the proceedings via videolink from prison.He was dressed smartly and seemed engrossed in flicking through files of evidence. Wandsworth prison’s consultant forensic psychiatrist Dr Andrew Forrester told the London court that Nirav had been diagnosed with severe depression partly caused by his extradition proceedings and the impact of the lockdown on Wandsworth jail conditions and combined with his mother’s suicide, meant he presents a “high risk of suicide”. “I feel hospital treatment is now indicated. If he deteriorates further and depression becomes even more severe, he may become unit to plead in future,” Forrester said. “Severe depression cannot easily be mimicked,” he added. “I’m sure he is not deceptive.Solitary confinement is unhelpful for people with mental illness." Another witness for Nirav prison condition expert Alan Mitchell said he was concerned about healthcare provision and levels of inspection at Arthur Road Jail, pointing out the number of complaints about the prison were so low, they suggested that prisoners do not have confidence in the complaints system. He also claimed the cell was darker inside than it seemed in the video shown to court, and the video “was not a substitute for a visit” stating he had been refused access to visit. He referred to evidence given in the hearing by an advocate ‘Yadav’ who described “rodents, mosquitoes, earthworms and insects” wandering around the jail, and noise and dust pollution from an adjoining slum. “Barrack 12 is not right for Nirav’s mental health and wellbeing, The right solution would be a visit by a qualified prisons expert and allowing them to speak to the medical staff,” he told the judge. "There is a real risk Nirav#s health will further deteriorate.”  “Vijay Mallya might be there when Nirav gets back. Is it better for him on his own or with other people?” Malcolm asked exasperated. “Whatever is put before court, it doesn’t seem as if the government of India would ever satisfy you," she said to Mitchell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-chance-of-nimo-getting-covid-at-arthur-rd-jail-expert/articleshow/78047609.cms||NAOMI CANTON
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: Full steam ahead from Saturday, no off-peak hours||NEW DELHI: Friday will see the entire Delhi Metro network being thrown open to commuters after five months, with the exception of the standalone Airport Express Line. What is more, the service timings will also be extended. With the train network’s carrying capacity reduced due to Covid-19 prevention measures, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has also decided to do away with the concept of ‘off peak’ hours and make trains available with optimum frequency from 8 am to 8 pm starting on Saturday. From Saturday, trains will be available at a frequency of 3-15 minutes from start of services to am and again from 8pm to close of services. Between 8am to 8pm, trains will be available at a frequency of 2 minutes 45 seconds to 6 minutes, said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. The 37.5-km Magenta Line, which not only connects Botanical Garden in Noida with Janakpuri West but also serves as a major link between Noida and Gurugram through the interchange facility with Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) at the Hauz Khas station, will resume operations on Friday, as will the 4.3-km Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh). Trains will be available from 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm, but from Saturday, the entire Delhi Metro network comprising 349 km and 242 metro stations will be running and the revert to the pre-lockdown timings of 6am to 11pm with broadly the same train frequencies as those before the March suspension of trains, Dayal said. On Friday, DMRC will put altogether 288 trains into service on its eight corridors, which will make a total of 3,654 trips. “The general public is once again advised to adhere to social distancing requirements and preventive guidelines during the travel on Delhi Metro due to the pandemic,” said Dayal. “They should also keep following DMRC’s website and social media platforms for regular updates on various Dos & Don’ts that must mandatorily be followed before heading for the metro station from their homes for their own convenience.” From Sunday, September 13, trains will be available from 6am, but starting from September 20, services on Sundays will commence at 8am from all such sections that were observing this time regime before the lockdown, added Dayal. Watch Delhi Metro: Full steam ahead from Saturday, no off-peak hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/full-steam-ahead-from-saturday-no-off-peak-hrs/articleshow/78047597.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 1 lakh passengers board city buses on Thursday||Lal Darwaja Bus depo start after Lockdown with Precations on Thursday,Ahmedabad,10,September,2020 PHoto Yogesh ChawdaAhmedabad: On the first day after the city transport service was resumed, the number of passengers who hopped on to the city buses was just one lakh. The city buses even with limited routes had traffic of just 75,000 passengers.The officials said that the city transport service was resumed across the city after the officials realized that the passengers were travelling by shared autorickshaw which had three or more passengers, violating the social distancing norms. On the first day, the BRTS had over 200 buses on the road and only 35,000 passengers boarded the BRTS buses and the income of only Rs 4.5 lakh was generated. In Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) buses, the passengers who boarded the buses were 86,000 as against 55,000 on Tuesday. The income generated was around Rs seven lakh. The officials said that each bus was sanitized twice and even the passengers at the boarding stations were checked with thermal guns before they were allowed to board the buses. Secondly, only one person on seat was permitted and not a single standing person was allowed inside the buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-1-lakh-passengers-board-city-buses-on-thursday/articleshow/78047591.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Agra||Body of missing minor found in pile of sack,kin blame police for negligence||Agra: The body of a 9-year-old boy, missing since Tuesday, was found in a pile of sacks near his house in Agra’s Dhaura village on Thursday morning. Police said that deceased Updesh’s father Raghunath Singh (had) lodged a missing complaint at the Etmad-ud-Daula police station after the family failed to locate him. The family members suspect involvement of a local person from another community but police have not questioned anybody yet. After the boy’s body was recovered on Thursday, the deceased’s kin blamed police for delay in action which led to their son’s death. Following this, SSP Babloo Kumar immediately attached inspector Salim Khan to Police Lines and arrested three persons in connection with the murder. The body has been sent for postmortem. Kumar said the matter is being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/body-of-missing-minor-found-in-pile-of-sackkin-blame-police-for-negligence/articleshow/78046167.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||70k to take GU’s 2nd in-person exams||Ahmedabad: The first phase of exams at Gujarat University (GU) held in pen & paper or offline format, completed on Thursday, saw participation from 21,000 students. The exams, held amid the coronavirus scare, did not see any of the students showing Covid symptoms, said GU sources. “Thermal guns were used to scan body temperature of students and none of them showed high temperature or any other symptoms of Covid-19,” said a GU official. The second phase examination will begin from September 12 and end on September 20. Over 70,000 students pursuing their undergraduate studies like BCom, BA, BSc, BBA, BCA are expected to participate across 212 centres, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70k-to-take-gus-2nd-in-person-exams/articleshow/78047611.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Agra||Shortage of oxygen supply affects ambulance services||AGRA: Shortage in supply of oxygen largely due to a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases has severely affected ambulance services in Agra district. In the past two days, over three dozen ambulances have stopped functioning. And following an increase in the price of oxygen cylinders, ambulance charges have risen by 20 percent. Private hospitals are also affected. Moreover, doctors are now considering using industrial oxygen for treatment of critical patients. On Thursday, state secretary of ambulance owners' and drivers' association Ravi Sishodiya said, “The rates of oxygen cylinders have doubled in the past 15 days. To cover up the cost of oxygen supply, we have no other choice but charge the patients more. Authorities must ensure adequate supply of oxygen in the market and regulate its price." According to the sources, there are six major oxygen suppliers operating in the district. They have a capacity to supply 1,500 oxygen cylinders per day. On an average, 1,200 cylinders were required for ambulances and hospitals in a day. However, the demand has increased due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. Allaying fears, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “There is no shortage of oxygen supply at the government centres. We are working to ensure private hospitals, nursing homes and ambulances do not suffer from any short supply of oxygen. State authorities are in touch with the manufacturers. The problem will be sorted out in the next few days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/shortage-of-oxygen-supply-affects-ambulance-services/articleshow/78046191.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Revised dates for Manuu entrance||Hyderabad: Maulana Azad National Urdu University has announced revised dates of entrance tests for admissions into various regular courses during new academic year 2020-21.According to Prof. Siddiqui Mohd. Mahmood, registrar in-charge, the university shall conduct entrance tests on September 28, 29 and 30. The entrance test shall be conducted offline in two sessions on all three days. For details, candidates should visit university website manuu.edu.in. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revised-dates-for-manuu-entrance/articleshow/78047604.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Union home minister Amit Shah e-launches works worth Rs 134 crore in Gandhinagar||GANDHINAGAR: Union home minister and Member of Parliament (MP) from Gandhinagar presided over the e-launching of development works worth Rs 134 crore in his constituency on Thursday. Terming the Covid-19 pandemic an unprecedented challenge, Shah said through video conferencing that India is putting up a well-planned fight under the leadership of PM Modi. He asked people to take necessary precautions until a vaccine is developed. “Coronavirus is an unprecedented challenge for us and entire mankind. We are fighting against it in a well-planned manner under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and the world has recognised our efforts,” he said. Shah inaugurated or performed the ground-breaking ceremony for various projects, worth a total of Rs 134 crore, via video-conferencing. Some of these projects were the renovation of gardens, widening of internal roads of Gandhinagar city, addition of classrooms at two schools, and the widening of the Pethapur-Nardipur road. Though coronavirus has slowed the pace of development works in Gandhinagar, the pandemic will not be able to hold back Gujarat or India for long, said Shah, who recently recovered from the Covid-19 infection. “When I visited Gandhinagar for the first time after assuming charge as home minister, I told the people of my constituency that it will be my priority to see that Gandhinagar remains at the top in terms of development,” he said, adding, “Due to the coronavirus, the pace of development has slowed down in Gandhinagar. But I want to assure you that it cannot hold back the development of Gandhinagar, Gujarat or our country. We will definitely regain our growth pace,” he said. He praised CM Vijay Rupani for the state’s efforts in containing the spread of the virus. “Gujarat’s situation has improved in comparison to the initial phase when cases were on the rise. Now, the mortality rate has also come down and a significant number of patients are recovering as well,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shah-e-launches-works-worth-rs-134-crore/articleshow/78047599.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops question serial actress||Kollam: Kottiaym Police on Thursday interrogated a serial actress in connection with the suicide of Ramsi (24) of Kottumpuram. The actress is the sister-in-law of Haaris Muhammed of Pallimukku who was arrested in the case. Ramsi committed suicide after Haaris, her fiance, decided to call off their wedding. Meanwhile, a nine-member investigation team has been constituted to conduct a detailed probe into the circumstances that led to the young woman’s suicide. Police arrested Haaris after four days of Ramsi’s death only after her audio message accusing him became viral on social media. Ramsi had accused Haaris for withdrawing from the marriage pact after exploiting her physically and financially. Following her family’s complaint, police have interrogated the Haaris’s sister-in-law (brother’s wife) who is a serial actress. They told police that the actress used to take Ramsi out of her house to accompany her during the serial shooting. Ramsi had stated that it was with the knowledge of Haaris’s parents and other family members, including the serial actress, that she was taken to Ernakualm to terminate her pregnancy. After sexually exploiting her several times and collecting huge amount of money and jewellery in the name of starting a workshop at Pallimukku, Haaris called off their proposed marriage. He told Ramsi that he wanted to marry another girl to settle his debt using the dowry. His family members also wanted Ramsi to find another match for herself. Police have found that Haaris’s family had fabricated a fake marriage certificate to facilitate the abortion procedure in a hospital at Ernakulam. Ramsi was found hanging in her rented house at Kottiyam on September 3. A social media collective ‘Justice for Ramsi’ has extended support to Ramsi’s family to pursue the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-question-serial-actress/articleshow/78046220.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Victim’s gold chain, cellphone stolen at Mumbai Covid centre: Kin||MUMBAI: The family of a 75-year-old woman, who was battling Covid-19, have complained that her valuables were stolen from her person after she died at a Covid Care Centre in Dahisar on Wednesday. The MHB Colony police have registered a case of theft and are scanning CCTV footage from the Centre. Sulochana Girkar was admitted to a Covid Care Centre located off Link Road about two weeks ago. Last week, her husband succumbed to Covid-19 but her family members did not disclose this to her, fearing she would take it badly. “Around 4.30am on Wednesday, we learnt that our grandmother was no more. We rushed to the Centre and waited outside as patient’s relatives are not allowed in. While her body was being placed in an ambulance, we requested the staff to open the body bag and show us her face so we could pay our last respects. We then noticed that the gold mangalsutra she always wore was missing as was her phone,” said Girkar’s grandson, Sanket More. Girkar had last spoken to her family on her phone a few days ago. “An X-ray taken on August 30 showed her wearing the mangalsutra. She had refused to take it off even after the staff requested her to. We have started going through CCTV footage from August 30 onwards. Every ward and rooms are covered with cameras,” said an officer. He admitted that all staffers are seen wearing PPE kits, so it would be tough to establish anyone’s identity. Girkar’s family was very upset on learning about the theft and called up an MNS party worker, Sagar Dalvi, for help. “We confronted the authorities at the Centre and they submitted in writing that they would find the valuables and sort the matter within three days,” said Dalvi. By Thursday, BJP party workers also joined in. MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar tweeted about the incident and MLA Manisha Chaudhari questioned what the BMC was doing about women’s security at Covid Care Centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/victims-gold-chain-cellphone-stolen-at-mumbai-covid-centre-kin/articleshow/78047713.cms||Nitasha Natu
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Explain salary denial to staff: HC||Hyderabad: The HC on Thursday directed the state to explain why it has not been paying salaries to outsourced work inspectors associated with Mission Bhagiratha for the last eight months. Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave two weeks time to state to file reply while hearing a batch of pleas filed by A Venkanna of Mahabubabad and 72 others from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/explain-salary-denial-to-staff-hc/articleshow/78047616.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy residents want roads damaged in rain repaired fast||Trichy: The federation of Tiruchirappalli city residents’ welfare associations (FTCRWA) has urged the Trichy Corporation to repair roads in five wards that were damaged in the recent rains before the onset of monsoon. The federation also asked the local body to expedite the ongoing underground drainage (UGD) work in Thiruverumbur, Kattur and Sanjeevi Nagar localities, that has made the roads in peripheral wards completely inaccessible.As the roads dug up for the UGD project were not re-laid, the FTCRWA passed a resolution on Thursday, urging the civic body to repair them.“The recent rains have completely damaged the roads in Thiruverumbur and other areas,” S Sakthivel, coordinator of the federation said. Residents lamented that even the good quality BT roads have turned slushly after the UGD work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-want-roads-damaged-in-rain-repaired-fast/articleshow/78048792.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Agra||UP Board schools in Agra see 69,000 drop in student registration for Classes IX to XII||AGRA: The number of students who registered for Classes IX to XII in schools affiliated with UP Board in Agra district has fallen by 69,000 for the 2020-21 academic session as compared to the previous one. A drop of 25,000 students has been recorded in registration for high school and intermediate exam for the 2020-21 session. The last date for registration was August 3, according to secondary education department officials here. Financial crisis caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandamic is said to be a primary reason for the drop in registration. At the same time, the officials said last date for the registration may be extended. However, no orders to the effect have so far been issued. In the 2019-20 academic year, around 2.46 lakh students had registered for Classes IX to XII in Agra district. In the current session, the number of registrations has reduced to 1.77 lakh. Secondary education department records suggest that as compared to 1.14 lakh students registering for high school and intermediate in the previous session, only 88,641 students registered to qualify for the UP Board exam for 2020-21 session. District inspector of schools Ravindra Singh said, “Major fall has been recorded in the number of registrations for Classes IX to XII. The Covid-19 pandamic is the main reason behind the decrease. The situation is the same in other districts. We have sent a report on registration of the students for the current academic session to the state government. Duration of registrations is likely to be increased.” A Bodla-based shoe factory worker, Gopal Kushwah, said, “I lost my job during the lockdown. My son had to take admission in Class XII but due to the financial crisis, I have asked him to find some work. I hope he will be able to resume his studies next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-board-schools-in-agra-see-69k-drop-in-student-registration-for-classes-ix-to-xii/articleshow/78046211.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt: New rev law will streamline farm land registration process||Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has introduced the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, which is also called Record of Rights (ROR) Act, in the assembly replacing the old ROR Act, 1971, to simplify procedures for registration of agriculture land, change of ownership and also weed out corruption in the revenue department. The government hopes it would benefit nearly 60 lakh farmers, mostly small and marginal, writes Koride Mahesh Assembly is likely to debate and pass the new bill along with abolition of VRO posts on Friday. What is ROR and pattadar passbook? ROR will establish ownership of a certain piece of land and passbook is nothing but title deed issued under the provisions of the Act. Under the new Act, records will be prepared and maintained electronically in a web portal, Dharani. What will Dharani portal host? Records of Rights in ‘Dharani’ web portal will have names of pattadars (owners) of land, survey numbers, extent of land they possess and other details like mortgage etc. Data can be accessed from anywhere and the data would be used by banks and other organisations. How will it help farmers ? Government has decided to empower tahsildars as ‘joint sub-registrars’ to register agriculture land at mandal offices and make changes in revenue records through mutation immediately. Farmers or owners get the proceeding copy after the changes are made in the records. Changes will also be made in the passbooks where the seller’s land is deducted and the same extent of land is incorporated in the passbooks of buyer immediately. Farmers need not make rounds to tahsildar offices for mutation. It will also provide a solution to confusion where land records have not been updated. End to change of records in a fraudulent way Under the new Act, government said none of the officers have discretionary powers to alter land records. Changes can be made by sale, mortgage, gift and inheritance by producing sale deed or court decree. If a family wants to divide the land... All family members have to give an application to tahsildar with joint agreement specifying individual shares. Tahsildar then changes the land records through mutation. If I don’t have passbooks now, then? Tahsildars can issue pattadar passbook-cum-title deed where no passbook was issued so far due to any reasons by following relevant procedures. Can bank demand and keep passbooks for issuing agriculture loans? According to the proposed Act, credit agencies should give crop loans based on the record of rights (Dharani web portal) details and shall not keep passbooks of a loanee with them. How special revenue tribunals will help farmers? Till now, tahsildars, revenue divisional officers and additional collectors were holding revenue courts every Saturday. There was delay in disposal of cases. Government proposed special tribunals to deal with land disputes and to dispose them in timely manner. Caste and income certificates Government has removed the service of caste certificate from revenue department and decided to give the power to panchayats and municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-new-rev-law-will-streamline-farm-land-registration-process/articleshow/78047630.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Sravani case: Friend taken into custody||Hyderabad: A day after Telugu TV actress K Sravani died of suicide at her home in Madhura Nagar area, her close friend was taken into custody for questioning on Thursday. The actress’ family had alleged that she had a close friendship with a man called Devaraju, who was pestering her to get married to him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sravani-case-friend-taken-into-custody/articleshow/78047628.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Doc, nurse shunted out as new born dies||Kozhikode: Health minister K K Shailaja has ordered the transfer of a doctor and nurse at the community health centre at Panur in Kannur district after allegations that they are responsible for the death of a new born. Relatives of Sameera, hailing from Panur, alleged that they contacted the doctor at the CHC when the pregnant woman developed some uneasiness. They said the doctor and nurse refused to come to the house citing Covid-19 situation. Sameera prematurely gave birth to a baby in the house itself. The baby died soon after birth. Sameera was consulting a doctor at a hospital in Thalassery. The relatives said that they contacted the doctor in Panur as there was urgency. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/doc-nurse-shunted-out-as-new-born-dies/articleshow/78046260.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||Pune man selling high-end liquor held||Vadodara: A man living in Gotri was arrested on Thursday noon for selling high-end liquor brands illegally. Police found 90 bottles from the home and vehicle of the accused Rahul Ugade. According to cops, they had information about Ugade’s illicit liquor business from his rented house near Rameshwar School in Gotri. Based on the tip-off, cops from Gotri police station raided his house. Bottles of Scotch and several other vodka, whisky and wines were found from Ugade’s house. The total liquor stock has been valued at Rs 87,500. Police are yet to interrogate him about the source of the liquor and since when he was operating in Vadodara as he has been quarantined for now. However, the liquor seized from him was meant for sale in Karnataka. “His hometown is Pune so it is possible that he may be getting the stock from Karnataka,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pune-man-selling-high-end-liquor-held/articleshow/78045416.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Let few lawyers travel by train on trial basis: Bombay HC||Mumbai: Observing that the Covid-19 lockdown has to be gradually opened up, Bombay high court on Thursday told the state government to allow few advocates to travel by Mumbai locals on an experimental basis, to attend physical hearings. “We have to live with corona(virus). We have to live with social distancing,’’ said Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, who alongwith Justice Girish Kulkarni heard a PIL by lawyers to allow travel by train. The state had earlier told HC they cannot be allowed on locals. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni iterated its stand, adding that the situation had worsened. “It has gone from bad to worse. We are not presently inclined to allow them,’’ he said. He said newspaper reports and photographs show trains are crowded and not enough to provide for social distancing. “They are not overflowing,’’ he said. The judges said HC opened four courts for physical hearing but was not getting adequate lawyers to attend them. “One reason could be lawyers are not able to travel. Gradually, we have to open up,” said the CJ, who then remarked that we have to live with coronavirus. The judges pointed out that outstation trains like Kolkata-Mumbai have resumed. “Come with a solution. This cannot continue for all times. If not each and every lawyer, devise a plan for some who have cases on a particular day,’’said the CJ, suggesting that e-passes be arranged. He said judges of four courts for physical hearings complained that parties were unable to attend physical hearing. “If we find even after starting advocates are not attending, we’ll have to revert to entire virtual hearing.’’ Advocate Shyam Dewani said trial court advocates must also be allowed train travel. The CJ said, “Let’s see what is happening in HC. Then we can think about lower courts.” The judges hoped for a solution at the next hearing in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-few-lawyers-travel-by-train-on-trial-basis-bombay-hc/articleshow/78047756.cms||Rosy Sequeira
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Nine residential areas emerge as major hotspots in Nashik||NASHIK: Nine densely-populated residential areas in Nashik city have become major Covid-19 hotspots even as the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is pushing hard to break the chain of infection. These nine hotspots include Jail Road, Sinnar Phata, Jaybhavani Road, Hirawadi, Peth Road, Mhasrul, Indira Nagar, Rane Nagar and Pathardi Phata areas. The city currently has 1,811 active containment zones. Of them, 1,807 are residential buildings, apartments and standalone houses. Moreover, more than 250 such active containment zones are in the nine new hotspots. “Earlier, the slum areas were the major hotspots in the city. Wadalagaon, Phule Nagar, Ram Nagar and other slums were reporting many cases around one-and-a-half-months ago. However, the trend has now changed and more Covid-19 positive cases are coming from residential buildings, apartments and standalone houses,” said NMC officials. The civic officials said they are tracing suspected patients and conducting their antigen tests for early detection. The 1,811 active containment zones are spread across six divisions of municipal corporation in the city. Almost all, barring four, are residential buildings, apartments and standalone houses. More cases are emerging from these areas mainly because people are not following the safety protocols to prevent the spread of the infection, said the officials. “Some citizens are not wearing masks and ignoring social distancing protocol. They are not taking the pandemic seriously. That is why more cases are being reported from residential areas,” said the NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9-residential-areas-emerge-as-major-hotspots-in-nashik/articleshow/78044825.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to encourage oil palm cultivation||Hyderabad: With a great demand for oil seeds in the state, the government is encouraging oil palm cultivation, agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said. The Centre also said 25 out of 33 districts in the state are suitable for oil palm cultivation, which was taken up in eight lakh acres this year. Replying to questions raised by MLAs — Balka Suman, Guvvala Balaraju, Sandra Venkata Veeraiah and Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy — during question hour in the assembly, the minister said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had been giving top priority to oil palm cultivation. “While cooking oil usage is 21 million tonnes every year, we are importing oils from other countries by spending about Rs 79,000 crore a year. Of this, Rs 40,000 crore is spent on palm oil alone. To encourage oil palm cultivation, the Centre is giving incentives for its cultivation,” Niranjan Reddy said. He said the land under cultivation is 1.41 crore acres in the state. The state government’s contribution was 55% of total paddy procurement by Food Corporation of India. In oil palm cultivation, the state is going to create history. To begin with, cultivation has begun in 6,000 acres, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-encourage-oil-palm-cultivation/articleshow/78047635.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||No land to land solatium to Mucherla farmers||Hyderabad: Telangana industries minister KT Rama Rao on Thursday said that the government has no plans to give land to land compensation to those whose land has been acquired for the upcoming Pharma City project at Mucherla on the city outskirts. The minister said that apart from the monetary compensation, the local youth would be provided jobs. Replying to questions on the Pharma City in the legislative council on Thursday, the minister said the government has acquired over 8,000 acres for Pharma City and more land would be acquired soon. “Some parties are politicising the issue and creating hurdles for land acquisition,” KTR said. Meanwhile, TJS president M Kodandaram along with a few farmers who lost their land held a dharna at Ibrahimpatnam revenue divisional office at Turkayamjal against the land acquisition. The farmers alleged that the revenue divisional officer (RDO) had threatened to deposit the money in the banks if the farmers do not come forward to receive the compensation amount. “The government is offering only Rs 16 lakh per acre, while the market rate is nearly Rs 1 crore,” a farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-land-to-land-solatium-to-mucherla-farmers/articleshow/78047639.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor tests positive, BJP moves no-trust motion||MUMBAI: Mayor and Shiv Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar isolated herself after she tested positive for Covid-19 at her official bungalow at Byculla. She was tested with an antigen test on Wednesday. BMC collected her samples again, along with family and 40 staff, including security guards and office staff, for the RT-PCR test. She tweeted about her health on Thursday, urging those who came in contact with her to take care. Meanwhile, BJP corporators called for an urgent meeting at BMC after writing a letter and moving a no-confidence motion against her, alleging corruption during the pandemic. The mayor’s office refused to comment. Standing committee chairman and senior Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav said, “We will not entertain their invalid letter. They have not mentioned any reason for the no-confidence motion. It’s BJP’s stunt as they have no work to do.” Pednekar was active during the pandemic, visiting hospitals and hotspots to encourage BMC staff and health workers. She visited a hospital in Malad on Tuesday. In April, she visited a hospital in a nurse’s uniform, interacted with nursing students, helping them manage Covid patients. She was a nurse at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust Hospital in Uran between 1993-2002, before politics. MNS had alleged that BMC awarded a contract to manage a Covid care centre at Mahalaxmi to her son’s company. BJP claimed it was a conflict of interest. The mayor had denied allegation, stating that her son independently manages the company. BJP group leader in BMC, Prabhakar Shinde said, “We have been seeking a meeting for six months but the ruling party (Sena) is avoiding it. Under legal provisions, we sent a letter signed by four standing committee members, calling for an urgent meeting. We also proposed a no-confidence motion against the mayor over corruption. Her son and son-in-law got BMC contracts during Covid, but there was no clarity on how they qualified for the work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mayor-tests-positive-bjp-moves-no-trust-motion/articleshow/78047682.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||After Mundhe gone, traders now plead for lockdown in city||Nagpur: Traders, who were so far demanding that the odd-even rule should be lifted, are now lobbying hard for a lockdown in the city. Trade associations, during Tukaram Mundhe’s tenure as municipal commissioner, had raised voice against the proposed lockdown and other restrictions on business activities. A large section of businessmen dealing in whole gamut of items from grain to steel are now demanding that a lockdown should be imposed by civic authorities instead, so that they are saved from the Covid hazard. Sources among trade guilds say that the change of mind happened as Covid cases are increasing at a steady pace. Traders have realized that it may harm them and their families too. However, they are reluctant to voluntarily shut down the business, fearing that not all may follow. If a few shops close, some may continue working and eventually snatch away their business, is the general apprehension among the traders. A lockdown may help in breaking the Covid chain, they now say. Some of the trade associations want apex bodies like Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) to take up the case on their behalf and declare a lockdown. The NVCC on the other hand is gathering opinions of traders across all associations to assess the sentiment in the fraternity. “There have been demands from a section of traders from different associations that a lockdown should be imposed. However, due to lack of clarity about majority view, it has been decided to call for opinion of heads of the respective guilds,” said Sanjay Agrawal, deputy president of NVCC. Agrawal said he feels that lockdown may not be the only solution. Rather, there has to be strict observance of preventive protocol by the public in general and government machinery also. Dipen Agrawal of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) said since community spread has already taken place in Nagpur, lockdown cannot be the solution. It can be thought of in smaller centres where the spread is comparatively under control, he said. Ajay Madan, president of Cloth Traders Association, said his guild has written to NVCC that it take a decision to have a 10 to 15 days of lockdown so that the infection chain can be broken. The association will extend full support to the decision, he added. Rajesh Rokde of Sarafa Traders Association said there have been demands from the sector to have lockdown so that the virus chain can be broken. However, it must be ensured each of the establishments stick to the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-mundhe-gone-traders-now-plead-for-lockdown-in-city/articleshow/78047674.cms||Shishir Arya
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||Vigilance team raids Shahjahanpur RTO, arrests 15 touts with Rs 4 lakh cash||Bareilly: A vigilance team, along with local police, raided the new regional transport office (RTO) in Shahjahanpur following instructions of CM Yogi Adityanath, and caught 14 touts with Rs 4 lakh in cash on Thursday. The vigilance team also seized a few shops through which the middlemen were operating, along with their laptops, printers and other equipment. Additional SP (vigilance) Arvind Yadav from Lucknow led the team in coordination with local police and DM Indra Vikram Singh. After reaching the RTO, the team quietly spread across the area before surprising the suspects. The gates of the RTO were locked and all people inside were scanned to ensure the middlemen could not escape. Thereafter, all shops outside the office were raided and some suspects were arrested from there as well. The DM later told TOI, “This raid was part of the state government’s zero tolerance policy towards corruption, with the CM directly monitoring its progress. We’d regularly received complaints of corruption against RTO officials, so a vigilance team was sent to raid it. We arrested 18 touts and two RTO staff red-handed and recovered Rs 4 lakh from them. The vigilance team also seized a laptop, eight mobile phones and other equipment. An FIR will be registered against all those arrested, after the vigilance team completes their probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vigilance-team-raids-shahjahanpur-rto-arrests-15-touts-with-rs-4-lakh-cash/articleshow/78044850.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR ticks off Rajgopal Reddy||Hyderabad: Industries minister KT Rama Rao on Thursday upbraided Munugode MLA Komatireddy Rajgopal Reddy for trying to become a ‘hero’ during the zero hour. A heated argument ensued between KTR and Rajgopal when the latter said smaller towns other than Sircilla and Siddipet should also be developed by the government. The minister said that ever since TRS came to power the government had been releasing funds regularly to all the municipalities. “If we were not working for the people , then we would not have been given a one-sided verdict in the municipal elections,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-ticks-off-rajgopal-reddy/articleshow/78047655.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh village holds crocodile ‘hostage’, demands Rs 50,000||BAREILLY: Three days ago, there was a stir in the quiet village of Midania, some 50 km from Lakhimpur Kheri, right next to the buffer forests of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. A crocodile, possibly washed away by floodwaters, was swimming in the village pond. For a while, there was alarm. But after the initial agitation died down, pragmatism took over. Why not hold it hostage instead? “They demanded Rs 50,000 to release the crocodile to us,” said deputy director of the reserve’s buffer areas, Anil Patel. “They said it was money they deserved for having rescued the crocodile. It took hours of convincing, support from police and threat of legal action to finally get the crocodile free.” The bizarre chain of events goes back to Tuesday. “We got a call from Midania village. A large crocodile had been spotted in a village pond and it was a threat to children and cattle,” said Patel. So the forest department sent a team, led by forest ranger Anil Shah, to rescue the crocodile. When it started getting dark, the team dropped the operations for the night. “But on Wednesday, around 9am, we got another call informing us that the villagers had decided to rescue the crocodile.” Turned out that they were just tired of waiting. When Shah got there, he was met with anger and a ransom demand. “The villagers blamed forest officials for not turning up on time, so they went about it on their own.” said sub-divisional magistrate Sunandu Sudhakaran. They had removed water hyacinths and cleared the pond to rescue the crocodile and then tied it to a leash. “They said nearly 15 people had been engaged in the rescue operation. And that they had risked their lives. The village head Sharma Prasad even handed a list of those who had helped,” added Patel. For two hours, the negotiations continued but without much headway. The villagers insisted they deserved compensation for doing what the forest staff should have been and the forest officials told them there were no such provisions. “They had held the crocodile captive. It is a Schedule I animal, provided absolute protection under the Wildlife Protection Act. So, I sent a team of revenue officials and informed the station house officer that the forest officials needed help,” said Sudhakaran. When police arrived, the negotiations stopped. “They told the locals that they could be booked if they didn’t release the crocodile,” Sudhakaran added. The villagers finally relented. Patel said, “The incident has been recorded but no action has been taken against any villager at the request of their village head.” And the crocodile was released into the Ghaghra river later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dudhwa-village-holds-crocodile-hostage-for-ransom-demands-rs-50k/articleshow/78043463.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Pettimudy tragedy: Education of survivor children in the doldrums||IDUKKI: Child survivors in the Pettimudy landslide tragedy face an uncertain future as continuation of their education gets mired in red tape. According to officials, a virtual meeting with the chief minister and other officials did not discuss the continuation of education of the children. The parents of four students died in the landslide and many kids lost their study materials in the tragedy. However, as per data with the district administration, only four students were eligible for government support for their education. “About 36 children attended a counselling session arranged by the District Legal Service Society (DLSA) and child protection unit. Many students said that they lost their study materials. These kids have not yet resumed their studies,” said Geetha M G, district child protection officer. “Four students Hemalatha (18), Gopika (17), Saranya (18) and Annalakshmi (16) survived the disaster. Their parents perished in the landslide. The children are now staying with their relatives,” she added. “DLSA and child protection unit have called a meeting on Saturday to discuss the issue. We plan to contact each child and collect the details of their future study and job aspirations. We will then submit a detailed proposal to the collector,” said Geetha. Idukki district collector H Dineshan told TOI, “The district administration received information that four students lost their parents and they need government support to continue their education. The state government has already decided to provide educational assistance for the child survivors. I will submit a proposal to government in this regard.” “If more students need support, the district administration is ready to consider this. Two organizations have shown willingness to provide assistance to the children,” the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/education-of-survivor-children-in-the-doldrums/articleshow/78046279.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT appoints panel to probe pollution caused by Singareni||HYDERABAD: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the appointment of a joint committee of experts to assess whether Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) caused air and soil pollution in Kothaguden and Khammam. It has been alleged that the open cast mining by SCCL has adversely impacted the environment in the area. The direction came after a petitioner, Banothu Nandu Nayak, of Khammam alleged that the issue of pollution being caused was brought to the notice of authorities. “The district collector of Khammam had also constituted a committee to look into the issue and certain suggestions were made. However, they were not implemented,” said Nayak. “An expert appraisal committee of the Union ministry of environment had also earlier found that the coal mines were damaging the environment. However, the operations of the mines continued as usual. This inaction by authorities affected the health of local. The corporate social responsibility of the plants were also not executed to mitigate the issues being faced by the locals,” added Nayak. NGT in its order has appointed a joint committee comprising of the district collector of Khammam, a senior officer of environment ministry, a senior officer of Telangana pollution control board and a senior officer from the department of mining and geology.The committee will inspect the area in question and submit a report by November 9. The committee will study if the safety as well as pollution control mechanisms being undertaken by the mines are sufficient to mitigate the sound and air pollution that is likely to be caused by SCCL’s operation. If there are any violations found, the committee will suggest the remedial measures that need to be taken and compensations that needs to be paid for damage to the environment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-appoints-panel-to-probe-pollution-caused-by-singareni/articleshow/78047733.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Nod to Rs1,000cr Buddhist Theme Park around Futala Lake||Nagpur: Aaditya Thackeray, state minister for tourism and environment, has cleared guardian minister Nitin Raut’s ambitious plan for a Buddhist Theme Park around Futala Lake. The Rs1,000 crore park would be allocated Rs200 crore in each annual budget, said Thackeray, and the state will try to get a World Bank loan for it. The park will include a 115 feet high statue of Lord Buddha, inside the lake but quite close to the bank. The statue will be on the west side of the lake and face the waterfront (on east side). The park will have 64 viharas, two caves with Buddhist paintings and sculptures, interpretation centre, research centre, resort with 35 rooms, amphitheatre for 3,500 people, sculpture park, landscapes garden, theme exhibit halls, food court, art and craft village, children's play area etc. The project proposes to start boating in the lake, with ghats and jetty for the purpose. A promenade would be constructed near the ghat. Raut has planned the park with an eye on Buddhist tourists. Prominent Buddhist locations – Deekshabhoomi (where Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar converted to Buddhism in 1956), Dragon Palace Temple and Naglok are also located in Nagpur. Ashok Mokha, who designed the project, said not a single tree will be felled for the project. “We will instead plant more trees. It is a very environment friendly project,” he added. A nursery and conservatory are included in the project. Thackeray also cleared an energy education park at Koradi. The park will be built by Raut’s energy department but its marketing will be done by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). Officials of tourism, environment, agriculture departments etc were present in the meeting. While Raut is building Buddhist Theme Park on three sides of Futala Lake, Union minister Nitin Gadkari is setting up a multimedia laser show and building a spectator gallery on the west side of the lake. The shops on the waterfront were demolished and the gallery is coming up there. After these projects are complete, Futala will become a hang out spot but the ecology of the lake may be endangered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nod-to-rs1000cr-buddhist-theme-park-around-futala-lake/articleshow/78047717.cms||Ashish Roy
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Locals livid as new road dug up for erecting poles||Trichy: The Royal Road near Trichy Central bus stand was dug up at multiple spots for erecting poles to laying cables for a private telecommunication company. It has damaged the road, which was recently re-laid by the civic body as part of Rs 11.8 crore pan-city road redevelopment project.The 600 metre stretch of Royal Road was dug with about two-feet depth. Locals were irked as instead of digging the vacant space between the road and pedestrian platforms, the motorable portion of the road had been dug up. Since rainwater will penetrate into the basement of the road, locals said that possibilities are there for the road’s surface to come off. “Very frequently such acts degrade the quality of city roads. The corporation, while awarding permission, must instruct the private organisations to ensure that only the vacant space adjacent to the roads was used,” C Balasubramanian, a resident of Karumandapam said. “The private organisation was told to dig only the vacant space adjacent to the roads. Since the concrete mixture is filled in the dug up portion, the road shall remain intact,” an official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-livid-as-new-road-dug-up-for-erecting-poles/articleshow/78048834.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt reverses fee hike nod for Sanskriti School||NEW DELHI: The fee hike approval given by Directorate of Education (DoE) to Sanskriti School for academic sessions 2018-19 to 2020-21 were reversed by Delhi government on Thursday. This was announced by deputy CM Manish Sisodia. In 2017-18, the fee hike proposal of the school had been rejected. However, a 20% hike was approved for the 2018-19 academic session, another 20% for 2019-20 and 35% for 2020-21. “I observed that permissions for such steep hikes were granted without approval of the minister in-charge, especially when other schools were not allowed the same on account of surpluses. Certain facts were ignored by the department,” said Sisodia. In 2019, the fee hike approval was given twice, once on September 20 and then on December 16. The approval in 2020 was given on March 6. On April 18, Delhi government had passed an order that schools couldn’t increase fees and could charge only the tuition fees. The decision was taken following complaints by parents to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia about the indiscriminate increase in fees made by schools. Sanskriti School principal Richa Sharma Agnihotri told TOI, “I don’t know anything about it, so I won’t be able to comment.” The reasons for withdrawal of approval include the school failing to file its audited accounts. “Under the system called GAAP, it is necessary to follow a special system of accounting and audit. But Sanskriti School did not follow it,” said the deputy CM. Sisodia’s note to the education department said, “The discrepancies pointed out in the order for rejection of the fee proposal for the 2017-18 session and direction issued to the school was not complied with when the proposal for the 2018-19 session was submitted. The requirement of funds for implementation of 7th Pay Commission was already considered in the 2017-18 proposal and rejected on the ground of huge surplus with the school. The grounds for permission for the 2018-19 session were not new but the same as earlier, which had already been rejected.” The minister pointed out that the 35% fee hike for the 2020-21 session was based on the presumption of increase in salary due to dearness allowance and other expenditures. The school had not deposited the development fund in a separate account, he added. “The discrepancies are not only serious in nature and unacceptable, but are also required to be corrected to ensure equal treatment to all schools,” added Sisodia’s note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-reverses-fee-hike-nod-for-sanskriti-school/articleshow/78047769.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 11, 2020||Goa||Goa airport sees uptick in passengers||PANAJI: Ever since Goa dropped the restrictions on entry into the state, Covid-19 testing at the entry points, and quarantine requirements, the number of domestic scheduled flights has increased along with the number of passengers on these flights. Goa International Airport has received requests for slots from domestic airlines and expects air connectivity between Goa and other states to improve by September 20. Compared to the five to six flights that Goa was handling on May 25 when flights resumed, the Airports Authority of India is now handling between 16-20 flights per day. By September 20, Goa Airport expects that the number of domestic flights could increase to 30 per day, which though far from the 90 flight movements in the pre-Covid era, is an encouraging sign, said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. “The upswing continues for Goa International Airport. There’s a new connection by Indigo to Mumbai from Goa departing at 8.15am on all days from September 9,” said Malik. “(There are) many more connections on the path,” said Malik. Air India started connecting flights between Goa and Surat from September 6 onwards though the flight will operate only on Sundays. From September 5, IndiGo started an additional Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai flight only on Saturdays. When flights resumed on May 25, only six flights operated out of Goa International Airport with multiple cancellations and empty flights describing the flying experience. Goa used to receive 100 passengers while the number of people flying out used to be closer to 300 when scheduled flights resumed. “We haven’t calculated the numbers for September, but if I look at it in a broad sense, since September 1 the number of passengers has increased. Where earlier we used to get around 600-700 passengers, Goa Airport is touching 1,000 passengers per day and if the number of flights is higher, we touch 1,400 to 1,500,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-airport-sees-uptick-in-passengers/articleshow/78048851.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Stamp duty reduction creates positive mood||Nashik: The state government’s decision to reduce the stamp duty and local body cess by 3% has created a positive mood in the realty sector as the number of enquiries have tripled in the past few days. The two real estate bodies — Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Nashik and National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco) — have claimed that enquiries and site visits of prospective home buyers have increased in the city. Nsahik chapter of Naredco has also announced a zero stamp duty scheme for the buyers, while Credai Nashik said that its members have not increased the rates in the past four years. “Earlier, there was no demand for apartments during between April and June, but the state government’s decision of reducing the stamp duty to boost the realty sector is yielding positive results. The number of genuine enquiries and the site visits of prospective buyers have now increased three times in the past few days,” Credai Nashik president Ravi Mahajan said. “We have kept the rates of apartments stable in the city for the past four years and it is a good opportunity for people to book their homes as they will save around Rs 1.5 lakh if they buy a 2BHK apartement,” Mahajan said. “We are getting good number of enquiries for residential properties. We are expecting the enquires to increase further once the festive season begins,” Jayesh Thakkar, founder member of Naredco (Nashik chapter), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stamp-duty-reduction-creates-positive-mood/articleshow/78044884.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||3 held for assaulting doc, pharmacist at Pilibhit dist hosp||Pilibhit: Three people hailing from Pilibhit's Shivpuria village, under Jahanbad police station, were arrested on Thursday for allegedly entering the district hospital late on Wednesday night in an inebriated condition, creating a ruckus there and assaulting a medical officer and a pharmacist on emergency medical duty. Dr RP Singh, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital, said the three had brought a patient to the emergency wing at around 11 pm on Wednesday. They were not wearing face masks. When the pharmacist, Avdheah Kumar, objected, the trio allegedly got into an argument with him. Then, they attacked him after forcibly removing the pharmacist's face mask. The medical officer on duty, Dr Sudhir Kumar, who rushed to his aid was also assaulted by the trio, alleged the CMS. “On getting the information about the incident, I rushed to the hospital and called police, who took the three into custody," said Singh. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the three were identified as Ram Kumar, Mintoo and Puran Lal. As no written complaint in the matter was filed by the victims' side, police sent the trio to jail under IPC section 151 (causing disturbance of public peace in assembly of five or more persons).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-held-for-assaulting-doc-pharmacist-at-pilibhit-dist-hosp/articleshow/78041451.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Top cop stresses on contact tracing in families to curtail infection rate||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has issued instructions to his medical team to take up contact tracing of Covid positive cops and their family members to tackle the rising numbers of cases in the force. A 200-bed exclusive isolation facility too has been created by the police department in association with VNIT. As on Thursday, 634 police personnel and 278 family members have tested positive. Around 10 cops and three family members have succumbed to Covid, leaving the police top brass highly concerned as the rate of infection in the police force is rising rapidly. In the latest development, city police have decided to shift their personnel, who are currently in home isolation, to the isolation facility created at VNIT. “We are increasingly finding Covid positive cops are ending up infecting the rest of the family members and also vice versa. So, we are trying to isolate the cops at least in the initial days of infection,” said Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the Nagpur police hospital. Dr Shinde also said the CP, who is keeping close tabs on the Covid situation and regularly reviewing it, is keen contact tracing is also done among family members of positive cops so as to get them tested. “We are also planning to convert the community hall of the Pachpaoli police quarter into a Dedicated Covid Care Centre for the police department with ICU facilities,” said Dr Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/top-cop-stresses-on-contact-tracing-in-families-to-curtail-infection-rate/articleshow/78047758.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Order to transfer Nagar additional collector quashed||AURANGABAD: The Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) bench in Aurangabad recently quashed and set aside the state government order to transfer P S Sormare, the additional collector of Ahmednagar to Nandurbar, before his three-year term in the office was completed. Sormare had approached the MAT through lawyer Avinash S Deshmukh challenging the government order stating that his transfer was illegal and he was not due for transfer as he had not completed 3-year tenure on the said post as per the provisions of the Maharashtra Government Servants Regulation of Transfers and Prevention of Delay in Discharge of Official Duties Act, 2005. Deshmukh pointed out that Sormare, who completed service of one year and one month (13 months) at Ahmednagar, was also given important responsibility to tackle the Covid-19 situation. He was appointed joint president of the district-level monitoring committee, as well as the nodal officer for performing various duties under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sormare is set to retire in March 2021. Another officer, Dattatraya Borude, who is junior to Sormare, was appointed to the post. Borude was also made a respondent in the petition. In its defense, the state government said that, among other things, that due to Sormare’s age and in the wake of the spread of Covid-19, he was transferred to Nandurbar, which was a green zone. While quashing and setting aside the order, MAT vice-chairman B P Patil said: "The record shows that the respondent (new appointment) is junior to the applicant and is also having less experience. The respondents — the state of Maharashtra, addl. chief secretary, revenue & forest department, the divisional commissioner, Nashik and the collector, Ahmednagar, have filed the affidavit raising false contentions in that regard.’’ It further said, “The said orders (regarding transfer) are issued only to accommodate the respondent no. 4 in the place of applicant at Ahmednagar. The impugned orders dated 30.4.2020 passed by the respondent no. 1 transferring the applicant to Nandurbar and the order of posting the respondent no. 4 in place of the applicant at Ahmednagar are quashed and set aside.’’ MAT further directed the additional chief secretary to “repost the applicant (Sormare) at his earlier place of posting i.e. at Ahmednagar immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/order-to-transfer-nagar-addl-collector-quashed/articleshow/78044920.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Parties may reach consensus on assembly, local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Political parties in the LDF and UDF camps are likely to reach consensus on the call for schedule change in the bypolls to Chavara and Kuttanad assembly seats and general elections to local bodies, in the all-party meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday. Sources indicate that the government may agree with the UDF stand that both elections should be postponed in view of the pandemic. “There could be a consensus on this. Government might also support postponement of local body elections for a short spell so that the new governing councils would come up by January, instead of November,” sources said. There were also reports that not all parties in the LDF subscribed to the call for postponement of local body elections. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said that his party was in favour of seeking cancellation of assembly byelections. However, BJP did not support the call for postponement of local body elections, he said. “Postponement of local body elections would badly affect the developmental activities in the state,” Surendran said here on Thursday. According to him, both LDF and UDF were fearing backlash in local body elections. “The UDF demand seeking postponement of both the elections is strange,” he added. The government hopes that a joint plea by political parties would help to elicit a favourable decision from the Election Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/parties-may-reach-consensus-on-assembly-local-body-polls/articleshow/78046324.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||ONGC, GAIL pollution to be investigated||Hyderabad: The National Green Tribunal has formed a joint committee of experts to look into pollution caused by ONGC and GAIL in Krishna-Godavari basin. The committee was directed to probe if there was air, water, sound and soil pollution caused on account of the activities of ONGC and GAIL and also to look into CRZ violations. They have also been directed to conduct ambient air quality test, groundwater quality and quality of water test in water bodies and sea and if there is any contamination caused and the nature of remediation to be taken to restore the same to its original position. The committee was asked to submit its report by November 17. Petitioner Venkatapathi Raju Yenumla cited regular gas leakage in Rajahmundry. - U Sudhakarreddy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ongc-gail-pollution-to-be-investigated/articleshow/78047771.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 11, 2020||India||Aadhaar to help DL, RC renewal||NEW DELHI: A recent notification of rules for Aadhaar authentication by the IT ministry has paved the way for using the biometric identification to facilitate online services for citizens such as obtaining learner’s licence, renewal of driving licence (DL), registration of vehicles (RC) and change of address in these documents. The road transport ministry has written to IT ministry to bring the DL and RC related online services under the ambit of the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, which was notified on August 5. The transport ministry’s proposal is aimed at weeding out fake or multiple DLs and other documents obtained by drivers and vehicle owners. This will also ensure people avail services without visiting offices of transport department. Specifying the purpose of Aadhaar authentication, the rules say, “The central government may allow Aadhaar authentication by requesting entities in the interest of good governance, preventing leakage of public funds, promoting ease of living of residents and enabling better access to services for them.” This will be on a voluntary basis, the notification says. “Aadhaar authentication will be better, if anyone wants to avail the services online,” said a source. Online verification or authentication of document by using Aadhaar ID has been one of the most popular mode for filing IT returns. Though in 2018 the transport ministry had decided to make Aadhaar as ID proof for driving licence applicants mandatory, it was dropped after a Supreme Court order, which ruled that mandatory use of Aadhaar won’t apply for other services except for availing government benefits. In July last year, the government had enacted the amendments to Aadhaar Act allowing voluntary use of Aadhaar as proof of identity. Last month the IT ministry came out with the rules, which allows central and state government departments to prepare proposals with justification for which they are seeking Aadhaar authentication an submit them to the Unique Identification Authority of India for authorisation. In September 2019, Union IT and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said, “Duplicate driving licence could not be made, if Aadhar becomes mandatory for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aadhaar-to-help-dl-rc-renewal/articleshow/78049844.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Sr lawyer told to moot panel on Lonar Lake||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has entrusted the job of suggesting the constitution of court-appointed committee and its terms of reference for development of Lonar Lake crater to senior counsel Chandrashekar Kaptan. A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor directed all lawyers involved in the petition to come up with ideas of development of the historic lake with names of members who will be part of the HC panel. They included petitioners’ lawyer Anand Parchure, amicus curiae Ashutosh Dharmadhikari, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) counsel Ravi Sanyal, assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar and others. All of them had submitted their individual suggestions to the court. “Considering variance in their suggestions, it would be appropriate that all the stakeholders and their respective lawyers submit proposals to senior counsel. He has agreed to consider those proposals and submit a final one to this court after giving due consideration to all suggestions,” said the bench. Before adjourning the hearing till September 28, the judges asked Kaptan to submit a final proposal in advance so that they could also study it and be ready with their observations on it. The HC was hearing a PIL by Kirti Nipankar and others seeking directives to the respondents for preservation, conservation and development of the historic lake, believed to be formed by impact of a meteorite. In the last hearing, the bench had constituted an ad hoc nodal authority under Buldhana collector and directed it to take care of all interlinked and interconnected issues for providing an umbrella for all agencies working together for the lake’s development. “The collector should oversee, supervise, undertake and ensure completion of all works related to the lake. All agencies involved in the issue should move proposals through the nodal authority and also sort out problems for undertaking and completing various works assigned to them,” the judges had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-lawyer-told-to-moot-panel-on-lonar-lake/articleshow/78034100.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 11, 2020||Trichy||BDU mulls conducting PhD entrance exam online||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) is looking into the possibility of conducting the qualifying entrance examination for its PhD program through the online mode this year. The entrance examination was made mandatory by BDU from 2018 and it is conducted twice a year for aspirants for PhD in BDU and its affiliated colleges. While applications are being received from August 24, September 25 is the last date to submit applications. The examination is scheduled for October 11. The university has approached a couple of companies for the expertise in conducting the online examination. University officials will be given a demo on the software by the companies and a mock test is scheduled for September 17 after which a final decision will be taken. The university is contemplating on holding the exam online as students from various places will have to come down to Trichy to appear for the examination. Speaking to TOI, G Gopinath, registrar, BDU, said that discussions are on to conduct the PhD qualifying examination in the online mode. He said that testing of software and validation process is on and if it turns out to be feasible, the examination may be conducted in the online mode for the first time. Asked on the response from aspirants, he said roughly 400 applications have been received so far across all disciplines. Last year, 700 aspirants had applied for the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-mulls-conducting-phd-entrance-exam-online/articleshow/78048847.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Unmasked on Delhi Metro: Threat to your health||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) can carry out thermal scanning of passengers, check their risk status on Aarogya Setu app, sanitise their bags and hands and ensure everyone follows social distancing. But there is one thing they can’t do -- scan for Delhi’s infamous ‘chalta hai’ attitude. There’s no app for that. An unusually high number of DMRC and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, apart from civil defence volunteers, were ensuring on Thursday that all safety norms related to Covid-19 were diligently followed at all metro stations, right from the entry point to the frisking point and then platforms. However, once inside a train, some passengers could be seen throwing all caution to the wind when the Red (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal), Violet (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh) and Green lines (Inderlok-Bahadurgarh) reopened. A sizeable number of passengers were wearing face masks so tiny that these could cover either their nose or the mouth, affording no protection to them or their fellow passengers. However, the ones who could easily get infected or infect others were those who came in wearing a mask but quickly removed it, pulled it down to their neck or kept it hanging from their ear. Despite DMRC constantly urging commuters — through advisories and public announcements — to not only wear face masks throughout the journey but also ‘talk less’ to minimise the risk of the virus spreading, some commuters were seen talking on the phone with no restraint. TOI witnessed a passenger remove his mask, carry on a loud conversation and then finish the call by assuring the person at the other end of his own well-being, all the while jeopardising that of his co-passengers. Even as the total tally of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has crossed two lakh and more than 4,000 new cases were reported in the past two days, some passengers didn’t seem concerned about following norms prescribed for containing the spread of Covid-19 and putting other passengers at grave risk by their irresponsible behaviour. A majority of passengers could be seen wearing face masks properly throughout the journey that completely covered their nose and mouth, minimising the risk of spreading infection. Though rare, some passengers could also be seen wearing face shields. Then there were those who covered their faces with handkerchiefs or a gamchha. On the fourth day of the gradual resumption of metro services, nearly 85,000 passengers turned up with most corridors now open to the public. TOI didn’t find any DMRC or CISF personnel inside the trains on Thursday, and some passengers took to social media to report about incidents of their co-passengers violating safety norms. Though DMRC can prosecute violators for not wearing face masks or not maintaining social distancing, with fines starting from Rs. 500, it is yet to begin penalising offenders. “Travelling in the metro in the new scenario of the Corona pandemic needs very intense co-operation and regulation by the public. At present our intention is not to punish and we have advised our staff to keep a positive attitude and help out commuters,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. “However, violation of regulations can invite penalties and a person can be asked to leave the Metro premises. In fact, DMRC has been refusing permission to travel to those who have turned up without masks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unmasked-on-metrothreat-to-your-health/articleshow/78047795.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 11, 2020||Vadodara||Skirmish over wearing masks||Vadodara: A major row broke out at Dairy Den Circle in Sayajigunj in the city on Thursday evening, as police apprehended some Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) members for allegedly not wearing masks. The members of RSS-backed students’ organization were later allowed to go without any action. The ABVP members alleged that the cops from Sayajigunj police station arrived at the circle and demanded fine from some of their members despite the fact that they were wearing masks. The heated arguments between the student leaders and the cops escalated into a minor skirmish. Later, as more cops reached the spot, the ABVP members were taken to the police station by foot. An hour later, all of them were allowed to go. A police official said that there was some misunderstanding as the ABVP members had masks but had pulled them down, while some from the group were holding the masks in their hands. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/skirmish-over-wearing-masks/articleshow/78045434.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 2 colleagues kill selves, had sent selfie video to friends||HYDERABAD: Two hearing and speech-impaired friends allegedly ended their life by setting themselves ablaze at Haliya in Nalgonda district in the wee hours of Thursday. They shared a selfie video with their friends on a WhatsApp group before killing themselves. Haliya police said Sheikh Mastanvali, 27, and N Ashwini, 20, were colleagues at a logistic company in Hyderabad. Both of them had gone missing on Monday. Police said that after Ashwini’s family discovered that she went missing, they lodged a complaint at Humayun Nagar police station. During investigation, police came to know that her colleague Mastanvali was also missing. They switched off their mobile phones and went to Nagarjunasagar and other nearby areas on a bike. On Wednesday night, they switched on one of their mobile phones and recorded a selfie video in sign language. They shared it with their friends on a WhatsApp group. In the message, they said: “There was no relationship between them and asked people not to misunderstand their friendship. No one is responsible for their death and they are killing themselves for their respective individual problems.” When their friends tried to reach them, they became inaccessible. Around 2.30am, the two shared their location on WhatsApp, police added. “Using the location, some of their friends hired a cab and reached Haliya. They found two burnt bodies. They informed us,’’ Haliya sub-inspector Shiva Kumar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-colleagues-kill-selves-had-sent-selfie-video-to-friends/articleshow/78047803.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Govt school principals get notices for laxity||NEW DELHI: District education officers were on Thursday directed to issue show-cause notices to the principals and teachers of three Delhi government schools in which anomalies were found during an inspection by education director Udit Prakash Rai. During the inspection, which was conducted for supervising online classes, the principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Qadipur in northeast Delhi was found absent. The order stated, “She (the principal) was absent without any application for leave and the entire campus bore a deserted look. The director education noticed that cleanliness on the campus was not up to the mark. He also observed that the new dual desks were kept outside the classrooms. Teachers were found sitting together and not doing any academic activity.” In the second school, Government Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Burari in northeast Delhi, the show-cause notice would be served to a guest teacher and the head of the institution. “When the guest teacher was questioned about the status of her online classes, she was not aware of the number of students participating in it. The status of online classes was not satisfactory,” the order stated. Rai also observed that the teachers were not using tablets for conducting online classes. In fact, they were found engaged in other administrative works, such as filling up teacher’s diary and School Management Committees bills, instead of the task for which they had been called. At Government Co-ed Secondary School in Bhalswa village in north Delhi, books had not been distributed to the students. The order for distributing the books following social distancing norms had been given in June. The director also ordered the heads of schools and teachers to contact students through phone calls and WhatsApp if they were not calling them on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-school-principals-get-notices-for-laxity/articleshow/78047865.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Pet dog clears live wire from master’s path, gets eletrocuted||KOTTAYAM: A pet dog put its life at risk to save the life of its master and in the process got electrocuted near here. The incident took place at Chamampathal, a small village near Vazhoor, in the district on Wednesday. The dog named ‘Appu’ was on his usual morning walk with its master Ajesh and his 5-year-old child to buy milk. Ajesh had met with an accident recently and he was recovering. Since he could only walk slowly, the dog was walking ahead of the two. A live power cable was broken and lying on the road. “Appu went past the cable which was lying broken on the road. After going for around 10feet ahead, Appu returned to the cable. The dog then held the cable, which was lying across the road, in its mouth and moved it to the side so that I could walk without touching the it,” said Ajesh. However, the dog was electrocuted to death in front of his master. The carcass was removed from there after KSEB staff switched off the power supply. The dog was later buried in the residential premises. The dog was with the family for over two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pet-dog-clears-live-wire-from-masters-path-gets-eletrocuted/articleshow/78046378.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Breach in a canal inundates kuruvai crop in Trichy||Trichy: A breach occurred on the banks of Panguni canal has led to the inundation of kuruvai paddy crop and samba nursery near Mannachanallur locality in Trichy. Farmers alleged that though the canal has been desilted last year, the banks were not properly strengthened. The canal taking the course from river Cauvery on the upstream of Mukkombu barrage flows for around 25km, irrigating hundreds of acres on its way. Due to heavy downpour for the past three days in the district, heavy flow was witnessed in the canal since Wednesday. Banks of the canal near Pachur breached at three different spots leading inundation of kuruvai crops and samba nursery in some other parts. Farmers have appealed to the concerned authorities to carry out renovation work immediately. PWD authorities said they have reduced water released, so water from the fields will soon start to recede.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/breach-in-a-canal-inundates-kuruvai-crop-in-trichy/articleshow/78048860.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hospital fined Rs 5 lakh for treatment refusal||KOLKATA: A nursing home in Belghoria has been asked to deposit a sum of Rs 5 lakh with the West Bengal Clinical establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) till it disposes of the case where an 18-year-old Covid suspect had been allegedly refused treatment. Later, the patient Subhrajit Chatterjee, a resident of Ichhapur in North 24 Parganas, died at Medical College and Hospital. According to the complaint lodged by Chatterjee’s parents, the teenager had been taken first to ESI Hospital Kamahati as he had developed severe respiratory distress on July 10 morning. But the hospital referred him to the nursing home in Belghoria, Midland Nursing Home, with which they claimed to have a tie up. His parents alleged that the nursing home had not attended to the patient, who had been gasping for breath, and given a slip within a few minutes, saying he was Covid positive. The nursing home authorities asked them to take the boy to a higher set-up as they did not have the Covid treatment facility. The patient was also allegedly refused admission at the state-run College of Medicine and Sagar Dutta Hospital. This forced his parents to take him to Medical College and Hospital, where he died within hours of admission, even before swab samples could be collected. Later an autopsy was conducted under court order. His Covid confirmation from the autopsy is still pending. “The nursing home should have stabilised the patient before sending him to a higher-set up. The commission directs Midland Nursing Home to deposit a sum of Rs 5 lakh with us within a week till the hearing is over,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman WBCERC. Thursday saw the first hearing of the case. The commission has also asked both the parties to file their respective affidavits in the meantime. TOI could not get a reaction from Midland Nursing Home as calls to the hospital’s landline number went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosp-fined-rs-5l-for-treatment-refusal/articleshow/78047881.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||ASI 10th KP cop to die of corona||Kolkata: Assistant sub inspector, Gautam Mahato became the tenth cop in Kolkata Police to lose his life to Covid. Mahato, who was posted at the special branch, was admitted to a hospital exactly a week ago — on September 3 — with major breathing trouble. “We had shifted him to a private hospital at Mukundapur. But unfortunately, he could not be saved. With his death, we have lost another colleague after a gap of almost three weeks,” said an officer at Lalbazar.Mahato had been on active Covid duty till the end of August, his colleagues said. He was put on ventilation before he breathed his last at a hospital off EM Bypass. While he did not have any known serious medical history, doctors at the hospital claimed the condition of a couple of vital organs deteriorated, thus requiring advanced medical intervention.More than 6,000 police personnel have been infected across the state, including as many as 2,136 from Kolkata Police unit alone. A total of 1,932 have recovered. There are now 204 active cases, a jump from the last week of August, when the cases had gone down to 130. Out of all the nine previous deaths in Kolkata Police, including an ACP and an inspector, none of them had any major co-morbidity issue and all were aged between 45 and 55 years. The average daily new cases, which went down below 10 in August, is now back between 15 and 20. Kolkata police took to its social media handles to pay their last respect for Mahato.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asi-10th-kp-cop-to-die-of-corona/articleshow/78047839.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||Covid patient ‘escapes’ from L1 facility, booked||Pilibhit: A 38-year-old Covid-19 positive patient allegedly fled from a L1 facility here on Wednesday night. He was found missing when a doctor visited the Covid ward at 11 pm. The police later registered an FIR on Thursday following a complaint filed by Dr Saurabh Singh. This is the third such instance when a Covid patient fled from the L1 facility. According to Dr Singh, the patient belongs to Takhan locality of Pilibhit. He was admitted to the Covid facility on September 8 and was receiving treatment at ward number 5. Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said that the patient has been booked under various sections of the IPC along with sections 3 and 5 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-patient-escapes-from-l1-facility-booked/articleshow/78041473.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Oxygen plant on way in Maharashtra's Malegaon||NASHIK The shortage of oxygen in Malegaon is likely to end soon as the civic body is seriously considering a proposal by a medical and industrial oxygen distributor to set up a plant in the textile town. The distributor, Bharat Mehta, has sought the help of Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) in setting up the plant using cryogenic technology. . “We would even provide land and co-ordinate with other government agencies so that the plant sees the light of day,” said municipal commissioner Deepak Kasar. The civic chief said the new oxygen manufacturing plant will help Malegaon become self-reliant since the demand for it is growing due to a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients. The Malegaon civic authorities had a harrowing time on Tuesday as the main Covid-19 hospital almost ran out of oxygen. The distributors could not get refills from Nashik. Finally, in the wee hours of Wednesday, a vehicle ferrying oxygen cylinders to Dhule was diverted to Malegaon. Mehta said that he has already submitted a formal application with the civic body for establishing a plant. “I will have to make an investment to set up the plant, which is the need of the hour in Malegaon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oxygen-plant-on-way-in-malegaon/articleshow/78044946.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 11, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta: Probe Kavlekar for disproportionate assets||Panaji: In a major setback to deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, state Lokayukta P K Misra has directed investigation on a complaint filed against him regarding alleged disproportionate assets, money laundering and matka. Complainant Sushant Ray has sought investigation into alleged maladministration, corruption, favouritism and nepotism while dealing with the matter relating to Kavlekar’s disproportionate assets, gambling activity and money laundering by the deputy CM and his brother. The complainant has alleged that gambling activities take place in Goa and that in spite of several complaints police do not take any action. Police are in collusion with politically influential people, Ray has alleged in his complaint. Based on the complaint, Lokayukta had conducted a preliminary inquiry and issued notices to police and government and a reply was filed. “In my considered opinion, there are sufficient and reasonable grounds for proceeding further and it is therefore directed that a detailed investigation as contemplated in Section 13 shall be conducted,” Misra observed. In this case police replied that FIRs have been registered in two different police stations in connection with the matter relating to matka and relating to possession of disproportionate assets. He said that the purpose of the present order is to decide as to whether there should be a detailed investigation or not. Lokayukta said that a copy of the complaint petition along with the enclosures shall be sent to the governor and the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-probe-kavlekar-for-disproportionate-assets/articleshow/78048867.cms||Murari Shetye
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||MSME industrialists raise concerns over RBI’s new lending guidelines||Coimbatore: Some small businessmen are apprehensive that they would be denied industrial credit due to reclassification of weightages to districts in the country for lending under “priority sector”.In its Revised Priority Sector Lending Guidelines, RBI has assigned higher weightage to incremental priority sector credit in ‘identified districts’ where priority sector credit flow is comparatively low. It said the move would address regional disparities in the flow of priority sector credit.While bankers said that there would be no impact on lending as lending to businesses are commercial transactions and viability of the lending would be a deciding factor. Some incremental lending that may have to happen may head to regions which have higher weightages. RBI’s master directions to the priority sector lending guidelines classifies all 32 districts of the state as those with comparatively high priority sector lending credit. Each district has its own industrial identity, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises J James said. “Micro units and job order units have not been able to acquire bank loans. At this juncture, RBI’s announcement is like adding fuel to fire. The Centre should intervene and stop this, and take steps to provide more loans to industrially developed districts, and also allot separate funds to help industrially under-developed districts develop,” he said.If a district has more borrowers, it means there are more industries that need more loans, said president of Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa) S Surulivel. “ Because of this move, bank loans given to industrial units here would come down,” he apprehended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msme-industrialists-raise-concerns-over-rbis-new-lending-guidelines/articleshow/78047862.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU holds online exams for final year students||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is conducting final semester exams for final year students online.As many as 2,365 students of 10 UG programmes in 14 constituent colleges and 29 affiliated colleges are writing the exams, which are being held from September 2 to September 14.As students are in their hometowns, they are writing the exams online, TNAU representatives said.The university had held two rounds of online mock tests to familiarise the students before launching the exams. “We taught them how to write, how to behave, how to focus the camera, and also the dress code,” a university spokesperson told TOI.The online exam has a two-tier invigilation. A team of professors would be invigilating the students online and a team of senior professors would be keeping a watch on the whole process. “The sessions are supervised live through proctoring by identified faculty on all days of exams to maintain transparency,” said a release.“We have been holding the exam as per the directions issued by the state and the Centre. The purpose is to give degrees to final year students without delay, as they have to go for higher studies or pursue their careers,” the spokesperson said. For the digital exams, the university is using an application named ‘Exam From Home’ (EFH), where students can use either mobile phones or laptops with Android or Microsoft Windows platform. The application can be downloaded prior to exams and question papers would be made available at the scheduled start of exams. A code to access the question paper would be sent to the students’ mail IDs 15 minutes prior to the exam.The university had held online classes during the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-holds-online-exams-for-final-year-students/articleshow/78047863.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||UP finance minister inspects Shahjahanpur medical college day after a Covid patient died as his admission took five hours||Bareilly: A day after TOI reported about a Covid-19 patient who died after being left stranded for five hours at Shahjahanpur medical college, Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna, along with a team of medical experts, visited the medical college to take stock of the facilities being provided to the patients. “We have come here to ensure that all facilities are in place. COvid-19 patients should get timely treatment without having to wait for long and the mechanism adopted by the PGI, Lucknow, should also be adopted here. I have with me a five-member PGI-Lucknow team led by its director, who is highly experienced. They will share their experience and expertise with the staff here,” said Khanna, who was accompanied by Dr Radha Krishna Dhiman, director, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), and four other medical experts. Addressing the hospital staff, Khanna said all patients should be treated politely, as “your behaviour gives them an impression that their treatment is going to be in the right hands”.Meanwhile, district magistrate Indra Vikram merited the minister's attention towards “insufficient supply of oxygen cylinders” for the patients. To which, Khanna said he was approving funds for the procurement of oxygen cylinders as per requirement and assured the hospital authorities of uninterrupted supply of oxygen for the patients.Shahjahanpur medical college principal Dr Abhay Singh told TOI, “Dr Dhiman was accompanied by a team of Covid-19 experts — a pathologist, a radio diagnosis expert, etc. The team suggested us to procure some equipment that would help us in our fight against Covid-19. They gave specialised training to paramedical staff. They advised us to hire private doctors on a contractual basis if there is a shortage of doctors.”On Tuesday, a youth had to run from one corridor to the other to complete paperwork so that his Covid-19 positive father could get a bed at the hospital. And when a bed was finally allotted, the critical Covid-19 patient, 54, died. “Despite his critical condition, my father was denied admission for five hours. With time running out, we kept running between L1 and L2 facilities just to get the paperwork done,” alleged the son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-finance-minister-inspects-shahjahanpur-medical-college-day-after-a-covid-patient-died-as-his-admission-took-five-hours/articleshow/78044976.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Clean Nallagandla lake: Residents||Hyderabad: A delegation of Nallagandla residents made a representation to authorities about the maintenance of the local lake. The lake is filled with water hyacinth and has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Members of the team said that the GHMC had spent Rs 20 lakh for removing the hyacinth from the lake two months ago, but it is growing again. “While Rs 2.2 crore has been sanctioned for the lake’s development, we cannot see any change,” said Matta Suresh, a member of the team. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clean-nallagandla-lake-residents/articleshow/78047864.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Unorganised workers stage protest seeking pension||Coimbatore: Workers in the unorganised sector and labour unions on Thursday staged a protest in front of the labour department office in the city, demanding pension arrears for 11 months.As many as 5,000 workers in unorganised sectors and members of manual workers welfare boards in the district have not received the Rs 1,000 pension since last September, the protesters said. “The arrears should be cleared at once and pension should be given regularly,” said N Selvaraj, state deputy general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC).Pension applications of 1,500 eligible people have not been processed for five years because of age mismatch in documents such as ration card, Aadhaar card and their welfare board identity papers. “The state government said the age in the welfare board papers can be considered. Yet it has not been done,” Selvaraj said. “Around 13,000 unorganised workers are yet to receive the state’s special Covid allowance,” he added.Labour department officials said pensions will be given by next week. “We have processed 1,000 applications, the highest in the state. Around 400 are held due to the age dispute. There will be a meeting on this soon. Pension applications have now gone online. Workers needn’t visit offices for it,” an official said.However, unionists said the online application process is too complicated for the workers and it should be made simple. The department should receive applications in person.Representatives of Labour Progressive Federation, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, Centre of Indian Trade Unions and Indian National Trade Union Congress participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unorganised-workers-stage-protest-seeking-pension/articleshow/78047879.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy sees 1,800 applicants in two weeks for RTE seats||Trichy: There has been good response from parents for the seats reserved under the Right to Education Act in private schools in Trichy district. Two weeks after the portal was opened for submission of online applications, a total of 1,825 applications have been received till Thursday. In all, 4,183 RTE seats are available in 312 schools in the district this year. As 25% of seats at the entry level are reserved under RTE in these schools, parents who manage to get the seat for their children need not pay tuition fee. The state government and Centre reimburse the fees to these schools. People from disadvantaged sections can apply for RTE seats irrespective of their economic condition. Officials from the school education department say the response is better than previous years as an average 60 applications are received every day. They have advised parents to ensure that their home address tallies with its Google location while submitting online application. Since the portal is accepting applications only of parents residing within a kilometre from their chosen school, some parents allegedly pin false location to their application though their house is shown far from school. Such applications will be rejected during the scrutiny, the officials said. They also advise parents to visit CBSE schools within a km from their house and submit RTE application if state board schools are farther away. While there are a total 4,183 seats reserved under RTE in 312 private state board schools, these exclude 72 CBSE schools in the district. This year, school education department has announced that CBSE schools will not be part of the centralised admission process to fill RTE seats. There could be 1,000-odd RTE seats in these CBSE schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-sees-1800-applicants-in-two-weeks-for-rte-seats/articleshow/78048870.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t harass advocate couple: HC tells DGP||Hyderabad: The high court on Thursday directed the DGP to ensure that none of the policemen under his purview call advocate couple Gattu Vaman Rao and Nagamani to any of the police stations till the lockup death case they filed against Manthani police is disposed of. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by the couple bringing to the notice of the court about an alleged lockup death at Manthani police station in Peddapalli district. Seelam Rangaiah died in the PS. After inquiring into the case on the orders of the court, the Hyderabad police commissioner gave a clean chit to the police. But, the advocates expressed apprehensions on the clean chit given to the cops and were allowed by the court to go through the police report in order to file a counter to this report. But before it could happen, police filed FIRs against Vaman Rao and summoned the couple to police stations. One circle inspector appealed to the couple to withdraw the case and also threatened them that he would commit suicide if they pursue the case. Police also threatened that the family of the advocate couple would be harmed if they do not leave this case, the couple told the court. The bench asked the advocates to file an affidavit narrating all this and directed the DGP to ensure that the couple faces no harassment from cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-harass-advocate-couple-hc-tells-dgp/articleshow/78047898.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Kuvi begins training to be a tracker dog||IDUKKI: The local dog ‘Kuvi’ that helped recover the body of toddler Dhanuska after Pettimudy landslide has completed the first phase of heelwalk training under the police dog trainer in Idukki. Ajith Madhavan, a dog trainer from Idukki police dog squad, started the first phase of training the 1-year-old canine and it is learning fast. The trainer said that if it completes the training it can be used as a tracker dog in the police dog squad. Idukki dog squad officials adopted the animal on August 21. “I trained Kuvi out of passion. Nither the police department nor any higher officials asked me to do so,” said Madhavan. “I trained Kuvi in the first phase of heelwalk. It simply means that the dog must walk just next to you, instead of behind or in front of you. The dog is required to keep pace with you, only stopping when you stop and begin walking when you walk. The training is divided into three phases: heel with tight belt, heel with loose belt and heel without a belt. Kuvi successfully completed the first phase of heelwalk training within three days,” he said. Usually, a dog is recurited for training at about three months of age after verifying its parent’s lineage and purity of breed. “Since Kuvi is one-year-old, age will be a challenge in learning commands easily. But as she is responding to commands, I hope to train it to be a tracker dog within a couple of months. Tracking the toddler’s body shows that it can be an efficient tracker dog,” he added. No order has been issued to select it for police dog training, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kuvi-begins-training-to-be-a-tracker-dog/articleshow/78046415.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 11, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Education department gets ready to auction Film Centre equipment||PRAYAGRAJ: The iconic Film Centre in Praygaraj whose educational films introduced school children to achievements of luminaries like Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru will lose a part of history as the education department gets ready to auction the studio’s equipment which has become obsolete over the years. According to a letter dated September 1 and signed by director general (school education) Vijay Kiran Anand, the education department will auction some of the equipment which has been locked since 1990 and is now obsolete. TOI has a copy of the letter. A three-member committee has been constituted and asked to file a status report, following which the auction could start. The committee includes director of State Institute of Education Technology, District Institute of Education Training principal, member secretary and principal of State Institute of Physical Training. Located on MG Road in Civil Lines near CAV Inter College, the Film Centre was established in 1938 to make educational films during the British rule. Back then, it was the only Film Centre in northern India. The centre was established to produce short educational films and used some of the best equipment available back then which included high quality cameras, trolleys, cranes and recording equipment. Some of the equipment used in the centre was imported from the US. However, the building was shut in 1990 after government orders. The institution has launched films based on freedom fighters Mahatma Gandhi and Madan Mohan Malviya, former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi, former President Rajendra Prasad and former vice-president Dr S Radhakrishnan. The centre has rolled out films based on lives of poets like Maithilisharan Gupt, Sumitranandan Pant, Mahadevi Varma and Acharya Mahavir Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/after-rolling-out-edu-movies-iconic-film-centre-equipment-to-go-under-hammer/articleshow/78024221.cms||Rajeev Mani
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 35% increase in active cases in a week||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district has registered a 35% rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the past one week. The total number of active cases recorded on September 3 was 335 and it rose to 453 on Thursday (Sept 10). The tally also rose to 2,128 from 1,720 a week ago. The total number of samples lifted in the district so far has crossed 63,000. Of this, 61,100 samples have tested negative.With public transport becoming operational for the past few days and tourism being allowed again, officials worry about a second surge in Covid-19 cases in the hill district.Officials said they are trying their best. People entering the district by public transport or private vehicles have been asked to undergo random testing of swab samples. “There is a cap for e-pass issued to tourists in a day. E-passes for business and work related purposes are issued after proper verification. All these measures are taken in the interest of the public and to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the district,” said an official. According to officials, in villages, there are not enough takers for social distancing norms, which has become a cause for concern.Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, said patients are being tested for the virus once again on the sixth day of their admission to a hospital or Covid care centres. If the results are negative, they are sent for home quarantine. If it is positive, patients are treated for five more days at hospitals and later sent for home quarantine.“We encourage home quarantine for patients if they have a facility at home. As of now, at least 37 covid patients are kept under home quarantine,” Balusamy said. Patients aged above 60 and with multiple comorbidities are being sent to ESI hospital in Coimbatore. As of now, about 5 patients from the Nilgiris are being treated in the ESI Hospital, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-35-increase-in-active-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/78047886.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: 32 illegal job agencies under probe||PANAJI: The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has decided to crack down on unregistered agencies in Goa which are recruiting people for jobs abroad and has launched investigations into the operations of at least 32 agencies. The Union ministry’s Protector of Emigrants met with state authorities to coordinate the exercise and also discussed instances of illegal overseas recruitment and duping of people with job offers. Shubham Singh, Protector of Emigrants – Bengaluru, who is conducting the investigation, arrived in Goa a few days earlier and met with Goa director general of police Mukesh Kumar Meena and chief secretary Parimal Rai. “There are 32 agencies or individuals who are being investigated in Goa, we are checking their papers,” Singh said. There are only eight registered overseas recruitment agencies in the state, Singh said. “Intelligence has revealed that the 32 agencies were found to be sending not just Goans, but also residents of Maharashtra and Karnataka abroad for employment, he said. “There isn’t any specific complaint, but the information we got from our sources says that they have collected the resumes of candidates and their passports, they have collected money from them and have promised jobs in Dubai,” Singh said. Though the Protector of Emigrants-Bengaluru has the option to take punitive action, the first step would be to convince the agencies to register with the MEA. “We will check their documents and see what they have to say about the claim about their involvement in this activity. We could go to their offices, search their premises and seize their property, which includes the files and computers, and then investigate, but to do this we will take the help of the authorities. We have not done this in Goa as yet,” he said. As per law, anyone who promises another an individual a job abroad for a fee can be considered to be involved in overseas recruitment. The law also states that an agent or overseas recruiter cannot charge more than Rs 30,000 — excluding visa fees, ticket fares and medical tests — from the job aspirant. “The DGP discussed the prevalence of unregistered agencies in Goa and he has shown his willingness to actually take punitive action against these agencies. Once we investigate these agencies at our end we will forward the cases to the police authorities to take relevant action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/32-illegal-job-agencies-in-state-under-probe/articleshow/78048880.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 11, 2020||Delhi||DU law exam candidates allege lapses at centre||NEW DELHI: Several candidates who appeared for Delhi University’s LLB exam on Wednesday claimed that there were lapses at one of the exam centres where a candidate allegedly sneaked in a mobile phone and clicked pictures of the question paper. The paper was later circulated on WhatsApp groups, prompting many to question National Testing Agency (NTA), the body conducting the exams, and its management. Vivek Raj, a second-year student of Campus Law Centre, even filed a complaint at Maurice Nagar police station on Thursday. “Many students sent me photos of the question papers circulating on WhatsApp groups. We knew that the exam was scheduled from 8am to 10am and no official question paper had been released by NTA or DU. So how did the pictures clicked from a computer screen start circulating on social media platforms?” he asked. “It is clear that someone was allowed a phone inside the test centre,” he added. According to the rules, students are not allowed to carry phones to the exam centre. Shobha Bagai, dean of admissions, DU, said, “We have not received any complaints from the students yet. But we will compare the screenshots with the question paper.” An NTA official denied any lapse and said there was no security breach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-law-exam-candidates-allege-lapses-at-centre/articleshow/78047887.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Railway to cut TA, OTA of staff by half||Trichy: The railway board has directed general managers of all zones to cut down over time allowance (OTA) and travelling allowance (TA) of railway employees by up to 50%. The railway board has come up with the directive as part of cost-cutting measures in the wake of revenue shortfall in the railway department. A letter sent to the general managers on August 28 said that the budgeted earning target of the current year was adversely affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Therefore, a set of austerity measures have been formulated so that the liabilities are met within available funds. “Reviewing the payment of OTA and TA availed by the railway employees is one of the steps to control expenditure. A decision has been taken to critically review allowances by the general managers and impose a cut of up to 50%,” the letter states. While stating that the deferment of bills and payments was not an expenditure control measure, the board has stressed the need to utilize the existing manpower to the fullest within the stipulated working hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railway-to-cut-ta-ota-of-staff-by-half/articleshow/78048883.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two infected inmates flee from Yerawada temporary prison||PUNE: Two Covid-19 positive asymptomatic inmates escaped from the Yerawada temporary jail during the wee hours of Thursday. This is the third incident of its kind over the last four months. Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand has ordered an inquiry into the incident. The facility is manned by the state prisons department and the city police. Seven of the inmates, who had escaped earlier, had been rearrested. The escapees included Anil Vitthal Vetal, a dacoity suspect from Koregaon Bhima, who had fled from the temporary jail on July 12 but was later rearrested. The other escapee, Vishal Ramdhan Kharat of Nigdi, is a suspect in an attempt to murder case registered by the Chikhali police station in August. “Vetal and Kharat tested positive for Covid-19 last week while they were lodged at the temporary jail. The duo bent the steel bars of a window to move out, grabbed a drainage pipe adjacent to the window to climb up to the terrace and then made their way out of the complex,” Yerawada police inspector Ajay Waghmare told TOI. Waghmare said, “The prison guards and the policemen manning the section spotted the duo on the terrace but on reaching there, they realized that the door was locked. By the time they accessed the terrace, the duo had fled away.” Ramanand said, “I have ordered an inquiry into the incident. We will explore alternatives like shifting undertrial prisoners (UTPs) to another place to check recurrence of such incidents. Poor construction quality of temporary prisons is an issue. The window bars have weakened.” Pune additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “The temporary jail now has more crowd of UTPs than it can accommodate. Those who test negative for Covid-19 need to be moved to the main prison. We have already written to the prisons department seeking steps like increasing compound wall height, installing strong window grills, etc, for better vigil and tighter internal security.” Ramanand, however, said, “The temporary jail is located in a school building owned by the social welfare department. It was given to us to house prisoners testing positive for coronavirus. It is not possible to construct a wall during the pandemic. As per the rules framed for temporary jails, the police must patrol the premise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-infected-inmates-flee-from-yerawada-temporary-prison/articleshow/78047902.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 63,000 gone with just a click on link||NEW DELHI: Rohini-based businessman Gauram Khanna (name changed) was having some issues with his bank account. In order to contact the bank’s customer care, he did a Google search and found a number purportedly belonging to the bank. He dialled the number from his mobile phone but did not get any response. Meanwhile, he received a call from a number and the caller represented himself as Axis Bank Customer Care Executive and asked Khanna to click a link sent via a text message to verify his identity. Khanna did as instructed only to lose Rs 63,000 from his account instantly. He approached police for help who launched an investigation. An initial inquiry and examination of the bank account statement of the victim showed that two Paytm accounts were used to transfer the money. It also came to fore that the customer support number used by the victim was fake. The details of these accounts were procured from Paytm. Perusal of documents showed that multiple bank accounts were used to channelise the money across the country. However, using extensive surveillance, the cops managed to nab a person, Nasim Ansari, at New Delhi Railway Station when he was boarding Howrah Rajdhani Express to return to Jamtara, Jharkhand. Fifteen new ATM cards of different banks were recovered from him. He gave crucial details about his network and gang to the police leading to five more arrests. The others were identified as Iqbal, Ranjit Dey, Prakash Mandal, Jamiruddin and Mohammad Daud. The accused are in their early thirties and all but one belong to different parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal. Daud belongs to Azamgarh in UP. “25 ATM cards and around Rs 1.8 lakh have been seized from them. Police have also recovered a fingerprint sensor, a card-swipe machine and several cheques,” said PK Mishra, DCP Rohini. Ansari, Mandal, Dey and Daud provided bank accounts to the gang to receive siphoned money. Iqbal is wanted in two previous cases. Mand had provided around 29 accounts to the gang. They also withdrew the money and delivered it to the gang members in lieu of a commission. The kingpin of the gang has been identified as Ataul. The cops are conducting raids to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-63000-gone-with-just-a-click-on-link/articleshow/78047916.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Students to cops: Help us reach test centre||Kolkata: Several hundred students, aspiring to pursue five-year integrated journalism and Master’s in economics, history and Bengali, are worried over reaching the centre for entrance tests — MBC Sudhir Memorial Institute — at Doltala in Madhyamgram on Friday. They have started tweeting to Kolkata traffic police, seeking their assistance to reach the exam centre on a total lockdown day. The tests conducted by National Testing Agency are scheduled to start from 8am and go on till 6pm in three different slots of two hours each. Most of these students are yet to get a seat in colleges or universities of the city. “How can I reach the venue on the lockdown day? Can you please help me. It’s an important exam for me and my life also. #help_me,” tweeted Somanko Poddar who is due to write the test for economics. In response, cops have also tweeted that only the candidate, along with maximum one parent, will be allowed to travel with proper documents on the lockdown day. “The admit cards will have to be produced and the candidates must carry supporting documents,” said an officer. As there will be no public transport, the students have also sought cops’ help to reach the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-to-cops-help-us-reach-test-centre/articleshow/78047895.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Lokka case: CB-CID grills Lankan cop||Coimbatore: A CB-CID team from Coimbatore, which is investigating the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka, interrogated a police constable from the island nation, who was arrested by the Mandapam police in Rameswaram after he illegally entered Indian shores in a ferry on September 5. The team led by DSP OH Raju questioned Pradeep Kumar Pandarakka, 31, a police constable attached to the Colombo police. Pandarakka had allegedly developed nexus with drug smugglers in his country and helped his elder brother, a drug peddler, smuggle 23kg of drugs from Colombo port. Following the arrest of his elder brother, Pandarakka managed to escape from Colombo and reached Mandapam in an illegal ferry. He approached a few people in Mandapam to get a mobile phone as his phone was not in working condition. However, locals informed police who arrested Pandarakka on September 5 evening.Meanwhile, Raju and his team rushed to Mandapam and held an inquiry with Pandarakka on September 6. When the team showed the photographs of Angoda Lokka to Pandarakka, he replied that he knew about the underworld don but doesn’t have any information about the gangster or his accomplices.The team could not elicit any vital information from Pandarakka about Lokka.Lokka died of cardiac arrest at Balaji Nagar near Cheran Maa Nagar in Coimbatore on July 3. Viscera including liver, stomach, kidneys and small intestine taken from the dead body of Lokka were sent to the forensic science laboratory in Chennai in August to get the DNA of Lokka. “DNA was retrieved from the viscera a few days ago by the forensic experts in Chennai and we are waiting for the samples from the Sri Lankan government to cross match the DNA to confirm the identity of Angoda Lokka,” inspector general of police, CB-CID, K Shankar said.According to CB-CID police, Lokka escaped to Tamil Nadu from Colombo in 2017 and was arrested by Chennai police on June 9, 2017 under foreigners’ act of India, Indian passport act and Indian Penal Code. During the arrest, fingerprints were collected from him. The CB-CID officials received only one fingerprint of Angoda Lokka from Sri Lankan police through diplomatic level and the fingerprint was not clear. “We request the Sri Lankan government to send the fingerprints of Lokka again. Already, Lokka had taken Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh in Madurai. We have sent three letters to Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDIA), Bengaluru and the authority clearly mentioned that they cannot share the fingerprint details of any person,” an officer said.“Once we get the fingerprint samples and DNA samples from Sri Lanka, we can find the identity of the deceased whether he was Angoda Lokka or not,” he said.Lokka who possessed a pistol during his illegal stay in Coimbatore. After his death, the pistol was handed over to his close aid Chanuka Thananayaka in Madurai. “Two special teams are attempting to trace the whereabouts of Chanuka Thananayaka for the last one and a half months,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lokka-case-cb-cid-grills-lankan-cop/articleshow/78047897.cms||A Subburaj
September 11, 2020||Pune||Congress MLC fined Rs 500 for travelling sans mask in Maharashtra||PUNE: A joint team of the civic body and the Kothrud police on Friday fined the Congress Member of Legislative Council (MLC) from Nanded, Amaranth Rajurkar, Rs 500 for travelling in his sports utility vehicle without wearing a mask, along with the driver and two others. The joint team of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police allowed the MLC’s car to leave only after collecting the fine. Congress MLC Rajurkar told TOI, “I was wearing the mask, but it had slipped to my chin. The police officer was talking to us in an arrogant manner. Initially, I did not tell him that I was an MLC. When he started arguing, I showed him my identity card and insisted him to make a receipt of Rs500 in my name. I shall check the rules and if the officer is found at fault, I shall complain against him with the Leader of the House.” Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police said, “Our team was assisting the PMC team, which was taking action against people not wearing masks. The team found no one travelling in the SUV (sports utility vehicle) was wearing mask. The people travelling with the MLC argued with the team over the payment of fine. They were allowed to go only after they paid the fine.” MLC Rajurkar said after the assembly session was over, he was returning home in Nanded. He had undergone Covid-19 test before entering the house and the report was negative. “I was deliberately travelling by my car to avoid any infection. On the way, I had gone to Kothrud to meet my sister,” he said. Rajurkar claimed that all the windows of his car — having an outstation registration number — were closed when its driver was asked to stop on Paud Road. “The police officer was arrogant. I did not tell him that I was an MLC. He was claiming that none of us was wearing masks. In fact, I was wearing a mask. It had slipped below my chin,” he said. The MLC said as the officer was arguing, some of his associates told the latter that Rajurkar was an MLC. “The officer then said my driver was not wearing a mask and asked to pay the fine. I then showed him my identity card and insisted him to make the receipt in my name,” Rajurkar said. Senior inspector Joshi said, “We do not take action against solo travellers going in a car without wearing a mask. We are acting if more than two persons are travelling in a car without wearing masks. Everyone should follow the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cong-mlc-fined-rs-500-for-travelling-sans-mask/articleshow/78047889.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||South zone in city turns vulnerable||Coimbatore: The district logged 440 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 20,839. At least 545 patients were discharged from treatment centres on the day, bringing the active cases down to 3,790.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 340, with the state recording two more deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin.Vellakinar reported 10 new cases – six from Meenakshi Garden, three from Om Siva Shakthi Nagar and one from Thirumalai Street. Seven of them were tested positive for the virus at RK Bhai corporation primary health centre at Selvapuram.Within the city corporation limits, south zone had the highest number of active cases as on Tuesday, while central zone had the most number of deaths. South zone, which comprises parts of Ukkadam, Kuniamuthur, Karumbukadai and Sundarapuram areas, had the highest number of active cases of 685, followed by central zone (589).A city corporation official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Central zone is now seeing a dip in cases from Big Bazaar Street, Telungu Street and Selvapuram, which at one point accounted for the highest number of cases in the city. The number of new cases from these areas has come down to 10 to 15 a day from 30 to 40.”Officials said they were, however, seeing spike in cases from Podanur, South Ukkadam, Karumbukadai and Sundarapuram, among other areas, in south zone. At 476, East zone, which comprises Peelamedu, Sowripalayam and Singanallur, has the least number of active cases.Central zone tops the list of Covid-19 fatalities in the city with 78 deaths, which is 31% of the 247 deaths reported in the city corporation limits. It is closely followed by south zone (74).North zone, which comprises hotspots of Thudiyalur and Vellakinar, has recorded only 29 deaths so far. A senior health department official said, “This is because the affected areas don’t have dense housing and patients sought medical treatment earlier. At Thudiyalur, for instance, many streets have at least one or two containment zones. But they are spread out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/south-zone-in-city-turns-vulnerable/articleshow/78047891.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Cops cuff two over parking dispute in Vadhu Budruk||Pune: The Shikrapur police arrested two residents of Vadhu Budruk village near Koregaon Bhima following an alleged dispute over parking in the area on Wednesday night. The police said a descendant of Govind Gopal Gaikwad, Sakshi Amol Jadhav, had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. Gaikwad, according to the local residents, had performed the final rites of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj in the village. According to the complaint, Jadhav and her husband had visited the village on Wednesday night in their vehicle. They had parked their vehicle in the village chowk, after which two men objected to it and also issued issued threats to them. The police said the dispute took place because of the immediate reasons and it had nothing to do with the historic references.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-two-over-parking-dispute-in-vadhu-budruk/articleshow/78047894.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bidhannagar area active cases dip with high recovery rate||KOLKATA: Active Covid-19 cases in Salt Lake, Rajarhat and areas along VIP Road under the jurisdiction of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area has plunged from 47.5% to 15.7% as recovery rate has soared to 83.1%. Last Sunday, the number of active Covid cases had dipped below the 800 mark for the first time in over a month with Bidhannagar Municiapl Corporation recording 783 cases on September 6. The last time active Covid cases had dipped below the 800-mark was on July 28 when there were 794 cases. While Salt Lake accounted for 43% Covid cases in the area against 57% recorded in Rajarhat, the infection ratio was higher in Salt Lake with a population of 2.2 lakh is lower than Rajarhat that has 5.5 lakh people. Ward 31 in Salt Lake reported the most Covid cases at 222 while the least number (24) was reported from ward near the airport. The rate of active cases in Bidhannagar area that has been witnessing a decline in the last three weeks. On Thursday, 70 fresh cases were recorded, taking the active case count to 743.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-area-active-cases-dip-with-high-recovery-rate/articleshow/78047893.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 11, 2020||Trichy||Siblings drown in pit filled with rainwater||Trichy: Two brothers aged 8 and 10, who were playing in their neighbourhood, drowned after falling into a 4-foot-deep pit dug to raise saplings at Sandanaviduthi village near Thirumayam in Pudukottai district on Thursday. The deceased, K Anbu and K Vimal, drowned after getting trapped in the slush in the recently-dug pit which was filled with rain water. Police said Saravanan, a villager, had dug the pit on his patta land to store water for raising saplings in his newly started nursery. The boys, who were his neighbour Karuppaiah’s sons, were playing near the pit when they accidentally fell into it and drowned. Finding both their sons missing, their parents searched for them and finally recovered the bodies from the pit. The bodies have been sent for postmortem while Thirumayam police have registered a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/siblings-drown-in-pit-filled-with-rainwater/articleshow/78048888.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Father-son duo in the net on murder charge||Pune: A father-son duo were arrested on Thursday on the charge of bludgeoning a 28-year-old man to death as they suspected him of having an illicit relation with one of their relatives. The Talegaon MIDC police identified the deceased as Bhaguji Kedari of Indori village in Maval. The duo were arrested after Kedari’s wife lodged an FIR against them. An officer from the Talegaon MIDC police said the father-and-son duo suspected that Kedari and his friend were having an illicit relationship with one of their woman relatives. When the victim was on his way home, the duo attacked him with sharp weapons around 10pm on Wednesday. “They assaulted him and bludgeoned him to death with a big stone,” the officer said. He said the police had launched a search operation for one more suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/father-son-duo-in-the-net-on-murder-charge/articleshow/78047909.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 92k students crack Polycet; admissions to begin from Sept 12||HYDERABAD: As many as 46,207 students cracked the Polytechnic Common Entrance Test (Polycet) to qualify for the engineering stream while 46,318 candidates made it through the agriculture exam. The results of the test, conducted on Septemeber 2, were announced on Thursday. Gadagoju Sriroop from Suryapet topped the engineering stream in Telangana with 119 marks, followed by Padala Sai Kowshik from Karimnagar and Sakineti Anush Kumar from Mancherial who secured second and third ranks, respectively. With 115.5 marks, Arshiya Jasmeen emerged as the topper in agriculture while Puppala Revak Sai and Ravirala Sreevasthav from Suryapet stood second and third. In both the streams, girls fared better than the boys. As per the State Board of Technical Education and Training, while 27,354 out of the total 34,748 male candidates qualified in the engineering stream, 18,853 out of 22,197 girls cleared the exam. Similarly, in the agriculture stream, 27,244 boys out of 34,748 and 19,074 out of 22,197 girl candidates qualified in the examination. The first phase of the admission process will begin on September 12. Students can access basic information, payment of processing fee and slot booking for selection of helpline centre, date and time and complete certificate verification on the said date. Payment of tuition fee and self-reporting through the website must be completed between September 22 and 26. The final phase of admissions will commence from September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-92k-students-crack-polycet-admissions-to-begin-from-sept-12/articleshow/78047922.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Speeding car hits trio near Sus bridge, driver held||Pune: Three persons, including a security guard at a road construction site, were injured after a speeding car hit them near Sus bridge on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass on Wednesday afternoon. The Hinjewadi police have arrested the car driver, Ramesh Bharati (45), of Rajasthan for rash driving. He was released on bail by the court on Thursday. An officer from the Hinjewadi police said security guard Rajesh Pangole was on his duty at the road construction site near Sus bridge when a speeding car knocked him down. “The car stopped after hitting a motorcycle,” the officer said. He said Dnyaneshwar Jadhav and Akshay Gaikwad from Bhosari, who were on the motorcycle, suffered injuries too. All the injured are being treated at different hospitals. “The accident also caused traffic congestion for a few minutes. Police constables attached to the Hinjewadi traffic branch removed the vehicles and restored the traffic,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-car-hits-trio-near-sus-bridge-driver-held/articleshow/78047905.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||24-yr-old man killed in accident||Coimbatore: A 24-year-old man died in a road accident on Chinthamanipudur-Neelambur bypass here on Wednesday night after being hit by a four-wheeler, while his friend suffered serious head injuries and is battling for life at a private hospital in the city, police said.The deceased, who was riding a bike, was identified as R Velmurugan, 24, a native of Netaji Nagar at Uruvatti in Sivaganga district while the injured pillion rider has been identified as A David, 45, from Soorankuttai near Vennampalli in Krishnagiri district. Both were working in a private firm at Neelambur for the last five years and were staying at the staff quarters. On Wednesday, the two friends had gone to Sundarapuram for official work on a motorcycle. They completed their work in the night and were returning to their staff quarters. When they reached Chinthamanipudur bridge, a speeding four-wheeler hit their motorcycle from behind, police said. The impact of the accident was such that the duo was thrown off from the motorcycle, resulting in severe head injuries. Velmurugan died on the spot, police said. His body was handed over to his family members on Thursday afternoon following a postmortem.Sulur police have registered a case against the unknown driver of the four-wheeler. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/24-yr-old-man-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78047903.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chennai||CM Edappadi K Palaniswami tours Tamil Nadu amid Covid pandemic to enthuse party cadre ahead of polls||CHENNAI: Amid a pandemic, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has undertaken a tour of the state to review Covid management, throwing in a pre-poll agenda to review development work in the districts. The chief minister has conducted meetings in 21 districts and plans to complete the rest by the month-end. He will review Chengalpet and Kancheepuram on Friday. Palaniswami has been asserting his position within the party as part of a larger strategy ahead of the 2021 assembly election. “Mobilisation of AIADMK cadre is in full swing. In the process, EPS is positioning himself as the unquestioned leader of the party. The primary objective is to get the factions, if any, to merge as a strong united party. He spends considerable time with partymen after the official review meetings,” said a senior minister not willing to be quoted. Recently, the CM received shawls and bouquets from 2,000 partymen for close to three hours in a northern district. There is pressure from legislators and district secretaries to roll out projects and finish the pending ones on time. So, the CM gives an assurance on the spot when a local minister laments there is no industrial activity except agriculture in Tiruvarur. The visit is also fine-tuned to accommodate inauguration of projects, including municipal buildings and parks, laying of foundation stones for schemes that cost Rs 20 to Rs 50 crore and make announcements like linking of canals, colleges and bypasses. The larger projects in PWD and highways, the portfolios held by EPS, are considered during review meetings for speedy implementation. The districts also tend to take some extra measures to complete unfinished tasks like infrastructure projects ahead of the CM’s arrival. “When they know that Covid management is being reviewed threadbare, the administration tends to take additional efforts. They get an opportunity to represent to the CM about unaddressed issues. Invariably, the CM asks them whether there is any shortage of manpower or equipment. This keeps all departments on their toes,” said a senior officer, seeking anonymity. On the sidelines, Palaniswami also holds close interactions with representatives of industries, MSMEs and farmers, boosting the morale of stakeholders. “They seek simplification of loan disbursement by banks or treatment plants, upgraded power infrastructure or pending dues from the private sugar mills or other local issues like pending desiltation of water bodies,” said a close aide. It gives the CM an understanding of infrastructure projects required for districts and sets the stage as well for a strong campaign ahead of polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-tours-state-amid-covid-pandemic-to-enthuse-party-cadre-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78047928.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Terek sandpiper spotted in Dighal wetlands after 9 years||GURUGRAM: A Terek sandpiper, which was last spotted in the area in 2011, was once again seen in Dighal wetlands in Jhajjar. Members of Delhi Bird Society who spotted the bird on August 8 said that the species, which is native to European countries, is rarely seen here. It has an up-curved bill and short orange legs which distinguish it from other sandpipers. Rakesh Ahlawat, a member of the Delhi Bird Society who spotted the bird, said, “We were on one of our bird spotting trips when I saw the bird. It was feeding on something along with other birds. It was not in a group, which is very rare for migratory birds. I was accompanied by another bird watcher, Dr Krishna who is associated with PGIMS Rohtak, who took the pictures.” This particular species travels more than thousands of miles to reach India, Australia from December to February and travels back to its native land for breeding in April. Pankaj Gupta, another bird watcher and member of Delhi Bird Society, added that this species is rare for Haryana. “Even though it is a winter migratory bird, the species doesn’t visit this part of the country. It breeds mostly in European countries such as Norway, Sweden and Finland and migrates to coastal areas during the winter months. It is, therefore, a very rare sighting,” he said, adding that Terek sandpipers were last spotted in the area in 2011. Even though the sighting has created a wave of excitement among bird enthusiasts, experts feel that there is a possibility that this bird got separated from its group while going towards a coastal area. “Since this species migrates in groups, a singular sighting may raise doubts. There is a strong possibility that the bird got separated from its group,” Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/terek-sandpiper-spotted-in-dighal-wetlands-after-9-years/articleshow/78048672.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Central team reaching today to assess flood damage||Nagpur: Amid demands of a special relief package, a team of central officials will be visiting the flood affected districts of the region to assess damages due to last month’s deluge. The floods of August 28 and 29 due to excessive water being released from Totladoh and Gosikhurd dams had left Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadhiroli district affected, Gondia too was partially affected. The revenue department has also made primary estimate of the losses which will be put up before the team. Based on the findings, demand for central relief will put up, said a source. The team that will reaching Nagpur on Friday and split in two, with one each covering Nagpur-Bhandara and Chandrapur-Gadchiroli. The state government has declared a grant of Rs 16 crore for immediate relief which includes Rs 5,000 each to buy clothes and food to the affected families. The floods have led to losses of homes, crops and also livestock. The affected area is paddy growing belt and there are reports of that entire crop in the farms along the river banks getting damaged. There are independent estimates that around 25% of the paddy crop has been affected. There have been losses to other crops too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-team-reaching-today-to-assess-flood-damage/articleshow/78047906.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bars, restaurants eye bumper sales after lockdown rollback||KOLKATA: The owners of restaurants and bars in the city have welcomed the decision of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to withdraw the total lockdown on Saturday. The president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India, Sudesh Poddar, who owns Manthan and Songhai, pointed out that the business of fine-dining always depends on weekends and it is more so in pandemic days. The weekends include Friday night, Saturday and Sunday. According to most of the restaurant owners, sales in the last weekend was the best during this Covid time. The restaurants had resumed operations from June 7. Liquor services, however, was allowed from September 1. “We got high footfalls on last Friday and Saturday. For us, these two days taken together account for almost 35% of weekly sales. People were waiting for seats in both our restaurants last weekend,” he added. HRAEI member and owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo restaurants, Nitin Kothari, is also upbeat about this weekend. “It is a very good news. Last weekend, the occupancy was 100% and people had to wait to get seats. After the reopening of bar, the footfall has also increased,” he said. Kothari added that in his restaurants, a lot of people come for food only but liquor sometimes act as a catalyst since a lot of people like a peg or two before dinner,” he added. An official of Speciality Restaurants, which owns Mainland China, Haka, Oh! Calcutta and Café Mezzuna, also pointed out that last weekend was good. Earlier, the chairman of Speciality Restaurants, Anjan Chatterjee, had said that globally weekends contribute to most of the sales volume in fine-dining restaurants. According to the owner of Go Where, a bar-cum-restaurant in Sector V, Rahul Khanna, the first weekend this month was very encouraging. “Though the seating capacity is less following pandemic restrictions, the footfall was over 70% last weekend. Considering the fact that many offices in Sector V are still closed, this was really good,” he added. Along with bars, leading restaurant chains, which do not serve liquor had experienced good footfall last weekend and was bullish about this Saturday. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia said that last Saturday was best for them since reopening on June 7. Debaditya Chowdhury, MD of Chowman also added that footfall was 35-40% higher in the last weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bars-restaurants-eye-bumper-sales-after-lockdown-rollback/articleshow/78047908.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No school till next month but officials get ready with safety SOP||KOLKATA: Most schools in the city have started taking baby steps towards partial re-opening their campuses, following the Centre’s guidelines. But in Bengal, where the lockdown will be on till September 30, no school will be able to re-open the gates from September 21, as suggested by the Centre. They are looking at a date in October. City schools said they expected a set of rules to come from the state as well, making it easier for them to re-start. Birla High School for Boys on Thursday sent out questionnaires to parents of students from nursery to Class XII, seeking their opinion on reopening. Though the Centre’s guidelines said students of Classes IX-XII could be brought in for consultation with teachers with parents’ consent, the school wanted to sound out parents of kids of all classes. “We have sent out forms that parents have to fill about how comfortable they are with the idea of re-opening and whether they are keen or not to send their children to school, even in small groups,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. Parents have to reply by Monday. The Heritage School has called a meeting on Monday to take a final look at the SOPs, which are all in place, after which the school will start talking to parents extensively about their willingness to send their kids, said principal Seema Sapru. The Centre’s guidelines talk about re-opening by first bringing in teachers to the campus, before thinking of how to bring children back. School officials in Kolkata felt once the Metro became operational, commute might become easier as currently, proper public transport was still not available in large pockets. Some schools felt that unless teachers could be brought to schools in private vehicles, they would be at risk of contracting the novel coronavirus since many would not be able to afford cabs and might be forced to use crowded public transport. Loreto Entally is prepared with its SOP and plans to start with the boards batches in small groups for practical classes. Furniture had been arranged to ensure social distancing and preparations had been made for simultaneous online and offline classes, said principal Jessica Surana Gomes. DPS Howrah is also ready with phased reopening plans and teachers handling Classes IX-XII will be called in first. Students will come to school on alternate days and for shorter duration. “Two batches of the same class will be assigned two different classrooms,” said principal Sunita Arora. DPS Ruby Park also has SOP in place, especially because it is a NEET centre and massive sanitisation drive has been conducted. “We are ready. We will now wait for the state guidelines, after which we will talk to parents,” said vice-principal Indrani Chattopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-school-till-next-month-but-officials-get-ready-with-safety-sop/articleshow/78047907.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Widow steps into father’s shoes, is now 1st woman porter in Bhusawal division||Nashik: Thirty-nine-year-old Indu Wagh has replaced her 75-year-old father, who has been termed medically unfit to continue as a carrier by the Railways, and has become the first woman to become a licenced porter appointed at Nashik Road railway station in Bhusawal division. “I have six sisters and all of them are well settled. After the death of my husband 20 years ago, I returned to stay with my father. Since my father was a porter and was no longer fit, the Railways had presented me with an opportunity to work as a bearer,”said Wagh who has a 20-year-old son. “I have studied only up till Class VII and have no other means of sustenance.Most of my relatives from my native (Chadegaon village) are working as porters at the railway station. Hence, they are an extension of my family,” said Wagh. She took the decision to accept the offer the Railways offered to her to support the family as her son Suraj is still studying in senior college. “I work in the fields. Hence, a porter’s job will not be very difficult for me,” said Wagh adding that she was happy to serve people and, in the process, earn a living for her family. Suraj, who is also doing some other courses apart from attending college, is aware of the struggles his mother is bearing to support the family. “Once I finish them (both college and courses), I will soon take up a job so that my mother does not have to work as a porter at the railway station,” he said. The fellow porters were happy to receive Wagh on duty. “Her father Pandurang Mankar is like the senior person of our family. He was no longer fit to continue as a porter. Since Railways considers widowed daughter as a dependent, Wagh got the opportunity to work as a porter and sustain her family,” said Prakash Bodke, another porter. The porters do not get any fixed income per se. The Railways has decided on a set commission that the porters can charge for carrying the luggage of the passengers. The benefits the porters receive are medical help for all the dependents of the family, education for the children only in railway-schools and free travel pass once a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/widow-steps-into-fathers-shoes-is-now-1st-woman-porter-in-bhusawal-division/articleshow/78045046.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty bans joyride using old racehorses||Udhagamandalam: The animal husbandry department in association with Nilgiris Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), headed by the district collector, has announced a complete ban on retired racehorses used for tourist joyrides in the district. Any person found abusing retired race horses for joyrides will be penalized with a minimum of Rs 50, 000 and the horses shall be confiscated and sent to an infirmary already identified by local authorities for further care, a press release said.Owing to blatant disregard for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960, under section 11 (h), (i), (j), the collector ordered the ban on joyrides.Taking note of several reports of ill treatment meted out to the retired racehorses, the collector urged police department and local authorities to rehabilitate all such horses from the streets of Ooty to a place where they would be taken good care of.The collector’s decision to ban joyrides comes in the wake of several complaints that caretakers of old racehorses had abandoned them, forcing them to roam on streets foraging for food, often carrying injuries from old age that get worse with time. The collector’s order will prove to be a deterrent for those who abandon old racehorses or use them for joyrides, said the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-bans-joyride-using-old-racehorses/articleshow/78047934.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal seeks UGC seal for October exam date||KOLKATA: The state higher education department has requested the University Grants Commission (UGC) to extend the last date of conducting the final year/semester examinations in Bengal till October 18. The government has cited the suggestion from the disaster management department, which has advised not to hold the exam till end of September given the current Covid pandemic. A VC said the education secretary had told university heads about a confirmation from the UGC to go ahead with the dates and a written response would be sent out soon. “The Supreme Court had suggested that the states that cannot meet the September deadline set by the UGC must approach it and seek an extension of the deadline. Accordingly, UGC has been approached by the higher education department. The letter was sent on September 2 by education secretary Manish Jain,” said vice-chancellor of a state university. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday said universities had been given complete freedom to take a call on the modalities and format of the examinations. “A written response from UGC will be sent out soon. Also, Jain has mentioned completing the exams by October 18. But there is no mention of the last date of publishing the results, which is a respite. To publish results by October-end would be impossible, considering the Puja break,” he added. No university has announced dates yet. JU science and arts exam boards resolved not to decide before UGC nod came. “Universities have decided on exam methods. A schedule will be released soon,” said a CU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-seeks-ugc-seal-for-oct-exam-date/articleshow/78047943.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||69 test positive for virus, 34 recover||The Nilgiris district recorded 69 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the count to 2,128, of which 453 are active cases.At least 34 patients were discharged from facilities they were undergoing treatment on the day. With this, 1,661 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the hill district.In the past 10 days, the district has been seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases. According to officials, lack of proper social distancing in rural areas is a cause for concern. The new cases were spread across Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur and villages such as Kadanadu, Denatti, Yedappalli and Kodari, among other areas. Kagguchi village alone reported 12 new cases. Among the new cases were two women staff of Ooty government hospital and a 36-year-old man who was employed with a restaurant. Another 44-year-old man was tested positive for the virus after visiting Tirupur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/69-test-positive-for-virus-34-recover/articleshow/78047947.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||PMPML seeks permission to pull up passengers flouting safety norms||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited has sought permission from the municipal authorities in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad to fine passengers flouting social distancing norms on buses. Chetna Kerure, joint managing director, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), told TOI that they had requested both the corporations for permissions to impose fines on those violating norms. “Since the PMPML is governed by the civic bodies, we cannot start fining people without taking permission. The main reason for rising number of Covid cases is that people have no regard for simple regulations. There will be a change in attitude if we start fining people,” she said. “We are figuring out the routes which are busy in terms of passenger traffic. Based on the findings, more buses will ply on those routes,” she added. According to the rules, each bus cannot have more than 17 passengers, who need to be seated in a zig-zag fashion. On buses plying on Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) routes, apart from 17 seated passengers, two persons can stand. PMPML sources told TOI that the issue of bus breakdowns was being taken seriously. “From Monday onwards, if there is a bus breakdown, the person responsible for it will be pulled up and a heavy fine will be imposed on him/ her. Breakdowns, after months of non-operation, are not acceptable and responsibilities will be fixed from next week,” another official said. PMPML plied 3,476 buses, ferrying 6.07 lakh passengers and making 1.51 lakh trips since it resumed operation last week. The total number of bus breakdowns from September 3 to September 9 was 205.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-seeks-permission-to-pull-up-passengers-flouting-safety-norms/articleshow/78047942.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC cautions TV anchor against media trial in Sunanda Pushkar death case||NEW DELHI: Cautioning TV anchor Arnab Goswami to “exercise restraint” and not conduct a media trial in the Sunanda Pushkar death case, Delhi high court on Thursday asked the media to be responsible in reporting the issue. The high court pointed out that neither Delhi Police nor the trial court had invoked murder charge against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, yet the anchor continued to dub him a murderer. The court questioned Goswami for running a parallel investigation and asked the channel to bring down the rhetoric. Justice Mukta Gupta said the court was not saying that anyone would gag the media, but at the same time, sanctity of investigation must be maintained. On the channel’s claim that they had medical evidence pointing to Pushkar being murdered, the judge questioned them saying, “Were you at the spot? Are you an eyewitness? There is some sanctity attached to the investigation.” The judge added it was for a court of law to decide what was evidence in a criminal trial. Tharoor had sought interim injunction against Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, from making defamatory remarks against him. The high court sought response of the journalist on Tharoor’s application and listed the matter for further hearing on November 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-cautions-tv-anchor-against-media-trial-in-pushkar-case/articleshow/78047949.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board acts on Gachibowli resident’s plea, plugs sewage overflow||HYDERABAD: A few days after a resident of Babukhan Solitaire in Gachibowli reported to TOI about sewage overflowing in his locality since a month on the Citizen Reporter app, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) swung into action and solved the issue. The water board sent an earthmover to the area and 10 workers were pressed into service to resolve the issue. “The sewage overflow was inconveniencing commuters and passers-by. Sometimes, the sewage would end up getting splashed onto those walking on the road, due to which people would get into arguments with commuters,” said Mansoor Alam, a resident of Babukhan Solitaire, who had reported the issue to TOI. Another resident of the area said that residents and commuters were forced to wade through the cess pool for a month. Meanwhile, the HMWS&SB officials said that the overflowing water was not sewage. “The water may have been overflowing due to a damaged pipeline or due to the housing societies themselves letting out water onto the road and into a trench,” said Rajshekar, HMWS&SB general manager, Hafeezpet division. The water board officials have repaired the pipeline and said that they will soon close the trench. “Once the trench is closed, we will be able to find out the root cause of the issue as the water will gush back to the source instead of overflowing,” said a water board official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-acts-on-gachibowli-residents-plea-plugs-sewage-overflow/articleshow/78047945.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Another wild dog found dead||Udhagamandalam: A day after four wild dogs were found dead near Vibhuthi Malai area in Bokkapuram in the Singara range of forests falling under the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone, forest department’s field staff found another carcass at Achakarai in the range on Thursday.“The incident prompted us to conduct a postmortem. The same type of deer meat, found in the stomach of the four dogs during autopsy on Wednesday, was found in the stomach of the dog,” said MTR buffer zone deputy director L C S Srikanth. “We suspect poisoning and have registered a case under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A report was submitted to the judicial magistrate, Gudalur.”According to the official, a special team has been formed to conduct an inquiry in the surroundings and also to search the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/another-wild-dog-found-dead/articleshow/78047946.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Fresh arrests in Rs 3,700 crore livestock scam after 5 years||PUNE: The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday arrested a 36-year-old woman and a 30-year-old man from Pune in connection with the Rs3700 Samruddha Jeevan crore livestock scam. These were the first arrests in the case after a five-year gap. The CID, which has been investigating the case for the past five years, was on the search for the duo. A team headed by CID superintendent of police Sandeep Diwan arrested Hrishikesh Vasant Kanase and Supriya Vasant Kanase from the city. “Supriya was one of the directors of the two companies — Samruddha Jeevan Foods India Private Limited and Samruddha Jeevan Multi-State Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society. Hrishikesh, her brother, was an employee and had floated many of these investment schemes,” Diwan said. Charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust under the Indian Penal Code have been invoked against the duo. The company’s founder and director Mahesh Motewar has been already arrested by CID and is currently lodged in a prison in Odisha in connection with another case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fresh-arrests-in-rs-3700cr-livestock-scam-after-5-years/articleshow/78047948.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai Metro on a shopping spree to make travel hassle-free||CHENNAI: In about five years from now, passengers would be able to zip from OMR to CMBT in Koyambedu in around 90 minutes, as the 119km phase-2 metro rail network, with longer lines, smaller stations and advanced driverless trains, becomes a reality. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has rolled out an exhaustive list of items it will need for the three-corridor phase that will connect far-flung areas in the city and suburbs. From needles, ballpoint pens, grease cans, fake note detectors to 138 three-car trains, signalling and telecom systems for 119km, CMRL has drawn a comprehensive plan on its requirement. The detailed project report (DPR) expects the three corridors to be ready by 2025-26. A CMRL official said the five-year procurement projections were put out on the website with an idea to shop from Indian companies. “The five-year plan was following an instruction from the ministry to encourage ‘make in India’. Our procurement projections will help Indian firms plan their business and expand accordingly if required so they can work with us by participating in the bids when we float,” he said. Procurement of items like trains and smartcards will be based on the distance covered by metro trains and the passengers likely to use them. The DPR projects about 19.2 lakh people to use metro trains daily in the phase-2 corridor by 2025 and 43.5 lakh by 2055. CMRL has already designed sleeker underground stations, stations hanging from more than 27metres, multi-storey properties and driverless trains. It is also tweaking contracts to build the 119km network faster than the 45km phase-1 which took nearly 10 years. “Such infrastructure projects are designed for the future, say the next 100 years. In Chennai, where MTC buses, suburban rail and MRTS services cater to 80% of users, you cannot expect people to immediately shift to metro rail especially when the rate is high. But it will slowly change, something we saw in Delhi and Bangalore metro rails and even in Chennai with MRTS,” said R Ramanathan, former director of CMRL who is now with Nagpur metro.  Preliminary paperwork is on and construction tenders for a major portion floated. On-ground work is expected to start next year. “Phase-2 is a big project and there are many packages which we were finalising during the lockdown. There’s a lot of process that requires scrutinising. We never stopped any work during the lockdown. Hopefully we will start work early next year,” said CMRL managing director Pradeep Yadav had said in an earlier press meet. V Somasundaram, former chief general manager (construction), CMRL, said “It is better to reconfirm the financing of the project from the various international banks, agencies as well as from the state and Centre, at a time when the global economy is affected due to the pandemic.” When phase-1 is attracting only 1.16 lakh commuters daily against a projected 7.76 lakh, Sivasubramaniam Jayaraman, manager (transport system), Institute for Transportation and Development Policy said, “A fare rationalisation coupled with cheaper and reliable last mile connectivity can significantly boost the ridership of the metro in Chennai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-on-a-shopping-spree-to-make-travel-hassle-free/articleshow/78047960.cms||U Tejonmayam
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Bamu cash-for-viva case: PhD candidate submits call records||Aurangabad: The PhD candidate, who claims to be the victim in the recent cash-for-viva voce incident at the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), has submitted his version to the university in writing along with seven related call recordings. The calls are dated between November 1, 2018, and July 10, 2020, and were produced by the candidate as evidence that his guide sought money to hold a viva voce as a part of the completion of PhD. As per the last conversation, the guide had demanded Rs 10,000 to arrange for the oral examination, the submission made by the candidate read. The candidate had submitted his thesis in June 2018. “My viva voce was deliberately delayed by the guide and external examiners for want of money. The university must arrange for my viva voce at the earliest and take action against those who sought illegal gratification from me,” the candidate has said in his submission before the Board of Examination and Evaluation of Bamu. The cash-for-viva voce issue involves allegations against Prashant Amrutkar, the dean of Humanities at Bamu, for seeking money from a PhD candidate for arranging his viva-voice after submitting a research thesis. The dean, however, continues to plead ignorance. Notably, three members of the management council of the university had first raised the matter of money being demanded from a PhD candidate on August 12. The university, however, swung into action few days later after the recorded audio clips of the calls between the candidate and guide went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bamu-cash-for-viva-case-phd-candidate-submits-call-records/articleshow/78045108.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata CP tests positive for Covid, isolates himself||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma tested positive for Covid on Thursday. He will remain in isolation, with doctors monitoring his health. Sources said Sharma decided to get tested on Thursday after he started showing mild symptoms over the past couple of days. Lalbazar asked officers who, have came in touch with Sharma recently, to stay vigilant and quarantine themselves, if required. Sharma is the senior-most officer in the force to be affected by Covid. Top Lalbazar officers confirmed the police chief was yet to seek leave and even on Thursday evening, he worked like any other day. “A process is under way to identify those who had called on Sharma and met him on official purposes for the past few days. They will be asked to put themselves in quarantine, maintaining the Covid protocol”, a Lalbazar officer said. Sharma’s report came the same day DIG (Midnapore Range) V Solomon Nesakumar tested positive for Covid. Earlier, a top-ranking IPS officer at the level of joint CP had also contracted the novel coronavirus. He stayed in home isolation and rejoined in 12 days on a crucial lockdown day. The force had a very healthy recovery rate, the top cop had said in an interview a few weeks earlier. Though 2,137 personnel in the Kolkata Police have so far been affected, the number of active cases is now 150-200. Almost 90% of the force has recovered and rejoined work. “Sharma backed his force in crucial times. He has visited the worst-affected police stations and personally called up to enquire after infected officers. He has always asked us not to fear the disease. We expect him back to Lalbazar at the earliest,” said a senior cop. Lalbazar also iterated the importance of following the safety SOP. “The SOP was prepared to entail all aspects of practical problems faced by police. It has been prepared following consultations with junior officers, doctors and virologists,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-cp-tests-positive-for-covid-isolates-himself/articleshow/78048009.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Tutor-turned-thief held, loot seized||COIMBATORE: The Thudiyalur police on Wednesday recovered a 34-sovereign gold bar from an unemployed postgraduate, who had turned to a life of crime five years ago. P Manoj, 33, of Amman Street at Omalur in Salem, holds an MA in English and had completed BEd, sub-inspector Franklin Utro Wilson told TOI. “He used to take tuition for school students in Salem, but wanted money to lead a lavish life. So, he involved in burglary, dacoity and chain snatching from 2015,” he said. Manoj and his two accomplices broke open a house at GN Mills in Coimbatore and looted 15 sovereigns of gold ornaments on August 17, 2019. They also decamped with 17 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house at Kavundampalayam. In February, they stole two sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house at Thadagam. The Thudiyalur police had arrested Manoj’s accomplice T Nandakumar, 44, of Karur on September 3 after the duo snatched a seven-sovereign gold chain from a woman at Kavundampalayam on August 8. Police recovered the stolen chain from Nandakumar, who revealed the involvement of Manoj and another Madurai-based person. Police arrested Manoj and recovered a 272-gram gold ingot and a stolen motorcycle from him. The miscreants had melted stolen gold to make the ingot, the inspector said. Manoj, who was involved in several cases in Coimbatore, Namakkal, Karur, Salem and Madurai districts, had befriend Nandakumar while he was lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. Police are on the lookout for Manoj’s Madurai-based accomplice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/34-sovereign-gold-bar-seized-from-teacher-turned-thief/articleshow/78047967.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Activists tell Maharashtra govt to roll out amended MV Act||PUNE: Road safety activists have demanded that the state government implement the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, passed by the Union government last year. The activists said provisions of the Act — the helmet rule, compounding reforms and others — will go a long way towards improving road safety in the state. “Despite several reminders, the state government has still not notified the Act. In its absence, the reforms can’t be implemented effectively,” Sandeep Gaikwad, senior programme associate at Parisar, said. “The Act has many provisions — electronic enforcement, more stringent licensing, vehicle inspections and standards for road design, construction and maintenance. Its implementation will help reduce road fatalities and injuries in the state,” Parisar programme director Ranjit Gadgil said. Harshad Abhyankar, director, Save Pune Traffic Movement, said, “It has the potential to not only deter civilians from unsafe road use, but also hold contractors, consultants and civic agencies accountable,” Abhyankar said. Samaiirah from Safe Road Foundation said the government also needs to enforce it properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-tell-state-govt-to-roll-out-amended-mv-act/articleshow/78047977.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 11, 2020||Chennai||RTE seats must be available for beneficiaries in schools till November 15||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government must publicise availability of 25% free seats in schools under the Right To Education (RTE) Act, and should fill them only with beneficiaries under the Act, the Madras high court has ruled, adding that the seats should be kept unfilled till November 15. Such publication must also include the committee to whom complaints can be made, it said. Not satisfied with the publication of admission schedule in vernacular newspapers having limited circulation, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said: “We do not find any particulars regarding the publication made in any leading vernacular newspapers indicating the schedule for the admission process.” The judges issued the directions on a PIL filed by Popular Front of India (PFI) seeking direction to the state government to release the timetable and procedure for admission under the RTE Act for the academic year 2020-2021. The judges further said, “We are inclined to direct the authorities to undertake such a process once again by making due publication in any one of the vernacular newspapers having wide circulation within a week.” The judges added that such publication shall also indicate the functioning of the committee to whom complaints, if any, can be made. “Unfilled seats, if any, even after the expiry of the time limit, should be kept open till November 15. Till such time, subject to the compliance of the other requirements, the seats meant for 25% reservation under RTE quota will have to be filled up only under that category,” the court concluded. Earlier, petitioner’s counsel Abdul Basith submitted that though the timetable had been published, there was nothing to substantiate the due publication and setting up of the monitoring committee. M Elumalai, additional government pleader, submitted that due compliance had been made and that there existed a monitoring committee apart from publication in a local daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rte-seats-must-be-available-for-beneficiaries-till-nov-15/articleshow/78047985.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Ecet results to be announced today||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Council of Higher Education’s chairman, T Papi Reddy, will release results of the Telangana Engineering Common Entrance Test (Ecet) on Friday at 4pm. Candidates can download their rank cards from the official website ecet.tsche.ac.in. As many as 25, 448 candidates appeared for the exam, which was conducted on August 31. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ecet-results-to-be-announced-today/articleshow/78047983.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||‘70% AU students don’t have access to smartphones & net connectivity’||Nagpur: Amravati University (AU) courted a controversy when it opted for traditional way of conducting final year examinations. It was based on AU’s internal survey that only 30% of its students have access to smartphones and net connectivity. It was only after being told by the government that the Disaster Management Authority (DMA) wouldn’t allow gathering students at exam centres that AU authorities are going in for online exams. In an exclusive chat with TOI, vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar spoke on issues involved. Excerpts: Q. Why did AU decide to go the pen and paper way? A. There were multiple factors. Poor response to our online admissions, where not even 5% prefer to use computers is one reason. A majority of aspirants thronged colleges or university for getting admission. Another one was that we were ready with our question papers and would have been easier for us to commence exams immediately. Considering all this and keeping in view the difficulties to be faced by the students, our statutory bodies decided to conduct offline exams. Q. Tribal areas like Melghat also come under AU, where it would be difficult to conduct online exams... A. It is unimaginable for students from those areas to appear in online exams. A majority of our colleges are located in rural areas while some are in remote areas like Melghat. The students there do not have smartphones, so online option is not possible there. Q. But AU was holding MCQ exams for professional courses? A. Because students from courses like engineering and pharmacy are mostly from well-to-do families and are used to using computers. Q. Why was the decision changed? Was there pressure from the govt? A. State Department of Higher and Technical Education informed us the DMA would never permit us to conduct exams where students and teachers gather in large numbers at centres due to Covid-19 pandemic. It is due to fact that there is big spike in coronavirus cases in entire division along with deaths. Considering the threat to students and teachers, we have now decided to opt for MCQ type exams in larger interest. Q. What’s the road ahead? A. As we plan to conduct exams from October 1, there are various challenges ahead. We have to set approximately 4,000 question sets, perhaps the biggest task. Fortunately, all our statutory members and teachers have agreed to help. We have also decided to conduct MCQ exams for failed students. Those who wouldn’t able to appear in online exams, we would offer offline option through OMR sheets. They would be called at the exam centres as per directives of the chancellor and government. We would also arrange mock tests for examinees so they shouldn’t face difficulties during final exams. Q. How will be the pattern of exams? A. All MCQ papers would be of 50 marks and of one and half hours duration. There will be ten questions from all units covering the entire syllabus. Out of 50 questions, the examinees need to solve 25. We have 952 papers which would be printed in three languages and each would be having two sets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/70-au-students-dont-have-access-to-smartphones-net-connectivity/articleshow/78047989.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS to corner Centre on GST dues, new electricity bill||HYDERABAD: TRS, which has supported the Centre in ensuring passage of various bills in Rajya Sabha in the last session, has now decided to attack the Centre both in the House and outside to get its share in taxes, arrears and other financial aid from the Centre. The party has decided to press the Centre to release GST arrears to the state and hold protests with support of other parties belonging to other states. “We will fight against the Centre’s attitude in the last seven years. The NDA government has not been releasing the funds, which are guaranteed under the Constitution. If BJP thinks we are waging a war against the Centre, we don’t mind,” TRS leader in Rajya Sabha and party secretary general K Keshava Rao told reporters. Chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao held a meeting with party MPs on Thursday to finalise the strategy to be adopted in the coming parliament sessions beginning on September 14. Keshava Rao and TRS leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao said the Centre had been deceiving the state government. “The BJP government had violated the GST Act by not releasing Rs 10,000 crore. Similarly, the Union government has failed to find a solution to the Krishna water dispute. Though cultivation has increased by 24% when compared to previous cultivation, the Centre has not released urea,” the leaders said. Keshava Rao said the party would oppose the new electricity bills, aimed at taking over the powers of the state governments. He said this against the federal spirt of the country. “Will BJP ruling states support such laws,” he sought to know. Modi government did not keep its promise on new National Highways and sanctioning of new Navodaya schools to the state. Airstrips were not announced and the Centre did not give any financial assistance to Kakatiya mega textile park, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-to-corner-centre-on-gst-dues-new-electricity-bill/articleshow/78047972.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Serum pauses Oxford vaccine trials, will wait for all-clear from DCGI||PUNE: Serum Institute of India on Thursday hit a temporary pause on human trials of the Oxford vaccine by stopping enrolment of new volunteers at 17 trial sites in the country. SII said the pause would stay until clearance to proceed comes from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The DCGI had on Wednesday served SII a showcause notice asking why it hadn’t informed the drug regulator of a reported adverse event in a volunteer at a trial site in the United Kingdom, which had forced pharma firm AstraZeneca to pause global trials of the vaccine. The SII has signed a deal to manufacture the Oxford vaccine (co-developed by AstraZeneca) in India under the name Covishield. On Wednesday, the Adar Poonawalla-led SII said, “We are currently reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials in the UK. We are following DCGI’s instructions.” In India, Covishield is yet to enter phase 3 of the vaccine trial. So far, 100 volunteers — 68 from Pune — have already received shots of the potential Covid vaccine. They are currently under observation. A senior official from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is overseeing trials of the Oxford vaccine in India, said its safety profile would continue to be evaluated among the first 100 volunteers. “The trial sites in India will not enrol or recruit new volunteers for the vaccine test. But the ongoing work of analysing the safety data of the Oxford vaccine in vaccinated volunteers for a week will continue unhindered,” the ICMR official said. On Tuesday, AstraZeneca paused global trials after it was reported that a UK volunteer had experienced a suspected adverse reaction. The development is now under an internal review. While several experts told TOI that “transverse myelitis”, the side-effect reportedly exhibited by the UK volunteer, was a serious neurological condition, sources said a preliminary “causality investigation” indicated that pre-existing conditions might have led to the adverse event. The issue does not appear to be related to the vaccine, they said. AstraZeneca has described the pause in trials as “routine action”. On Tuesday, the pharma major said: “In large clinical trials, illnesses will happen by chance and must be independently reviewed. We will be guided by this (review) committee as to when the trials could restart, so that we can continue our work at the earliest opportunity to provide this vaccine broadly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serum-pauses-oxford-vaccine-trials-will-wait-for-all-clear-from-dcgi/articleshow/78048025.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||DFO in ACB net for taking Rs2.5L bribe from subordinate||Amravati: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday caught red-handed Rajendra Bonde, divisional forest officer (Class-I) of social forestry department here, while accepting a bribe of Rs2.50 lakh from his subordinate officer. An offence has been registered against the DFO at Gadgenagar police station. According to ACB sources, complainant Kalose, 57, works in the social forestry department at Morshi. The accused Bonde had demanded bribe of Rs5 lakh from Kalose for giving additional charge of Warud social forestry department to him. Kalose agreed for the payment in two instalments and also lodged a complaint with the ACB, which laid a trap. As per agreement, Bonde came to Kalose’s Kantanagar residence on Thursday and accepted Rs2.50 lakh as first instalment when ACB team nabbed him red-handed. The operation was carried out by Gajanan Padghan, DySP, ACB, and his team under the guidance of Shrikant Dhivare, superintendent of police, ACB, and Panjabrao Dongardive, additional superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dfo-in-acb-net-for-taking-rs2-5l-bribe-from-subordinate/articleshow/78048030.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Over Rs 1k cr to Finance Commission||Hyderabad: Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Thursday told the assembly that the government has proposed to give Rs 1,847 crore to the Finance Commission this year. He said the amount would be released by the government soon. Stating that the government is allotting Rs 339 crore every month to gram panchayats, he said that from September 2019, the government has spent Rs 2,373 crore on panchayats. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-rs-1k-cr-to-commission/articleshow/78048023.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP: ‘Jamtara’ style racket of forged SIM cards and online wallets busted||BHOPAL: MP state cyber cell on Thursday claimed to have busted a major inter-state racket, which used to provide logistic support to online fraudsters by supplying them large number of pre-activated SIM cards issued on forged/fake IDs and online payment wallets. Police nabbed four members of the racket from Karera Shivpuri, including three retailers and a distributor of telecom service companies, who were working as logistic suppliers for the online fraudsters in Delhi and other states. Some members of the gang are still on the run. Police busted the racket while investigating a credit card fraud complaint filed by a Bhopal-based businessman in January this year. The nabbed accused activated more than 2000 SIM cards, using forged IDs in the past six months. Police said that many Jamtara-style modules have come up in the districts of MP, including Shivpuri, Sheopur, Guna and Bhind in which many such rackets are operating. One such gang was busted by Bhopal cybercrime branch around a fortnight ago and the middleman, who purchased SIM cards activated on forged IDs to supply it to online fraudsters, was arrested then. The same middleman was in contact with this gang and the state cyber cell will now take him on remand. Cyber cell Bhopal SP Gurkaran Singh said that complainant Yogesh Sood, a resident of Bhopal, filed a complaint with state cyber cell on January 15, stating that he had received a call from an unidentified number on which the caller, a woman, introduced herself from a credit card company. She lured him in the net on pretext of increasing the credit limit on his account and sent him a link to complete the formalities. As soon as he clicked on the link, Rs 1.22 lakh were transferred from his account. Acting on Sood’s complaint, police registered a case. During investigations it was revealed that money from Sood’s account was transferred into 12 online payment wallets. Police found that the mobile number used to call Sood and those linked to online payment wallets in which the money was transferred were all issued to various addresses in MP. A team was sent to Karera in Shivpuri and the distributors and retailers, who issued the SIM cards using forged IDs, were nabbed. Investigation officer Abhishek Sonekar said that nabbed accused were identified as Pankaj Gupta, 28, Pankaj Joshi, 20, Indrapal Singh, 24, all residents of Karera Shivpuri and Manish Namdev, 24, a resident of Datia. Pankaj Gupta is the distributor of SIM Cards of various companies while the other three are retailers. Sonekar said that the accused revealed that they made forged IDs including Aadhar Card/Voter ID card having their photos on the IDs from documents provided by villagers at the time of taking SIM cards from them. They then used the forged IDs to activate SIM cards. Using some forged SIM cards, they opened e- payment wallets and sold the forged SIM cards and activated wallets to online fraudsters at the rate of Rs 500 to Rs 2000 per SIM, through middleman Satish Dubey. Dubey was recently nabbed by Bhopal cybercrime branch and he is presently in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jamtara-style-racket-of-forged-sim-cards-online-wallets-busted/articleshow/78046484.cms||Sudeept Mishra
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Why not hold online UG, PG exams: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from those who are opposing the examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses as to what is their difficulty in appearing for the same if they are held online. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed this query to NSUI president BV Narsing Rao and others who are opposing the exams, citing the pandemic spread. Reminding the petitioners about a series of common entrance tests by the state government and educational agencies held online, the judges wondered whether the same approach could be adopted for the annual exams as well. Petitioners’ counsel C Damodar Reddy said that though they had asked for cancellation of all exams, the University Grants Commission did not agree to do so and asked the states to complete the exam process by September 30. “At least, the authorities should think of conducting them online,” he said. The judges then asked advocate general BS Prasad to inform the court whether the authorities would hold online exams now and a supplementary exam later for those who could not appear for exams now. “But, you (government) should not call them supplementary exams. They should be treated as regular exams,” the judges said. At this, the AG sought time to ascertain the views of the authorities concerned and inform the court. Y Srinivas Murthy, another counsel appearing for the students, said though the UGC had made it mandatory to conduct the exams, it gave the liberty to the states and universities to conduct them either in online or offline mode or in a blended form. The bench adjourned the case to September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-not-hold-online-ug-pg-exams-hc/articleshow/78048059.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu universities to conduct final year exams online||CHENNAI: Ending the confusion, universities in the state on Thursday decided to conduct the final year exams online in view of Covid-19. They are to be completed by September 30. The state higher education department convened a meeting of vice-chancellors, which unanimously agreed to conduct the exams online but left the modalities -- type of questions and host platforms -- to the universities. The universities asked to reduce the duration of the exam from three hours to one hour or one and half hours. "It was decided not to conduct the final semester exams beyond two hours," an official said. While Anna University plans multiple-choice questions, other universities want to use descriptive- type questions too. "We will send the questions to the students and ask them to use pen and paper and then upload the answer sheets for evaluation," a vice-chancellor said. Colleges will be asked to open their facilities for students who are not able to upload their answer scripts. It is not possible to create a question bank for multiple choice based questions at such a short notice, the vice-chancellor said. Madras University is yet to decide on the duration of the exam and the platform. "The details will be finalised in the next few days after discussions," a university official said. Meanwhile, Anna University announced that it would conduct final-semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students online from September 22 to 29. "The students can appear for the examination from their home using devices such as laptops, desktops, smartphones, tablets with internet, camera and microphone facilities. The question paper will be of multiple choice-based," a circular from the university said. The university also plans to arrange mock tests for students to familiarise them with the online exam pattern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-varsities-to-conduct-final-year-exams-online/articleshow/78048038.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||11k health posts will be filled: Eatala||Hyderabad: Health minister Eatala Rajender said an additional 11,000 medical and health employees’ posts will be filled once the Covid-19 situation eases. Replying to a query on sanctioning a medical college for Sangareddy, the minister said that 4,000 posts were filled though the sanction was for 10,000 posts. Talking about the health and medical education infrastructure in the state, the minister said because of the Centre's condition that no medical colleges can be granted in districts which have a certain number of private medical colleges, the state could not set up the medical colleges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11k-health-posts-will-be-filled-eatala/articleshow/78048003.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||No ICU beds available in COVID hosps for two serious gas victims fighting corona||Bhopal: In the past couple of days, two women gas victims — diagnosed as coronavirus positive at the Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) — could not be admitted to Covid hospitals for treatment because no ICU beds were available in any of the hospitals and their serious condition warranted admission in ICU.After failing to get an ICU bed in any of the Covid hospitals, BMHRC, which normally transfers Covid-19 patients to dedicated Covid hospitals for treatment after stabilising a positive patient, had to admit the two — Sija (78) and Naseem (61) — in its isolation ward. When their condition deteoriated, they were put on ventilator, thereby ruling out possibility of their admission in an ICU ward of a Covid hospital.Naseem’s son, Husain, told TOI, “We brought our mother to BMHRC, where she registered for treatment on Wednesday. After she was diagnosed positive, the hospital wanted to send her to any of the Covid hospitals, but since there was no bed available in the ICU, she has been admitted here. She and the mother of my friend, who is also here for the same reason, are being treated in consultation with doctors of the Covid hospital. They are critical but BMHRC doctors are trying. She was on oxygen earlier, now she has been put on ventilator,” he said.A member of the Bhopal Group for Information & Action, who talked to everyone, doctors of Chirayu, Hamidia, AIIMS, J K Hospital to CMHO, gas relief to CMHO, Bhopal, said, “We are talking of gas victims here, but it concerns everyone who can't afford to pay for treatment of coronavirus infection in an ICU of a private hospital. Gas victims are more vulnerable to infection because of comorbidities and 60% of those who have died due to coronavirus in Bhopal are gas victims. Yet, the gas relief department didn't care to convert one of its six hospitals as Covid hospital. We have lodged a complaint with the Monitoring Committee of the Supreme Court on this.”Purnendu Shukla, member of the Monitoring Committee (formed by the apex court to keep tabs on medicare of gas victims), said the committee has received the complaint and are contemplating further action.CMHO, gas relief, Dr Ravi Verma, could not be contacted for comments.However, spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore, admitted that the spurt in coronavirus cases in the city of late has led to shortage of ICU beds. “Normal beds are available, but in ICU, you have serious patients who take time in recovery. But, soon we shall have 100 more ICU beds at Covid hospitals and it would ease the situation. Those who can afford may get themselves treated at private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-icu-beds-available-in-covid-hosps-for-two-serious-gas-victims-fighting-corona/articleshow/78046500.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Driver killed after tanker skids off road in Kasara ghat||Nashik: The driver of a milk tanker was killed on the spot after his vehicle allegedly skidded off the road and fell on its side in Kasara ghat at 3.30 am on Thursday.The milk tanker was coming from Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district, on its way towards Mumbai, when the incident occurred in Kasara ghat.Police have identified the deceased as Shafiq Syed (38), resident of Chalisgaon, and he was accompanied by Mangesh Jadhav (32), a cleaner.As per the police, the driver lost control at ‘Brake Fail’ point in Kasara Ghat, which has two separate routes—one for coming up towards the ghat from Mumbai side and the other going down the ghat towards Mumbai.“The driver was caught beneath the truck and killed on the spot. It took some time to rescue him,” assistant sub-inspector Madhav Pawar of highway police said. Head constable Rahul Gangurde and others who managed the traffic in the ghat said there were no major issues in the traffic as the incident occurred in the early hours. The officer also pointed out that another vehicle had skidded off on that particular road after an hour of the tanker skidding off. A bus was passing the same point skidded off the road as the driver lost control at about 4.30 am.Nobody was injured even though the bus driver lost control over the vehicle and it skidded of the road after which the vehicle got stuck in the soil. The passengers in the bus were coming from Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/driver-killed-after-tanker-skids-off-road-in-kasara-ghat/articleshow/78045149.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||Vegetable carts mushroom in Bhopal as jobs disappear in pandemic||BHOPAL: Before lockdown Virendra was working as a driver with a businessman’s office in MP Nagar. During the lockdown, the 32-year-old was not sure whether he still had the job or had lost it. But, one thing was for sure. He was not getting his monthly salary. It was then that he opened a small vegetable shop near his house in Gulmohar Colony to keep his family’s kitchen running. His family comprises his wife and two children. Choosing to be a vegetable vendor was not much of a choice as at that time, everything except for vegetable vendors, grocery, medical and milk shops was closed. Even as process of Unlock unfolded amid work at his office resumed, Virendra found out that he had lost the job as some staff was retrenched after the Unlock. So, he has stuck to selling vegetables. “I am not the only one to have lost the job. I know so many people in my surroundings itself — construction workers, painters, those employed in offices and factories in different capacities, auto drivers, washermen who lost their jobs during lockdown. Some of them got it back after the lockdown was over and some not, but during lockdown itself, so many new vegetable vendors cropped up in the city,” he said. There are so many vegetable vendors in the city now that in an area like Chuna Bhatti, where vendors usually go around the colonies and sell their vegetables door-to-door, there are 10 vegetable vendors by the roadside in a 1-km stretch. This is in addition to vendors going door-to-door to sell their products. President of Bittan Market Vegetable Vendors’ Association, Hariom Khatik, said, “The number of vegetable vendors in the city has gone up by at least 600 to 700. Many people have lost their livelihood. Making a fresh beginning with very little capital is possible in the vegetable business and if not much, you are atleast able to earn something for the family,” he said. Rajesh, who runs a hair salon in Shahpura, said, “The benchmark of daily earning for a poor man as per collector guideline rates is Rs 300 per day. I had two helpers at my shop. During lockdown, both of them went back to their village in Bundelkhand. Even after Unlock, the business is dull. One of them has come back and is selling vegetables in Kolar,” he said in amusement. But, has this trend helped the customers? Are they getting quality vegetables and fruits at reasonable rates? The answer is an emphatic “no”. “They are selling at any rate. Tomato sold for Rs 20 a kg one day, can cost Rs 80 a kg next day,” said Santosh Rajavat, a resident of Mandakini area in Kolar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-losing-job-during-pandemic-many-find-solace-in-veggie-biz/articleshow/78046491.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Daily spike, growth rate, doubling time dip in dist||Coimbatore: Health officials say the district has been recording fewer Covid-19 cases than projected for the period followed by a dip in growth rate of cases, which stands at 2.2% against the projected 3.7%.According to them, earlier detection and contact tracing have prevented many asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients from becoming super spreaders, bringing down the new cases. Stricter enforcement of containment measures and precautions, they say, will further reduce the growth rate of Covid-19 cases.As on Wednesday, the district’s Covid-19 tally was 21,228, 3.9% lower than the projected 22,824 for the period.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “In fact, from Sunday (Sept 6), the Covid-19 tally has been lesser than projected for the district. Monday, when we had six cases more than the projected figure, was an exception though. In hardly a week, the daily spike in cases has dropped to 445 from 580 to 598.”As per the projection, the district was supposed to see 756 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. However, just 445 cases were recorded on that day at a growth rate of 2.2%. On Tuesday too, the district recorded only 446 new cases against the projected 999 cases.The dip in growth rate has also brought down the doubling time of cases in the district to 23 days from 18 days. Kumaravel Pandian, city corporation commissioner, says, “This is because of early detection of cases and isolating houses with positive cases by barricading their premises to ensure they are not venturing out and spreading the virus. During contact tracing, we ensure that asymptomatic cases at workplaces don’t go undetected.”Health department has intensified implementation of Covid-19 preventive measures by fining people without masks. “We have deployed two mobile vans in rural areas to fine people without masks. At Zamin Uthukuli, we have made 16 people without masks undergo the Covid-19 testing. In city corporation limits, thousands of people have been fined. If people cooperate, we can bring down cases further by the end of this week and next week,” says the deputy director of public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/daily-spike-growth-rate-doubling-time-dip-in-dist/articleshow/78048082.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||College aspirants brace for trauma test||Kolkata: College aspirants are likely to have an excruciatingly, long wait before they can secure a seat in a subject of their choice with institutes affiliated to Calcutta University pointing out that only a limited number of chosen candidates are enrolling in the honours programmes in each round. College heads fear this way, hundreds of seats will remain vacant and the deadline for the last day of admissions on September 25 may have to be extended. At Surendranath College, seven admission merit lists have already been published. “Last year, we published 12 lists. This year, we will keep adding lists as long as all the seats are filled,” said principal Indranil Kar. The principal of another college pointed out that this year, the number of admission merit lists was likely to be one of the highest in recent years because of the deluge of applications they have received as well as the multiple applications from same candidates for the same subjects. “There was no application fee this year. Colleges, which could not weed out the errors and eliminate duplicate names, are now finding it difficult to grapple with the situation. With the same names featuring multiple times on the merit lists, only a few candidates are being able to take admissions in each round. So, more lists have to be published,” he said. At the same time, the high marks scored by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education students have also added to the woes of ISC and CBSE candidates, many of whom are yet to find a seat in CU colleges. “How long will the wait be? On one hand, we are falling behind HS candidates because of the evaluation method adopted by their council, which is sharply different from that of other boards, on the other, some students are applying multiple times for the same subject. That is pushing our names further down on merit lists. I am already suffering from anxiety pangs. I missed the opportunity to move to the other states, which would have been a better idea,” said a student who cleared ISC this year. She has applied in Scottish Church College, Maulana Azad College and City College (North) for English Honours. “In every college, my name is between 800 and 950 ranks,” she added. The father of a science student, who had taken the Class XII CBSE examination from Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School and bagged 87%, said he was confident that the score would get her seats in top-notch CU colleges. “My daughter wants to study biotechnology or microbiology. In spite of scoring high in Class XII, she has not found a seat yet. She has now decided to appear for NEET. My daughter is stressed out,” he said, adding the race to award marks to one section of students has deprived many other candidates. “From each merit list, the number of students taking admission is lower than that last year. The best students have found their names on the first list at our college. Many are aiming for JU, Presidency University, JEE and NEET. They have not taken admissions, despite finding a seat at our college. Till last year, students could cancel and take admissions in a different college. But this time, the cancellation will be far more difficult because the entire process is online. Thus, they are taking time to decide and only after determining the final destination will enrol in a college. We will have to publish multiple merit lists,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-aspirants-brace-for-trauma-test/articleshow/78048092.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers urge JNTU to assess Covid impact||HYDERABAD: The members of Telangana Schools Technical College’s Employees Association (TSTCEA) on Thursday submitted a representation to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) requesting to inspect all technical institutions and see if they are running as per the AICTE guidelines. They also requested the officials to verify salary payments and termination of faculty during the pandemic. “The university should inspect colleges and find out about the impact of Covid-19 on the faculty members. They should also verify documents pertaining to staff salary and ensure that staff is paid regularly,” said A Santosh Kumar, the president of TSTCEA. The members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA), meanwhile, suggested certain amendments to the guidelines pertaining to governing body meeting released by the JNTU. “The governing body members, including the university nominee, should interact with all the staff, students, and parents and know their grievances if any. The Governing Body should also be responsible to resolve the grievances of all the stakeholders involved,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, TTIEA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-urge-jntu-to-assess-covid-impact/articleshow/78048093.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nashik||26,251 withdraw Rs 58cr from PF in Nashik divn in 5 months||Nashik: As many as 26,251 people have withdrawn over Rs 58 crore from their provident fund accounts connected with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) in Nashik division during the last five months. The centre has notified special withdrawal provision under the EPFO scheme due to the outbreak of Covid-19. As per the provision under the scheme, non-refundable withdrawal of the basic wages and allowances of three months or up to 75% of the amount in the members EPF account, whichever is less, is allowed. Many people were under pressure due to the crisis arising from the outbreak of Covid-19. So, the centre had taken the decision to allow EPFO members to withdraw money from their PF accounts. EPFO officials said these employees from the Nashik region had applied for the withdrawal of money from their accounts following which, the EPFO deposited the money in their accounts in the past two months. Nashik regional office of EPFO includes five districts – Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon. Meanwhile, Nashik regional office of EPFO has issued advisory to the pensioners and its PF members to not share their Aadhar number, account number and other financial details as EPFO never demand such information on phone. The advisory comes following some complaints by the members about phone calls seeking their personal details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/26251-withdraw-rs-58cr-from-pf-in-nashik-divn-in-5-months/articleshow/78045173.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||204 new cases take city Covid count to 13,317||Bhopal: Bairagarh area reported 30 cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, as the state capital added 204 more cases of the infection. Twenty of the cases reported in Bairagarh are from 3 EME centre, according to health department reporting. The total number of COVID-19 cases diagnosed in Bhopal has touched 13,317 and with 314 deaths. Previously, Bairagarh’s highest single day tally was 27 positives. Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and JP Hospital doctors were among those found infected on Thursday. Besides, five positive cases of the infection were reported in the same family in Saket Nagar. E-2, Arera Colony, reported one positive case. E-4, Arera Colony, reported two positives. Good Shephard (Kolar) reported two positives. Char Imli area reported two positives in the same family. Jain Nagar reported three cases of COVID-19. ITBP (KanhaSaiya) reported four positives. 25 Battalion reported two positive cases. Sukhi Sewania and Ayodhya Nagar Police stations reported one positive case each. Berasia — on the outskirts of the state capital — reported three positive cases. Navi Bagh quarantine centre reported two positive cases of the infection. Raj Hansh hotel reported two cases, while the same number was reported from Guest House at Jatkhedi. Comfort Palm (Bawadiakalan) reported two positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/204-new-cases-take-city-covid-count-to-13317/articleshow/78046520.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Inter-state pvt bus services allowed, operators reluctant||Nagpur: Maharashtra transport department has allowed resumption of inter-state bus service subject to adherence to Covid safety guidelines. The department had suspended inter-state bus operations on March 19 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Private bus operators, however, are not ready to resume the service and said travel fare will be revised before they hit the road again. Speaking to TOI, many private bus operators in the city and state said they are unwilling to ply buses as low capacity utilization affects business viability. On September 2, the state government had allowed private buses to operate with 50% capacity. Post pandemic, the challenges of public transport service providers will escalate due to erratic demand, need to ensure safety of drivers and conductors while maintaining distance of six feet between passengers and sanitizing buses regularly. All this entail additional expenses and hence the demand to revise the fare upwards. On September 7, deputy transport commissioner Laxman Darade stated that no e-pass will be needed for passengers travelling in inter-state private buses. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the inter-state bus service too remain similar to that of inter-district Covid-19 guidelines. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and transport minister Anil Parab, Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Bus Vahatuk Mahasangh urged the state government to waive taxes on private buses. Mahasangh’s vice-president Mahendra Luley clarified that unless their demands are met, private bus operators won’t resume both inter-district and inter-state service. In the memorandum, the Mahasangh pointed out that for five months, private bus service has been shut. Considering the loss to the industry, the central government had announced loan repayment moratorium, which ended in August. Now, the operators will have to start paying instalments towards the loan amount. Many operators have started getting calls from financial institutions for payment of instalments, the Mahasangh stated. In view of this, the state government should intervene and direct banks and other financial institutions not to levy interest on pending instalments, urged the Mahasangh. Transport department officials told TOI that private bus operators contribute around Rs1,400 crore to the state exchequer by way of taxes. Luley said in the current situation if the operators resume bus service, fares to all destinations, including inter-district and inter-state, will have to be revised. To a query, he pointed out the price of diesel was Rs64 per litre in March and it has crossed Rs80 per litre now. Besides, the SOPs of allowing only 50% passengers of total capacity in one trip will add additional burden on the operators. “All these factors will lead to increase in the operational cost,” Luley pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inter-state-pvt-bus-services-allowed-operators-reluctant/articleshow/78048096.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 11, 2020||India||To counter China, India inks military pact with Japan||NEW DELHI: India is working to enhance its strategic reach in the Indian Ocean and beyond by clinching reciprocal military logistics pacts with friendly countries to counter China’s expanding footprint across the Indo-Pacific region. Japan has now become the sixth country, after the US, France, Australia, South Korea and Singapore, with which India has such an agreement to enable military forces to share logistics to support each other’s warships and aircraft as well as bolster overall interoperability and defence cooperation. “India is negotiating similar pacts with the UK and Russia. The Russian one should be inked later this year. We don’t have the intention or the wherewithal to establish overseas bases like China is doing far and wide,” a senior official said on Thursday. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar and Japanese ambassador Suzuki Satoshi signed the agreement on “reciprocal provision of supplies and services” between the Indian armed forces and the Japanese self-defence forces. PM Narendra Modi and his counterpart Shinzo Abe agreed that the pact, the negotiations for which had kicked off in October 2018, will “further enhance the depth of defence cooperation” between India and Japan and “contribute to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region”. The 10-year agreement will be automatically extended every decade unless once side decides to terminate it. The defence ministry, in turn, said the agreement establishes the enabling framework for closer cooperation between the two armed forces in reciprocal provision of supplies and services while engaged in bilateral training activities, UN peacekeeping operations, humanitarian international relief and other mutually agreed activities. With an eye on an expansionist and rule-flouting China, the ‘Quad’ grouping of India, the US, Australia and Japan is also set to gain more heft now. Just last week, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat strongly backed the Quad as a “good mechanism” to ensure freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific region. India, incidentally, is also getting set to host a meeting of the Quad later this year. As for the logistics pacts, the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) inked with the US in 2016 gives India refuelling facilities and access to American bases in Djibouti, Diego Garcia, Guam and Subic Bay. The one inked with France in 2018 extends the Indian Navy’s reach in south-western IOR due to French bases in the Reunion Islands near Madagascar and Djibouti on the Horn of Africa. The mutual logistics support arrangement (MLSA) inked with Australia in June will help Indian warships in southern Indian Ocean and the western Pacific region. China, which now has the world’s largest Navy with 350 warships and submarines, is looking to set up more logistics bases after its first overseas military facility in Djibouti became operational in August 2017. It also has access to Karachi and Gwadar ports in Pakistan for turnaround facilities for its submarines and warships. The latest US Pentagon report says China is actively looking to set up military logistics facilities in Myanmar, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, UAE, Kenya, Seychelles, Tanzania, Angola and Tajikistan, as reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-counter-china-india-inks-military-pact-with-japan/articleshow/78049864.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 11, 2020||Nashik||Two robbed of cash, valuables in Ambad||NASHIK: Two people were robbed of cash and valuables worth Rs 1.2 lakh in two separate incidents registered at Ambad police station. In the first incident, three unidentified people on a motorcyle threatened the brother of an autorickshaw driver at kinfe-point and robbed him of his valuables. Bhushan Patil and his younger brother Sagar were going towards Satpur in their autorickshaw when the three people intercepted them near ITI bridge at 6.30pm on Tuesday and forced Sagar to come out of the vehicle. Two of the accused attacked Sagar with a knife, snatched his gold chain and finger rings worth Rs 90,000 and fled the scene. According to police, Sagar was attacked because he refused to give in to their demand of handing them over all his valuables. In the second incident, 35-year-old worker Israr Khan, was on his way home around 10pm on Tuesday when three people on a motorcyle blocked his way. One of the suspects came towards him and pulled out the Rs 29,000 cash from his pocket. When Khan tried resisting, the suspects threatened him of dire consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-robbed-of-cash-valuables-in-ambad/articleshow/78045203.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 11, 2020||Chennai||Horses back on courses in Chennai for curtailed season from November 6||CHENNAI: The Madras Race Club (MRC) is all set to open again as horse racing will resume in the city on November 6. It was learned that the racing season in the city, which usually starts in October, will have only 19 race days instead of the usual 34 days. The feature events will include The South India 1000 Guineas, The South India 2000 Guineas and The South India Derby Stakes. It is still unclear though whether the races will be held behind closed doors but the MRC wants to prepare in such a way so that minimal spectators are allowed. “We will probably have limited seating and ensure that punters and spectators maintain social distancing. But we will wait for the state government’s directive on this. We are hopeful that the Covid cases will reduce in the next one-and-a-half months and a few spectators will be allowed,” MRC secretary and CEO T Raman told TOI on Thursday. If spectators aren’t allowed finally, betting will be held online. The MRC is likely to develop its own app through which punters can place a bet. “We may not have any off-course betting too because the racing centres aren’t likely to be opened. We are in the process of finalising all technicalities. A final call will be taken next month,” Raman said. The reduction in the number of days of racing and betting restrictions will mean a significant decrease in stakes money. However, the horse owners aren’t complaining. Vincent, who manages 35 horses of MRC chairman MAMR Muthiah, said 19 days of racing is better than having no race at all. "The owners were already counting losses but now there will be something to look forward to. It is time for us to prepare the horses and hope things work out well," he said. While the state government has already come out with its own set of SOPs for athletes’ training in the city, the MRC will be following the guidelines issued by the Turf Authority of India in a post-Covid world. No one will be allowed entry inside the MRC premises without a mask and there will be thermal checking as well at the entry point. Among other protocols, there will be no presentation ceremony. Raman also informed that the jockeys based in the city have started training recently. “The jockeys had to undergo a Covid test before they could resume training. We have allowed them only after their test results were negative. They also had to submit a fitness certificate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/horses-back-on-courses-in-city-for-curtailed-season-from-nov-6/articleshow/78048120.cms||Shilarze Saharoy
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 200cr Haritha saplings planted, no data on how many survive||HYDERABAD: The state government has sowed 200 crore plants till now as part of Haritha Haram project. A total of four crore saplings were planted in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, revealed the response to an RTI query. The program received 26 lakh donations, so far, from various individuals and agencies. The state government has spent Rs 4,572 crore on the venture. Officials TOI spoke to said that there was no information available on how many of the plants still exist. An RTI applicant enquired about the number of trees planted by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and IT and Industries minister KT Rama Rao. Officials said the details were not available with them, but could be obtained from districts. The reply to the RTI query also revealed that the Rural Development and Forest departments, Hyderabad Metro Development Authority (HMDA) and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation were the wings spending money on the programme. While the Rural Development Department spent Rs 3,000 crore on the programme, the forest department spentRs 1,194 crore and GHMC spent Rs 11 lakh. The implementation of the programme began in GHMC area in 2015-16 and both HMDA and GHMC began spending on the programme from the same year. While all government departments participated in the programme, they procure funds on their own in general. “The RTI reply is not clear on how many of the plants still survive, the success of the programme mainly depends on this, there has to be monitoring on this,” J Sudheer, who filed the RTI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200cr-haritha-saplings-planted-no-data-on-how-many-survive/articleshow/78048141.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Days after displaying flex banner, man arrested||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a man on Thursday evening for displaying a flexbanner at his house flaying the Coimbatore municipal corporation for wrongly identifying his family members as Covid-19 positive. The banner carried the picture of a test that declared his entire family as Covid-19 negative. Ilavarasan from Ramanujam Nagar was booked under IPC Sections 270 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and Section 4(i) of The Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. He was remanded to judicial custody and lodged at a sub-jail. On Monday, corporation officials lodged a complaint against him for installing the banner in front of his house flaying the corporation for identifying four from his family as Covid-19 positive. The corporation had blocked the entrance to his house with metal sheets and declared it a containment area. The family was upset that the corporation’s move had brought them a lot stigma from the neighbours. Ilavarasan's father Ganeshan had died of Covid-19 at ESI hospital in August.Following a complaint from corporation officials, Singanallur police registered a case against Ilavarasan and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/days-after-displaying-flex-banner-man-arrested/articleshow/78048132.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bareilly||Five women caught in a sex racket test Covid +ve in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: Five out of the six women, who were caught after a sex racket was busted in Lakhimpur city, have tested positive for Covid-19. The report came late on Wednesday and now the health department is trying to trace the people who had come in contact with these women in the recent past. Police had busted the racket which was running in Gangotrinagar locality. Six women and five men were arrested from a house. It was run by a 50-year-old woman and her two sons who were arrested by the police. All 11 people were charged under the sections of Immoral Traffic Prevention Act and their samples were sent for Covid-19 tests on Wednesday. After the five women tested Covid positive, all the members of the police team that raided the house along with associated staff were asked to undergo Covid-19 tests on Thursday. Lakhimpur Kotwali SHO Suneel Kumar said, “The police staff who came in contact with these women have undergone Covid tests and the health department will trace others. Contact tracing will also provide us with information of those involved in the racket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-women-caught-in-a-sex-racket-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78045270.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Kodambakkam residents want space below bridge utilised||CHENNAI: Residents living in the vicinity of the Kodambakkam Bridge off Arcot Road have demanded measures to streamline traffic in the bays under the bridge as well as better facilities for pedestrians. In a letter Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner, the Choolaimedu Exnora Innovators Club, which represents residents of Zachariah Colony and Subedar Garden Area, said the bays under the Kodambakkam High Road bridge are not being properly utilised. Residents are worried as many small shop owners have taken up the place and there is haphazard parking of vehicles, the association said. The area comes under Kodambakkam zone’s ward 134. The association said it was a crucial area as motorists from Nelson Manickam Road traverse through the inner lanes of Choolaimedu to reach Kodambakkam by bypassing the Nungambakkam subway and nearby traffic junctions. “There are 12 bays under the bridge. Some of them are used by government agencies and others are vacant, helping movement of traffic. However, of late, these have been encroached and this has made movement of vehicles and pedestrians difficult,” said S Kasturi Rangan, secretary of the association. Kasturi Rangan said lanes under the bridge, which are used by vehicles to make U-turns, don’t have footpaths. “Residents in the area walk to nearby shops but there is the fear of speeding vehicles,” Kasturi Rangan said. The association has requested the commissioner to explore the possibility of laying footpaths. “The corporation should also ensure better use of the bays. Residents will be relieved if the government rents those out or uses those for its own purpose,” Kasturi Rangan said. A senior official at the corporation headquarters said the area under the bridge has not been leased out to anyone and is meant for vehicular movement. “Before the renovation of the bridge last year, encroachers were removed,” the official said. A zonal level corporation official said, “We are planning to use the area to park garbage vehicles operated by conservancy workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kodambakkam-residents-want-space-below-bridge-utilised/articleshow/78048165.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC to look after travel and stay of NEET aspirants||BHUBANESWAR: Nearly 37,459 candidates are scheduled to appear for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at 83 examination centres across the state. The NEET will be conducted across the country on Sunday for admissions to undergraduate medical courses in medical colleges. Conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), NEET will be held in seven cities across the state. These include Berhampur, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Balasore, Angul, Rourkela and Sambalpur. More than 15,000 students will appear for the test at 31 examination centres in Bhubaneswar. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made elaborate arrangements for the accommodation and transportation of those who will appear for the examination in the city. “We have made arrangements at five locations in the city to accommodate the NEET candidates. Students coming from different parts of the state can stay there. We are also making arrangements for the transportation facility to take them to their respective examination centres in the city,” BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said. He added that all Covid protocols will be followed during the transportation of the students to the centres. The BMC will monitor all the government guidelines at the place of accommodation like it was doing in the case of the JEE (Main) candidates. Last year, 33,797 candidates had registered to appear for the NEET at 54 examination centres in the state. This year, the NTA has increased the number of the examination centres in order to ensure that social distance is maintained at the centres during this time of the pandemic. Students will have to undergo under thermal screening before entering the examination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-to-look-after-travel-and-stay-of-neet-aspirants/articleshow/78045265.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru drug raids: With cops cracking down, fear pervades city’s party circuit||BENGALURU: An uneasy calm has descended on the city’s party circuit ever since the drug raids. While the drugs bust itself is not new, it is the people who have been arrested that has left the fraternity in a state of disbelief. These were people they’d hobnobbed and danced with on most weekends. And for some who’ve been cogs on the party scene — DJs, organisers, or photographers — these were peers with whom one did business. While shock is predominant, there is also a deeper sense of fear, so much so that most of the people TOI spoke with did not want to be named. The underlying belief is that the timing of the raids was all wrong. “None in the events industry has got much work since the lockdown and then for this to have happened is frightening,” said a veteran event manager. “You don’t want something like this to happen when your financial situation is down.” A DJ and an event organiser said, “People are scared. That partygoers are into drugs is an open secret and in the past two-three years it has become easy to source drugs. So, we are all surprised at how this has blown out of proportion. While I cannot comment on the raids or those involved, the bottom line is that it has left us in shock since we were just getting back business.” While socialites can only wait-and-watch, they wonder when it would be safe to go out again. “There are two types of partygoers: One is the A-list circuit that attends parties with their own group and the other comprises the young corporate brigade that goes out on weekends to let their hair down. Thanks to the raids, the A-list crowd is scared. They won’t be stepping out anytime soon for fear of being caught unawares,” said an event organiser. Some socialites vowed never to attend “these kinds of parties”. As for what will change with regard to parties, event organisers say guests need to be prepared for stricter security checks. “Checks will get more thorough. The number of people will need to be limited. It is easier to control parties and minimise untoward incidents when you have fewer invitees,” an organiser said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-cops-cracking-down-fear-pervades-blurus-party-circuit/articleshow/78046658.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-Rishikesh starts WhatsApp helpline service for kin of Covid-19 patients||Dehradun: The families of Covid-19 patients admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh will now be able to know the health status of their kin through a helpline number launched by the hospital on Thursday.The reports and treatment being given to the patients will also be shared with the kin via WhatsApp.UB Mishra, dean of the hospital administration, said the family members of the patients would have to contact the hospital’s ‘Samvaad Desk’ (communication desk) whose phone numbers will be shared with them when the patient is admitted.“For receiving information on WhatsApp, people can connect the help desk by dialling 7217014336. The service will be available 24 hours and seven days a week. And in cases where patients are already admitted in the hospital, their family members can reach out to our help desk on 0135-2462929,” added Mishra.The hospital authorities added that they are also allowing family members to visit the hospital.“We have now allowed two visiting times. One is between 1 pm and 2 pm in the afternoon and the other is between 5 pm and 6 pm in the evening at the OPD block,” Mishra said, adding that the idea behind launching the helpline number was to help the families who are often worried about the wellbeing of their loved ones admitted at the Covid ward.“Sometimes, a patient panics and this alarms their families. In quite a few cases, the patients are elderly and do not carry cell phones with them. In such a situation, our helpline desk will be beneficial as the kin will be able to directly contact the hospital authorities for updates,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-starts-whatsapp-helpline-service-for-kin-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78045292.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 11, 2020||Chennai||CBI books power firm based in Chennai for duping banks||CHENNAI: Surana Power, a Chennai-based company, and its directors were booked on Tuesday by the Bank Frauds and Securities branch (BSFB) of CBI, Bengaluru, and fraud cell for allegedly defrauding a consortium of 10 banks led by IDBI bank. The value of the fraud is pegged at Rs 1,500 crore, CBI said. IDBI Bank had filed a complaint with the CBI. The bank has an outstanding on a loan of Rs 299.7 crore. The other institutions in the consortium which gave loans to the company are LIC, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, Dena Bank, UCO bank, IIFC (UK), L&T Infrastructure Finance Ltd, PTC India Finance Services and Allahabad Bank. CBI said the company misappropriated funds that were given on loan and fudged its account books to present a financially healthy picture before the lenders to avail funds, besides conversion of property. The fraud came to light when IDBI Bank received a forensic report from a resolution professional as part of corporate insolvency process in Chennai. The professional had carried out a forensic audit of the company from 2009-10 to 2017-18. The report disclosed certain wrongful transactions carried out by the company and also diversion of funds during the audit period, the bank said. The loans were given for setting up a 455MW coal-fired power plant in Karnataka, CBI said. The accused include Surana Power, a company on Whites Road, Royappetah, Gautham Raj Surana, Shantilal Surana, Vijayaraj Surana, Dinesh Chand Surana and unknown public servants and private persons. In its complaint, IDBI Bank said the company may have possibly overstated the value of its power plant, diverted funds through round-tripping and manipulated award of contracts, among other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbi-books-power-firm-based-in-city-for-duping-banks/articleshow/78048197.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-origin doctor is deputy Lord mayor in UK||HYDERABAD: A Hyderabad-origin general physician has been elected as the deputy Lord mayor of the city of Stroke on Trent in the UK. Councillor Chandra Kanneganti took his oath of office on Thursday. Kanneganti is the first person of Telugu origin to have been elected to the position. Going by tradition, deputy Lord Mayors generally take on the role of Lord Mayor next. Lord Mayors exist for 23 large cities in UK. In the 43-member council, Kanneganti, representing the Conservative party, won by 23 votes against 20 for the Labour party candidate. Speaking to TOI, Kanneganti, who was the councillor for Goldenhill and Sandyford, said: “I came to the Stroke on Trent in 2006 and have stayed on at as it has won my heart.” He said the diversity of the city is its biggest strengths. “This is the 12th biggest city in the country, with 10 per cent of its population being Asians. There are a large number of Pakistanis here. In fact, many of them supported my candidacy,” said Kanneganti. Speaking about experience getting elected, he said, “There might be differences between people of the two countries (Pakistan and India), but over here we are all one. I will fight for greater collaboration and friendship between the communities.” During the election speeches, a fervent councillor Sadaqat Maqsoom, a Pakistan-origin councillor, backed Kanneganti saying: “I can think of no one more deserving than Chandra Kanneganti for this role. He is honest, dependable and efficient”. Faisal Hussain, another Pakistan-origin councillor, also, “He is great person. He goes above and beyond” for people. Kanneganti moved from Hyderabad to Scotland in 2002, and then to Stroke on Trent. “I was voted the position purely on the basis of hard work,” he said, adding that in India on the other hand people do not often get these chances. “In Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, politicians are elected on the basis regional, caste and religious differences, which are highlighted,” he said. The general physician has been working on the frontline battling covid over the past few months, something that was acknowledged during nominations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-origin-doc-is-dy-lord-mayor-in-uk/articleshow/78048190.cms||Uttara Varma
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||NLIU students demand waiver for library, hostel fee due to COVID lockdown||Bhopal: After schools, now college students have also demanded fee waiver due to the Covid-19 lockdown. NLIU students have written a letter to the university’s higher authorities to waive their fees like library, hostel, development fee and such others. Students were asked to pay the first installment by September 30. The NLIU management said the fee structure is under consideration. Students said that asking for such a fee has no meaning when the campus is closed. “There is a need to revise the fee structure citing several financial issues after Covid lockdown was imposed. In the proposed fee structure, there are several issues that do not seem to have been considered,” said a student in his mail to the higher authorities. Objecting over the hostel fee, students stated that inclusion of the hostel fee in the regular schedule has created unwarranted confusion among the students. “Hostel charges from the first instalment should be waived off as no expenditure has to be actually borne by the university,” said the students. Students also objected to the library fee. They are asked to pay the library fee under ‘the exam and facilities fee’. “NLIU library consists of hard copies of books which are physically available to the students and e-resources. After lockdown was imposed, the campus was closed due to which students could not avail the facility. Besides, university has not done anything to provide e-books facility. Therefore, asking to pay the library fee is not justified,” said the students. Students also raised concern about the IT and computer fee. “University is not bearing any cost as far as internet usage on the campus is concerned as students are at their homes after Covid lockdown was imposed. There is no usage of computers also by the students. In such situation, this fee should be also waived off,” explained students. They added, “In fact students are paying for the internet as they are their homes.” Students also raised their objection over the campus development fee. “Practical usage of the campus for the students is negligible. Besides, the present infrastructure is sufficient for the students. In such a situation, there was no meaning of asking for campus development fee,” said students. Students demanded that the fee-paying structure be amended. “The fee schedule provides for a scheme of four equal instalments for the students of NRI or NRI-sponsored category while the students from all other categories are required to pay in regular two instalments. Due to Covid, there are families in other categories which are not able to pay fee in two instalments. The scheme of paying fee in four instalments should be made available for all students,” they said. When contacted, NLIU’s registrar, Neeta Gupta, said, “Management is reconsidering the fee structure. Else, I can’t say anything about it.” Sources said that NLIU will soon issue a notification in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nliu-students-demand-waiver-for-library-hostel-fee-due-to-covid-lockdown/articleshow/78046656.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 11, 2020||Ludhiana||NGT comes to rescue of Chattar Singh Park residents||Ludhiana: In what could provide relief to residents around Chattar Singh Park in Model Town after the civic body had proposed installation of a static compactor there, the National Green Tribunal has ordered Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and district magistrate to verify the claims of complainants about impact on health of people residing there. An advocate and a few organisations had filed application in the NGT that due to garbage dump near the scooter market and proposed static compactor site in Chattar Singh Park, people would suffer. The NGT in the orders has asked the PPCB and district magistrate to verify all facts and then submit the action taken report in two months. The chairperson of NGT committee, Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh, has also been asked to check this matter as he is already dealing with environment issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ngt-comes-to-rescue-of-chattar-singh-park-residents/articleshow/78046665.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand breaches 1k-mark for 2nd day, tally over 28k||Dehradun: For the second consecutive day, Uttarakhand breached the 1000-mark in Covid-19 cases, with the Himalayan state reporting 1,015 cases on Thursday. The tally of infected persons has now reached 28,226. Among the fresh cases include BJP MLA from Khanpur, Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, who was recently reinducted in the party in August. Champion was in self-isolation after he met a party worker who earlier tested positive. Champion is the fourth BJP MLA to be infected with the virus. Earlier, party president and MLA from Kaladhungi Bansidhar Bhagat had also tested positive. Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik and former mayor Vinod Chamoli, too, have tested positive. In the last 10 days alone, 8,000 Covid-positive cases have been reported due to which, the infection rate crossed the 6% mark. The districts in the plains have almost double the rate of infection than the hill areas, with Nainital topping the chart with 9.2% infection rate. Dehradun has recorded the maximum of 257 cases, followed by Udham Singh Nagar with 248 cases, Haridwar with 157 cases and Nainital with 118 cases. On Thursday, five deaths were aalso reported in Uttarakhand taking the death toll to 377.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-breaches-1k-mark-for-2nd-day-tally-over-28k/articleshow/78045280.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||Create awareness about online MCQ exams: NU members, students||Nagpur: After its decision to conduct final year examination online, Nagpur University’s statutory body members are now demanding efforts on part of the administration to make aware students of all aspects of new format of the examination. Management council member Vishnu Changde requested the administration to explain the multiple choice questions (MCQ) and also on proctoring software, as entire set up would be new for all. Another academic council member requested NU officials to conduct more mock tests so that students, particularly from rural areas, would get accustomed to it. The university would be conducting mock tests from September 24 to 27 with 10 questions each. However, the member advised university to conduct mock tests just like a final paper comprising 50 questions, so that students could get used to it and won’t be caught off guard while appearing in actual exams scheduled from October 1. A principal from rural area requested NU to arrange smartphones for poor students from villages, who couldn’t afford them. “Even if NU could arrange the handsets for a few days for such students, they wouldn’t get deprived of the exams,” he said. Changde had raised the issue of apprising students about all aspects of online exams in Sunday’s Management Council meeting, as they were away from studies from last four to five months. “NU should release frequently asked questions (FAQs) on online exams and how to answer MCQ papers. If NU could release videos on the entire process, it would help examinees,” he said. Endorsing Changde’s views, students also expressed apprehension about facing connectivity problems and demanded that university should come clear on the entire system, which is new to them. “It may lead to anxiety among the examinees and can adversely affect their prospects. Even those, who’re out of the city, may encounter some problems like books/resources which they haven’t carried with them,” said Diksheeta Dahikar, a BSc student from Hislop College. A BA student Zidan Kachhi, however, praised the NU for deciding to conduct offline exams at a comparatively safe time for examinees lacking resources to appear for online one. “Conducting exams online is the best decision that could be taken at this point in time. The only possible glitch is that the platform/site on which the exams are being conducted could suffer connectivity/server issues. When such glitches happen in real time, they could create panic,” he said. Hold practicals in presence of external & internal examiners: NU NU directed affiliated and conducted colleges to hold online practical examinations only in the presence of internal and external examiners. Due to pandemic, NU has asked colleges to hold practical exams online through viva voce or any other mode. “The students would be grilled by examiners on their knowledge about a particular subject, on which they had performed practical while in college,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/create-awareness-about-online-mcq-exams-nu-members-students/articleshow/78048210.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: How Viren Khanna's business model paid off||BENGALURU: A glance at hyped party organiser Viren Khanna’s bio provides ample insight into the life he led. A dog owner, a people’s person, traveller and a man who loved parties. Most of all, Khanna was enterprising. When the pandemic put a stop to parties, he ventured into open-air film screenings. If you’ve even casually partied in Bengaluru, chances are you have heard of him. And if you’ve wanted to get in on the hype and signed up to his bulk SMS messages, you would have received a heads-up on parties across some of Bengaluru’s best clubs and lounges. For a woman partygoer, RSVPing ahead meant a free entry, but for a stag, it would mean shelling out Rs 4,000. With Khanna’s parties, the stags didn’t mind the cash. “The crowd at his parties was good,” said party regular Adil Kashyap, adding, “They were from a known circle. And of course there were the expats.” A Delhiite who moved to Bengaluru in the early ’90s to study at RV College of Engineering, Khanna almost immediately got into the party business. In a magazine interview in 2014, Khanna recounts throwing a party at a farmhouse — a party meant for 100, but 800 landed up. It became the talk of the town. His career as a party organiser flourished in spite of a ban on live music and a 11.30pm deadline. Khanna recounts enlisting the help of an expat's powerful Bengaluru boyfriend to get around police raids, besides much more. “His parties across 5-star hotels and clubs were normal. You had alcohol flowing, a good crowd and good music,” said Dalbir Sandhu, a photographer who covered Khanna’s parties for over a decade. “It was the after-parties, mostly at his house, where the buzz was. Normally, they’d go on till 5am.” Khanna’s success lay in hassle-free tie-ups with venues and a revenue-sharing model where he, allegedly, pocketed the cover charge, while the venue made its money on booze and food. “His Holi parties were so good that hotels would vie to tie up with him every year,” says Sandhu who also recalls covering Khanna’s pool parties on weekends. “Everyone would rush to get into the swimming pool and I’d be left holding their expensive phones.” Since Khanna’s arrest his friend Shaili G’s phone hasn’t stopped pinging. “Friends messaged me to ask if I was safe. We are peers in the sense that I used to host brunch parties for the expats, CXO and CEO crowd on weekends and Viren would organise parties for youngsters.” Shaili added, “Irrespective of whether he is culpable or not, I feel bad because he cannot be the only one who’s being made to look guilty.” (Names changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-viren-khanna-became-the-host-whose-parties-were-much-coveted/articleshow/78046784.cms||Mahalakshmi P
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Govt bans excesses, allows only rituals during pujas||BHUBANESWAR: Ahead of the festive season, the state government on Thursday issued common guidelines for celebrating Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Laxmi Puja, which fall in the period from September to November. The festivals will only see the observance of rituals without the participation of public. The guidelines issued by chief secretary Asit Tripathy read, “All types of pujas shall be conducted in indoor-like condition only for the observance of rituals without public participation, pomp and grandeur. Pandals shall be covered on three sides. The fourth side shall also be covered in a way not to allow any public view of the idols. There shall be no darshan by public and devotees.” While district magistrates are authorized to issue the necessary permission for conducting pujas in pandals in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, the commissionerate of police will do so. The state government order said the height of the idols of various goddesses will be less than four feet, while the use of public address system at the puja pandals has also been restricted. Also, there will be no musical or entertainment programmes during the pujas. Only seven persons including the organizers, priests and support staff are allowed to remain present in the pandals at a time. The guidelines further said the persons present in the puja pandals must follow the Covid-19 rules of social distancing, use of mask, personal hygiene and sanitation issued by the Centre, the state government and the local administration. The state government has also made it clear that there will be no idol immersion processions this year. The idols will be immersed in artificial ponds to be created by the local administration. The district collectors, municipal commissioners and the police commissionerate have been asked to strictly enforce the guidelines. “Any person violating these rules will be liable to be proceeded against in accordance with the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Covid regulations,” Tripathy said in the order. The officials said the guidelines were issued based on an order of the Orissa high court, which had on August 31 approved the conduct of Durga Puja in Cuttack city by adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines. The HC had issued the order while hearing a PIL filed by the Balubazar Puja Committee in Cuttack. While Durga puja is quite popular across the state, especially in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, Laxmi Puja is celebrated with pomp and gaiety in Dhenkanal. Similarly, towns like Bhadrak and Jajpur are famous for Kali Puja. As preparations for Durga Puja starts well in advance in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, the commissionerate police has already held meetings with various puja committees for low-key celebrations. It had already restricted activities like visit of public to mandaps, door-to-door collection of donations and immersion and Ravan Podi earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-bans-excesses-allows-only-rituals-during-pujas/articleshow/78045317.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 11, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Govt bans excesses, allows only rituals during pujas||BHUBANESWAR: Ahead of the festive season, the state government on Thursday issued common guidelines for celebrating Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Laxmi Puja, which fall in the period from September to November. The festivals will only see the observance of rituals without the participation of public. The guidelines issued by chief secretary Asit Tripathy read, “All types of pujas shall be conducted in indoor-like condition only for the observance of rituals without public participation, pomp and grandeur. Pandals shall be covered on three sides. The fourth side shall also be covered in a way not to allow any public view of the idols. There shall be no darshan by public and devotees.” While district magistrates are authorized to issue the necessary permission for conducting pujas in pandals in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, the commissionerate of police will do so. The state government order said the height of the idols of various goddesses will be less than four feet, while the use of public address system at the puja pandals has also been restricted. Also, there will be no musical or entertainment programmes during the pujas. Only seven persons including the organizers, priests and support staff are allowed to remain present in the pandals at a time. The guidelines further said the persons present in the puja pandals must follow the Covid-19 rules of social distancing, use of mask, personal hygiene and sanitation issued by the Centre, the state government and the local administration. The state government has also made it clear that there will be no idol immersion processions this year. The idols will be immersed in artificial ponds to be created by the local administration. The district collectors, municipal commissioners and the police commissionerate have been asked to strictly enforce the guidelines. “Any person violating these rules will be liable to be proceeded against in accordance with the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Covid regulations,” Tripathy said in the order. The officials said the guidelines were issued based on an order of the Orissa high court, which had on August 31 approved the conduct of Durga Puja in Cuttack city by adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines. The HC had issued the order while hearing a PIL filed by the Balubazar Puja Committee in Cuttack. While Durga puja is quite popular across the state, especially in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, Laxmi Puja is celebrated with pomp and gaiety in Dhenkanal. Similarly, towns like Bhadrak and Jajpur are famous for Kali Puja. As preparations for Durga Puja starts well in advance in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, the commissionerate police has already held meetings with various puja committees for low-key celebrations. It had already restricted activities like visit of public to mandaps, door-to-door collection of donations and immersion and Ravan Podi earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-bans-excesses-allows-only-rituals-during-pujas/articleshow/78057622.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Wife of OSD to CM dies of Covid||Dehradun: The wife of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s officer on special duty (OSD) succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. Urba Dutt, who is the third OSD to the CM had tested positive along with his wife. Both were undergoing treatment at Mahant Indresh Hospital. His wife was a teacher and supposedly got infected after coming in contact with a colleague in her office who had tested positive earlier this month. Rawat expressed his condolences on the demise of Dutt’s wife. “I prayed to God for peace of the departed soul and provide patience to the bereaved family. I also wish speedy recovery for Urba Dutt,” he said. Devendra Bhasin, spokesperson of BJP in Uttarakhand, also expressed grief on the death of Varsha Dutt. “Urba is very dear friend and old confidant. Loss like this couldn’t be compensated,” added Bhasin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wife-of-osd-to-cm-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78045308.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rs 6 lakh siphoned off from Ram Temple Trust account||AYODHYA: The Ayodhya temple trust was struck again by fraudsters, second time in four months, when cloned cheques bearing forged signatures were used to siphon off Rs 6 lakh over a 10-day span before a third fake cheque hit a firewall at Lucknow's SBI clearing house late Wednesday. In April, a fake gateway portal was created in the trust’s name to pilfer donations for Ram temple construction, which was swiftly frozen. For 10 days, the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was in the dark about the twin fraudulent withdrawals from its SBI, Ayodhya branch, account till a third cloned cheque of Rs 9.86lakh was presented at a Bank of Baroda branch and sent to SBI for clearing. Alarm bells rung when a senior bank official intercepted the cheque and made repeated calls to Trust secretary Champat Rai to verify if he had signed on the highvalue cheque. The transaction was stopped in the nick of time when Rai confirmed he did not approve of any withdrawal. The account was seized and an FIR was lodged at the Ayodhya Kotwali on Thursday morning on Rai’s complaint. Fraudsters used 3 cloned SBI chequesTalking to TOI, Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar, said, “The first two fraudulent withdrawals totalling Rs 6 lakh had been credited to a PNB account in Maharashtra, which has since been frozen. Of the transferred amount, Rs 4 lakh had been withdrawn before the account was identified. Police teams have been dispatched to Lucknow and Mumbai to crack the case. Investigations have picked up pace and CCTV footage of the bank branch is being scanned.” The temple trust has an account (No. 39200235062) with the Naya Ghat branch of SBI. Secretary Rai and trustee Dr Anil Mishra are the two authorised signatories for this account. The fraudsters used three cloned cheques of SBI from the Trust’s account number and successfully navigated the clearing house twice when it siphoned off Rs 2.5lakh on September 1 through cheque number (740799) and Rs 3.5lakh through cheque number (740800). Third cloned cheque bearing Rai’s forged signature hit a wall when deputy manager, SBI, Mona Rastogi, decided to rigorously conduct a fraud check. Talking to TOI, Rastogi said, “We call customers before clearing cheques. I dialled Champat Rai repeatedly before being able to talk to him and he confirmed he did not sign on Rs 9.86lakh cheque.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-6l-siphoned-off-from-ram-temple-trust-a/c/articleshow/78049015.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Students unveil gadgets, bots, apps to tame Covid||Hyderabad: As doctors and pharmacists are increasingly falling victim to the novel coronavirus, students from various engineering colleges have come out with innovative ideas, bots, apps and gadgets to fight Covid-19 and protect frontline warriors from succumbing to the pandemic. In a presentation at an international conference on engineering in fourth industrial revolution, organised by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Hyderabad chapter, on Thursday, city students came out with solutions to overcome Covid-19, including a predictor that will help doctors to protect themselves from getting affected by the deadly virus and a medicine checker tool that will reduce queues at pharmacies. Some have come up with an online appointment booking system with a predictor wherein the users can take up a preliminary covid-19 test before they visit a doctor. Another application tells users the availability of medicines that they require in the required quantity in the pharmacy near them. “The medicine checker tool will reduce the long queues at the medical shops and will also reduce the effort that the customer needs to put in searching for different medical shops to get all the required medicines in the required quantity,” said Grandhi Srivalli Saranya and Harshita Boddu of G Narayanamma Institute of Technology and Sciences. There was also a low-cost sanitiser made from isopropyl alcohol (70%) for anti-microbial properties, Aloe vera (25%) as a skin moisturiser, coconut oil (5%), eucalyptus flavour (if required), all at a cost of Rs 7 per 100 ml. There were also automated sprinkler systems and automated sanitizer dispensers. There were also automated vehicles or robots that can deliver medicines and utilities to individual patients, and apps that are able to track road crashes in real time and trace the path of the vehicle. Experts at the HydCon-2020 discussed and presented solutions for a new normal world in post-Covid-19 scenario. Japanese roboticist professor Toshio Fukuda, president of IEEE, opened the three-day conference in which experts from India, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Australia exchanged ideas on technologies of the future. Deepak Mathur, director-elect of IEEE, Dr Amit Kumar, professor Atul Negi, professor Akinori Nissihara, professor Takako Hashimoto, professor SN Singh, Dr Chris Lee and Mousmi Ajay Chaurasia were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-unveil-gadgets-bots-apps-to-tame-covid/articleshow/78048213.cms||Syed Akbar
September 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Mamta Ashu questions inaction against 2 MC employees||Ludhiana: A high-level drama took place at the MC zone A office when Congress councillor Mamta Ashu raised questions over non-action against two contractual employees who were also allegedly involved with inspector Gurmeet Singh for not depositing Rs 17.50 lakh that was collected from public. On Thursday, Congress councillor asked the zonal commissioner, Tajinder Panchi, superintendent Ashok Garg and incharge of suvidha centre why action was not taken against those contractual employees. The matter had come to light that Rs 17.50 lakh was not deposited in the MC exchequer and one inspector who was given e-pos machine had handed over that machine to a junior engineer, who was working on contract basis. The JE had further handed over the machine to a female employee in suvidha center. When this matter was highlighted the inspector deposited the amount in the MC. Mamta ashu on being contacted claimed that financial loss to the civic body though was repaid by the inspector and he deposited the amount, but no action took place against other two persons involved in the case. She said that action should be taken against those officers who were responsible for keeping a check on employees. She said there should be exemplary action against employees who have done this blunder because that inspector also remained on leave for two months and during those two months nobody thought who was using the machine in the absence of inspector. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said additional commissioner Rishipal Singh was yet to submit the inquiry report. He said they would take action against erring officials once the report would be submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mamta-ashu-questions-inaction-against-2-mc-employees/articleshow/78046750.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||India’s biggest public sector cancer hospital to open in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Pursuing aggressively strengthening of the medical infrastructure in the state both for research and treatment purposes, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will launch a super-specialty 1250-bed cancer institute —- India’s biggest in public sector — in the city next week. Talking to TOI, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dube, said that he had discussed prospects of the institute with the CM who is likely to give his consent for dedicating it to the public.“Not only in terms of having highest number of beds – 750 in the first phase and 500 in the second – it will be the largest cancer institute in the public sector with all super specialists working under one roof on a DMG format which will also be its uniqueness,” Dube added. Under the DMG format, specialists of all disciplines sit in a room along with the patient who sits just opposite them as is witnessed in high profile interviews. Experts listen to medical issues of the patient and finalise the treatment line. The system saves the patient from visiting different departments and he gets medical advice without any problem. “So far, the DMG pattern is limited to top ranking corporate hospitals or has been adopted by some department of AIIMS and PGI. But in the cancer institute the treatment will be done on the DMG mode,” he said. To strengthen the medical infrastructure in the most populated state of the country having population of over 23 crore, the CM has been pursuing the speedy construction and expansion of medical colleges in 45 districts out of 75, Dube said, adding that “in the last three months 45 laboratories have been set up in the state to conduct Covid-19 test. It would also prove useful for next generations.” Dube said that the CM has offered his full support for this state of the art super-speciality cancer institute which would not only provide excellent treatment on affordable prices to patients, but also ease pressure from SGPGI, RML hospital and KGMU. The cancer institute would offer the same treatment which is currently available in Delhi and Mumbai, he said. Meanwhile, director of the institute Dr Shaleen Kumar said that “our motto is to offer affordable, pragmatic, cost effective and compassionate cancer care to the needy.” Although the foundation of the institute was led during the fag end of Samajwadi Party government in January 2017, the CM along with additional chief secretary, medical education, pursued it relentlessly to make it fully functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indias-biggest-public-sector-cancer-hosp-to-open-in-city/articleshow/78049057.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid positive doctor told to report for night duty; probe ordered||HYDERABAD: A government doctor, who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, was forced to attend night duty in Jangaon district hospital on the night of September 8, authorities said. While contact tracing is underway to check how many persons he could have possibly infected, district authorities have also ordered a probe. The doctor's wife, who is also a physician in the Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) in Jangaon, and another family member had earlier tested positive. The doctor got himself tested despite having no symptoms of Covid-19 and the report came in at 5 pm on September 8, confirming his positive status. As he was supposed to report for the night shift at 8pm, the doctor reportedly decided not go and informed his superiors that he should be in quarantine. “But he was apparently asked by a senior hospital staff member to come for work because the roster had his name for night duty,” said a senior health department official. Perplexed at the turn of events, and possibly to save his job, the doctor went to work, wearing a PPE suit to discharge his duties. After the doctor spoke about his predicament to his colleagues, senior district officials realised the gravity of the situation and asked him to not come back to the hospital from September 9. “It is mandatory for anyone, including doctors, to be in isolation in home for 17 days,” DMHO A Mahender said, adding that he was told that the doctor had not treated anyone on September 8.. Now, district health authorities have begun to probe under what circumstances the doctor was asked to work. “I have asked for a report to be submitted on the issue,” Jangaon collector K Nikhila told TOI. Another official said if it was proved that he was forced to work, despite being Covid-19 positive, action will be taken against those responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covidve-doc-told-to-report-for-night-duty-probe-ordered/articleshow/78049493.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Parents against re-opening of schools as state govt yet to release guidelines||Dehradun: With the state government yet to release guidelines on schools after the central government allowed their partial re-opening, many parents have expressed their reservations, stating that they won’t allow their kids to go to school until a vaccine is available. “There is no reason to open the schools right now as the vaccine isn’t available and sending the children to schools will be like playing with their lives. We have sent a letter to the state government and the central government asking them not to allow children to school until the vaccine is available,” said Arif Khan, president of the national Association for Parents and Students Rights. The recently-announced ‘Unlock 4.0’ guidelines allowschools to begin classes for students of class 9 to 12 after September 21 on a voluntary basisSimilarly, many universities and colleges in Uttarakhand have announced that they will hold their exams starting from this month but are yet to receive any guidelines from the state government.The colleges are hoping that they will receive an examination SOP in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-against-re-opening-of-schools-as-state-govt-yet-to-release-guidelines/articleshow/78045355.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||Ranked 26th nationally, IISER Bhopal is going places||BHOPAL: The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Bhopal has joined the league of top national institutes, ranked 26th in the country. It is one of the top 63 Indian universities that were ranked globally by the Times Higher Education, in World University Ranking 2021. With this ranking, the institution is now in the same league of top institutions in the country including IISc Bangalore, IIT Kanpur, IIT Mumbai, IIT Madras, IIT Guwahati, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Indore, IISER Pune and IISER Kolkata. Earlier this year, IISER Bhopal was ranked as the number one Institute in the state of Madhya Pradesh according to the ranking declared by Nature Index, an international ranking platform that ranks the academic institutions every year based on the quality education, research output in terms of publications, knowledge sharing and overall learning ecosystem. The latest Times Higher Education Ranking that has ranked IISER Bhopal 26th in the country, includes more than 1500 universities across the 93 countries making it the largest and most diverse university ranking globally. Director IISER Bhopal, Prof Siva Umapathy said that it is a remarkable achievement for such a young institution to get ranked globally and nationally in such a short span of establishment. He also added that generous investments of MHRD, GOI at the IISER Bhopal, world-class infrastructure and quality faculty along with hard working students continue to generate dividends for the institute. This ranking is based on carefully calibrated indicators that measure the institute’s performance on teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook. IISER Bhopal has achieved these impressive rankings by various international and national ranking platforms in merely 12 years of its establishment with consistent improvement in the ranking with every passing year. The institute was established in 2008 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (now Ministry of Education); Government of India (GOI). The state government of Madhya Pradesh has also put a lot of effort and helped in building the Institute. The Institute currently offers programmes at undergraduate, postgraduate and Doctoral levels in Mathematics, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Physics, Earth & Environmental Sciences, Economics Sciences, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Chemical Sciences, and Data sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ranked-26th-nationally-iiser-bhopal-is-going-places/articleshow/78046702.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||Covid -ve man languishes in Panna care centre for 3 days||Bhopal: In a glaring incident of carelessness in Panna, a man was admitted at the corona care centre for three days and was looked after as a corona-positive patient. Later, on Wednesday, he was discharged by the centre and told that he was not positive.It turned out to be a case of mistaken identity as the man with the same name had tested positive but a different man was picked up. The CMHO admitted that it happened because of mistaken identity.A teacher by profession, Kamal Kishore Dubey , about 50 year of age, was shocked to learn that he was corona-positive when health workers in PPE kit knocked on his door and informed him about the disease. He found an ambulance parked near his house, ready to escort him to a quarantine centre. After three days of stress and consuming some medicines, the officials discharged him saying that his report was negative. After he was discharged, Dubey said, “ How would I go home as my house is also sealed? The whole mohalla is thinking that I am a corona patient.” Dubey said, “I was not corona-positive, but for three days, I was given medicines. Besides, I was also offered ‘kadha’ . Then I was told (on Wednesday night ) that I was not positive. And when I insisted, I was shown my corona negative report.” Denying that it was “carelessness”, Dr G P Arya, nodal officer quarantine centre, said, “ Yes it was a lapse. There were two people with the same name and almost the same address, living closeby. Our staff members were not able to identify who was positive and who was not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-ve-man-languishes-in-panna-care-centre-for-3-days/articleshow/78046779.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Gajbhiye appeals to govt to drop charges||Bhubaneswar: Satish Gajbhiye, who has been facing three departmental proceedings since long, urged the state government to drop all charges against him and sought promotion retrospectively. Gajbhiye, a 2002 batch IPS officer, is still a SP-ranked officer though he would have been promoted to the rank of inspector general (IG) by now. The government withheld his promotions after he was mired in a series of controversies post-2015. Currently, he is principal of Urban Police and Traffic Training Institute, Bhubaneswar. The first proceeding against Gajbhiye was related to a law and order problem that had erupted in Kendrapada during his tenure as SP in August 2015. On August 13, 2015, the state government placed Gajbhiye under suspension in the wake of mob violence in Kendrapada. The mob had gathered outside spiritual leader Sarathi Baba’s ashram on August 7, 2015, demanding action against him for his alleged immoral acts. The mob went on the rampage in the ashram and set several police vehicles on fire. Gajbhiye was accused of failing to handle the mob. The second proceeding followed allegations that he and his wife allegedly grabbed government land in Gop block in Puri district. A vigilance inquiry was ordered into it. The third proceeding involved non-submission of utilisation certificate (UC) to the tune of Rs 1.55 lakh of a government scheme while the police officer was serving as SP in Malkangiri in 2008. Gajbhiye, in a recent letter to the chief secretary Asit Tripathy, said he was not responsible for the law and order situation in Kendrapada. “I was on leave at that time and immediately joined the duty to handle the law and order situation. Some media channels with vested interests depicted the police action as excesses and demanded action against me,” his letter said. . The central administrative tribunal has already declared my suspension as illegal,” his letter said. He said the proceeding related to the alleged land purchase in Gop was based on false charges. “My wife had purchased a small patch of barren land for Rs 4.5 lakh in 2012-13 and sold in June 2016 for Rs 6.1 lakh. Media highlighted that the property was worth crores of rupees and alleged that the adjoining land belonged to my wife. Later, the vigilance inquiry revealed that the adjoining land belonged to other people. The proceeding against me was inquired by IPS officer Sudhanshu Sarangi, who found no substance in the allegations against me,” his letter read. “I request you to kindly consider my grievance on sympathetic grounds and withdraw all proceedings against me. The charges are not sustainable in the eyes of law,” he wrote. On Wednesday, the state police headquarters forwarded Gajbhiye’s representation to the home department for consideration on merit at the government level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/gajbhiye-appeals-to-govt-to-drop-charges/articleshow/78045391.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 11, 2020||Bhopal||India’s priority should be to generate jobs, says Diggy||Bhopal: Former chief minister Digvijaya Singh on Thursday said that India’s priority should be to generate jobs. The Rajya Sabha MP was speaking at the Congress party’s online #SpeakUp for Jobs campaign. “Unemployment is increasing in the country. Every year 1 to 1.5 crore youths after completion of their education, start looking for employment. But in the last six years, ever since the Narendra Modi government came to power, unemployment has been increasing,” the senior Congress leader said. “The first attack on employment generation came with demonetisation and those employed in small, medium and rural industries became unemployed. Lakhs lost their jobs,” Digvijaya said. “Then came GST and it badly affected small traders,” he added. Digvijaya argued that because of the intricacies of GST, persons employed by small and medium-sized traders lost their jobs. “And, the final hit came with the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Digvijaya recalled that Congress party and Rahul Gandhi had spoken of the Nyay Yojana. “If the Nyay Yojana was implemented, then this problem of increasing unemployment would not have taken place today,” he said. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, former AICC president Rahul Gandhi had promised to implement the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (Nyay or Minimum Income Scheme) if Congress came to power. The scheme was to provide Rs72,000 annually to five crore families living under the poverty line. “Even today, there is an opportunity. If only Rs1.5 lakh crore from the Rs20 lakh crore announced by the Centre as Covid assistance, is allocated to small and medium-sized industries and if the government gives Rs6,000 per month to the educated unemployed youths, then the ongoing crisis can be negated,” Digvijaya said. “Let us all get together and fight for the rights of the unemployed. Providing employment to the unemployed youths should be the priority for India now,” Digvijaya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/indias-priority-should-be-to-generate-jobs-says-diggy/articleshow/78046765.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Shopkeepers demand sweepers for Clock Tower market||Ludhiana: Shopkeepers of Clock Tower market discussed their issues with mayor Balkar Sandhu on Thursday and also showed him the rainwater recharge well they had got constructed in the market at their own expense. Already the civic body has proposed one storm water sewerage project for Clock Tower road as water-logging is a major issue in the area. During their meeting the shopkeepers also demanded sanitation employees for the market. The councillor from ward number 64, Rakesh Prashar, said the storm water sewerage will be laid down at the main road outside the market but the shopkeepers have already laid down the recharge well on their own. He said they showed the recharge well to the mayor and demanded installation of tiles around that recharge well so that it should remain clean. Meanwhile, the mayor said, “We are also laying storm water sewerage in the area so it was essential to check whether the recharge well laid down by shopkeepers would not create any hindrance in the project.” He said shopkeepers were claiming they would engage private sweepers but he claimed that the MC would deploy the sweepers on the spot as it was their duty. Earlier, Sandhu also visited the Jagraon bridge site for supervising the work. He claimed that the project would be completed by the end of this month at any cost and people would get rid of the traffic mess on this flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shopkeepers-demand-sweepers-for-clock-tower-market/articleshow/78046773.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid survivors require post recovery care too||Hyderabad: Not every Covid-19 positive person recovers fully after treatment or the virus leaves the body. An analysis of the Covid-19 recovered persons in the city has shown that about 25% of the recovered patients were found to need prolonged oxygen support, about 50% need basic medical care and nutrition for general weakness along with physiotherapy and 15% professional counselling for mental disorders. In about 10% cases, families refuse to accept the recovered patients back particularly the elderly due to fear and stigma. The analysis revealed that majority of the cases that need post-Covid-19 care spend high amounts on treatment and prolonged care in hospitals.“Unlike in the West, where Covid-19 emerged earlier, there is no formal research in India to check post-Covid-19 sequelae in patients. We have now carried out an analysis of the data from a small sub-set of patients in Hyderabad requiring extended care after recovery. We noticed that one in four recovered patients need some or other type of post-Covid-19 care, which has become a financial and emotional challenge,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, managing trustee of Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), an NGO, which conducted the study. He said HHF in association with US-based NGO SEED has set up a post-Covid-19 care centre to take care of the needs of recovered patients hailing from middle classes and lower strata of society. The 25-bed centre at Rajendranagar caters mostly to Covid-19 recovered patients above 60 years of age. According to doctors treating Covid-19 patients, the novel coronavirus causes lung tissue damage besides pulmonary fibrosis in a small subset of patients. And, in some, there is a cardiac involvement. These conditions require long oxygen therapy along with basic nursing care, including respiratory physiotherapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-survivors-require-post-recovery-care-too/articleshow/78048279.cms||Syed Akbar
September 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen seek major revamp in policies to improve state’s ranking||Ludhiana: City businessmen are disappointed over Punjab’s position at 19th spot in India in ease of doing business rankings. According to city businessmen, the ranking indicates that the state government needs to revamp its present policies to create the business friendly environment in the state and once again make Punjab number one state in the country in terms of ease of doing business. They are also of the view that its high time that the problems highlighted often by them like high power rates, deteriorating condition of the infrastructure of the industrial areas, expensive land rates, etc. are responsible for the dismal performance of the state in the rankings and these issues need to be urgently addressed by the government. Speaking to TOI, Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasterners Manufacturers Association of India, said, “It’s really sad to know that Punjab, which once topped the rankings of ease of doing business, has now fallen to 19th spot. This is a wake up call for the state government that something is seriously wrong with their policies and till now the on ground implications of the new industrial policy have not been correctly analysed by the officials. Till date, the biggest and age-old problems being faced by industry have not been resolved, then how can the government expect ease of doing business here when our major problems like high rate of power for the existing industry have not been addressed till date.” According to GS Kahlon, president of the auto parts manufacturers association, “19th spot in ease of doing business is really very low rank for a industry dependant state like Punjab and moreover, which has been a bastion of micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) industry in India. The rankings cannot be improved until the environment for running of industry is not made conducive here.” He added, “When the authorities will fail to even take care of the existing infrastructure like roads, sewerage, street lights in designated industrial areas, then we will keep lagging in the ease of doing business and no new industry will set up base in the state. The state government has still some time left to take corrective measures, at least providing basic infrastructure to the factory owners. This is the only way we will go on to become number one state in terms of ease of doing business in India” According to Pardeep Wadhawan, former senior vice president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, “We appreciate the views of chief minister Amarinder Singh on the issue of Punjab raking 19th, wherein he has expressed his dissatisfaction over the rank and said that he was going to introduce a system of deemed approvals for industry and provide online clearances. But it is our suggestion to the CM to also address critical issues like high rate of power, high rate of industrial land, deteriorating condition of existing industrial infrastructure, etc. Moreover, working of government departments associated with the industry needs to be analysed from time to time to ensure that no unnecessary harassment of businessmen is done anywhere.” Box – CM expresses disappointment, announces new changes Expressing dissatisfaction with Punjab’s 19th rank in the Ease of Doing Business Survey, the CM has said that his government aims to put the state in the top five next year, with a new system of deemed approvals to be implemented soon to further promote business ease. He has claimed that the government is working on the process of setting up new industrial parks to attract investments from foreign and domestic companies, citing the upcoming state-of-the-art mega parks in Ludhiana, Rajpura, Bathinda and Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-seek-major-revamp-in-policies-to-improve-states-ranking/articleshow/78046789.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat protests poor EoDB ranking||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government raised strong objection before the central government, over the poor ranking given to the stae on the ease of doing business (EoDB) index. Chief minister Vijay Rupani held a video conference with Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal and said that important factors such as FDI inflows and labour reforms were not taken into account while arriving at the rankings. Compared to its fifth rank in 2018, Gujarat has been given the 10th rank for 2019 among all states in terms of ease of doing business. Rupani, in the video conference on Wednesday, presented government of India data on investment and FDI inflows. He also apprised the Union minister of the reforms effected by the state government. He requested that these factors be taken into consideration and the survey should be looked at afresh. Government sources said the CM made a detailed presentation using GoI data on how Gujarat has been at the forefront of attracting FDI and other investment. “He also listed the reforms that have been made to boost MSMEs and other sectors. Testimonials by the top corporates, MSMEs and FDI companies along with the authorised facts were also presented before the Union minister,” sources said. “Gujarat has received 3.5 times more foreign direct investment (FDI) in 2019-20 than the previous year, according to the latest data released by the department of promotion of industries and international trade of the Union government. The state received Rs 42,976 crore FDI in 2019-20, which is eight times the FDI received by Karnataka, the state with the second highest FDI inflows,” said a source. Sourcs said the CM also pointed out that 51% of the total industrial entrepreneur’s memorandums (IEMs) of the country were received by Gujarat alone. “Gujarat became the first state to allow all MSMEs to start operations without any approval for three years after establishment. According to the government of India’s directions, we have also made significant labour reforms,” said a source. Government sources said that it is unfair for the government to consider negative feedback in instances where calls were not responded to. “Most people avoid responding to calls from unknown numbers. We have requested GoI to reconsider these fundamental facts, as other leading industrial states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have also scored lower because of the same faulty survey methodology,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-protests-poor-eodb-ranking/articleshow/78048280.cms||Kapil Dave
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fake doctor treats Covid positive cops for 6 months, held||HYDERABAD: For at least the past six months, a brazen conman had been treating police officials of the Rachkonda commissionerate for Covid-19 by claiming to be an experienced doctor. In reality, however, he specialised only in cheating government officials and didn’t know the first thing about medicine. Sources told TOI that Y S Teja, who uses the alias Avinash Reddy, is a class V dropout. The fake doctor managed to convince senior officials that he knew how to help policemen who had contracted the virus. He volunteered at the commissionerate’s Covid-19 cell and then started treating cops. Surprisingly, Avinash has worked with 14 hospitals, including some super specialty ones, in the past. “We started having doubts about the man recently after one of his own family members alerted us. When we checked his certificates, they turned out to be fake. He is part of bigger group involved in making fake certificates,” an official said. Originally from Prakasam district in AP, Avinash had been prescribing paracetamol, checking blood pressure and giving pep talks to the policemen down with Covid-19. He also attended different events organised by senior officials to boost the morale of the force given that a large number of them had been infected in the past few months. The cops have so far arrested three people, including Avinash’s father V Venkat Rao and B Srinivas Rao, educational consultant. Another five people are absconding. They have been accused of providing Avinash with fake documents, from a class X certificate right up to MBBS degree and an MBA in hospital management. Avinash’s name also figured in official statements released to the press by Rachakonda police. Surprisingly, Avinash has worked with 14 hospitals, including some super specialty ones, in the past. Also, this is not the first time that he has cheated cops. Officials said that a few years ago, he was accused in Karnataka of conning several people by claiming to be an IPS officer. Officials have also got a complaint from Avinash’s wife, accusing him of domestic violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-doc-treats-covidve-cops-for-6-months-held/articleshow/78049496.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Make Ayodhya airport tarmac-ready for Boeing touchdown: Yogi to Puri||Lucknow: After a decisive push to infrastructure projects to boost tourism in Ayodhya, the state government held a joint review meeting with the Union civil aviation ministry to take stock of the proposed airport in the temple town on Thursday. Sources privy to the meeting said, chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke about “swift development of Ayodhya airport to make it tarmac-ready for touchdown of Boeing flights”. A senior official said, the process of acquiring 183 acre for Ayodhya airport is likely to be completed soon. The civil aviation department is planning construction of 3.2km-long airstrip to allow big aircraft to land and take off. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said, the Centre would provide all possible help to the state government to put Ayodhya on the global tourist map. Development of airports in Chitrakoot and Myorpur in Sonbhadra were also taken up at the review meeting. Yogi said, airports in these two cities were important considering their vast potential to draw tourists. “The state government was providing all possible help to expedite construction of airports at Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and Sonbhadra and there’s nothing pending from district administration,” said Puri. This, he said, would allow Airports Authority of India (AAI) to identify and operate flights on select routes. The chief minister categorically cited how flights in UP rose from 37 in 2016 to as many as 63 in 2020. He said, the state government was moving swiftly to construct 17 airports to help speedy implementation of the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS), UDAN. The state had only two international airports – Lucknow and Varanasi. “But now UP will soon have four international airports,” Yogi said, pointing to Kushinagar airport which is likely to be operational in next two months. He also said, the state government was lending a significant push to Jewar international airport, considered an alternative to Delhi’s IGI airport.The CM also apprised Puri about pending developmental works in Bareilly, Hindon, Saharanpur, Meerut, Lucknow and Varanasi airports. He pressed for regular flights from Bareilly, Hindon, Saharanpur and Meerut to provide better air connectivity in west UP. Officials of the Union civil aviation department said, work on Bareilly and Saharanpur is underway. Likewise, work at Meerut and Hindon airports would begin after statutory clearances from various departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-ayodhya-airport-tarmac-ready-for-boeing-touchdown-yogi-to-puri/articleshow/78049075.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Defunct street lights remain a concern in Doon’s Rajpur Road||Dehradun: Several stretches of the Rajpur Road remain in dark after sunset as many of the street lights are not working. Apart from posing a threat of causing road accidents, the road also has potholes, further adding to the woes of commuters.Kirti Suri, a cyclist, said, “Since the lockdown was lifted, I have been cycling on Rajpur Road as part of my fitness routine, but at times I hesitate moving around on the dark stretch alone at night. The authorities must get these street lights repaired soon so that cyclists and other motorists can safely commute.”The potholes are further creating problems for residents and general commuters. Ramesh Gothalwal, a resident, said, “Street lights are a basic necessity. If we can’t even keep these lights working, then what can we expect from a smart city? The authorities concerned must take action and ensure that the road which is one of the premier roads of the city, is repaired at the earliest.”When queried about the matter, DMC’s light inspector Ranjeet Rana said, “The street lights are defunct as underground wiring work is underway under the smart city project. Our team has started working to get the streetlights repaired on the stretch. Hopefully, the problem will be resolved within three to four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defunct-street-lights-remain-a-concern-in-doons-rajpur-road/articleshow/78045385.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Plasma therapy failed to reduce mortality, say ICMR||PUNE: Convalescent plasma therapy failed to reduce the mortality or curb the progression towards a severe state of illness in 464 coronavirus patients, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found. The study, published on September 8, is yet to be peer-reviewed. Senior ICMR officials told TOI they will wait for review before issuing directives to states. Maharashtra health officials stated that unless clear guidelines are issued, they will continue with plasma therapy. “Maharashtra has also launched the Platina trial and collection of plasma is underway,” an official said. But the study found no changes in the 28-day mortality or progression to severe disease among patients. Out of the 464 patients, 235 were in the intervention arm (given plasma) and 229 patients were in the control arm of the study (under standard care). Thirty-four deaths were recorded in the intervention arm and 31 in the control arm. Giridhara Babu, head of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, said based on this large study, it is now clear convalescent plasma has had no benefit. “We will now have to await further guidelines from ICMR and established evidence of effectiveness in reducing severity of illness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plasma-therapy-failed-to-reduce-mortality-icmr/articleshow/78049073.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Navneet sues stationery, xerox cos||Ahmedabad: A city-based publication house has sued nine stationery and photocopy centres in Surat for infringement of its copyrights by photocopying its books and selling them at cheaper rate to students. Navneet Education Ltd approached the Mirzapur rural court earlier this year when it came to know that various stationery stores and photocopy centres, which are located near schools and tuition classes, used to photocopy the books like guide material and suggestions for questions in exams that the publication house prints for students of class 4, 7 and 9. In its suits, Navneet claimed that after photocopying entire books, the stores sell the bounded material at a price that is lower than the rates it charges for its books. This has adversely affected the business of the company and this is a direct violation of its copyrights. Its advocate Tejas Trivedi said, “These stationery stores and photocopy centres scan entire books and then print them on legal size pages. One legal size page contains two pages of the reference books. It saves pages also for them. They sell such photocopied material in prices that is up to half of the actual prices of the original books. This is a direct infringement of copyright and this practice damages the business of the publication house.” The company sued Swastik Stationery, Shreeji Pustakalay, Krishna Stationery & Xerox, Royal Xerox, Radheshyam Xerox, Neelkanth Stationery & Xerox, Radhe Plan Xerox, Varani Xerox and Shree Khodiyar Stationery & Xerox. It has sought damages but not fixed any amount and has submitted before the court that the amount could be fixed after the statement of their accounts come on record. Meanwhile, two such shops – Varani and Shree Khodiyar – agreed not to follow the practice any further and settled the dispute during a Lok Adalat ahead of the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/navneet-sues-stationery-xerox-cos/articleshow/78048289.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auto drivers move HC for financial aid||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought direction to the authorities to extend financial assistance to the city’s autorickshaw drivers, whose livelihood has been adversely affected by the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. Two unions - Jagrut Auto Rickshaw Drivers Union and Ahmedabad Railway Station Auto Rickshaw Drivers Union – have filed the PIL through advocate K R Koshti seeking financial support from the state government for more than 1 lakh auto drivers in the city. They have sought this assistance by citing Section 12 and 13 of the Disaster Management Act, which mandates the authorities to compensate for livelihood affected due to government decisions taken at the time of disaster. The unions have contended in the PIL that the lockdown was imposed by invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, and therefore the government is liable to extend financial assistance to auto drivers. The PIL contends that due to the epidemic, the traffic on city roads reduced drastically and Covid-19 guidelines have badly hit their business as limited passengers were allowed in an auto. The PIL cited examples of states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi, which have paid certain amounts to auto and taxi drivers on account of the Covid-19 situation. The AP government has paid Rs 10,000 to nearly 2.62 lakh auto and taxi drivers. The Karnataka government has paid Rs 5,000 to auto and taxi drivers as well as certain industrial workers. The Delhi government too extended such a relief package. The petitioners have submitted that the Gujarat government has not extended any such package, though it is liable to pay and repeated requests were made to it in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-drivers-move-hc-for-financial-aid/articleshow/78048282.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana crosses 1.5 lakh mark as 2,500 Covid cases reported||HYDERABAD: Telangana crossed the national average of recovery rate on Wednesday, even as 2,534 new cases of Covid-19 and 11 deaths were recorded in the state. While the total number of cases crossed the 1.5 lakh mark, the death toll rose to 927. So far, 1.17 lakh patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state, while 32,106 patients are under medication in the state. While the recovery rate in the state was 74.5% on September 1 (national average was 76.9%), the recovery rate in the state has finally overtaken the national average after a gap of over one month. On Wednesday, the recovery rate in the state was 78% as compared to national average of 77.8%. However, it is still behind the recovery rate of many states. The case fatality rate dipped slightly in the state, going down below 1%. Altogether, 63,017 samples were tested across the state on Wednesday, taking the total number of samples tested to 19.5 lakh. The number of samples tested per million population stood at 52,619 on Wednesday. Among the districts, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded the highest numbers with 327 new cases, followed by 195 cases in Rangareddy and 149 cases in Nalgonda. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-crosses-1-5l-mark-as-2500-covid-cases-reported/articleshow/78048287.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||3 killed, one injured after car falls into gorge in Chamoli||Dehradun: Three people were killed and one seriously injured after the car they were travelling in fell into a 150-metre deep gorge on Parkhal-Dungri motor road in Narainbagar block of Chamoli district on late Wednesday. The villagers, who first spotted the car rolling down the hill, informed the revenue police, which reached the spot and launched the search and rescue operation with the help of locals. There were four people in the car who were on their way to Parkhal village from Dungri. "All the four people in the car were taken to Narainbagar community health centre where three were declared brought dead by the doctors while one was in a serious condition and is undergoing treatment," said Nand Kishore Joshi, Chamoli’s district disaster management officer. The deceased have been identified as Dhani Lal, 32, Bhagat Lal, 45, and Hari Lal, 42, who died on the spot while Devendra Lal, 22, who was driving the car, sustained serious injuries. He was subsequently referred to a higher medical centre by doctors at Narainbagar community health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-killed-one-injured-after-car-falls-into-gorge-in-chamoli/articleshow/78045399.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon to pick up pace in U'khand Sept 13 onwards: Met||Dehradun: After a prolonged subdued phase of monsoon activity, rains are once again likely to increase in Uttarakhand from September 13, according to the regional meteorological centre.Notably, both the hilly areas and plains of Uttarakhand have been witnessing dry weather since the beginning of this week with only isolated places receiving light showers in the past few days. Giving details, regional meteorological centre’s director Bikram Singh said, "There has been subdued monsoon activity in Uttarakhand in the past four to five days and more or less similar weather will continue to prevail in the state till the end of this week. However, rains will once again start picking pace from September 13 onwards."As per the weekly forecast of the Met office, Uttarakhand will receive increased rains between September 13 and September 20 with chances of moderate rains in districts of both Garhwal and Kumaon region. "There are less chances of heavy rainfall and light to moderate showers are expected post September 13," added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-to-pick-up-pace-in-ukhand-sept-13-onwards-met/articleshow/78045409.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: SIT to probe purchase rates of oximeters, thermometers||LUCKNOW: Taking strong note of complaints of purchase of pulse oximeters and infrared thermometers at much higher rates than the market rates in several districts, the government on Thursday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe it. The SIT would be headed by additional chief secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar while other members would be secretary, medical education, Amit Gupta, secretary, urban development and MD, Jal Nigam. They have been asked to submit a report in the purchase to the government within ten days. As per the statement from the home department, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the formation of an SIT as the authorities in Sultanpur, Ghazipur and other districts have been accused of buying pulse oximeters and infrared thermometers at higher rate than the market price. Sources in the home department disclosed that there were complaints of anomalies in over a dozen districts. The government on June 23 had issued an order for the purchase of pulse oximeters, infrared thermometer and sanitisers for each village panchayat from the funds released by the UP Finance Commission. Three days ago, a district panchayati raj officer in Sultanpur was also suspended over anomalies in the purchase of pulse oximeters and infrared thermometers for Covid screening and surveillance. The suspended officer Krishna Kumar Singh Chauhan had presented a bill of Rs 9,950 after the purchase of pulse oximeter and infrared thermometer. However as per the government, both the equipment together are available in the market for Rs 2,800. The probe in the case against Chauhan was done by deputy director (panchayat), Varanasi division. According to sources, as many as 900 units of pulse oximeter and IR thermometers were purchased by Chauhan. Similar complaints were also received from the districts like Unnao, Bijnor and Sitapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-to-probe-purchase-rates-of-oximeters-thermometers/articleshow/78049089.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 11, 2020||India||Lukewarm start to ticket bookings for special trains||NEW DELHI: Barring a few routes, the booking of tickets for 80 new special trains drew a lukewarm response from passengers on Thursday. These regular trains will start running from Sunday onwards. Railways said bookings will pick up in days to come. Only about 50% of tickets were sold in all but two trains. The special train from Indore to Howrah was booked 108% and the Shramik from Valsad to Muzaffarpur was even more sought after, registering 179% bookings. Meanwhile, the special from Muzaffarpur to Valsad saw 47% bookings, Gorakhpur to Yashwantpur 32%, Darbhanga to Secunderabad 31% and Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar 26%. Rail ministry data showed that on the first day, nearly 5.2 lakh bookings were done in these 80 trains, a more than four-fold jump from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lukewarm-start-to-ticket-bookings-for-special-trains/articleshow/78049934.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand General-OBC union members stage protest against probe on union leader||Dehradun: The members of Uttarakhand General-OBC Employees Association held a protest at the Dehradun district headquarters on Thursday to oppose a probe ordered by the state government against union leader Deepak Joshi, who has been accused of violating service manuals by “criticising the government policies”. The agitating employees said they would continue with their protest on Friday as well. For the last few days, the employees have been protesting through different modes, from wearing black armbands on September 5 to observing a one-day fast on September 8. The state government had recently tasked an IPS officer to probe the allegations against Joshi, a section officer in the state secretariat. Virendra Gosain, the provincial general secretary of the association, said, “On Friday, we will stage protest at 106 tehsils to express our solidarity with Joshi. The protests shall continue till the time justice is done and the probe against Joshi is withdrawn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-general-obc-union-members-stage-protest-against-probe-on-union-leader/articleshow/78045780.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Mining body demands land tax exemption, govt says it’s aimed at efficient use of resources||Jaipur: Like many other industries, the mining industry is too reeling under the crushing blow of Covid-19 pandemic. But more than that, it now has to bear a land tax, which is besides the royalty, GST and District Mineral Fund it pays to the government.In a letter to the finance department, the Federation of Mining Association of Rajasthan (FMAR) said the industry was yet to recover and given the current difficult situation, the lessees should be exempted from the burden till March 2021.Even the mines that have been forced to close down due to NGT, and court orders should be spared as they don't get any revenue from the mines now. “The pandemic has brought the industry to its knees. We need some relief to get back to our feet. That's why we urge the government to exempt the land tax till March 2021,” said Akshadeep Mathur, secretary general of FMAR. Earlier, the government exempted mining areas below 10 hectares from the tax but now the cap has been reduced to 1 hectare which will impact the smaller lessees also. In the letter, FMAR said that revenue officials are pushing the lessees to pay the land tax. But mine owners are yet to reach a level of operations that will allow them some resources to pay, said Mathur.Talking to TOI, Prithvi, finance secretary (Revenue), said the land tax is progressive and aimed at optimum use of land and mineral resources“We want the industry to carry out mining activities optimally and not sit over it. Also we have given a three-month moratorium on the payments. If any one has any genuine concerns, they can approach us, the government will look into.”Land tax was first imposed in 1985, and the Supreme Court in its judgement in 1991 declared it as “ultra virus” – non enforceable.Then, it was again imposed in the year 2007, but was withdrawn by Ashok Gehlot in 2013 when he was the chief minister.. Mining and mineral industry is the backbone of the economy for Rajasthan where around 36,000 mines in the micro, small and medium sector and 150 mines in the large sector operate, employing over 35 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mining-body-demands-land-tax-exemption-govt-says-its-aimed-at-efficient-use-of-resources/articleshow/78048290.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Jumbo care hubs in a mess, admin terminates CoEP centre agency||PUNE: The administration has terminated the contract of the Lifeline Hospital Management Services, entrusted with the task of operating the 800-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital on the CoEP grounds, though the agency stated that it was “under pressure” to make the facility operational “without adequate preparations”. “As per the contract, it was decided that only 25% patients will be admitted in the first of functioning...But due to the pressure from the administration, we were forced to start the centre with inadequate preparations. We had brought this to the notice of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal and expressed our inability to run the centre,” the Lifeline Hospital Management Services replied in a letter to the administration. When contacted, Agarwal told TOI, “The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), which had entered into the MoU with the agency, categorically told us that the patients could be admitted to the facility at full capacity from the first day. If there were issues, it should have been raised before the steering committee.” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, who also heads the steering committee, said. “The MoU between the administration and Lifeline services clearly stated that if there was any surge in cases, then they had to be ready before the normal prescribed time to take care of the inflow of patients.” The letter from Lifeline Hospital Management Services director Sujit Patkar, a copy of which is with TOI, further stated as per the conditions, 25% patients were to be admitted to the Covid care centre on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds in the first phase. “However, on the first day over 200 patients were admitted. Also, all these patients should have been routed through the PMC command centre. But most of them came directly to the centre. This led to the collapse of the system,” it stated. The letter stated that the oxygen and ventilators provided at the centre were not in a working condition. “All this caused panic among the healthcare staff running the centre. Though we had and still have adequate manpower to run the centre, many of our staffers left the job due to fear,” it added. Agarwal said admission of patients to the CoEP jumbo Covid facility, which was suspended since September 2, resumed on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-care-hubs-in-a-mess-admin-terminates-coep-centre-agency/articleshow/78049084.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||‘Self-lockdown’ every weekend from Sept 19 to contain Covid-19 cases: Raut||Nagpur: In view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the city, guardian minister Nitin Raut plans to implement ‘self lockdown’ on weekends from September 19. After a review meeting with top officials via video conferencing on Friday, the energy minister told TOI that the administration would implement five-day week from September 19 to prevent further spread of the deadly virus. “We will be asking citizens to dedicate two days for themselves every Saturday and Sunday. The administration badly needs a break and therefore such ‘self lockdown’ would be necessary on weekends. We haven’t implemented it this week considering the plight of poor citizens, including daily wagers, who suffer most. The demand for a lockdown is coming from well-to-do sections of the society,” he said, adding that nobody thinks about the poor. Similar demands are also coming in from traders and cloth merchants, who had earlier opposed any such move. However, an official lockdown now requires permission from the Centre, so the suggestion for a ‘self lockdown’. Raut along with home minister Anil Deshmukh would be arriving in the city from Mumbai on Saturday morning and hold a series of meetings with district authorities and representatives of private hospitals on various problems faced by citizens, particularly bed shortage. The minister also instructed officials to make arrangements for vegetable and fruits sellers, who will provide products to citizens’ doorsteps during the two-day lockdown. “I would be convening a meeting with all political parties in a day or two to discuss the situation and invite suggestions to tackle the situation. We need to take everyone into confidence before enforcing measures like self-lockdown to control the situation,” Raut said. During Friday’s meeting, the guardian minister issued a series of directives to authorities, including Nagpur municipal commissioner and collector, and instructed them to ensure supply of oxygen cylinders and medicines like Remdesivir to private hospitals. “Both are available at Government Medical College and Hospital, and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMC). I told them to divide these hospitals into administration and bed management. While the first one would be looked at by deans, the latter would be taken care of by IAS officers.” Expressing concern over the large number of police and government staffers falling prey to coronavirus and even succumbing to it, the North Nagpur MLA said he told authorities to reserve 10 beds each in both government hospitals in case of emergency for those on Covid duty. Such measures are already in place for doctors and paramedical staff. He also told them to explore shifting of non-critical patients to Sevagram’s Kasturba hospital and Sawangi’s Meghe hospital after ensuring bed availability there. Both are just one-hour drive from the city. A fully equipped ambulance would be made available, he said. Announcing that a daily bulletin would be started for citizens and media on the situation, Raut said both government hospitals would also have electronic dash boards soon on bed availability. “I’ve sanctioned additional 40-50 ICU beds in IGGMC. Orders have been issued to them for recruiting manpower in GMCH, IGMCH and NMC hospitals. We will be discussing setting up a jumbo hospital with 700 beds at Mankapur Indoor Stadium in Saturday’s meeting and the manpower required for running it. We would be taking help of Ayush doctors and postgraduate medical students.” Calling on the police to aggressively launch the campaign ‘My family my responsibility for protection’ launched by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the minister said all panels constituted for spreading awareness would be merged in a single one titled ‘Corona Vigilance Committee’. “I’ve told all authorities to hammer the fact in citizens’ mind that their safety is in their hands, and only they can protect their families,” he said. # RAUT SPEAKS * Divided hospital into administration & bed management for effective working * Administration by deans, bed management by IAS officers * GMCH & IGGMCH to supply oxygen & Remdesivir to private hospitals * 10 beds each in GMCH & IGGMCH for police & govt staffers on Covid duty * Shifting non-critical patients to Sevagram’s Kasturba & Sawangi’s Meghe Hosps * ‘Self-lockdown’ every weekend from Sept 19 * Mobile vegetable & fruits hawkers to supply products in various areas * Orders issued for recruiting manpower in GMCH, IGMCH & NMC hospitals * Additional 40-50 ICU beds sanctioned for IGGMC * Daily monitoring bulletin on situation for media & people * Electronic dash boards at GMCH & IGGMCH on beds availability * Meeting on recruiting manpower in proposed 700-bedded jumbo hospital * Ayush doctors and PG medical students to be used for treating Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/self-lockdown-every-weekend-from-sept-19-to-contain-covid-19-cases-raut/articleshow/78064704.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Second blow to patients, Baner facility stops intake||PUNE: Covid-19 care in the city suffered a blow on Thursday with the agency handling the jumbo facility in Baner pulling out of its operations within a week of starting functioning. The agency cited shortage of manpower to express its inability to run the centre . This is second jumbo care facility in the city to run into trouble after the agency appointed at the 800-bed makeshift hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds failed to ensure its smooths operations. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stopped new admissions at the Baner hospital until the appointment of a new agency. Till then, it has appointed civic doctors and staffers and asked another agency to manage the treatment of about 50 patients admitted to the facility to so far. The facility, set up under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative, was inaugurated by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and leader of opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis two weeks ago. While addressing the inauguration event, both the leaders had praised the infrastructure availability at the hospital. It has a capacity of 314 beds. However, the facility has failed to live up to the citizens’ expectation and is not even functioning not at its 50% capacity. “The agency appointed to run it has decided to continue with its contract. As a result, new admission will not be made till the next agency is appointed” PMC additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar, told TOI. Khemnar said the 314-bed capacity could be expanded to accommodate 350 beds. Nearly 50 beds are currently occupied. “The doctors and staffers appointed at the hospital are looking after the treatment of the admitted patients. All necessary care is being taken. The rest of the beds will be operational only after new agency gets appointed. The appointment is expected in the next couple of days,” Khemnar said. The official said the previous agency had given a letter to the administration expressing their inability to provide the services. “The letter stated that they cannot run the facility due to non availability of doctors,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-blow-to-patients-baner-facility-stops-intake/articleshow/78049108.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Nitish dials Naveen, seeks BJD’s support for party member||Bhubaneswar: Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar on Thursday rang up his Odisha counterpart and BJD president Naveen Patnaik to seek his support for Harivansh Narayan Singh, who has filed his nomination as the NDA nominee for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman’s post. Nitish, during the brief phone conservation, informed Naveen about the nomination of Singh, a JD(U) member, and requested BJD’s backing. The BJD has nine members in the Upper House, official sources in the chief minister’s office said. “The Bihar chief minister has requested our party president to extend BJD’s support to Singh for the post of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Our president will take an appropriate decision by considering all aspects. The election of the deputy chairman will be held on September 14. We will make our stand clear before that,” senior BJD Rajya Sabha member Amar Patnaik said. BJD sources said the party would make its stand clear on the day of the election. Singh is in the race for the prestigious post for a second time. In spite of not being part of the BJP-led NDA, BJD had extended support to Singh’s candidature in August 2018, when he defeated Congress’s B K Hariprasad. The support from BJD, TRS and YSR Congress are crucial for the NDA candidate to win the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman’s post. The RJD’s Manoj Kumar Jha is likely to be the joint opposition candidate for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman poll. Political observers said BJD is likely to support Singh, as it has earlier thrown its weight behind the NDA in the Upper House on several key legislations. In December 2019, BJD had supported the controversial citizenship bill in Parliament. It had also backed BJP on issues like scrapping of Article 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nitish-dials-naveen-seeks-bjds-support-for-party-member/articleshow/78045436.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Hotels packed for long weekend, owners hope for tourism boom||Kolkata: Hundreds of Kolkatans, who had been confined to their homes for months, found a reason to cheer. The long weekend — courtesy back-to-back lockdowns followed by a Sunday — gave them the breather they were looking for all these months. The state has withdrawn Saturday’s lockdown but there is hardly anyone who has changed his/her plan. By Thursday evening, most of them left for their favourite weekend destinations by the sea, on the mountains as well as in the plains.With most hotels and resorts in Digha, Mandarmani, Diamond Harbour, Raichak, Bolpur and even some homestays and hotels in Darjeeling (which opened for tourists this week) being booked to capacity, hoteliers believed this would be the most crowded weekend. They felt this would be on a par with the Independence Day weekend, when the tourist hubs had registered record bookings for the first time during the pandemic.“Tourists started driving in from Thursday afternoon to spend the weekend. All hotels have stocked up to ensure patrons do not face any trouble and do not have to go outside on locked-down Friday,” said Bipradas Chatterjee of Digha Hoteliers’ Association.The rush at Mandarmani is even more with several tourists heading for the beach even without prior bookings. Many claimed they had trouble getting rooms with all major hotels being packed to capacity. “It was a late decision on our part to come over to the beach for the weekend and we were turned down by at least three hotels in Mandarmani before we managed to get two rooms in a hotel where we hadn’t stayed earlier,” said Aritra Saha, a Beliaghata resident, who reached Mandarmani with friends on Thursday evening.Along with budget hotels, fancy resorts across multiple weekend destinations were sold out. “Both our resorts in Raichak — Ganga Kutir and Amaya Kutir — are sold out for the weekend,” said Nitin Kohli, director Ambuja Neotia Hospitality. Raju Singh, the manager at Shantiniketan Tourist Lodge, too, said while most of the rooms had been booked, many tourists without booking drove in late on Thursday. The rush of the people driving out of the city was evident with the snarls on both sides of the second Hooghly bridge. Motorists claimed it took them more than an hour to reach NH-6 from Park Circus crossing in the afternoon. With most flights to Bagdogra packed, tour operators in Darjeeling and Kalimpong said they were hopeful of tourism picking up after over two months. “We shall be able to serve better once all our staffers return,” said Pradip Lama, secretary of Darjeeling Association of Travel Agents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hotels-packed-for-long-weekend-owners-hope-for-tourism-boom/articleshow/78046861.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur Covid situation worsening||Jodhpur: The administration has miserably failed in containing Covid spread in the district which has attained alarming levels in the last 10 days.A senior officer from the medical and health department said absence of decisive steps has made things miserable advising centralization of admission and treatment of positive cases instead of making arrangements in parts at different hospitals.There is a lot of confusion at the administrative level in taking decisions about admission and treatment of cases and this has affected treatment of patients of other diseases, specially in MG Hospital.A few days ago, the decision of shifting of non-Covid patients from MG Hospital late at night triggered panic among patients.Though a committee of doctors had recommended shifting of Covid cases to MG Hospital instead of MDM Hospital considering the effect on the superspecility treatment, but still those engaged in treatment of Covid cases are of the view that MG hospital has very limited resources to deal with the cases.According to sources, absence of senior doctors has made the condition miserable in MG Hospital, which has further been aggravated by the absence of resources. TOI tried to talk to district magistrate Indrajeet Singh but he neither responded to the calls nor text messages.In order to control the situation, the administration has set up a cell for management of Covid Hospitals and facilities by appointing senior RAS officials and has also set up treatment facilities at a private hospital, but results are yet to be seen.Thursday also reported 5 deaths and according to an estimate, the fatalities has touched 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-covid-situation-worsening/articleshow/78048321.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||New ‘air bubbles’ from Dubai, UK||Hyderabad: In what might come as a huge relief to thousands of flyers, the Hyderabad airport, on Thursday, re-connected with Dubai through air transport bubbles – started by Government of India to re-start international air connectivity, amid the pandemic. As part of this, the first Emirates flight – EK 526 -- from Dubai flew into the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at 8.25am. The same Boeing aircraft again took off for Dubai at 10am. “The arrival and departure of passengers were handled as per the safety protocol through the fully sanitised International Arrivals and Interim International Departures Terminal (IIDT). Mandatory screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the Covid-19 threat,” a release issued by GHIAL, stated. The UAE-based airline will now be operating three connections every week -- Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. “Any passenger can book a ticket per guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs,” the release added. While British Airways, under the same air transport bubble arrangement, has already resumed operations between Hyderabad and the UK (and beyond) it will start flying from Heathrow to Hyderabad from September 12. “The airline will be operating four flights a week with a range of new measures to look after customers’ safety and give them peace of mind when they fly,” the release from BA stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-air-bubbles-from-dubai-uk/articleshow/78048349.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||22-year-old student from J&K missing after falling into Yamuna||Dehradun: A 22-year-old student from Jammu and Kashmir went missing after drowning in river Yamuna in Kathapathar area under Vikas Nagar police station limits on the outskirts of Dehradun on Thursday. The student, identified as Khalid, had gone to Kathapathar along with his friends to celebrate one of his friends’ birthday. On receiving information, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation. According to officials, Khalid was studying in a private institute in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-year-old-student-from-jk-missing-after-falling-into-yamuna/articleshow/78045462.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West Metro to start with north-south corridor on Monday||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has decided to resume East-West Metro’s services along with opening up the north-south corridor from September 14. And on Sunday, both north-south and East-West sections will run trains for NEET aspirants. Sunday’s services will start at 10am and not at 11am as announced earlier. The last NEET special train will leave at 7pm. On Sunday, Metro will issue paper tickets to those without smartcards. One person will be allowed to travel with every candidate, who needs to show his/her admit card for boarding a train. But from Monday, only smart cards are allowed. One can buy one or recharge existing smart card from the ticket counter. Tokens won’t be available. “Initially, we felt many of our staff members living in the suburbs would have trouble reporting to work. But now, we are confident that there will be adequate strength for managing both East-West and north-south corridors when services resume from Monday,” Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi said on Thursday. Joshi convened an online press conference in the afternoon along with senior officials like additional general manager Sharad Srivastava, , making the first formal announcements relating to resumption of commercial runs. “No e-passes are needed to access East-West Metro stations because very few people use this section. Social distancing can be maintained easily,” Joshi said. East-West trains will run at 20-minute intervals from 8am to 8pm. “East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan extension may happen in October. For now, trains will run only along the 5km between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations. For Phoolbagan extension, we have applied for revalidation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS). It had asked Metro Railway to open Phoolbagan station by September 16. The carrier has asked for an extension of another three months,” Joshi said. Validity of smart cards, expired on or any time after March 22, has been extended till September 30. “Passengers are requested to recharge their cards before September 30 to get benefit of travel for a year along with old card’s balance amount, which will be carried forward to the new card,” said an official. Six stations — Park Street, Esplanade, Rabindra Sadan, Kalighat, Tollygunge and Rabindra Sarobar — will have smartcard vending machines. Later, all stations will have the facility, to avoid physical contact during transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-bonus-e-w-to-start-with-n-s-corridor-on-mon/articleshow/78046916.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 11, 2020||Pune||Pimpri unit ramps up bed capacity to 50% of target||PUNE: The jumbo Covid-19 hospital in Pimpri increased its bed strength to 400, half of its target capacity, on Thursday. The Pune divisional commissioner office’s dashboard data revealed that the facility allocated 350 beds with oxygen support and 50 were ICU supported. Of the 400 beds, two with ventilator support and as many without ventilators were available at the hospital’s intensive care unit. All 350 beds with oxygen support were occupied, revealed the dashboard data. Though the makeshift Covid treatment hub was inaugurated on August 26, it started admitting patients from September 1. A Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) official, however, said the hospital currently had 74 patients at its ICU — 30 of whom were on ventilation support. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI that almost all the available beds at the jumbo unit were occupied and they were planning to increase its capacity step-by-step to 100%. “It will take another two weeks to achieve the targeted 800-bed capacity. We have set the deadline of September 24 to operate all 800 beds. Of these, 200 are ICU beds and 600 are supported with oxygen ,” he said. “We were always clear about operating the facility in a phased manner to avoid any unnecessary burden on the new unit. A strategy is also being worked out on its staff strength,” Patil said. The number of Covid-19 cases in the PCMC limits is on the verge of breaching the 60,000-mark. On Thursday, 1,219 new cases were registered. With this, the total number of positive cases in the twin townships reached 59,966. The active number of patients in the hospitals in the PCMC limits stood at 6,222. The two cities have also recorded 980 deaths so far with a casuatly rate of 1.7%. The deah rate is amonth the lowest in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-unit-ramps-up-bed-capacity-to-50-of-target/articleshow/78049128.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Over 40 beggars sent to Bharatpur-based home||Jaipur: In the first phase of moving the beggars in the city to shelter homes as a part of the beggar-free Jaipur scheme, the social justice and empowerment department has sent over 42 beggars to a Bharatpur-based home run by Apna Ghar NGO. Also, the identification of buildings to rehabilitate more beggars in Jaipur city has been completed. They will be moved to a Mansarovar-based home soon. As per the reports submitted by the police department and the district collectorate to the social justice department, 1,162 beggars have been identified in Jaipur city for rehabilitation following a survey."We have already shifted 42 of them to Apna Ghar-run home. The building that we had identified in Mansarovar has become operational from August 15. Some of them have tested positive for Covid. In Jaipur, we will start the process of shifting them once all of them test negative for Covid," said Gayatri A Rathore, secretary, social justice and empowerment department.The Gehlot-led state government had announced in its 2019-20 budget that Jaipur would be made beggar-free. The officials were asked to identify old school buildings, which are no longer in use or other vacant government buildings, for temporary rehabilitation of the beggars.Meanwhile, the social justice department has started the process to conduct a survey to identify all the silicosis patients in the state who have been left out - the ones who had applied for benefits offline before 2018 - to ensure their certification and providing financial assistance. Moreover, of the 15,000 certified patients, the payment of around 6,000 silicosis patients is still pending.The tribal area development (TAD) department on Thursday decided to organise ‘Van Utsav’ at the residential schools, hostels and in all the Eklavya Model Residential schools (EMRS) on September 11 in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-40-beggars-sent-to-bharatpur-based-home/articleshow/78048317.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||29-yr-old engineer hangs self||Rudrapur: A 29-year-old man died by suicide after hanging self at his rented house in Adarsh colony of the city on Thursday. According to the police, Bhubaneswar Kumar Thakur was found hanging by the landlord who informed the police. He was taken to the hospital where he was declared dead. Police said that the deceased was a resident of Allahabad’s cantonment area and worked as a chemical engineer in a factory in Pantnagar industrial area. The police said that no suicide note was recovered and they are investigating the case. After the preliminary investigation, the body was sent for post mortem. The police have registered a case under section 174 of the CrPC and have started the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/29-yr-old-engineer-hangs-self/articleshow/78045447.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha cadre IPS officer’s ‘cabinet secretariat posting’ axed||Bhubaneswar: The Centre has cancelled Odisha cadre IPS officer Himanshu Kumar Lal’s proposed appointment in the cabinet secretariat. Lal, who was in June allowed by the state government to join in class-1 executive cadre with the cabinet secretariat, has returned and re-joined the state police headquarters. While Lal refused to comment, a state home department source said his joining in the cabinet secretariat could not materialise because of some social media posts related to his new posting in the central deputation. “There were lot of speculations on social media that he would join the research and analysis wing (RAW) under the cabinet secretariat. Cabinet secretariat, which follows tight protocol and secrecy, took serious note of it and refused to appoint him. During scrutiny prior to his appointment, his joining was cancelled,” a state home department officer said. An official source said the Union ministry of home affairs has given an option to Lal to join in any of the central armed police forces. The state home department on June 3 issued a notification regarding Lal’s appointment in the cabinet secretariat, a prominent posting in the Centre. In the order, it was written that Lal would serve for four years in the cabinet secretariat. Lal was then the deputy inspector general (north range). In a related development, 2008-batch IPS officer Satyajit Naik, who had in January gone on central deputation and joined as SP with the national investigation agency (NIA), has been repatriated to the state much before completion of his five-year tenure with the Centre. Additional director general (ADG) Y K Jethwa, who was with the special operation group (SPG) in Delhi, has returned after successful completion of his central deputation. Ritu Arora, who had been serving in the central industrial security force (CISF), also returned from central deputation a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-cadre-ips-officers-cabinet-secretariat-posting-axed/articleshow/78045483.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 11, 2020||Goa||Kavlem STP to be ready by Apr 2021||Panaji: Like with most other infrastructural projects, the pandemic also hampered the work on many under-construction sewerage treatment plants (STP). Officials, however, said that the work on the STP at Kavlem, Ponda, is 90% complete and that it is likely to become first of the new plants to become operational next year. “The period from March to May is the best time during the year to carry out construction activity. But work on the STPs was hampered due to the lockdown from late March. By the time the lockdown ended, the monsoons arrived. Work will now resume by October, once the monsoon recedes,” said an official of the Sewerage and Infrastructural Development Corporation of Goa Ltd (SIDCL). He said that the pandemic and the resultant lockdown setback the work on STPs by three to four months. In many areas, work on new STPs was already affected due to opposition from locals to the plants, despite assurances that Goa’s STPs use the latest SBR technology, which leads to no stink. “Only once the work resumes in October, we will be able to gauge when the projects are likely to be completed. But the Kavlem plant is 90% ready and only some electrical and such work is remaining to be completed. The plan is expected to be commissioned at least partially next year. It should be ready by April or May 2021,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kavlem-stp-to-be-ready-by-apr-2021/articleshow/78048298.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||9 held for attack on Anjuna saw mill workers||Saligao: The Anjuna police on Thursday arrested nine persons for allegedly attacking and severely injuring six persons at a saw mill at Chinvar in Anjuna. Police said the accused, Antonio D’Souza, an Assagao local, had come to the saw mill between 3.30pm and 4pm on Wednesday to buy wooden railings. An argument broke out between Munilal Patel, who runs the saw mill, and D’Souza over pricing. Patel along with his labourers then allegedly threatened D’Souza and his family. Police said that D’Souza, along with his family and friends later returned to the mill and allegedly attacked Patel and his employees. The workers - Manilal, Dayalal Patel, Bharat Patel, Angad Vishwakarna and Shivram Halarnkar - were rushed to a private hospital. After saw mill owner Watu Govekar filed a complaint, police arrested Antonio D’Souza, 54, Allan D’Souza, 25, both from Assagao; Fabiar Gohar, 24, from Candolim; Jovin Rodhlino, 30, and Shervet Rodhlino, 24, from Carmona; Azar Sheikh, 26, a resident of Mumbai; Imran Khan, 23, from Calangute; Suresh Pujar, 21, from Candolim, and detained one minor boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/9-held-for-attack-on-anjuna-saw-mill-workers/articleshow/78048324.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Drug peddling case: No evidence against me, says Sanjjanaa Galrani||BENGALURU: Sandalwood actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, who were arrested in a drug-peddling case, were on Thursday taken to KC General Hospital where their blood and hair samples were collected for various forensic tests. While Dwivedi agreed to the tests, Sanjjanaa initially objected. “I am losing confidence in police. I don’t know why I have been arrested. There is no evidence against me. I've been made a scapegoat and brought here. How am I responsible if someone who I had called, makes a call to someone,” Sanjjana said, while arguing with police. A video of the row went viral. She eventually came around when police displayed the court order. The samples will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory, Madiwala and Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad. “Tests will confirm whether the accused had consumed drugs recently. Drugs like marijuana, cocaine, MDMA tablets, morphine and heroin can be detected in hair strands for up to six month,” an investigating officer said. Police, after obtaining permission from a court, had taken event manager Viren Khanna and RTO official Ravi Shankar for tests on Wednesday. While Khanna and the actresses are accused in the same case, Shankar, Dwivedi’s friend, is an accused in another case dating back to 2018. However, Shankar’s statements have formed the basis of the case against the actresses.  Meanwhile, police said they have secured another piece of corroborating evidence. Galrani drove a high-end convertible car and took a video of herself driving in January this year. Galrani had posted the video on social media and it was widely shared. Based on the video, traffic police had booked her and Galrani had paid the fine of Rs 1,100 for rash and negligent driving and using mobile while driving. In the video, a man was seen sitting next to Galrani. CCB police now say that man is none other than Niyas Mohammed, a model from Koramangala and a co-accused in the case. “This video will help us prove Galrani knew Niyas very well,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/being-made-a-scapegoat-no-confidence-in-police-says-sanjjanaa/articleshow/78046935.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Wary Kolkata keeps thermal guns at arm’s length||KOLKATA: If a thermal gun held to your forehead makes you feel uneasy, there’s good news for you. The disconcerting practice is being phased out at several places across the city and replaced with a check of the wrist temperature instead. The practice is being perceived safer, though experts believe there is no risk at pointing an infra-red gun at the forehead. Over the last two weeks, several offices, malls and residential complexes have switched over to thermal temperature checking from the wrist. It is safer to use thermal guns to check the temperature of the wrist than the forehead since it ensures distance between individuals but the efficacy of the instrument is in doubt, said experts. There are several factors that can lead to a wrong reading, they felt.  A thermal gun or an infra-red thermometer takes the skin temperature that could vary by as much as five degrees, depending on conditions, pointed out Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar said, “Unlike oral or armpit temperature, reading taken from the skin is not precise. It can vary with sweat or exposure to the sun. So, while taking the wrist temperature is safer, thermal guns are never a fool-proof measure of screening.” Others pointed out that use of thermal guns have allowed many to pass through screening. “It’s easy to lower your body temperature by taking paracetamol and pass through screenings at offices or airports. This has happened very frequently over the last five months,” said a general physician. He added that he has often come across queries on the effectiveness of paracetamol from patients eager to travel. Meanwhile, retailers of gun thermometer have been getting enquiry from customers regarding usage technique of the thermometer. “It is not only on the forehead, you can use the gun thermometer on the temples from the side too. It shows similar result. It seems that people are wary about the side effects of the ray,” said Paresh Daftary of Aatman Exports--which deals with surgical and medical instruments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wary-city-keeps-thermal-guns-at-arms-length/articleshow/78046889.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s Covid cases breach 14,000 mark as state reports biggest single-day spike of 1,640 infections||JAIPUR: Pink City’s Covid-19 cumulative cases breached the 14,000-mark to touch 14,001 on Thursday and it is now all set to surpass Jodhpur’s count, which is highest in the state. The situation is worsening in the city as it is witnessing a sudden spike in cases. The situation is no different in Jodhpur. With 320 new infections, Jodhpur’s tally touched 14,249. Jaipur reported 329 new infections as the state reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,640 new infections taking the overall tally to 97,376 on Thursday. Jodhpur and Jaipur are the two districts which have reported more than 14,000 cases and collectively account for 29% of all infections reported so far. Health minister Raghu Sharma appealed to the people to stay safe. “The state is witnessing spike in cases, despite that some people are not following the protocols for their own safety from the virus. Moving out of the house without masks and attending gatherings will invite infection.”The state is also reporting Covid deaths in increased numbers than before. As many as 14 persons died in the last 24 hours taking the state’s toll to 1,192.Sawai Madhopur reported its 17th death, Alwar 31st, Barmer 24th, Churu 7th, Kota 86th, Pali 48th, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 81, Bikaner reported two deaths taking its toll to 87 while Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 294. Jodhpur’s casualties rose to 116 with two more deaths.Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (329), Jodhpur (320), Kota (177), Alwar (56), Sikar (55), Ajmer (50), Nagaur (43), Bikaner (40), Jhalawar (39), Pali (37), Dholpur (32), Sirohi (32), Bundi (31), Churu (29), Banswara (28), Bhilwara (28), Sriganganagar (26), Bharatpur (26), Jhunjhunu (25), Chittorgarh (25), Hanumangarh (24), Barmer (24), Baran (23), Sawai Madhopur (22), Jalore (20), Tonk (20), Udaipur (19), Dungarpur (19), Jaisalmer (14), Pratapgarh (10), Rajsamand (9), Dausa (5) and Karauli (3). High Court stays order of removal of Dr Ashok Gupta from superintendent of JK Lon hospitalRajasthan High Court stayed the state government’s decision issued on September 4 of removing Dr Ashok Gupta from the post of medical superintendent of JK Lon hospital on Thursday. Gupta had challenged the government’s order of removing him from the medical superintendent post on the ground of an order issued by the state government on June 6 in which the state government had announced that “the period of service has been extended by one year of all working medical specialist teachers.” Therefore, the petitioner was required to be continued as senior professor and superintendent of JK Lon hospital, Gupta’s counsel appealed to the court. The government had given the charge to his junior doctor. “Issue notice on writ petition as well as on stay application, returnable within four weeks. In the meanwhile, effect and operation of order issued on September 4, shall remain stayed and the petitioner shall be allowed to continue as the professor and superintendent of JK Lon hospital,” says the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-covid-cases-breach-14000-mark-as-state-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1640-infections/articleshow/78048354.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||38 test positive at Karai police academy||Ahmedabad: Some 38 persons — trainees of the ranks of police inspector and Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) jawans and employees — have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Karai Police Training Academy near Gandhinagar. According to senior police officials, 11 personal at the DGP’s office in Gandhinagar also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Police officials said some have been admitted to hospital and other have been isolated. It is worthy to note that at present about 750 trainees of the rank of Police Inspectors and LRD Jawans are undergoing training at the Karai police training academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/38-test-positive-at-karai-police-academy/articleshow/78048353.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schedule out for Class X supplementary exams||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Thursday released the final schedule for the Class X supplementary exams to be held this month. The exam will be held from September 15 to 22, with papers scheduled in two sessions on some days. The morning session papers will begin at 9.30am and the afternoon session papers will start at 2.30pm, the board has said. “Under no circumstances examinations shall be postponed, even though any day is declared a public holiday,” the board has said. The board has earlier already said that a strength of 12 students only per classroom will be maintained during the exam. Students who were stranded outside Goa due to the lockdown and could not answer the Class X Goa Board exam from May 21 to June 6 will also be allowed to appear for the September supplementary exam as a one-time measure, the board had said. To be able to maintain social distancing, the Goa Board has increased the number of exam centres this year for the supplementary test and there will be one centre in every taluka. Volunteers, school non-teaching staff as well as PTA members will be involved in conduct of the exam. Conductors at the examination centre have been told to make provision for a separate block for students who are sick. Conductors have also been told to allow students to carry transparent water and sanitiser bottles with them inside the exam halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schedule-out-for-class-x-sept-exams/articleshow/78048348.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||With safety measures in place, over 4.5k to answer NEET on Sunday in Goa||Panaji: In Goa, 4,595 students have registered to answer the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled to be held on Sunday. As the National Testing Agency (NTA) norms require that not more than 12 students be seated in one class for the exam to facilitate maintaining of social distancing norms, the number of exam centres for Goa has been increased this year. As per data released by the Union ministry of education, NEET will be held in Goa through 15 centres this year, as against 12 last year. The number of students registered for the exam this year from Goa is marginally higher than last year’s 4,560. Unlike the JEE, which was a computer based test, NEET is written exam and therefore more precautions have been put in place to ensure students’ safety during the pandemic. Besides CBSE schools like Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) I, Vasco, KV Ponda, KV INS Mandovi, Verem, King’s School, Margao, Vidya Vikas, Margao, Sunshine Worldwide School, Old Goa, and Bloom’s International, Nagoa, other institutes have also been roped in as exam centres this year, as well as Government College, Quepem, Rosary College, Navelim, Rosary School, Damodar College, Margao, Pharmacy College, Panaji, Nirmala Institute, Altinho, Panaji, and Agnel Institute of Engineering in Assagao. Just like at JEE, students have been allotted staggered entry and exit timings to avoid crowding at any point. The sanitisation work has been allotted by the NTA to an external agency. Most of the students’ checking will be carried out electronically so that there is no touch during friskingTemperature check of students will be done at the time of entry and NTA has instructed states to keep a separate room available at each exam centre. If any student is seen coming in with unusual temperature, they will not be turned away and will be instead allowed to answer in isolation in this separate room. The invigilator here will be wearing a PPE kit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-safety-measures-in-place-over-4-5k-to-answer-neet-on-sunday-in-goa/articleshow/78048358.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||AI allays fears, assures govt of following Covid protocol||Kolkata: Air India on Thursday allayed concerns of the state government and airport officials about the Vande Bharat (VB) flights from London to Kolkata and assured them that its team was reaching out to passengers and informing them about the need to get themselves tested for Covid-19 before boarding. The assurance comes in the wake of queries from passengers on the availability of quarantine facilities at Kolkata airport. The questions triggered concern over whether AI was adequately conveying to passengers the need for mandatory RT-PCR tests. The state government, while giving its in-principle nod, had made it clear that the airline must allow only those passengers who test negative. “The AI team in the UK has been making every effort to reach out to passengers of the Vande Bharat Mission flights from London to Kolkata and inform them about the requirements through all the travel agents in the country. It also urged the Indian Embassy there to publicize the state government’s advisory,” an airline spokesperson said. While VB flights have been operating since April-end to repatriate Indians stranded across the world to various cities in India and the SOP for travel has been revised periodically by the Union health ministry, the Bengal government had stopped issuing no-objection certificates to all VB flights from July 1 and gave it’s in-principle approval to the London-Kolkata flights with a rider that all passengers undergo RT-PCR tests for Covid at least 96 hours before the flight departure and submit the report online. The airline will have to ensure that only those who test negative board the flights. “Only after this condition is met will the state issue an NOC a day before the flight. Passengers don’t have an option to avail of quarantine facility on arrival,” a state official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ai-allays-fears-assures-govt-of-following-covid-protocol/articleshow/78046928.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Rs 6,000 crore cane dues paid to growers in lockdown’||LUCKNOW: Amid Opposition criticism over non-payment of cane dues to farmers, the state government on Thursday claimed to have paid Rs 6,000 crore to sugarcane growers during the 45-day lockdown period. Minister for cane development Suresh Rana said the payment was done despite negligible sale of sugar during lockdown, when commercial activities had come to a halt. While the state government did not disclose the amount of arrears, sources said cane mills were still erring on a payment of over Rs 10,000 crore for the 2019-20 crushing season. Rana said during 2019-20, more than 11,000 lakh quintals of cane was crushed in 119 sugar mills. “The government has made a record payment of over Rs 1 lakh crore to farmers,” said Rana, after a review meeting to assess cane mills preparedness for the forthcoming crushing season, which is expected to start from October. Besides 119 sugar mills, 205 Khandsari units and over 5,600 mechanised units crushed around 801 lakh quintals of cane in 2019-20, Rana said. He said the state government has issued 165 licences to Khandsari units under the new licensing policy. The minister asked the sugar mills to gear up for the new crushing season and ensured timely payment to the farmers. Rana said the mills with high arrears like Bajaj, Modi, Simbhaoli and Yadu should clear their cane arrears as soon as possible. “If they fail, strict action would be initiated,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-6000cr-cane-dues-paid-to-growers-in-lockdown/articleshow/78049140.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Pune||Contact tracing in district still worryingly low||PUNE: The district officials have been pulled up by the state authorities for their abysmally low Covid-19 contact-tracing levels. State health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that Pune district officials are tracing just 10 contacts per confirmed patient. That number is more or less similar within Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. The ICMR requires at least 20 contacts to be traced for testing. The BMC in Mumbai is planning to up that number to 30. Tope has now asked Pune district officials to increase contact tracing and to also submit a report on the improvements. An official from the administration said, “In Pune rural areas, we are tracing a little more than 13 contacts per confirmed patient. We have been asked to step our contact tracing by the state government.” Recent data also showed that besides Pune, in districts of western Maharashtra — including Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur — officials are tracing contacts in the range of just five to 10 per patient. A health department official said that in 31 districts of the state, officials have not been able to trace more than 10 contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/contact-tracing-in-district-still-worryingly-low/articleshow/78049141.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Rare orchid species found in Western Himalayas for the 1st time||Nainital: A rare orchid species — Liparis Pygmaea — has been sighted in the Western Himalayan Region for the first time after 10 plants were found growing at an altitude of 3,800 metres in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The flowers — a deep shade of purple — were spotted in the country after a gap of 120 years.The species was sighted and photographed in Saptkund by Manoj Singh, a junior research fellow with the forest department, and range officer of Gopeshwar, Harish Negi, in June this year. The findings have now been published in the French journal ‘Richardiana’. “We were exploring the region when we found 10 mature plants of the orchid at a single location near Saptkund,” said Singh. The duo photographed the plant and sent a sample to the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) lab in Pune. Tests confirmed the plant to be Liparis Pygmaea.“Further research of the existing material on the orchid species showed that this was the first case of the sighting of the plant in the Western Himalayan region and therefore this has widened the distribution range of the species in the Himalayas,” said Singh.Jeewan Singh Jalal and Dinesh Kumar Agrawala, both scientists at the BSI, who also contributed to the study said the species was last recorded in India in 1896. According to Agrawala, the species had only been recorded in Sikkim, West Bengal, Nepal and China till now. “This is the first time its existence has been recorded in Western Himalayas,” he said.The researchers also noted that though no commercial exploitation of the species is known, its habitat faces “natural and anthropogenic threats” while adding that the “extent and quality of its habitat is continuously declining”. “The fact that it was found to be growing along with medicinal plant Katuka or Kutki (Picrorhiza kurroa) which is highly exploited further threatens its habitat,” Singh said.Earlier, in July, another rare orchid species — Eulophia obtusa — also known as ground orchid was rediscovered in India after forest officials and wildlife experts on a routine inspection in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve chanced upon the white flower with bright pink hues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rare-orchid-species-found-in-western-himalayas-for-the-1st-time/articleshow/78045489.cms||Prashant Jha
September 11, 2020||Kolkata||Morning market scramble before announcement||Kolkata: Crowds in markets across the city swelled on Thursday morning despite the rain as people rushed in to stock up edibles in anticipation of the two-day lockdown. The rush, however, eased a little in the evening after the state government announced its decision to scrap the lockdown on Saturday in view of the NEET.“Since everything will be shut, we decided to buy enough bread, vegetables and fish so that it lasts two days. Most shops ran out of vegetables because people bought in bulk. Many people came as early as 7.30am to avoid crowds that started building up around 9am,” said Samir Raskhit, a resident of New Town.In several markets, the shopowners had to open extra gates for smooth dispersal of crowds. “We had shut some of the gates so that people do not enter without wearing masks. Security guards checked that every customer wore a mask before entering,” said a member of the market committee of Hatibagan market.Police arrangement will be the same as it was on Monday. “Nearly 10,000 cops will hit the streets. The nakas and pickets, too, will be in place,” said an officer. Sources said the combat forces provided to each division will be used if the situation demanded.Traffic police sources said thedepartment will keep an eye on two-wheelers. “There were some complaints of genuine Covid warriors being stopped for long during checks at certain nakas. We shall ensure that no genuine person is harassed,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/morning-market-scramble-before-announcement/articleshow/78046912.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 11, 2020||Pune||24-hour tally hits fresh peak in Pune metropolitan region, active count at 40,000||PUNE: The number of active cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) soared past 40,000 on Thursday with the addition of single-day highest tally of 4,935 in the last 24 hours. With this, the region’s caseload has increased above 2.11 lakh. Among the new cases, as many as 1,916 were recorded in the PMC limits, 1,219 in the PCMC limits and 1,800 in the rural as well as Cantonment parts. Besides, 3,203 patients recovered in PMR on Thursday, pushing its total cured count above 1.66 lakh. A report by the district health officer said active cases in the region jumped to 40,152 on Thursday. including 23,936 being treated at hospitals and 16,216 in home isolation. The region reported 87 fatalities due to the infection on Thursday, taking the casualty count to 4,881. Besides, as many as 16,302 tests were conducted in PMR on Thursday, pushing the total tests up to 8.96 lakh, including 5.14 lakh tests from the PMC limits alone. A PMC report said 940 patients were in critical stage in the municipal limits, of whom 485 were on ventilator support and 455 were admitted in the intensive care units. As many as 3,420 patients were on oxygen support in the PMC limits. The report said 519 teams were deployed in the city to conduct home-to-home visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-hour-tally-hits-fresh-peak-in-pmr-active-count-at-40k/articleshow/78049144.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 11, 2020||Dehradun||Leopardess injures 4 in Rishikesh, rescued by forest dept||Haridwar: A two-year-old leopardess intruded in Rishikesh city on Thursday morning and attacked four people, including a woman. Forest teams and police rushed to the spot on being informed and managed to trap the big cat in an old building. After a five-hour-long operation, rangers tranquilized the leopardess and caught it. It has been shifted to Malti zoo in Dehradun for medical examination. Meanwhile, all injured persons, who were shifted to a local hospital, are now out of danger, claimed forest officials. The incident took place near Lovely Store in IDPL colony under Rishikesh police station. The big cat first attacked two boys and ran into a house, where it attacked 55-year-old Meena Devi. She somehow escaped with the help of family members. Meanwhile, the leopardess entered the bushes and disappeared. Locals informed the forest department and rangers, and forest guards cordoned off the entire IDPL area with the help of police. Rishikesh ranger M S Rawat told TOI, “The leopardess was trapped in an old building and we installed cages to catch it. We also called in experts to tranqulize it, but it was not easy as the inside of the building is very dark. Finally, the big cat was tranquilized after a five-hour-long chase. The injured residents are out of danger now.” The leopardess is also healthy and was shifted to Malti zoo, where it will be kept under observation, after which the forest department will decide whether to release it or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopardess-injures-4-in-rishikesh-rescued-by-forest-dept/articleshow/78045480.cms||MS Nawaz
September 11, 2020||Pune||22 wedding attendees from family test positive in Pune||PUNE: Twenty-two members of a family from the densely populated Satav Vasti of Wagholi tested positive for Covid-19 days after attending a wedding in Pune, prompting the authorities to send 48 of their contacts in home quarantine while declaring the locality a containment zone. Health officials said while most of the 22 patients were asymptomatic and stable. “The family had been to a wedding in the Pune municipal limits over the weekend. Some of them started showing Covid-19 symptoms after returning to Satav Vasti. When tested over the last few days, 22 of them came positive,” said an official from the Haveli block development office. Despite restrictions, locals said, people were still out and about in the large markets. “I went out to buy essentials at the open weekly market nearby and found that people were still out and about freely. Some were not even wearing masks,” said Soumyadeep Roy, who lives near Kesnand Phata, a short distance from Satav Vasti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/22-wedding-attendees-from-family-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/78049944.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Let CBI take over murder case: AAP||Margao: AAP state convener Elvis Gomes voiced his opinion in favour CBI taking over the investigations in the Swapnil Walke murder if the police are acting under political pressure. Pointing out that people have begun to suspect that political pressure is being brought to bear on the police investigation in the case, Gomes demanded that cops ensure that their case doesn’t fail even after having arrested three accused. “Investigations will go nowhere if there is political pressure on the police in the case. We hope that the police will investigate the case thoroughly, but if they are acting under political pressure, it would be in the fitness of things that the CBI is brought in,” Gomes said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/let-cbi-take-over-murder-case-aap/articleshow/78048365.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan continues plasma therapy claiming its beneficial for Covid patients||JAIPUR: While Rajasthan government is encouraging people who have recovered from Covid to donate their plasma, a trial conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to assess the benefits of convalescent plasma therapy in Covid patients has indicated the therapy does not reduce death risk. SMS Hospital, which was part of the study conducted by the ICMR, claimed that 47 patients were given plasma therapy and all of them barring two recovered. “We have followed the guidelines and inclusive and exclusive criteria for donating and transfusing plasma to the Covid patients. Only those who fulfilled the criteria were given plasma therapy,” said Dr Ajit Singh, one of the five members of the Covid treatment group at SMS Hospital. On the basis of encouraging results of plasma therapy, the state government expanded it to all the hospitals attached to government medical colleges at divisional headquarters. So far, 175 patients have already recived plasma therapy in Jaipur, more than 100 each in Kota and other districts, an official said. Apart from that, the state government set up plasma banks in Jaipur and Kota, where plasma donated by donors get stored and the needy patients get it. In Sikar, a camp was organised for those who recovered from Covid and willing to donate the plasma. The camp evoked good response as 32 persons who defeated the virus gave their blood samples to the health department teams to find out if they have antibodies in their blood to fight against Covid. “The camp had been organised after encouraging results of plasma therapy were reported in the state. The samples collected from the camp had been send to SMS Hospital for antibodies test. As many as 51 persons who were cured recently attended the camp, but samples of 32 were collected who fulfil criteria of age, having normal hemoglobin level and they have recovered at least 14 days before attending the camp,” said Dr Ajay Chaudhary, chief medical health officer (Sikar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-continues-plasma-therapy-claiming-its-beneficial-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78048364.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor facilities at Covid test centres irk Secunderabad residents||SECUNDERABAD: Residents visiting Covid-19 testing centres with Covid symptoms in Secunderabad Cantonment, have to wait in long queues by standing together till their turn comes. There are no benches for seating people or a drinking water facility. These Covid-19 testing centres were opened a couple of weeks ago at various locations, after a shift from government schools. For instance, the medical staff at a Covid-19 centre is conducting antigen tests at a verandah of an old grant bungalow (OGB) at Picket Bazar X roads. Residents are forced to wait in a long queue to get tested at the Covid-19 centre. In another Covid-19 centre at Picket Garden, basic amenities like seating arrangements and drinking water facility are not being provided. “The Covid-19 centre at Picket does not have electricity either. The medical staff is working without fans and proper lighting facility to conduct antigen tests for the people,” a resident of Picket, Jetty Umesh told TOI. While Secunderabad Cantonment has got three new Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs), Covid-19 free testing centres are facing problems due to lack of basic amenities. When TOI contacted Parusuram, who was monitoring testing centres, he said, “To avoid inconvenience for people, we have opened the centres on war footing and started conducting Covid-19 testing, as cases are in surge.” We have ensured basic facilities like marking circles to follow social distancing and made PPE kits available to medical staff, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-facilities-at-covid-test-centres-irk-secbad-residents/articleshow/78048371.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Businessman’s murder: Nephew’s role under police lens||JAIPUR: A day after identifying the body of a businessman from Jodhpur which was found at Muhana Mandi police station area, the police on Thursday stated that they have got some concrete clues to unravel this murder mystery. Senior officers investigating the case stated that it is a clear case of murder for gain in which unknown assailant killed the businessman after robbing him. Cops said the deceased identified as Anand Kumar Arora is a businessman from Jodhpur. He had taken his nephew to Jaipur and the latter was the driving the car. “It appears that a person in close contact of the deceased could be behind the murder. The nephew of the victim businessman is also changing his statements every now and then. It is a clear case of murder for gain. We have got some concrete clues and will solve the mystery soon,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (Crime). Police said that they are on the job of collecting scientific evidences and are hopeful to solve the mystery through technical surveillance. “The role of nephew-cum-driver is doubtful. Also, there are a few other things to be questioned. Hopefully, we will solve the mystery,” said Lamba. In the FIR, Anil Kumar Arora, the nephew of the deceased and the one who brought the businessman to Jaipur, has stated that the businessman had told him that he will go to Karauli. “According to him the businessman on his way to Jaipur had boarded another car on Delhi-Ajmer highway near Jaipur on September 4 and urged him to meet him in Karauli. He said that after he visited Karauli and did not find the man he returned to Jaipur,” said a senior police officer. “If he had to visit Karauli and after visiting he did not find his uncle, why he did not inform about it to Karauli police. Even in Jaipur there is no missing complaint of the businessman. These are a few unanswered questions,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bizmans-murder-nephews-role-under-police-lens/articleshow/78048367.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha police confirm death of two cops in anti-Maoist operation||BHUBANESWAR: An anti-Maoist operation, which led to the killing of five suspected rebels in Kalahandi district on Wednesday, also saw the death of two police personnel, state police confirmed on Thursday. The policemen were identified as Sudhir Kumar Tudu (28) and Debasis Sethy (27), both jawans of the special operation group (SOG), a specialized anti-Maoist force of Odisha Police. Director-general of police (DGP) Abhay, along with others, visited Kalahandi on Thursday and paid homage to the slain jawans. “We are proud of our bravehearts. They attained martyrdom while fighting bravely against the Maoists. They exhibited exemplary courage. This is the reason why we hold our head high today. We salute them,” Abhay said. The DGP, intelligence director R K Sharma and IG (operations) Amitabh Thakur later reviewed anti-Maoist strategies in Kalahandi. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Salute to the martyrdom of Debashish Sethy of Angul & Sudhir Kumar Tudu of Mayurbhanj who laid down their lives fighting against Left- wing extremists. My heartfelt condolences to the families of the martyred jawans. #Odisha will remember the sacrifice of its brave sons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-police-confirm-death-of-two-cops-in-kalahandi-anti-maoist-op/articleshow/78045513.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Invest UP’ examines concerns of industry||LUCKNOW: The first meeting of ‘Invest UP’, an investment promotion and facilitation agency which has been set up to ease investments in the state, was held on Thursday. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner Alok Tandon, who chaired the meeting, assessed various concerns and issues being faced by the industry and issued directions for their time-bound disposal. The meeting was attended by about 25 industrialists and representatives of industrial organizations and 21 cases were discussed. Six other matters pertaining to the revenue department were discussed separately. The issues, pertaining to land transfer, land use change, construction of roads, drains, etc, have been resolved and forwarded for approval. Other matters under discussion were related to infrastructure and industrial development, revenue, housing, urban development, MSME, energy, UP State Industrial Development Authority, PICUP and stamp and registration. During the assessment of issues, Tandon directed the UP Power Corporation to recover power dues of sick units from the previous owners and not from those who purchased the units during auction. This was stated in the case of M/s Sadhari Shakti (Pvt), Ltd Kanpur. In the case of industries in the Hathras Industrial Estate getting high electricity bills, the power corporation said that a technical solution to the problem would be available by October by making appropriate provision in the billing software. Indian Industries Association, Lucknow asked for permission to change those industrial plots to freehold which had been allotted by the Improvement Trust and whose lease had expired. Additional Chief Secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar has directed housing department to prepare a policy proposal for this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/invest-up-examines-concerns-of-industry/articleshow/78049156.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 11, 2020||Goa||Parents demand full-time principal at JNV Valpoi||Valpoi: The parent-teacher association of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Valpoi has demanded a full-time principal and filling up the posts of teachers at the earliest. Parents said that 10 posts of teachers out of the 22 are vacant for the past one and a half years. They also said that the Valpoi school runs without a full-time principal. Members of the association said they got to know from reliable sources that JNV schools will reopen in last week of September and regular classes will resume for students studying in classes IX, X, XI and XII. However, the parents said that they will not send their children to school until the teachers are appointed. They also threatened to protest by siting outside the school gate. “Repeated requests from parents have been ignored,” a parent said. “We will not allow the authorities to start the school until they fill in the vacant posts of 10 teachers and a full-time principal,” PTA president Subodh Desai told TOI. A memorandum in this regard has been submitted on behalf of the PTA to the North Goa MP and Ayush minister Shripad Naik, commissioner of Navodaya, Uttar Pradesh; secretary of ministry of human resources, New Delhi; North Goa collector and the chief secretary. It is has been stated in the memorandum that there are no teachers for English, biology, geography, mathematics, science, social science, art and computer at the Valpoi JNV.  “The absence of teachers in some classrooms affects the teaching and concentration of students in the adjoining classes. Students left unattended make noise, which affect the other students, whereby they are unable to concentrate on their classes and instructions,” Desai said. The PTA further said that in an important meeting held before the deputy commissioner of management of JNV in 2019, it was promised that a full-time principal and teachers would be appointed immediately. Another parent said that currently the online classes have been started, but it seems to be not effective since the teachers conducting these classes are from other states and are not familiar to the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-demand-full-time-principal-at-jnv-valpoi/articleshow/78048376.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Chennai||CEO says self-registration is 1st step, states must vet farmers’ data||The Centre has ruled out the removal of self-registration process for Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme (PM Kisan Scheme) which was pointed out by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy as a reason for the massive scam that has unfolded in the state. But the Centre has underlined the need for rigorous verification to prevent such instances. “We are not stopping self-registration,” Vivek Agarwal, CEO of PM Kisan Scheme told TOI. “Self-registration is only for applying. Ultimately, somebody verifies whether the applicant is eligible or not. If you don’t verify and certify, the applicant doesn’t get the money,” he said. Agarwal said a robust system has been put in place for the scheme. On Wednesday, the CM had said that it was relaxation of norms, enabling farmers to do self- registration, that gave room for large-scale malpractices. Exploiting the loophole in the process, corrupt officials colluded with contract staff in the agriculture department and internet cafe owners to register more than five lakh ineligible beneficiaries on the portal. “We cannot deny an eligible beneficiary the right to apply by removing the self-registration option,’’ Agarwal said. Agarwal commended the state government for acting swiftly to stop the irregularity, recovering a part of the siphoned-off money and initiating criminal action on scamsters. “We appreciate the state government. The red flag came from the state only,” he said adding that he had written to the state agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi in this regard. He said the PM Kisan Scheme scam was unique to Tamil Nadu and no other state had reported any such case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ceo-says-self-regn-is-1st-step-states-must-vet-farmers-data/articleshow/78048379.cms||Mayilvaganan
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: UDH proposal to curb illegal constructions bites dust||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department’s proposal to impose impact fee on illegal buildings to discourage the rampant practice in cities continues to bite the dust. While, more than 800 cases of illegal constructions are pending at the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), the proposal remains unattended. In December 2019, in the building bylaws expert committee meeting, a proposal to introduce impact fee was discussed to curb the illegal construction and earn revenue. An official at UDH said, “As per the proposal, the owners of commercial properties who violate the building bylaws will have to pay penalty every year. Provision of one-time penalty on residential properties was also discussed. The draft was later forwarded to legal cell to examine law aspect. The decision of implementation will only be taken at the state government level,” he said. Sources further claimed, the state government will only introduce the impact fee concept after issuing notification for amended bylaws. There is a possibility that the department might have to frame new rules for imposing impact fee. “In amended bylaws, the state government has provided relief to many plot owners. The violation of setbacks on smaller plots, which was considered as illegal is now been allowed in amended bylaws for providing more space for construction. The new provisions are required to set in place,” said a source. The proposal was mooted after the Rajasthan court had asked the government to discourage the practice of regularising illegal constructions and ordered to impose heavy penalty on such buildings. It was also directed to raze or seal the illegal construction. However, the state government filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the high court order claiming it would involve large-scale demolition. Sources said, the department had constituted a four-member committee to frame rules and regulations for sealing and opening illegal buildings in all municipal corporations, Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) and development authorities. However, the committee failed to function effectively and illegal constructions continue to flourish in the state capital. Monetary penalty would have checked the violators, sources said. An official at the JDA said, “Majority of the big commercial buildings constructed during the past two decades have not adhered to the maps approved by the Building Planning Committee (BPC). There is a provision by which JDA can check the construction site of private developers after approving the maps. However, officials due to shortage of staff, did not follow the provision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-proposal-to-curb-illegal-constructions-bites-dust/articleshow/78048377.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Vardhan appointed new secy to governor||Panaji: Mihir Vardhan, a 2003 IAS officer, who was recently posted in Goa has been appointed as secretary to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Koshyari, who is the governor of Maharashtra, assumed the additional charge in Goa after Satyapal Pal Malik was transferred to Meghalaya, last month. Vardhan replaces Rupesh Kumar Thakur who served as secretary to Malik as well as Mridula Sinha, the first woman governor of Goa. In the past, Vardhan was posted as North Goa collector. Thakur has been appointed as secretary, general administration. His additional portfolios include civil supplies, Goa Gazetter, printing and stationery, museum and protocol. Kunal, a 2005 IAS officer, serving as secretary elections and chief electoral officer, has also been appointed as secretary power and environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vardhan-appointed-new-secy-to-governor/articleshow/78048381.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Priority will be on boosting Rajasthan University’s academic standards: VC Rajiv Jain||Professor Rajiv Jain was appointed vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University (RU) on Wednesday. RU, the biggest and oldest university of the state, is desperately trying to regain its old glory. Over the years, academic standards of education and infrastructure of the institute have degraded which is why it failed to earn a place in the top 100 National Institutional Ranking Framework ranking. In an interview with Parul Kulshrestha, Jain put forward his roadmap for the prestigious institute.What will be your priority as the vice-chancellor of RU? My priority will be to enhance the academic standards of the university and to improve the varsity’s position in next year’s NIRF ranking. We have good teachers. We need to make joint efforts to improve the condition. For many years, promotions of faculty members are pending. I will try to get state’s permission for it. It will be better for everyone if a positive attitude in the university is maintained. What changes you are planning to implement in the varsity during pandemic? Most important change is to improve the infrastructure for online classes in the university. Due to pandemic, it is still uncertain when will the classroom teaching will be resumed. So, investment in infrastructure for online classes and motivating both students and teachers will be a necessity. Traditionally, it has never been easy going for RU V-C due to political interference. Do you think it will be a challenge? I am a teacher and we have nothing to do with the politics. My main objective is to work for the betterment of education in the university and not to involve in politics. We will work in co-ordination with the state government, teachers and students as a team. Only then we can create a healthy atmosphere in the campus. Critics say that research standard in RU is not up to the mark. Any plan to pep up this area? It is not true that there are no research going on in the university or else we wouldn’t have gotten A grade in NAAC. We just need to improve and speed up the pace of improvement. More investment has to be made. This university has given so many eminent scholars to the country which I believe will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/priority-will-be-on-boosting-rus-academic-standards-jain/articleshow/78048389.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Injured tigress set free after treatment at Mukundra||JAIPUR: After two days of prolonged efforts, the forest administration on Thursday successfully tranquillised and treated injured tigress MT-4 at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR). The tigress had a soft muscle tissue injury near the left triceps and front paw due to which it was limping. A press statement issued by deputy conservator of forests (DFO), MHTR, Bijo Joy read, “The tigress was tranquillised at 8.24 am by a team of experts. After treatment, the big cat was released in the soft enclosure.” On Monday, the tigress was spotted by trackers after nearly two-and-a-half weeks. The staff observed that the big cat was limping and required treatment. After tranquillising, the collar of MT-4 was also replaced as the existing one was non-functional. Learning lessons from the past, the staff at MHTR is being extra cautious and replaced the tigress’ collar for effective monitoring. Experts claim that along with GPS these collars also had VHF which monitors through ground links up to a distance of approximately 1-4km. A source said the collar with GPS and VHF facility costs approximately between Rs 3.50 and Rs 4 lakh. Collars fitted to tigers in Rajasthan including those at Sariska and Mukundra were imported from Germany and supplied by a Delhi-based firm. “As GPS provides satellite-based movement of tigers which could span many square kilometres, the department has to pay the company in euros or dollars for receiving signals. Earlier, the subscription was not renewed. But, now it will be done as collar is replaced,” said a source. Expensive radio collars with global positioning system (GPS) and very high frequency (VHF) systems fitted around the big cats’ necks in MHTR are not functional. This was revealed after death of MT-2 and MT-3 a month ago. The forest department had come under fire when MT-4 was not sighted in MHTR for about a fortnight since August 19 when it was last photographed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tigress-mt-4-set-free-after-treatment/articleshow/78048380.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan plans to introduce lions||JAIPUR: The mighty Asiatic Lions might make Rajasthan their home again as members of the Wildlife Conversation Board have suggested for lion reserves to be developed in the state under Project Lion. The suggestion was made at the 11th meeting of the Wildlife Board held under the chairmanship of chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday. Few members floated the idea sighting Project Lion announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day. Lions once used to inhabit Rajasthan, however, extensive hunting made them extinct in the state by end of the 19th century. After nearly 150 years, the wildlife board members are getting optimistic of their return. “There is huge forest area in Kota that has no human settlements, especially near the city of Rawatbhata. It could be developed as an optimum site for reintroducing lions without challenges of human-animal conflict,” said Bharat Singh, MLA from Sangod Kota and member of the board. Rajasthan has made considerable progress in conservation of tigers and the population of the big cats has increased in Ranthambore reserve. Many of these have been relocated to habituate Sariska and Mukundra reserves. The state forest department is also working for reintroducing cheetah and lions may also follow the lead. Expert claimed in 1998 the Rajasthan government prepared a report and handed it over to the Centre mentioning that Darrah sanctuary near Kota and Sitamata sanctuary near Chittorgarh were potential sites for population expansion. Meanwhile, the chief minister expressed need to prioritise forest and environment conservation activities. He asked officials to develop time-bound programme and directed for the board meetings to be held more frequently to ensure discussion on issues. The board was first constituted in 2010 to suggest the state government on issues related to wildlife conservation. The board was reconstituted in February this year after which it held the first meeting on Thursday. Because of Covid, CM chaired the meeting from his residence along with forest and environment minister Sukhram Vishnoi, chief secretary and other senior bureaucrats from forest and other departments. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweetsHappy to announce, two chicks of Lesser Florican have been successfully hatched in a temporary facility near Nasira… https://t.co/Yg1KWSCFYx— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1599739007000Happy to announce, two chicks of Lesser Florican have been successfully hatched in a temporary facility near Nasirabad. This is part of an effort for conservation breeding of Lesser Florican. My compliments to joint efforts of WII, BNHS, Forest dept & local ppl for this success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-plans-to-introduce-lions/articleshow/78048388.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Mapusa land use: MMC seeks time||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), at a special meeting held on Wednesday, urged the member secretary of North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA), R K Pandita, to grant citizens 15 more days to file their suggestions and objections to the present land use map and register for Mapusa area. In a public notice issued last week, NGPDA had announced a three-day extension of the original September 7 deadline on account of its offices being shut after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19. The MMC has now sought that this deadline be further extended by 15 days. Last year, the high court had disposed of a PIL pertaining to the outline development plan (ODP) for Mapusa after NGPDA submitted that the plan would be revised. The PIL had challenged the demarcation of land assigned for town planning schemes for Mapusa in the ODP, and had pointed out that large tracts of agricultural and khazan land were to be diverted for non-agricultural purposes, an activity not permitted by law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-land-use-mmc-seeks-time/articleshow/78048387.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports two new butterfly species in Ranthambore reserve||UDAIPUR: While India is hosting the Big Butterfly month, a celebration of butterflies aimed at conducting a nationwide citizen science survey to help assess the health of the environment, this is a cheering discovery from Rajasthan. During recent surveys, experts have discovered two new species of butterflies — the Dakhan Tricolour Pied Flat (Coladenia Indrani Indra) and the Desert Spotted Small Flat (Sarangesa purendra sati) — on the outskirts of Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur. These butterflies are from the Hesperiidae family and are among the most beautiful butterflies in the country. Udaipur-based retired assistant conservator of forest Satish Sharma and conservation biologist Dharmendra Khandal reported the two new species during their recent survey-related visits in the area. Coladenia Indrani Indra is a medium-sized butterfly with a 40-46mm wingspan. The upper side being bright golden-yellow, forewing with a discal series of four semi-transparent black-bordered spots, a well-defined black spot beneath the cell near the base; exterior margin and cilia blackish, the latter white at the posterior angle, hindwing with a semi-circular sub-marginal series of black spots and two similar inner discal spots. The exterior is margin black, cilia alternate black and white. Thorax, body and legs yellow; Antennae yellow, tip black; hind wings and body covered with long modified hairs. Another small-sized butterfly identified as the Desert Spotted Small (Sarangesa purendra) or the spotted Small Flat is a small butterfly, 25-35 mm in size. As per Kehimkar (2016), the butterfly is distributed in Gujarat (Kachh), Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. A citizen science-based group reported its presence from Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and now in Rajasthan. It can also be seen in Tonk, Karauli and Bundi, too, besides Sawai Madhopur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/its-big-butterfly-month-raj-reports-2-new-species-in-ranthambore-reserve/articleshow/78048400.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP government reopens e-bid for 1.6 lakh school tablets||LUCKNOW: The UP government has reopened e-bid for procurement of 1.6 lakh tablet computers for primary and upper schools in the state. The tablets equipped with biometric scanners will be provided to school principals for keeping a tab on attendance of teachers and students, mid-day meal scheme and various other government mandated schemes. Issuing a notice to invite e-tender on September 8, the basic education department has decided to hold a pre-bid meeting on September 15, encouraging bidders to share views and provide suggestions. The bidders can also sort out their clarifications from officials on the tender. The last date for bid submission is September 29 and the bids will be opened the next day. An outlay of Rs 150 crore has been allocated for the purchase of 1.64 lakh tablets for 1.59 schools, 880 block resource centres and 4,400 academic resource persons (ARPs) appointed to make teaching-learning more effective. Earlier, the government closed the e-bid for tablet computers on May 28 after only one company participated in the process. Over 35 companies, including global and local suppliers Samsung and Lenovo, had participated in the pre-bid meeting then. After the lockdown, the firms expressed inability to travel to Lucknow as flights and other modes of transport remained suspended. Basic education minister (independent charge) Satish Dwivedi said, “Re-bidding is done for healthy competition. We seek proposals from reputed firms, both national and international, for procurement, supply and commissioning of biometric tablets.” By using biometric tablets, the government aims to make the PRERNA initiative, taken up by basic education to streamline the processes – monitoring of teaching methodology, tracking status of infrastructure, tracking meetings of school management committees (SMC), mid-day meals, assembly, uniform and book distribution, and attendance of teachers and students -- in primary and upper schools in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-reopens-e-bid-for-1-6-lakh-school-tablets/articleshow/78049193.cms||Isha Jain
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam has just 16 active CFLTCs for its 111 local bodies||Kochi: Even while the district administration plans to decentralize Covid-19 control measures, many local bodies in the district are yet to start operations of Covid First Line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs). This leads to a situation where Covid positive patients from a local body have to be taken to distant places thereby causing delay in the treatment as well as raise various security issues, including safety of female patients. Though the district administration had given instructions to all local bodies in Ernakulam to take measures for starting CFLTCs two months ago, the total number of CFLTCs operating in the district remained at mere 16. Given the fact that the total number of local bodies in the district is 111, the number of CFLTCs should have been at least 10-fold the existing ones. Kochi corporation, which has 74 divisions and a population of more than seven lakh, there is just one CFLTC. In many of the panchayats, including Vengola, Vazhakkulam, Edathala, Kizhakkambalam and Kunnathunad, there are no active CFLTCs. “Ten more CFLTCs will be opened soon. Moreover, the existing CFLTCs are not full,” said Dr N K Kuttappan, district medical officer, Ernakulam. “Also, some asymptomatic patients request for home care. We are granting requests of such patients with an affidavit from them that they will follow all Covid-19 protocols,” Kuttappan said. Total number of patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the district is 2,843. Of this, 954 patients are at their homes. According to the projection by health department, the number of cases may increase in the coming days. “We are expecting around 500-600 patients per day soon. Around 100 CFLTCs have been identified, but we have been facing severe staff shortage. We are completing the procedures for recruiting 400 healthcare staff for manning CFLTCs,” an official with health department said. At least 15 staff, including two doctors and six nursing staff, are required for manning a CFLTC. Meanwhile, health department in the district has decided to start collection of swab samples for the treatment of patients in more places. “We have asked local bodies to start swab collection centres at facilities which they have identified for starting CFLTCs. Such centres can also be used as a transit point for shifting patients to CFLTCs or Covid hospitals. Later, we can convert such centres into CFLTCs,” an official who is associated with setting up CFLTCs in the district said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-has-just-16-activecfltcs-for-its-111-local-bodies/articleshow/78047069.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||45 days after deadline, only 28% beds in 10 pvt hosps kept for Covid||Nagpur: Even 45 days after Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) orders, 10 major private hospitals have not made available over 70% of their total beds for Covid-19 patients. So, many symptomatic positive patients are finding it difficult to get beds, especially in ICU, for last many days. The civic body will now give a final deadline of one week for the private hospitals to make available all 80% of their total beds for Covid-19 patients.With rise in number of coronavirus patients, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had on April 27 directed 27 private hospitals to start admitting and treating symptomatic coronavirus patients within 48 hours.As per information from NMC Control Room, 10 major private hospitals of the city have 1,398 beds. These hospitals have given only 393 (28.11%) beds for Covid patients. Hundreds of patients could have got treatment had these hospitals made available all their beds within stipulated time period.Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani of NGO Together We Can told TOI, “These hospitals are also in demand among patients due to their services and location. But these hospitals are not operating all their beds for Covid, so patients are not getting beds in these hospitals. If they find no beds in these hospitals, many patients announce there are no beds in the city.”Chhabrani added these hospitals can also play a major role in saving critical Covid-19 patients. “These hospitals have facility of ICU, ventilators, modern machineries, operations theatres, kidney dialysis facility etc. Currently, critical patients have no option but to get admit in government and trust-run hospitals adding to the pressure there,” she said.Mayor Sandip Joshi said ‘propaganda of no beds available in the city’ should not be done if beds not available in some select private hospitals. “I admit there are no beds in private hospitals. A private hospital gave 34 beds for Covid at 10am and all beds were filled by 4pm. Now, this hospital will say no beds for 7-10 days. Sufficient number of beds are available in government and trust-run hospitals, so treatment should be taken without looking at the hospital,” he said.Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja told TOI, “We will be giving an ultimatum of one week to these private hospitals to make available 80% of total beds available for Covid. Stringent action will be taken over non-compliance. This decision is as per orders of High Court. These major private hospitals have earned crores in city, and are not giving service in difficult times for public.”Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) Dr Anup Marar said, “Private hospitals will surely like to keep beds occupied. But each hospital has its individual infrastructural/ logistical/manpower issues over providing all beds for Covid-19. NMC must ascertain the reasons for each hospital and related efforts being taken. All hospitals will like to keep their goodwill among non-Covid patients. If complete hospital is taken over for Covid-19, the hospital will lose non-Covid patient base forever.”He also said legal luminaries have pointed out that no coercive action can be taken against any private hospital for refusing to fully convert to Covid hospital. “The case is already sub judice in HC. All hospitals have the right, and thus should be permitted and authorized to treat both — Covid and non-Covid patients,” he said.Total 37 hospitals with 3,087 beds are in operation for Covid-19 in the city, of which 1,640 beds are in six government and trust-run hospitals while 1,447 are in 31 private hospitals. Total number of active patients in the district is 15,257 as on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/45-days-after-deadline-only-28-beds-in-10-pvt-hosps-kept-for-covid/articleshow/78047029.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 11, 2020||India||India working with neighbours to boost NE infra: Harsh Shringla||NEW DELHI: Describing the north-east as the link between two fundamental pillars of India’s foreign policy — Neighbourhood First and Act East — foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday that India was working with its neighbours and other friendly countries like Japan to improve infrastructure and connectivity in the region, while also facilitating greater regional integration. “We have a vision for this region that is captured in the 3 Cs — connectivity, commerce, and cultural commonalities,” said Shringla. Shringla said India and Japan had taken up projects for economic modernisation of the north-east and regional connectivity. “Under this initiative, several projects in the area of connectivity, water and sanitation and forest management are currently ongoing in different north-eastern states,” he said, addressing a virtual event. On connectivity with Bangladesh, he said India was upgrading the infrastructure of Land Customs Stations for enabling smooth cross-border movement of goods and people. He recalled that a new inland waterways route connecting Tripura to Bangladesh was also operationalised recently. While India is working on the Kaladan Multimodal Transit Transport Project in Myanmar, he said there was also progress on the India-Myanmar-Thailand Trilateral Highway connecting the north-east with Myanmar and Thailand. “The first will give the north-east access to the sea. The second will provide land connectivity with south east Asia. Two international entry/ exit points were inaugurated at Tamu-Moreh and Rih-Zowkhawthar to increase connectivity with Myanmar,” Shringla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-working-with-neighbours-to-boost-ne-infra-harsh-shringla/articleshow/78049965.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||‘Expedite Jaipur Smart City work’||JAIPUR: The 16th board meeting of Jaipur Smart City Ltd was organized under the chairmanship of secretary of directorate of local bodies, Bhavani Singh Detha on Thursday. The work being done by Jaipur Smart City Ltd was reviewed and necessary instructions were given after approving the new works. While reviewing the various schemes of Jaipur Smart City Ltd, Detha directed to expedite the work of various schemes released under the Smart City Mission and to take special care of the quality in work and complete the schemes within the stipulated time. In the meeting, approval was also given to various new schemes under Jaipur Smart City, which included, medical facility expansion and development mainly in Government Hospital and Sawai Man Singh Hospital located in Gangauri Market, Medical facility expansion and development in Ayurvedic Hospital located in Laxminarayanpuri and Government Nursing College JLN Marg. In Sawai Man Singh Hospital, it involves construction of an additional floor for training of nursing students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/expedite-jaipur-smart-city-work/articleshow/78048406.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Panchayat elections: Over 13 lakh to cast votes in Jaipur||JAIPUR: More than 13.27 lakh voters will cast their votes during the four-phase election to 361 gram panchayats and 3,621 wards in Jaipur district, starting from September 28. There will be 1,876 polling stations in the district.  As per the final publication of voter’s list, of the total, 6.94 lakh are male voters and 6.93 lakh are female voters in the district.  During the elections, 1876 presiding officers, 361 returning officers, 178 zonal and 28 area magistrates will be appointed in the district. In the first phase (September 28), 70 gram panchayats and 700 wards will go to polls in Aandhi, Kishangarh-Renwal and Phagi panchayat samitis. There will be 376 polling stations in this phase and 2.57 lakh voters will exercise their franchise.  In the second phase scheduled on October 3, polling will be held to the posts of 90 sarpanches (gram panchayats) and 952 ward panches (wards) in Bassi, Madhorajpura, Dudu and Jobner panchayat samitis. There will be 509 polling stations in this phase and 3.53 lakh voters will cast their votes. Over 3.22 lakh voters will cast their votes in the third phase, scheduled to be held on October 6. 94 gram panchayats and 902 wards will go to polls in this phase in Kotputli, Jamwaramgarh and Kotkhawda panchayat samitis. There will be 441 polling stations in this phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panchayat-polls-over-13l-to-cast-votes-in-jaipur/articleshow/78048407.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||People ignore masks, put others in danger: Experts||HYDERABAD: Health experts see a worrying trend, people ignoring masks at public places, especially at tea shops, eateries and marketplaces, over the last month and a half. Though not wearing a mask is a punishable offence, it has not stopped many from flouting the rule, while some are making quick fixes like borrowing a used mask. Volunteers working for Covid relief work have, meanwhile, reported borrowing and sharing masks. “One of the major things I've witnessed is many people still do not wear a mask. Just to get groceries, they borrow a used mask from their friend and come to collect it. To tackle this, we are giving masks to those who do not have it and create awareness on the importance of it on the spot as well. There is still need of awareness. Also, people need to move from surgical masks to cloth one and wash it and wear them. We have seen people saying they wash and wear surgical masks,” Youngistaan Foundation founder Arun Daniel Yellamaty, who has been carrying out Covid-19 relief work across the city for the last five months, said. Lack of seriousness is also indicated in age-specific Covid positive numbers, say officials. “Not only have the number of cases among the 20-40-years age group increased, but there are also more people landing up with severe infection. Compared to earlier, the number of people without co-morbidities succumbing to the virus is on the rise,” a senior health official said. Apart from the ones not wearing masks, many were not wearing it properly. “Wearing a mask on the chin or neck or not covering the nose and mouth is as good as not wearing it. In fact, taking off and putting on the mask or frequently adjusting it could result in a person touching their face several times a day, which can potentially result in getting infected,” Association of Surgeons of India president Dr P Raghuram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-ignore-masks-put-others-in-danger-experts/articleshow/78048411.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||For want of medical aid, people falling prey to Covid-19: HC||Nagpur: Expressing anguish over severe shortage of hospital beds leading to many deaths due to Covid-19, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday warned all authorities to ensure that patients don’t need to run pillar to post for hospitalization.“We must note with regret that for want of medical aid, the people are falling prey to coronavirus. We don’t want a situation where patients are required to travel from one hospital to another to secure a position in ICU, ventilated or oxygenated beds or due to non-availability of medical and paramedical staff services. It’s the government’s duty to make all such infrastructural and medical facilities available to save life of people who are affected or likely to be affected by coronavirus,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala tersely stated.“If any patient requires medical assistance and approaches any hospital or Dedicated Covid-19 Health Centre (DCHC), these establishments should immediately help them to reach a proper destination,” the judges directed.Hearing a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report of August 24 exposing shortage of beds, the bench made it clear that it would be the duty of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Radhakrishnan B and the task force to see that all hospitals and DCHCs provide information and contact numbers of establishments where such facilities can be easily available to patients. “We find that the NMC chief has shouldered such responsibility. We also expect the task force to spring into action to supervise infrastructural facilities and manpower in hospitals and DCHCs.”Clarifying that there should be no prohibition for Covid-19 patients to have consultation with the doctor of their choice, the judges said the latter can visit and examine them in any hospital or DCHC and advise investigation and medication. “This will reduce the responsibilities of others,” they said before deferring the hearing till September 15.Giving a clarion call to all doctors and paramedics to rise to the occasion due to pandemic, the judges said they expect them to discharge their obligation with promptitude and ensure “this court doesn’t receive any complaint in respect of ‘no response’ from any patient”.“The judges and the lawyers have made themselves available 24X7 to serve causes in pandemic. There would be nothing wrong to expect the medical and paramedical staff to be available 24X7 in this situation. The question of payment to them can be considered by appropriate authorities. However, it shall not be a condition precedent to render their services.”The court directed the collector, Indian Medical Association, and Hospital’s Association to provide a list of private doctors and paramedical staff to NMC by Friday. The NMC commissioner, in consultation with a task force constituted by the collector, will then assign them duties and responsibilities in various hospitals and DCHCs for treating patients within 24 hours.“Even private doctors and paramedical staff are under obligation to provide treatment. The preservation of human life is of paramount importance. Once life is lost, it cannot be restored. Every doctor is under obligation to extend his services with due expertise for protecting life. They can’t refuse to render services during a pandemic where they are called,” the bench said.WHAT HC SAID* Ensure patients wouldn’t need to run from pillar to post for hospitalization* Newspaper reports shows deaths are taking place every day in city* Unavailability of ICU, ventilator, oxygenated beds no reason to deny admission* Govt’s duty to make all such infrastructure & medical facilities available* Services of Ayush doctors/PG students/students in super speciality can be utilized* Doctors infected with Covid-19 advising patients in hospital from home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-want-of-medical-aid-people-falling-prey-to-covid-19-hc/articleshow/78047067.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 11, 2020||Nagpur||24 hours on, son yet to find bed for critical father||Nagpur: Despite tall claims by top politicians and administrative officials, there was not a single bed available for critical Covid-19 patients in the city on Thursday.This terrifying ground reality came to fore when a resident of Friends Colony contacted TOI on Wednesday night, informing that his father had tested positive for Covid-19.He was initially admitted to a renowned private hospital, but when his RT-PCR report came positive, the hospital refused to continue treatment as it was not a designated Covid hospital. “I received a call from one of the staffers, who said I should immediately arrange for a bed in another hospital as they can’t treat him. At that time, his oxygen saturation levels had dropped significantly,” the patient’s son told TOI.When TOI tried to contact the Dharampeth zone helpline number of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the person on the line shockingly said he did not have a list of hospitals. “We have just started this service and we have not been provided the list of hospitals,” he said.Following this, TOI started calling other zone numbers and concerned medical officer. It was 9pm and no one responded to calls. More than half the zonal helpline centres did not receive the calls.Finally, the NMC Covid-19 helpline number responded, only to inform that there was only one bed available at a far-off hospital at Wardha Road. “However, we can’t guarantee whether the treatment there would be suitable for a critical patient,” the person on call said.The son somehow managed to convince the hospital to keep his father overnight till he arranged for another hospital. On Thursday morning, he made numerous calls to as many private and government hospitals as he could, only to find out that there was no bed available anywhere.Around 3pm on Thursday, TOI once again contacted the NMC helpline number. When told that an urgent bed was needed for a critical patient, the person on duty said, “There is not a single bed available anywhere in the city.”When TOI asked where should a critical patient be taken, and who will be responsible for his death, the person said, “People are dying. What can we do if there are no beds available. It is the fault of private hospitals.” And the conversation ended.Till late night on Thursday, the son had been unable to arrange for a bed. “I refused to sign the discharge papers for my father. I made repeated calls to NMC officials, tried to pull strings but still could not get admission anywhere. Tomorrow my relative has assured to get me a bed at a small private hospital. Let’s see what happens,” he told TOI at 11.15pm on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-hours-on-son-yet-to-find-bed-for-critical-father/articleshow/78047075.cms||Manka Behl
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Cracks appear on pillar of apartment complex||Kochi: After inspecting the 10-storied apartment complex, where a concrete spall appeared on one of the pillars, structural engineers began reinforcement works on Thursday. The concrete spall appeared on the pillar of Diamond Towers at Perumanoor in Kochi, which houses around 30 families. “The spalling is the result of corrosion. The building is around 20 years old. Our engineers have examined the building and it is found that the building is safe and there is no reason to worry,” said Jayasree Vadhyar of Yosaram Builders, which constructed the building. She also said that they will undertake all the work that is necessary to strengthen the building. Around 10.30pm on Wednesday, residents felt a quiver and heard cracking sounds from the structure. The startled inhabitants initially thought it was caused by an earthquake. “Later, it was found that the plastering of a pillar on the western corner of the building has come off exposing iron rods,” said K X Francis, councillor from Perumanoor, who visited the spot. He said once the incident was reported fire and recuse service personnel as well as police rushed to the area. “On Thursday morning structural engineers arrived at the site to check stability of the building,” said Francis. Station officer of Club House fire station Suresh P K said, “We checked all the beams of the building and all 10 floors for further damage. We did not notice any other cracks on the structure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cracks-appear-on-pillar-of-apartment-complex/articleshow/78047087.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Lucknow||Nine held for assaulting two minors in love in Maharajganj district||GORAKHPUR: The Maharajganj police on Thursday arrested nine persons for tying a minor love couple with a pole and beating the boy. The action was taken after a video of the incident that took place 10 days ago went viral on social media on Wednesday. As per reports, the minor couple was found by villagers in Maharajganj district when the boy went to meet his girlfriend in her village. The video clip shows villagers beating the minor after tying the couple with a pole. “Through the video that went viral on social media, the matter came into cognizance of police and three cases were registered in this regard with Gughli police station in Maharajganj district,” SP Maharajganj, Rohit Singh Sajwan said on Thursday. “The first case is against the boy under POCSO Act on the written complaint of the girl’s family and the boy has been taken into custody by the police. The second case is against those who tied the couple and beat them while the third case is against a social media account holder, who made the video viral under Section 228 A (disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences, etc.) of IPC. The police have arrested nine villagers in the second case,” the SP added. One Durgesh Choudhari of Ghughli area and his two aides have been booked for making the video viral on social media, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-held-for-assaulting-two-minors-in-love-in-maharajganj-dist/articleshow/78049216.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Health dept reiterates importance of wearing masks||Hyderabad: The state health department has meanwhile reiterated the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance while going out in the public. Stressing on the need to strictly follow these guidelines, the state health department has advised children below 10 years of age and elders over 60 years to remain indoors, while the susceptible age group of 20 to 50 year olds were requested to not go out. However if absolutely necessary, strict observance of precautions has been advised. “Everyone should wear mask when he/she goes out of the house. Face masks are the first line of defence against Covid-19. Not wearing a mask is a punishable offence. Maintaining a distance of 6 feet between people is essential,” read the advisory issued by the state health department. Meanwhile, wearing face masks is extremely important especially in crowded places, insist experts. “Especially when we are opening up the different sectors like transport. As per the Centre For Disease Control (CDC), everyone above two years of age should wear masks in public places and the masks should be worn properly covering the nose, mouth and chin. Masks along with social distancing are important as we are dealing with community transmission and asymptomatic patients could transmit easily,” said professor Subodh Kandamuthan, director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) He spoke on the need for more specific health communication efforts to inform people about the risks of non-use of masks and lack of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-reiterates-importance-of-wearing-masks/articleshow/78048422.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||FAO rules out locust threat in Rajasthan for now||JAISALMER: In a news that has come as relief to the farmers, FAO has claimed that the locust menace has been tamed and now there is no threat of the pests. The massive drive organised by the locust control department and agriculture department together, was launched to control the locusts. It has come to light that, there are no locusts in Pakistan and Iran and looking at this, the possibility of locusts coming to India before summer breeding, is almost zero. The locust menace had started in April this year and had spread across the country. Dr KL Gurjar, deputy director Locust Control Department, said that this year, pink-coloured locusts attacked between April and July and posed many challenges. The pink-coloured pests travel 150-200km daily, therefore they could reach around 10 states in the country. Helicopters, tractors, fire brigade and hand sprayers were used to control them. The government as well as the farmers were involved in destroying the locusts. As many as 104 teams of LWO were also involved in the task. The state governments extended cooperation in giving pesticides, resources and employees to destroy the locusts. Now, there is no threat of locusts. FAO has also praised the locust control process in India. Dr Gurjar said that locusts have been destroyed in India along with Pakistan and Iran. The remaining locusts are in Oman, Red sea and Yemen, which will not reach here. Even if some groups migrate, then too they will reach upto Baluchistan of Pakistan and the possibility of this happening is also less. However, the locust control department is conducting surveys. Still, the teams are fully alert and are present in various areas. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi confirming about complete destruction of locusts said that no locusts have come from Pakistan lately nor can they be seen here. There was information of small numbers of hoppers which the locust control department has destroyed, by running an operation. Now, in coming days there is no worry with regard to locusts, for the Kharif crops. It is to be mentioned that the locust control campaign started with 6,128 tractors of farmers, 458 fire brigades, 3,220 hand sprayers. Around 7,860 employees from the country got involved in the locust control mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fao-rules-out-locust-threat-in-raj-for-now/articleshow/78048413.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Jaipur||Pak rangers refuse to take back bodies of two intruders||JAISALMER: A day after two Pakistani intruders were shot dead by BSF jawans at the international border, the Pak rangers refused to take back their bodies. During a flag meeting late in the night, Pak rangers refused to take the bodies and denied considering them as their citizens after which the BSF officials handed over the bodies to police, who disposed of these bodies on Thursday morning. Drugs and weapons were recovered from the intruders. Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha said alert BSF jawans at Ganganagar border shot dead two Pakistani intruders at the border. At the flag meeting, BSF showed their ID cards as proof, but Pak rangers refused to take back the bodies. After this incident, vigilance was increased at the entire border. Directions have been given to give a befitting reply to every untoward activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-rangers-refuse-to-take-back-bodies-of-two-intruders/articleshow/78048421.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Kochi||Docu to spread awareness on suicide prevention||Kochi: On World Suicide Prevention Day, Maithri Kochi launched a documentary on the social media titled ‘Listeners of Solitude’ featuring experts including actor Lena to spread awareness on suicide prevention. Lena, who is also a clinical psychologist, appears in the documentary to emphasize on how important it is to share and listen so that suicides can be prevented. “Many among us bury their sorrows deep in themselves as they have no one who would listen to them. Maithri is an establishment where anyone who is facing distress can approach, to talk discreetly and openly,” Lena says in the video. Padmakumar T, director of the documentary, says that Maithri is also collaborating with the National Service Scheme to use the video to spread awareness among students. Psychiatrist Dr CJ John, who is also the founder director of Maithri and advocate Litto Palathinkal, joint secretary of Maithri, among others appear in the video to explain the concept. The video posted on YouTube says, “are you lonely, depressed or suicidal? Here is help. Our helpline (+91)-(0)484-2540530.” Meanwhile, the call by NGOs working for the cause to conduct a ‘Go Yellow Kerala Virtual Marathon’ also was well received on the social media. “The aim was to let everyone know they have a listening ear if they want to talk,” said advocate Rajesh R Pillai, president of Befrienders India, the national umbrella body of suicide prevention centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/docu-to-spread-awareness-on-suicide-prevention/articleshow/78047103.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Hundreds of symptomatic patients are avoiding tests||Ranchi: In spite of the quantum leap in testing rates in recent times, hundreds and thousands of Covid-19 cases in the state are going unreported, doctors said. They added that the fear of social stigma, misconception about quarantine norms and the deplorable condition of some government hospitals are primarily preventing many citizens from getting tested. At present, about one lakh Covid tests are being conducted in Jharkhand on a daily basis. Some doctors said that many a time when they are prescribing Covid-19 tests, patients are not reporting to them for further consultations. “By now, everyone knows that there is no specific treatment for Covid-19 and if there are mild symptoms, people prefer to continue with the initial prescription instead of getting tested and facing social stigma,” Dr S N Sinha, a general physician, said. Dr Sinha admitted that the number of patients with apparent symptoms of Covid-19 infection has increased manifold over the months. “We are prescribing paracetamol, antibiotics, anti-allergens, zinc and vitamin tablets to those suffering from cough and fever. But even if they are actually Covid-positive, there is no different line of treatment,” he said. A Jamshedpur resident experienced influenza-like symptoms in mid-August. He said requesting anonymity, “ There was no point getting tested and inviting the administration to lock our gates, because that would have troubled everyone in the family.” He recuperated with home remedies and paracetamol tablets and joined office within 20 days. “Almost everyone in my office fell ill during that time but none had gone for the test and fortunately no one had severe symptoms,” he added. The 48-year-old employee of a private firm believes that he had Covid and he contracted the infection from office. He said that he had seen the trauma a family in his neighbourhood underwent after being declared Covid positive and so he avoided the test. What is encouraging this trend of not getting tested is the fact that offices — both private and public — do not ask for a Covid-19 negative report from employees who have gone on sick leaves. “If any employee has travelled outside the state, he or she is supposed to remain in 14-day quarantine before joining work, but it is not mandatory to produce a Covid certificate if one has taken a sick leave,” principal secretary health Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. The proprietor of a medicine shop in Ranchi, Rahul Kumar, said that the number of customers buying vitamin C and zinc tablets has shot up in the last couple of months. “Although many people buy these medicines as a precautionary measure, there is no doubt that some with mild symptoms have taken the medicines on their own or after getting a prescription from a general physician. Not everyone with the symptoms went for a Covid test,” he said. A family member of a Covid patient in Bokaro blamed institutional negligence for making many people skip the test. “People must not go to a hospital unless it is absolutely necessary. My patient fell from the bed at Bokaro General Hospital and his condition deteriorated. I should not have got my patient tested in the first place. It was because of the positive report that I was compelled to admit him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hundreds-of-symptomatic-patients-are-avoiding-tests/articleshow/78047199.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||2 deaths, 1,152 fresh cases detected in state||Ranchi: For the first time in the last one month, Jharkhand on Thursday reported less than five Covid-19 deaths but detected a surge in the number of fresh cases, taking the tally past 55,000. With only two casualties reported from East Singhbum, the toll now rises to 517, whereas the state reported 1,152 new infections. Both the Covid victims were males aged 74 and 44 and were being treated at the Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur. The last time Jharkhand detected only five deaths was on August 10. According to the data released by the state unit of National Health Mission (NHM), of the total 517 deaths, the number of female victims was way below in comparison with their male counterparts. The victims comprised 117 females and 400 males, so far. The positivity rate, too, registered a dip on Thursday as the number of recoveries exceeded fresh infections and stood at 6.07% with 1,152 out of total 18975 samples testing positive for the virus. “We have been seeing a spike in fresh infections for more than two months but at the same time, the patients are also recovering in large numbers which have led to a significant increase in our recovery rate in comparison with the national rate,” a senior health department official said. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to dominate the number of positive cases with the two districts continuing to detect positive cases three-digit figures at 382 and 240 cases respectively. While Bokaro detected 71 cases, Saraikela reported 57 cases and Gumla had 53 cases. The cumulative caseload crossed the 55,000-mark and stood at 58079, of which 15,447 are active and 42,115 have recovered, including 1,244 on Thursday. The seven days’ growth rate of fresh cases improved and stood at 3.34% in comparison with the national average of 2.16% However, the doubling rate continued to be around 11 points ahead of the national average as it takes around 19 days to double the number of fresh infections which is around 32 days nationally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-deaths-1152-fresh-cases-detected-in-state/articleshow/78047306.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Covid +ve murder accused escapes Koderma hospital||Koderma: A 28-year-old Covid-positive undertrial facing murder charges escaped from the isolation facility at Koderma sadar hospital on Thursday morning. He tested positive for the virus recently. The man, a resident of Devari village in Giridih, was shifted to Koderma jail from Giridih jail on April 1 after testing positive inside the prison on September 5. “He was shifted to an isolation facility on Wednesday after he complained of breathlessness and was doing well after being admitted,” Dr Sharad Kumar, the district nodal officer for Covid-19, told TOI. Doctors at the health facility said the man was last seen at around 3:30am on Thursday by an on-duty health worker. Kaushalya Kumari, the on-duty ANM, said: “At about 3:30am on Wednesday, I saw him sleeping. When I went back to check around 6am, his bed was empty.” This was the third such escape in recent weeks in the district. SP Ehtesham Waqarib said: “A team has been formed under SDPO Rajendra Prasad to nab the accused. After taking a stock of the isolation ward, it appeared to us that he escaped from the ward’s window.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-ve-murder-accused-escapes-koderma-hospital/articleshow/78047351.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 strikes Bokaro’s major industrial units||BOKARO: The sudden rise in number of Covid-19 cases has rattled prominent industrial units in Bokaro. First, 78 employees of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) got infected, and now 45 employees of Central Coalfields Limited and 51 personnel in Electrosteel Steels Limited (ESL) have contracted the virus. As a result, the companies have come out with SOPs and advisories for the employees. The district administration with the support of the health department is also frequently organising testing camps. At present, BSL has 106 active cases including senior most executive director (ED) and few DGM and above level officials undergoing treatment. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “The management is keeping a close watch on the Covid situation. It has already issued certain SOPs to contain the spread of the infection.” In ESL, where more than 110 positive cases surfaced in the last 15 days, five camps to detect Covid cases have been organised. ESL sources said, their health team is monitoring the active cases. However, majority of the positive cases in ESL are asymptomatic ones. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said: “A good number of cases has surfaced from ESL, BSL and CCL. We believe that the camps will help in detecting the cases and thereby containing the spread of the virus”. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh said the sampling drive has been intensified in the district. We are also appealing to people to follow Covid protocols,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-19-strikes-bokaros-major-industrial-units/articleshow/78048283.cms||Divy Khare
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||No Covid-19 patient on ventilator support in Ramgarh: BJP MP Jayant Sinha||RAMGARH: Hazaribag’s BJP MP Jayant Sinha on Thursday said there is no Covid-19 patient on ventilator support in all the three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Ramgarh district. The district’s caseload stood at 2,511 on Thursday morning of which 977 are active and 12 persons have died of the virus. Ramgarh has also recorded 1,522 recovered cases. Speaking to the media, the former Union minister of state for finance said face masks made by sakhi mandals have been distributed to people of his constituency while enough number of PPE kits were provided to hospitals in Ramgarh. “At this difficult time, Rs 500 each for three consecutive months has been transferred to Jan-Dhan accounts by Prime minister Narendra Modi,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-covid-19-patient-on-ventilator-support-in-ramgarh-jayant/articleshow/78047396.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: No takers for plush rooms in Patratu resort||RAMGARH: The Patratu Lake Resort of the Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) in Ramgarh has not seen a single booking since it opened for tourists earlier this month. However, the footfall at the resort’s restaurant is encouraging, say officials. Inaugurated in October 2019 by the then chief minister Raghubar Das, the resort, which is roughly 31 km from Ranchi, had quickly emerged as a popular destination for tourists and picnickers. However, the plush property, which has 18 rooms and six dormitories, has got a cold shoulder from tourist after it was reopened recently. It was built in three phases at an expense of Rs 200 crore. Alok Prasad, the general manager of JTDC, said: “The online booking option for Patratu Lake Resort is currently suspended. This might be one of the primary reasons for the tepid response from tourists till now. ” Also, many facilities at the resort, such as boating, children’s park, physical fitness area, among others, have not been opened to tourists. Besides, only tourists from Jharkhand are being allowed to stay at the hotel. “Several tourists from the districts — including Ranchi and Ramgarh — are coming here to enjoy a good meal at the resort’s open-air restaurant, even though there has been no room bookings yet,” Abdul Wahab, the resort’s manager, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-takers-for-plush-rooms-in-patratu-resort/articleshow/78048266.cms||N K Agarwal
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Elderly Gumla woman branded as witch, killed||GUMLA: A 75-year-old woman was branded a witch and lynched in Salami village under Ghaghra police station of the district on Wednesday night. Her body is yet to be retrieved and sent for post mortem by police, who could not visit the Maoist-hit village so far. The victim, Shanicharwa Khadia, was sitting outside her home when her neighbour Pandu Oraon assaulted her with sticks and a sharp weapon. Mangaleshwar, son of the deceased, said she died on the spot. “Oraon called my mother a witch and yelled that he used to see her apparition wherever he went,” Mangleshwar told the police. Oraon had tried to kill her in 2018 as well, Mangleshwar claimed. SP Hrudeep P Janardhan said, “The accused will be arrested soon. While the cases of witch-hunting have reduced, still a lot of awareness is needed to be created.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elderly-gumla-woman-branded-as-witch-killed/articleshow/78047154.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Chief secy to look into school reopening plan prepared by edu dept||Ranchi: The department of school education and literacy development is likely to send its proposal on the reopening of schools for senior students to the state disaster management department by next week. On Thursday, department secretary Rahul Sharma said, “We are finalising the proposal and once that is done, we will forward it to the disaster management department by next week for its approval.” The proposal will be looked into by a committee headed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh before it takes the final call on the matter. As committee members, senior officials like state home secretary L Khiyangte and health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni will also look into the proposal. Sharma said that even if the committee is in favour of reopening the schools, they will be given enough time for making all the necessary arrangements related to the maintenance of safety norms, rotation of teaching staff and transportation. The Union health ministry had issued the standard operating procedures for reopening of schools for the senior students from September 21. A state government official requesting anonymity said the HRD ministry may fix a date later than September 21 for the reopening of schools. He added that the Centre’s decision is largely to assess the mood of students, schools and parents on the issue. There may be further relaxations if the response is positive. A few months ago, the Jharkhand Education Project Council conducted two online surveys among the parents on reopening of schools as part of which a large percentage of them were not in favour of reopening until a vaccine is made available in India. The first online survey in July revealed that of the 1,73,129 respondents, 64% of them wanted schools to reopen after a vaccine is invented. Only 9% of parents were in favour of opening schools in September while 47% of them wanted classes to be held for four hours daily. The second survey in August, which involved parents of senior students, indicated a vaccine is prerequisite for reopening of schools. Only 25% of them spoke in favour of resuming classes in September and around 48% were of view that the syllabus must be curtailed for this session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chief-secy-to-look-into-school-reopening-plan-prepared-by-edu-dept/articleshow/78047200.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Binod Bihari Univ releases schedule for MBBS, BEd & MEd examinations||Dhanbad: The Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) on Thursday issued the examination schedule of its different professional courses, including MBBS, B.Ed and M.Ed. All the exams will be held in accordance with the safety norms pertaining to the pandemic. As per the notification, the Part-1 theory exam for the third year MBBS students will take place on September 22, September 24, September 26 and September 28 from 2pm to 5pm. The practical examinations will be held on September 30, October 1 and October 3. A total of 85 students will appear for the exam. The Part -1 theory exam for the second year students will be held on September 25, September 27, September 29, October 1 and October 3 while the practical exams will be held from October 4 to 7. Altogether 46 students will take the test. As many as 92 third-year students will appear for the Part-2 theory exam on September 22, September 24, September 26, September 28, September 30, October 3, October 5 while the practical examinations will be held on October 7, October 9 and October 10. All the aforementioned MBBS exams will be held in PMCH, Dhanbad. The M.Ed semester II (2018-20 session) examination will be held in Dhanbad Law College on September 24 (paper V), September 26 (paper VI), September 28 (paper VII) and September 30 (paper VIII) from 9 am to 12 pm. The B.Ed (Semester III) exam will be held across its 28 home centres on September 21 from 1 pm to 2.30 pm. BBMKU examination controller Satyajit Kumar Singh said, “As a limited number of students will appear for the professional courses’ examination, there will be no problem in maintaining social distancing. We will hold meetings with the superintendents of all the examination centres to apprise them of the standard operating procedures and they will, in turn, guide the invigilators in enforcing the SOPs.” He added, “We needed to conduct the pending exams of the professional courses as any further delay would have affected the students’ careers. As we have decided to hold the examinations at the respective home centres itself, transportation for the examinees will not be an issue.” He further said that the schedule for holding the B.A, B.Sc, B.Com exams has already been sent to the state government and they are awaiting its approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/binod-bihari-univ-releases-schedule-for-mbbs-bed-med-examinations/articleshow/78047259.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Dept-wise probe to unearth scams of Das regime: JMM||Ranchi: JMM on Thursday claimed that the state government will soon initiate an inquiry into the activities of all the departments that functioned during the previous BJP-led NDA regime and unearth the scams which were carried out between 2015 and 2019. “Yesterday, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) penalised the former government. This is just the start. Now, the state government will review each department and inquire into the scams and bring the guilty to book,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Accusing former chief minister Raghubar Das of acting in haste with the construction and inauguration of the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha complex in Dhurwa at the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bhattacharya claimed that state government must not pay the Rs 125-crore-fine imposed by the NGT. “At that time, we had repeatedly raised our concerns that it was not right to open the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha building as it did not have environmental clearance and the necessary completion and occupancy certificates. But the then government did not pay heed to us. Our MLAs, led by the then leader of opposition Hemant Soren, skipped the inauguration,” he added. The Vidhan Sabha building was inaugurated by Modi in September last year. Besides the issue of not having clearances, Hemant and the then JMM legislators had abstained from the ceremony saying they were not formally invited. In the run up to the inauguration of the sprawling 39-acre complex, JMM and the then JVM-P chief Babulal Marandi had alleged corruption in the cost escalation of the project. Bhattacharya also claimed that the government must realize the penalty amount from auctioning the properties of Das, the ministers of his cabinet and the senior bureaucrats, including the then building construction department secretary and chief secretary. “The state will not pay a single penny of the fine because this is the money of Jharkhand’s people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dept-wise-probe-to-unearth-scams-of-das-regime-jmm/articleshow/78046884.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||NGT slaps Rs 130 crore fine on Jharkhand govt for green norm violation||RANCHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a fine of about Rs 130 crore on the Jharkhand government for violating environmental rules while constructing the assembly and high court buildings during NDA rule which ended last year. Chief minister Hemant Soren here on Thursday said, “We are waiting for a copy of the NGT order.” Talking to the media, he said “We will decide on how to move ahead with the issue after we receive a copy of the order. There are set parameters that need to be followed while taking up such projects. Everyone must abide by the rules. We will find out how such lapses happen.” Soren’s party, JMM, which currently runs the state along with Congress and RJD, said since both the structures were built when BJP, led by Raghubar Das was in power, the fine amount should also be paid by auctioning the personal assets of the former chief minister, his ministerial colleagues and officials involved in the project. Describing the NGT order as an example of BJP’s “wrongdoings” during its last tenure, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “When Prime Minister Narendra Modi was called to inaugurate the assembly building on September 12 last year in the run-up to the assembly polls in December, we had boycotted the event citing lapses in the environmental provisions in its construction. Now, the truth is out. We demand that the state government auctions the personal properties of all those responsible, including Das, to pay for the fine.” BJP leaders, including the two state spokespersons, however, declined to comment on the NGT verdict, saying the party will come with an official statement later. On Wednesday, Kolkata-based eastern region bench of NGT imposed the fine while hearing a petition filed by environmentalist R K Singh in July last year. Singh alleged that a majority of the buildings under construction in Jharkhand did not have environmental impact assessment (EIA) clearances. Singh’s petition cited the high court and assembly structures among five such buildings constructed without environment rules. Talking to TOI, the petitioner said a formal copy of the order will provide more clarity on the nature of the fine. He said, “NGT has sounded out environmental damage compensation to the tune of about Rs 49 crore for the assembly building. It has calculated somewhere between Rs 76 crore and Rs 81 crore for the high court building. Once the order is out, it will be known if any other penalties are included or not.” Singh added that he has also pleaded before the tribunal to order the filing of criminal cases against all those responsible for violation of the norms, including for ongoing structures. While the assembly building has been inaugurated, work on the HC complex is still on. Supporting JMM, Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We demand that the present government launches a detailed inquiry into all such projects taken up by the past government to fix accountability and book the wrongdoers.” Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy, who quit BJP and fought Das in the last election, said, “Who will foot the bill? The contractor, the government officer or the tax-paying public?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ngt-slaps-rs-130cr-fine-on-jharkhand-govt-for-green-norm-violation/articleshow/78048194.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Central team satisfied with Ranchi administration’s work||RANCHI: The three-member team from the Union health ministry commenced inspection in the state capital on Thursday to review the overall management of the pandemic by the local authorities. The team was more or less satisfied with the Ranchi administration’s work, sources said. The team visited an isolation centre, a testing lab, a sample collection centre and a Covid care facility here. They first went to Khelgaon isolation centre and inspected the facilities being provided to the asymptomatic patients there. This was followed by a visit to the microbiology lab in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. The team also visited a sample collection centre at a banquet hall in Harmu area and went to Paras Hospital, which is a Covid care centre. The team members also met nodal officers of several cells which are engaged in the management of the pandemic. Ranchi DDC Ananya Mittal said, “The team interacted with all the nodal officers, including the ones in the dead body management, testing and ambulance cells. They also inspected the medical kits being provided to the patients at Paras Hospital.” She added, “The district authorities gave a powerpoint presentation to the central team on the initiatives that have been taken by the administration in areas like surveillance, containment measures, infection prevention, testing and control practices.” The team was overall satisfied with the measures taken by the Ranchi district administration and appreciated them for their initiatives like launching a mobile-based application ‘Doctalk’ for online consultation and the elderly helpline to assist senior citizens in distress. Sources said that the central team has asked the authorities to take steps to carry out awareness drives among those living in rural areas and have asked them to monitor places that witness high footfall such as weekly markets. A member of the central team preferring anonymity said the overall management of Covid-19 in all the three districts is good. The few loopholes that they have come across have been brought to the notice of the health authorities and the respective district administration. As of Thursday morning, Ranchi had recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. As many as 11,348 cases have been recorded in the district, of which 3,271 were active. The team now plans to visit a few rural areas in Jharkhand on Friday and based on their visit, they will be submitting a report to the state health secretary with recommendations and suggestions and a copy of that will also be submitted to the Union health ministry. The team had arrived in Jharkhand on September 4 and has already inspected Dhanbad and East Singhbhum. The team consists of doctors from Lady Hardinge Medical College (in Delhi), Safdarjung Hospital (also in Delhi) and Regional Medical Research Centre (in Bhubaneswar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/central-team-satisfied-with-ranchi-admins-work/articleshow/78047426.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Festive season unlikely to spur business, say hoteliers||RANCHI: Even after a week of reopening, majority of the hotels and restaurants in the city are facing low occupancies and high operational costs as people avoid staying outside amid the surging Covid-19 cases. Even the two major competitive exams — JEE and NDA — which concluded recently, did not bring any customers for the hotels and the restaurants. Now, they are pinning hopes on the NEET examination scheduled later this week to keep their cash registers ringing. Despite eastern India’s biggest festival — Durga Puja — slated for in October, the hospitality industry in the state is uncertain and also not upbeat about a revival of their businesses. Shantanu Guha Roy, the general manager of Radisson Blu, a star hotel, said they might do away with food festivals prepared during Durga Puja this year. “As of now, we aren’t keen on hosting any food festivals even during puja or in the run-up to it as we do in past years. Given the current situation, it could be a loss-making endeavour,” remarked Roy, stressing that since their reopening, the hotel has only about 20-25% room occupancy. “Still, it is okay to begin with even if not too encouraging,” he said. Sudhir Mishra, general manager of BNR Chanakya hotel, said compared to day one of reopening, their occupancy has slightly improved. “On day one, we had 15 rooms booked. Today, 20 rooms are occupied,” he said but rued that hotels aren’t even thinking of clinching profits at the moment. “The focus now is to sustain through this bad phase at a time when our recurring costs are high,” he said, ruling out the possibility of any food festivals around puja this year. “This time, puja is unlikely to be grand and food festivals may not be a good idea at the moment. We will decide at the last moment if things improve,” he added. Mishra said currently, only a handful of customers are turning up daily for dine-ins. “We are banking on word-of-mouth publicity on hygienic food and safe ambience from those who are visiting us. Once the confidence builds up, people will start coming,” he said. Budget hotels and restaurants are also suffering from negligible footfalls. The chairman of the hotel sub-committee of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), Ranjit Rajpal, reopening of hotels and eateries after lockdown hasn’t been as per their expectation because of the several curbs imposed by the state government. He said, “Unless trains and inter-state bus services begin, the situation for the hospitality industry will not improve. Jharkhand’s market is mostly dependent on the crowd from Bihar and West Bengal. Buses and trains from both these places are currently banned.” Rajpal, who owns Konark and AK Residency hotels, located at the Station Road, said dine-ins continue to remain negligible. “The trend of home delivery has also reduced now suddenly,” he said Highlighting that weeks before Durga Puja, they usually get advance bookings for hotels but this time they have not received even queries. “The main tourism season in Jharkhand begins from Durga Puja onwards till February. At least a month before the puja, we start getting hotel bookings but this time, everything is in snooze mode,” he added. Owner of Palash Residency, Om Prakash, added that several marriage bookings are now getting shifted to next year. “We have some bookings for marriages in November and December but our clients have shifted them to June next year,” he said. Trilochan Singh, owner of Pratap Residency, said the government must allow staggered resumption of trains and buses to and from neighbouring states. “We all know that Covid is here to stay now. It is better to slowly begin train and bus services so that people can start movement. If the curbs continue for few more weeks, the situation for many hotels will turn more worse,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/festive-season-unlikely-to-spur-business-say-hoteliers/articleshow/78048140.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 11, 2020||Ranchi||Antigen testing drive in E Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: Alarmed by the surge in cases, the district administration on Thursday organised rapid antigen testing camps in Golmuri, Sidhgora, Telco, Burma mines, Baridih, Birsanagar and Sitaramdera to break the chain of transmission. “We plan to curb the virus spread by organising such camps and testing people randomly,” civil surgeon R N Jha said. The administration has identified close to 20 hotspots from where a high number of Covid cases have been reported and needless to say, the authorities plan to include those areas in the ongoing testing drive. “The drive is aimed at reaching out to more and more people and it will continue in the days to come” ADM (law and order) N K Lal, who is also nodal officer for district surveillance, said. “We have not fixed any target for conducting the sample testing as we want more and more people to benefit from the drive,” Lal added. Over 5,000 samples have been tested in the past 48 hours across Jamshedpur. As of Thursday morning, East Singhbhum had a total of 9,554 cases, of which 3.023 were active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/antigen-testing-drive-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/78047323.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||South Goa’s new district hosp to be ready today for Covid treatment||Margao: Hectic activity was underway at the new south Goa district hospital on Thursday to get it ready to be used as a Covid hospital today. This opening was announced by health minister Vishwajeet Rane earlier this week Medical superintendent of the Hospicio hospital, Margao, Dr Deepa Correia, told TOI that the new district hospital would be vacated by Friday afternoon. Patient admissions and treatment at the Covid hospital will be managed by the Goa Medical College and hospital (GMC), Bambolim, and the directorate of health services (DHS), it is learnt. All out-patient departments (OPDs) of Hospicio which were shifted to the new district hospital nearly two months ago, were shifted back and will be functional at Hospicio hospital from today. “The patients will be moved out from the new district hospital tomorrow and by afternoon the place will be ready,” Correia said. To avoid overcrowding at the hospital, some of the OPD timings will be staggered. OPDs such as, medicine, gynaecology, paediatrics, orthopaedic and psychiatry will continue to function daily. Similarly, the casualty ward will continue to operate through all hours, across all days of the week. The health minister had announced plans to make the south Goa district hospital a 250-bedded Covid facility for moderately symptomatic patients. Total bed capacity at the hospital is 500. The state has been running short of beds for Covid-19 patients over the past two weeks due to a spike in infections. The government has also come under attack from the Opposition for failing to expand bed capacity despite soaring cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goas-new-district-hosp-to-be-ready-today-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/78048500.cms||---
September 11, 2020||India||Our masjid will be modern: Ayodhya mosque architect||NEW DELHI: How does one plan a mosque that takes the place of another which stood for five centuries before being torn down? “Not with nostalgia,” said Prof SM Akhtar, the founder faculty of the Jamia Millia Islamia’s school of architecture, who is designing the mosque coming up at Dhannipur. Akhtar’s plan for the five-acre plot allotted to the Sunni Waqf Board in lieu of the Babri Masjid includes a mosque, a hospital and a cultural research centre. “The design will be contemporary. I don’t live in the past … Imitation is a sort of perversion,” he said. “The tradition that we will retain is khidmat-e-khaal, serving the society.” Right now, the 64-year-old is working on the concept. “I have a lot of thinking to do now. When that is done, I will assemble my team.” But he already has an idea of what he will not incorporate in his design. “It is believed that archstones are Islamic. They are not. They may be Mughal, Indian or Iranian, not Islamic,” Akhtar said. “Kabaa, the foundation of Islam, has no arches or domes or minarets. Then how can these represent Islam? It’s irrelevant. I have been researching this for years. Labelling Islamic architecture as one rooted in the medieval period is a conspiracy. It is to say, ‘Yes, you were relevant but only centuries ago, not now.’ I mean to demolish these myths.” Does he think the idea will meet resistance? “You have to educate people, give them reasons. You can’t do it blindly. In a mosque, the basic thing is direction, the orientation. If you try and change that, no one will accept it. You have to retain the core, the fundamentals,” he said. “Arches and domes are not fundamental.” He cites a mosque built like a spaceship in Qatar, a zero-energy mosque in Karnataka. “Everywhere, things are moving very fast. Our perceptions have to keep up.” When designing a religious space, he said, the one thing to keep in mind is how people worship. “In Islam or Christianity, there has to be a large gathering space. In a Hindu temple, the faithful have to go to the garbhagriha, which need not be so spread out. Spillover spaces like mandapa can also accommodate people. In a Sikh shrine, only the Granth occupies focal position. So there is one composite area.” Partial to clean lines and free-flowing forms, two things keep recurring among his concerns — environment and technology. “Quran also talks about nature. If you respect the elements, you are close to Islamic architecture. If we go back to the concepts of nature, our problems related to energy will be solved. There shouldn’t be wasteful expenditure,” he said. “Architecture can never be replicated. The people, needs, aspirations, limitations, material are all different. You have to respond to that.” Akhtar has been doing just that. In his nearly two-decade-long association with Jamia, he has designed six architecture courses in response to contemporary needs — health architecture, recreation architecture, building services, ekistics (science of human settlements), pedagogy (how to teach architecture) and urban regeneration. “They are all meant to serve the needs of the country,” he said. Underlying all this is a focus on minimalism — both in terms of aesthetics and economics. “There should not be wasteful expenditure,” he said. “When it comes to aesthetics, I cite the example of Brutalism (a mid-20th century architectural style with modular designs and monolithic structures). Those were flat surfaces, not refined. But they had a scientific approach. It was a product of the industrial economy. Now, we are in a consumer economy. So you see the same geometry, but with better flow and flexibility.” The project, however, is more than an architectural experiment, with the weight of history behind it. Does he worry about the politicisation? “I don’t think about it. That’s not my job. When they asked me to design a building, I got to work … Beyond that, kaun kya manage karega, woh humara headache nahin hai (it is not my concern).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/our-masjid-will-be-modern-ayodhya-mosque-architect/articleshow/78050004.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
September 11, 2020||Goa||Doctors say Covid surging, don’t drop guard now||PANAJI: Doctors have cautioned people, including the young, against letting their guard down during the current surge in Covid cases in the state, adding that their nonchalant behaviour is putting additional stress on the health system. “The degree of severity in this disease is unpredictable. Some people have it very bad and are gasping for their lives, while others are managing well at home and others don’t even know they’re positive. It’s not true that only the elderly are dying,” a doctor said. “The older people are vulnerable and are going to die first. It doesn’t mean that the young people can take it easy.” “The surge is predicted to be enormous in September and people should be more careful,” the doctor said. Although people are frustrated with having to follow restrictions for so many months, this is not the right time to relax, health workers say. “The young and old cannot be lax at this moment, especially after taking precautions till now,” a health worker said. Another doctor said they are trying their best to keep the deaths low, but that people have to do their part too. “Doctors are not responsible for community transmission. People are acting irrationally and holding birthday parties without wearing masks. This is a disease that doesn’t have a cure. We don’t have an anti Covid drug yet and people should understand that,” the doctor said. Covid cases are expected to continue to rise till the end of September. “Covid cases peaked in Vasco in July and are now on the decline. Places like Ponda, Margao and Panaji are beginning to peak. There was an increase in cases recently. A lot of factors are responsible, including migration and social distancing norms not being followed,” another doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/docs-say-covid-surging-dont-drop-guard-now/articleshow/78048509.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 11, 2020||Goa||Operating with caution, says Mapusa market body||Saligao: Claiming that vendors in Mapusa have been greatly impacted by people's preference for online shopping amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mapusa Merchants' Association on Wednesday insisted that sufficient precautions are being taken by market vendors to curb the spread of infection. Association president Ashish Shirodkar told reporters that merchants are also toying with the idea of launching discount schemes to lure shoppers and said that a market is the safest place for people to shop because it has several open spaces, unlike malls, that facilitate social distancing. The Mapusa group criticised the All-Goa Merchants’ Association for allegedly claiming on social media platforms that it was not allowing traditional merchants to display their ware in the town’s market, causing them to lose business. At least 25 businessmen met Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza, municipality chairperson Ryan Braganza and chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar to discuss several issues facing their community in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/operating-with-caution-says-mapusa-market-body/articleshow/78048518.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||KTC adds 5 more buses on Goa-Karnataka route||Panaji: After launching five buses on the Goa Karnataka route last week, the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) added five more to the route. Four of the buses ply to Belagavi and six to Karwar. One bus makes a pit stop at Gokarna. “We decided to increase the number of buses owing to the demand. The timings have been listed on the depots,” KTC managing director Venancio Furtado said. Prior to the lockdown, KTC ran buses to Maharashtra and Telangana (Hyderabad) as well. Furtado said that they are yet to decide the resumption of services to these regions. The buses to and from Karnataka are mainly occupied by people from Karnataka — those returning to Goa for jobs or those heading back to their native places, a KTC official said. Only about 10 to 12 people per day people are heading to Gokarna for a visit, he said. Simultaneously, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has also commenced its bus services to Goa. About 60 to 70 buses arrive in the state daily as opposed to the earlier 120 to 130. “Since these buses were already in service, many travellers opt for them over KTC. We are therefore adding buses on this route only on the basis of demand,” the official said. Interstate bus services had been suspended in March owing to the pandemic and were limited to only pick and drop for stranded passengers across the country. TOI had reported last week that KTC was resuming its interstate buses to Karnataka from September 5 after a hiatus of 170 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-adds-5-more-buses-on-goa-karnataka-route/articleshow/78048554.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||27km stretch in Canacona to be hot-mixed||Poinguinim: The much-awaited hot-mixing of a 27km stretch of road, from Polem to Gulem in Canacona, will be undertaken by November, deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes said. The road will be hot-mixed at an estimated tendered amount of Rs 12.6 crore, Fernandes said. He said that portions of the highway there have been badly damaged during the ongoing monsoon. “Once the monsoon subsides, repairs of this interior highway will be taken up. The work order has already been issued,” Fernandes told TOI. The Nagorcem section of the NH66 was repaired just before the monsoon, but is once again riddled with potholes. Last week, some Congress activists had protested at Nagorcem and accused the government of poor quality work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/27km-stretch-in-canacona-to-be-hot-mixed/articleshow/78048561.cms||---
September 11, 2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty controversy: TMC joins in, attacks BJP||NEW DELHI: With Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury making the Rhea Chakraborty controversy a political issue, Trinamool Congress has jumped onto the bandwagon to play the Bengali sub-nationalism card. “I feel that as Rhea is a Bengali, she was victimised even before she was proven guilty in court. The vilification campaign once again proves the sheer hatred of BJP towards Bengalis. We had witnessed something similar in the Assam NRC, too,” senior TMC leader and national spokesperson Saugata Roy said. The BJP leadership, however, has declined to comment on the accusation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rhea-chakraborty-controversy-tmc-joins-in-attacks-bjp/articleshow/78050027.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Candolim panchayat to open on Monday||Candolim: The Candolim panchayat office, which has been shut since September 2, after some panchayat members tested positive for Covid-19, is likely to reopen on September 14. Panchayat sources said five ward members and three office staff have tested positive. Being asymptomatic they are in home quarantine. The office premises, meanwhile, has been sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-panchayat-to-open-on-mon/articleshow/78048574.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||With no awards ceremony, 34 ST students felicitated at home||Poinguinim: With the MHA rules in force restricting social functions during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Gomantak Gaud Maratha Samaj (GGMS) deviated from its tradition of organising a function to felicitate meritorious students from its community and instead feted them at their homes. The students are spread across the Canacona taluka. A total of 34 meritorious students — 27 from SSC and seven from HSSC — were felicitated at individual functions held at their respective residences, Anand Gaonkar, president of GGMC, said. Each year the samaj organises a ceremony to recognise the achievement of students from scheduled tribes who have excelled at the SSC and HSSC exams. Those who score 75% and above at the SSC exam and 70% and more in the HSSC exam are awarded with a memento and a certificate of excellence. Cash prizes are also given to the three toppers from SSC and HSSC at the taluka-level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-awards-ceremony-34-st-students-felicitated-at-home/articleshow/78048591.cms||Albert Fernandes
September 11, 2020||Goa||Body of GU professor recovered||Panaji: Quepem police on Thursday recovered the body of a Goa University lecturer. It was found at Chandreshwar Parvat, Paroda-Quepem, an official said Vishal Chari was missing for more than a week and his car was found parked in Paroda. Quepem police had conducted a combing operation. The missing complaint of the economics assistant professor was lodged at the Old Goa police station 10 days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/body-of-gu-professor-recovered/articleshow/78048596.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Goa||Create plan to prevent suicides among workers, govt urged||Panaji: Given the paycuts and job losses due of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government needs to put in place an action plan to prevent suicides among industrial and private sector workers, said Goacan in a letter to the labour commissioner. Goacan recommended that a core committee with members from various departments should help create a strategy for Goa to combat the large number of suicides in the state. Goacan’s recommendations came on the day when the world marked Suicide Prevention Day.  Goacan coordinator Roland Martins pointed out that over the years there have been several reports about workers taking their lives in different parts of Goa. “There is now concern that there could be an increase in the number of suicides by workers due to the impact of the pandemic. This could be due to a number of reasons like loss of jobs, cut in wages, family problems, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/create-plan-to-prevent-suicides-among-workers-govt-urged/articleshow/78048625.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram: Geology dept swoops down on illegal manganese ore mining||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Regional Vigilance squad of the Mines and Geology department has observed that illegal mining and smuggling of manganese ore has been taking place on a large scale in parts of Vizianagaram district which has led to crores of rupees loss to the exchequer. Speaking to TOI, Pratap Reddy said that illegal mining is on a large scale in parts of Garividi, Cheepurupalle, Merakamudidam, Gurla, and a few other mandals in Vizianagaram district. Pratap Reddy said that firms have been mining manganese ore in non-permitted areas such as tribal pockets and other areas around the leased areas by exploiting the mining leases and have been dumping the mined manganese ore (which was extracted from non-permitted areas) into the leased mining areas to claim that are not involved in any illegal mining activities. Similarly, the mining firms have been indulging in illegal transportation of the manganese to the ferro alloys units, he added. The vigilance squad seized as many as 13 manganese laden vehicles (each vehicle carries around 40 tonnes of manganese) on the charges of illegal transportation at Denkada and Bobbili areas in Vizianagaram district. The officials slapped a fine of Rs 50 lakh on a firm and collected it. “We are imposing hefty fines on the mining firms for violations and illegal mining of manganese ore. So far, we have imposed a fine of Rs 175 crore in the last five months on the mining firms on charges of illegal mining,” said Pratap Reddy. Vizianagaram district has significant reserves of manganese ore, which is used in the steel industry as manganese contributes to the strength and hardness of the steel. The price of the manganese ore ranges from Rs 25,000 to Rs 40,000 per tonne depending on the grade. Suspecting that the mining mafia may indulge in violence during the raids on the mining areas, the vigilance squads have been taking police protection during the raids. Recently, V Vijayasai Reddy, Rajya Sabha member, held a meeting with the officials and asked them to prevent illegal mining of minerals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/geology-dept-swoops-down-on-illegal-manganese-ore-mining/articleshow/78045948.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Check posts set up to prevent granite smuggling||Ongole: To prevent illegal mining by granite quarry owners, Prakasam district police have set up check posts close to the quarries. Special teams have been deployed to the check-posts to prevent illegal mining activity. The police attached to the stations located in the granite quarry areas have been asked to stay alert to prevent illegal transport of mineral from the district. Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddarth Kaushal has warned the staff of stern action if found negligent in preventing illegal mining activity. The SP had suspended half-a-dozen officials and shifted more than 30 people to non-focal points after finding them guilty of irregularities. The state government has set focus on Prakasam district as it is home for precious galaxy and other export variety granite. It is suspected that a few big industrialists backed by political parties are illegally transporting massive quantities of precious granite stone and evading the taxes. The state government had closed down at least two dozen quarries after finding irregularities. The mines and geology department and vigilance and enforcement wings carried out investigation into activities of several miners and levied penalties. The issue, however, took on political colours as the quarries owned by opposition TDP leaders were slapped with penalties running into several hundreds of crores of rupees. The opposition leaders approached the High Court and got relief from the government decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/check-posts-set-up-to-prevent-granite-smuggling/articleshow/78045960.cms||Samdani MN
September 11, 2020||India||‘Bengalee Brahmin lady’ is now a poll issue for Congress||KOLKATA: Hours after assuming charge as Bengal PCC president in Congress’s 2021 poll gambit, MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday took up cudgels for actor Rhea Chakraborty, describing her as a “Bengalee Brahmin lady” up against BJP’s alleged attempt to portray “justice to Sushant Singh Rajput” as “justice to a Bihari”. Chowdhury also batted for Rhea’s father, saying a former Army officer who had served the nation for many years had been reduced to seeking justice for his two children, including his son Showik, in the face of trolling and alleged hounding by investigative agencies. “Departed star, SushanthSinghRajput was an Indian actor. BJP turned him into a Bihari actor, only to score electoral brownie points,” Chowdhury tweeted. “Father of Rhea is also entitled to demand justice for his kids, trial by media is an ominous portent for our judicial system.” Terming Rhea’s arrest “ludicrous”, he said, “Rhea Chakraborty has been indicted not for abetting suicide or murder, neither for any economic offence. She has been arrested under NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act. To please political masters, central agencies have played their roles, after churning the sea they have discovered drugs instead of nectar.” Besides invoking Rhea’s Bengali roots, Chowdhury vowed to put up “a zabardast fight” against “authoritarian Trinamool”. He also sent feelers to the Left Front for a poll alliance, setting at rest speculation about the PCC coming closer to TMC after Congress president Sonia Gandhi gave special attention to Mamata Banerjee during her recent virtual meeting with seven non-BJP CMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengalee-brahmin-lady-is-now-a-poll-issue-for-congress/articleshow/78050056.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 10,175 new cases, 68 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday reported 10,175 Covid-19 cases and 68 deaths as the toll climbed to 4,702. While the cumulative caseload rose to 5,37,687, as many as 10,040 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state on Thursday. There are currently 97,338 active cases in the state with the 4,35,647 cumulative recoveries and 4,702 deaths translating to a recovery rate of 81.02 percent. Three districts registered more than 1,000 cases. East Godavari reported 1,412 cases while Prakasam 1,386 cases and West Godavari reported 1,139 cases. With 482 fresh cases on Thursday, Kurnool became the second district in the state to cross the 50,000 case mark to reach 50,182. East Godavari occupied top place with 72,497 cases. Srikakulam, with 664 cases on Thursday, breached the 30,000 case mark to reach 30,372. Krishna district inched close to the 20,000 cases mark with 19,959 cases. Andhra Pradesh, with over 43.8 lakh cumulative tests, on Thursday became the first state in the country to test 82,041 people for Covid-19 per every one million population. It indicates that the state has tested over eight persons per every hundred people for Covid-19. The mortality rate stood stable at 0.87 percent, while the case positivity rate increased to 12.27 percent against the national average of 8.43 percent. Of the 68 deaths registered on Thursday, nine deaths each were from Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts, seven each from Krishna and Prakasam districts, six from Anantapur, five each from East Godavari and West Godavari districts, four each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, two from Guntur and one from Vizianagaram district. With nine Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, Chittoor became the first district in the state to cross 500 deaths to reach 504. Guntur occupied the second place with 446 deaths, followed by East Godavari (442) and Kurnool (406).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-10175-new-cases-68-deaths/articleshow/78045982.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Dasara: Only 10k devotees allowed||Vijayawada: With Covid-19 cases on the increase in the state, the trust board of the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams has decided to allow only 10,000 devotees to have darshan during the Dasara celebrations. Trust board chairman Paula Sominaidu and executive officer MV Suresh Babu, who are conducting several meetings with various departments, have decided to take strict measures during the 10-day-long Dasara festival scheduled to start from October 17. Covid-19 preventive measures, which include hand sanitation at multiple locations, queues with physical distancing, will be arranged at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dasara-only-10k-devotees-allowed/articleshow/78045999.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||HC issues notices to govt on Buddhist monument PIL||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday issued notices to the state government, Visakhapatnam district administration and assistant director of archaeology in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition filed challenging the notification issued to convert the lands that are said to be part of a Buddhist monument for allocation of house sites to the landless poor under ‘Navaratnalu-Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme. One Kothapalli Venkata Ramana Rao moved the high court with a PIL contending the proceedings initiated by the Visakhapatnam district administration to convert some part of the lands at Mangamaripeta under Kapuluppada Bhimunipatnam mandal. He contended that the lands are part of the Buddhist Monument Hoy Hill and conversion of such lands for house sites is illegal. The petitioner mentioned that the said lands are protected under Andhra Pradesh Ancient Historical Monuments and Archaeological Remains Act, 1952. Taking over of lands that are situated on the Bay of Bengal is also illegal under Coastal Region Zone Rules and Regulations, Environmental Rules and Regulations. It is also arbitrary, illegal and in violation of articles 49 and 51 of constitution, he said. The high court bench comprising Justice U Durga Prasad Rao and Justice Ninala Jayasurya issued notices to all respondents to file counter affidavits in the matter within a week and posted the matter further hearing on September 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-issues-notices-to-govt-on-buddhist-monument-pil/articleshow/78046027.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Govt to spend Rs 6,000 crore for multipurpose facilities at RBKs||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the state administration to provide additional facilities at all Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in the state to assist farmers. The CM told the officials to complete the construction and establishment of RBKs attached to every village secretariat. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials of the agriculture and marketing department at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday where he said that the government would give Rs 6,000 crore for establishment of multipurpose facilities at all the RBKs in the state. There would be 13 facilities initially to help farmers at the RBKs, which include godowns, drying platforms, collection centres, cold storages, primary processing centres, Janata bazars, milk cooling units. Selected RBKs would also have the facilities for aqua infra, cattle sheds and e-marketing. The chief minister wanted the agriculture department to ensure that income to the farmers increased with these interventions. He said that agriculture should be profitable and no farmer should feel let down by the government. He told them to ensure market intervention based on the crop and the yield. The chief minister directed the officials to strengthen Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS). Referring to the RBKs, the chief minister wanted the officials to ensure the supply of quality seeds, fertilisers and pesticides besides other intervention.  The RBKs should also provide storage, marketing and transport facilities for the farmers and assist the farmers in finding better price for their produce. The chief minister directed them to ensure compliance of e-cropping in every village. The village secretariat must have the information of the farmers and the crops in their area and should integrate the information to find better market. Referring to the dairy sector, the chief minister sought to remind the officials of the government signing MoU with Amul from Gujarat and wanted the officials to help the small farmers in the dairy sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-spend-rs-6000-crore-for-multipurpose-facilities-at-rbks/articleshow/78046053.cms||Gopi Dara
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||On psychiatric drugs, stick to docs’ advice||Visakhapatnam: Given the increase in mental illnesses due to the socio-economic fallouts of the Covid-19 pandemic, the World Suicide Prevention Day on September 10, assumed a greater importance both globally and locally this year. Experts opine that awareness about mental health and stigma surrounding mental illnesses continue to remain major challenges. Further, mental health experts are of the opinion that the correct use of psychiatric drugs taken by mental health patients plays a significant role. Erratic changes without consultation with experts and quitting prescribed drugs can make a depressed or anxiety-ridden person suicidal. At the same time, doctors also sought to dispel misconceptions surrounding psychiatric medicines. Dr S Radha Rani, medical superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), said, “If a patient of depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder or any other mental illness quits prescribed medicines in the midst of treatment, it will worsen conditions and may even make them suicidal.” “Drug intake should be continuous and dosage exactly as prescribed by the psychiatrist. Also, it is always better if the patient is under supervision of one particular psychiatrist instead of continuously changing doctors,” Dr Radha Rani said. Psychiatrists also caution against substance abuse including alcoholism, smoking or hard drugs that can have serious repercussions on patients and worsen their mental health and even making them suicidal. Dr Rekha Dutt, professor of psychiatry at NRI Medical College said, “Intake of hard, addictive drugs such as cocaine when coupled with depression may make one delusional and needlessly suspicious. Regular intake of alcohol may initially elevate mood but ultimately works as a depressant.” Doctors further said that it is a myth that psychiatric medicines need to be consumed throughout one’s lifetime. If the doctor considers it fit, the drug can be discontinued or the dosage minimised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/on-psychiatric-drugs-stick-to-docs-advice/articleshow/78046093.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Enemy of the environment: Banned single-use plastic returns to Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when the city’s civic body is busy countering the Covid-19 outbreak, single-use plastic— a major cause of environmental pollution and banned in the city— has staged a return. Large sections of shopkeepers have resumed using single-use plastic under 50 microns, with the exception of big retail chains. What is more frustrating for the officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is that such plastic is suspected to be flowing into the state from Telangana and Odisha. Speaking to TOI, a senior GVMC official said, “Despite our best efforts, we have been unable to control the use of plastic. Last August, when we implemented the ban, we had organised several awareness programmes and even conducted raids to find errant shopkeepers.” “The use of such plastic came down considerably over the next few months. But owing to the pandemic, we could not concentrate on this strictly. Now, the menace is back,” the official added. Since the relaxing of lockdown norms, GVMC has organised and seized around 180kg of the outlawed plastic and collected fines to the tune of Rs1 lakh. Another GVMC official said that there are no manufacturers of single-use plastic in the whole of Visakhapatnam district. He said that the GVMC suspects that dealers are bringing in the plastic from neighbouring states. “We have specific information about a few dealers who are providing single-use plastic from Telangana and Odisha to shopkeepers. We are trying to cut off this supply chain and will seek help from the police,” added the official. The situation however is different at shopping malls and big grocery retail stores. Here, customers are compelled to bring along bags or pay a steep price for one made of cotton or jute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/enemy-of-the-environment-banned-single-use-plastic-returns-to-vizag/articleshow/78046111.cms||Arpit Basu
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Coronavirus shows up in newer areas, sparks concerns of second wave||BENGALURU: Growing number of coronavirus infections outside containment zones and known clusters has triggered fears of a second wave. In the past 10 days, the virus has showed up in areas that were relatively isolated from outbreaks. This is particularly true for districts other than Bengaluru Urban and Rural, and it suggests emergence of new clusters, though the state government maintains that the pandemic has not reached the community transmission stage. Independent health experts believe the government is in denial, pointing to the staggering numbers. Since the pandemic began in March, Karnataka has seen over 4.3 lakh Covid-19 cases and nearly 7,000 deaths. On average, 7,800 fresh cases are reported daily, an indication that the government is struggling to tackle the first wave. But medical education minister K Sudhakar said the government’s efforts had produced results. “The cases have increased, but there is a substantial rise in the recovery rate, which is nearing 6 per cent. It’s a clear indication that the first wave curve is flattening by the day,” he said. “People’s behaviour during Unlock 4.0 is a cause of worry; they are moving freely without taking much precaution. If this continues, there might be another round of the wave, affecting the economy and normal life again.” Some public-health experts warn that a second wave will stretch healthcare systems to unsustainable levels. “Yes, we are seeing a resurgence of cases. We can say that we are seeing some sort of a second wave in certain parts of the state,” said a senior doctor, who is a member of the Karnataka Covid-19 task force. “The trend of rising cases indicates that the Covid-19 curve may not flatten soon. It will go up further over the next few months and continue into early next year.” Another doctor, from Kalaburagi district, which reported the country’s first Covid-19 fatality, said the new Unlock phase had coincided with pandemic fatigue, with precaution-weary citizens dropping guard. “Such a situation can lead to further spread of infection, especially in rural areas,” he added. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force, believes the first wave will drag on. “As of now, the cases are rising and we have not seen any major decline yet. At this stage, it’s difficult to predict with certainty when the first wave will end. In my opinion, more than the second wave, it will be continuation of the first wave,” he said. “Many factors determine the spread of the disease: when the circulation is established, how the movement of people is allowed, what is the extent of testing and how effective is the implementation of public-health measures such as quarantine.” A pandemic of this nature, Dr Babu believes, can end as an endemic or can be contained with a vaccine. “It might start slowing down by October-end and the curve may hit a plateau and decline,” he added. Some other experts suggest the government should focus on three things: strengthening the mechanism for early detection and containment of patients and disease, augmenting healthcare capacity, and launching massive public awareness campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-second-wave-worries-as-virus-shows-up-in-new-areas/articleshow/78049972.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Arrest order deplorable: Docs||Guntur: The Andhra Pradesh Government Doctors Association (APGDA) strongly condemned district collector Samuel Anand Kumar’s order to arrest a Primary Health Centre (PHC) medical officer. Dr Jayadheer, state president of APGDA, issued a statement wherein he said that the association will launch state-wide agitation if the order is not withdrawn immediately. The statement further raid that it was unfortunate that medical officers were being criticised while fighting Covid-19 from the front. “The district collector should have ordered a departmental inquiry if he found fault with the work of the said medical officer. Directing the police to arrest the medical officer is deplorable,” Dr Jayadheer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/arrest-order-deplorable-docs/articleshow/78046126.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: VIT law school inaugurated||Vijayawada: Chief Justice of AP high court, Jitendra Kumar Maheswari, virtually inaugurated VIT-AP School of Law on Thursday. High court judges C Praveen Kumar and T Rajani inaugurated the legal aid clinic and moot court hall. “To provide holistic legal education and to prepare global legal professionals, it is very important to have new law schools. I appreciate and congratulate the management of VIT University for taking the initiative ,” the chief justice said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vit-law-school-inauguration/articleshow/78046156.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||BMC says no hidden motives, 'Kangana doesn't deny illegality'||MUMBAI: Mumbai's civic authorities have denied any hidden motives in carrying out demolitions inside actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow in Bandra (W), while responding to a petition before the Bombay high court which has led to a stay on the work. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said the actor's plea seeking relief constituted "an abuse of process" as she "has unlawfully made substantial alterations and additions... contrary to the sanctioned building plan". The nine-page affidavit filed by BMC's H-West ward officer said the illegal constructions include "new toilets... conversion of existing toilets in to cabins, construction of pantry, kitchen cabins, etc". "Both in her advocate's reply dated September 8 and even in the petition, she has not disputed carrying out the unlawful alterations and addition,'' the BMC said, adding she made "baseless and unwarranted allegations" to seek protection for "unlawful work". By a notice issued on September 8, the actor was required to produce permission for such work within 24 hours, failing which they would be removed "without further notice", BMC said. Explaining the sequence of events, BMC's counsel said, "substantial part of illegal work...was demolished by the time intimation was received that the HC has directed stay of the demolition". While staying the demolition on Wednesday, the bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla had said the manner in which the BMC proceeded with the demolition "prima facie... smacks of mala fide" and it gave BMC time to explain its conduct on affidavit by 3pm, Thursday. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy appearing with Anil Sakhare and Joel Carlos for BMC denied any "mala fides" and said "work which is clearly in contravention of sanctioned plan has been done with complete abandon. Even in the current petition there is not even an assertion that it is not unlawful". To this, Justice S J Kathawalla said the petition was filed "in haste" by Kangana's counsel Rizwan Siddiquee and he had sought time to file a rejoinder to amend it. Siddiquee said he could only meet the actor after 6.30pm on Wednesday. He added that he would amend the petition by Monday. Chinoy sought 3-4 days for BMC to then respond. HC said BMC would have to file a reply by September 17. The hearing is now scheduled for September 22. Meantime, the stay order passed by the HC "shall continue to be in force". Chinoy said there should be a "status quo" in the interim period and Kangana should not be allowed change anything as it was an office space. Siddiquee responded saying it was a residential premise and a househelp stays there. "There is no electricity and water," he said. However, the bench did not issue any directions in this regard. Kangana had claimed the demolitions were "a fallout over the difference of opinion with certain influential people operating in the administration and the Maharashtra government".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-says-no-hidden-motives-actor-doesnt-deny-illegality/articleshow/78050079.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 11, 2020||India||1,200kg of ganja found in sheep pen||NEW DELHI: When Bengaluru police detained an autorickshaw driver 10 days ago and seized 2kg ganja from him, they were all set to dismiss him as a small fry in the narcotics trade in Karnataka. But since they decided to grill him more, his answers led to 1,200kg of ganja hidden in a bunker inside a sheepfold in Kalaburagi district. The massive haul has triggered allegations of political patronage to the narcotics trade in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1200kg-of-ganja-found-in-sheep-pen/articleshow/78050080.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||3 spl trains from Odisha via AP||Visakhapatnam: Three additional special trains will run from Odisha via Andhra Pradesh towards Ahmedabad, Okha and Gandhidham. The trains will start running from September 12. Special train from Khurda Road starts at 6.40pm on every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday with effect from September 12 and from Ahmedabad the train starts at 6.40pm on every every Monday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday with effect from September 14. Another special train from Khurda Road starts at 10.40 am on every Sunday with effect from September 13 and from Okha the train starts at 8.30 am on every Wednesday with effect from September 16. Another train from Gandhidham starts at 11 pm on every Wednesday with effect from September 16. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-spl-trains-from-odisha-via-ap/articleshow/78046185.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: 5 gutka smugglers jailed under PD Act||VIJAYAWADA: To curb illegal smuggling of gutka and liquor, Krishna district police have sent five habitual offenders to jail in the last two months by invoking the Preventive Detention Act. It’s unconventional to use PD Act against gutka and liquor smugglers. However, as all these rowdy-sheeters have more than 10 cases each against them, cops decided to halt their activities by using the PD Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-gutka-smugglers-jailed-under-pd-act/articleshow/78046195.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC urges Maharashtra to let lawyers travel by locals on a trial basis||MUMBAI: Observing that the Covid lockdown has to be gradually lifted, the Bombay high court on Thursday told the state to allow a few advocates to travel by locals on an experimental basis to attend physical hearings. "We have to live with corona(virus). We have to live with social distancing,'' said Chief Justice Dipankar Datta while hearing a PIL by lawyers to allow travel by train. The state had earlier toldthe HC they can't be allowed on locals. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the situation had worsened. "It has gone from bad to worse. We are not presently inclined to allow them,'' he said. ‘Less lawyers for four open courts’The AG said news reports and photographs show trains are crowded and not enough social distancing was being maintained. The CJ, who was hearing the case with Justice Girish Kulkarni, said HC opened four courts for physical hearing, but was not getting adequate lawyers to attend them. “One reason could be lawyers are not able to travel. Gradually, we have to open up,” said the CJ, who remarked that we have to live with coronavirus. The judges said outstation trains like Kolkata-Mumbai resumed. “Come with a solution. This cannot continue for all times. If not each and every lawyer, devise a plan for some who have cases on a particular day,’’said the CJ, mooting e-passes. He said judges holding physical hearings complained that parties were unable to attend, adding, “If we find even after starting that advocates are not attending, we’ll have to revert to entire virtual hearing.’’ When advocate Shyam Dewani said trial court advocates must also be allowed too, the CJ said, “Let’s see what is happening in HC first...” The judges hoped for a solution in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-urges-maharashtra-to-let-lawyers-travel-by-locals-on-a-trial-basis/articleshow/78050082.cms||Rosy Sequeira
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||After prolonged demand slump, realty sector sees silver lining||Vijayawada: After a prolonged slump in demand, the state’s realty sector is finally seeing some green shoots. The realty sector, which has perhaps the worst-hit in the economic disruption caused by the pandemic, was already suffering even before the Covid-19 outbreak in Vijayawada and Guntur owing to uncertainty over the capital issue. However, once lockdown norms were eased, builders have seen an uptick in the number of inquiries. Builders say that there has been a change in perception among people after Covid-19 and more people have taken the decision to buy homes at this time. Even those who were planning to buy a house after two years have changed their priorities and decided to take the plunge, claim builders. Tummala Vamshi Krishna, general secretary of Builders Association of India (BAI) Vijayawada chapter, said, “With increase in demand, transactions are gradually picking up momentum.” He observed that while transactions have not reached the pre-pandemic levels yet, there has certainly been an increase in demand. However, the conversion of inquiries to sales is still a problem as people are bargaining hard for cheaper rates, he added. Vamsi Krishna further said that the problem in Vijayawada, Guntur and Amaravati is that the prices were corrected even before the pandemic. “We are not in a position to further reduce prices as we are already at the bottom. Many people are comparing prices of constructed houses with land prices which have shot down of late. This calculation may be applicable for new projects but cannot be applied to already constructed houses. The mismatch between people’s expectations and builders’ offers is a major hurdle now,” he added. V Ramesh, a builder, said that he has been receiving many inquiries but there is a gap of 10-15% in the builder’s price and people’s expectations. This is understandable as savings of all sections of people have taken a hit due to the pandemic, but builders also have their own problems, he said. Cheap interest rates are also contributing to the increase in demand for houses as many banks and financial institutions are offering housing loans at very low rates. Vamsi Krishna said that the fear of missing out is driving homebuyers as the currently low prices and cheap interest rates may not be available in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-prolonged-demand-slump-realty-sector-sees-silver-lining/articleshow/78046236.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ED sniffs laundering, seeks details in Sandalwood case||BENGALURU: Suspecting a money-laundering angle, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday sought details from Bengaluru police about the arrested persons in the drug racket, opening a new line of investigations into the murky narcotics episode. Sleuths from the ED held discussions with the Central Crime Branch (CCB) for over two hours on Thursday. The ED’s interest in the narcotic probe comes in the backdrop of reports that the party organisers and those attending the parties were procuring drugs from foreign nationals, especially those from African countries. The ED’s queries were: How were the payments made to drug suppliers and how did they transfer money home? Bengaluru City police commissioner Kamal Pant told reporters: “The ED sleuths wanted to understand how the drug mafia worked and we have explained to them. At this stage, I cannot comment more on their visit.” Raids could end city’s social life: PartygoersThe involvement of several agencies, including the ED, has amplified fear among partygoers, who say this could effectively end Bengaluru’s social life. However, Pant said, “Social life is part of Bengaluru. We, the police, are never against it. We are worried about the use of drugs in parties. Drug mafia is something everyone has to be worried about.” The police officer said the drug racket is “big” and police were trying to get to the root of the issue. “We are not targeting any group, organization or industry. We are concentrating on cracking the drug mafia. The seizure of drugs and arrest of suspects in the past couple of weeks speaks of our job and agenda,” he said. There is speculation that a few top businessman, politicians and bureaucrats had helped party organiser Viren Khanna whenever he faced hurdles in hile organising parties. A source said, “Perhaps, the investigating agencies want to understand what sort of transactions took place between the party organisers and the bigwigs.” The police commissioner refused to comment on pieces of evidences recovered from the arrested in the case. “Investigations are going on. We will come before the media at the right time, with answers for all the questions,” he said. Whether there’s political pressure on police in arresting celebrities, he said, “Please look at our work. See the arrests made and drugs recovered. You will get an answer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-ed-sniffs-laundering-seeks-details-in-sandalwood-case/articleshow/78050092.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Civils aspirants seek better treatment from invigilators||AMARAVATI: With the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) declaring the civil services examinations schedule, candidates from the state are worried about lack of training for the personnel manning the examination centres. The candidates say that the officials and staff at the examination centres are tuned to conduct only local examinations and hence often behave against the rules prescribed by the UPSC. About 50000 candidates are expected to appear for the prelims examination to be held on October 4. The UPSC has decided to continue four centres--Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Tirupati—in the state while many states have only one or two centres. Although more number of centres is expected to benefit candidates from rural areas particularly during Covid-19 situation, lack of awareness about the UPSC guidelines among the staff is creating panic among the candidates. The candidates are appealing to the state government to appoint special officers to create awareness about the rules of the UPSC which are completely different from other examinations including JEE, NEET. “In many cases, the staff at the examination centres are refusing to allow wrist watches despite permitted by the USPC. Since time management is going to play a very big role in clearing the toughest examination for the coveted services, the absence of wrist watch will sure to spoil the chances,” said Niharika, a candidate gearing up for the prelims for the second time. With the officials are trained to handle exams like Eamcet and JEE where the candidates will not be allowed to take watches and other electronic gadgets inside the exam hall, the officials are applying the same rules to UPSC exams, she said. Many candidates are complaining that the staff at examination centres are behaving rudely with the candidates where as their peers are happy with the situation in other states, including Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “Since the UPSC is depending on district collectors to oversee the arrangements, the state government should take responsibility to train the staffers as it would help more candidates from the state clear the examinations,” said Harish, another candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civils-aspirants-seek-better-treatment-from-invigilators/articleshow/78046283.cms||Samdani MN
September 11, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Civils aspirants seek better treatment from invigilators||AMARAVATI: With the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) declaring the civil services examinations schedule, candidates from the state are worried about lack of training for the personnel manning the examination centres. The candidates say that the officials and staff at the examination centres are tuned to conduct only local examinations and hence often behave against the rules prescribed by the UPSC. About 50000 candidates are expected to appear for the prelims examination to be held on October 4. The UPSC has decided to continue four centres--Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Tirupati—in the state while many states have only one or two centres. Although more number of centres is expected to benefit candidates from rural areas particularly during Covid-19 situation, lack of awareness about the UPSC guidelines among the staff is creating panic among the candidates. The candidates are appealing to the state government to appoint special officers to create awareness about the rules of the UPSC which are completely different from other examinations including JEE, NEET. “In many cases, the staff at the examination centres are refusing to allow wrist watches despite permitted by the USPC. Since time management is going to play a very big role in clearing the toughest examination for the coveted services, the absence of wrist watch will sure to spoil the chances,” said Niharika, a candidate gearing up for the prelims for the second time. With the officials are trained to handle exams like Eamcet and JEE where the candidates will not be allowed to take watches and other electronic gadgets inside the exam hall, the officials are applying the same rules to UPSC exams, she said. Many candidates are complaining that the staff at examination centres are behaving rudely with the candidates where as their peers are happy with the situation in other states, including Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “Since the UPSC is depending on district collectors to oversee the arrangements, the state government should take responsibility to train the staffers as it would help more candidates from the state clear the examinations,” said Harish, another candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/civils-aspirants-seek-better-treatment-from-invigilators/articleshow/78052590.cms||Samdani MN
September 11, 2020||India||Against demolition of Priyanka’s Shimla house, says HP CM||NEW DELHI: Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur said he did not agree with the demand for demolition of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s house in Shimla and assured adequate security for the building. “Priyanka’s house is in Shimla, so it is the responsibility of Himachal government to provide adequate security,” the CM said. Thakur said the statement of BJP Mahila Morcha, whose members have demanded the demolition, may have been made in the heat of the moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/against-demolition-of-priyankas-shimla-house-says-hp-cm/articleshow/78050098.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Meghadrigedda floating solar power plant to be ready by Dec-end||Visakhapatnam: The floating solar power plant on Meghadrigedda reservoir is likely to be ready by end of December. The 3MW plant, which is being designed by a Haryana-based solar firm, will cost around Rs 14 crore. Though environment enthusiasts and bird watchers have raised concerns that the solar panels may affect aquatic life and deter migratory birds from coming to the reservoir site, officials have allayed such fears and stated that ecology will not be impacted as the floating plant will occupy less than 1% of the lake area. “The advanced technology photovoltaic solar panels will occupy 0.6% of the entire reservoir, which is less than 1%, and it would be a floating plant. There is, therefore, no question of disturbing or adversely affecting aquatic life or migratory birds,” GVMC superintending engineer KVN Ravi told TOI. The reservoir, including the catchment area, covers an area of around 5 sq km. The dimensions of the solar plant and switch yard will be 230x126 metres. GVMC deputy executive engineer Ch Kameswara Rao said Haryana-based ReNew Power is designing the project and will also be maintaining it for five years. “Urban Climate Change Resilience Trust Fund (UCCRTF) has given a grant of Rs 14 crore for the project. Once the plant becomes functional, we will supply power to APEPDCL and they will pay GVMC as per unit cost. The work commenced in January but was put on hold due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Technical teams from other states would install the panels and floating modules. We expect the work to be completed by December-end,” he said. The GVMC had earlier set up a 1MW solar power plant on Mudasarlova reservoir, which became functional last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/meghadrigedda-floating-solar-power-plant-to-be-ready-by-dec-end/articleshow/78046299.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Motorists swim on roads in protest against potholes in Vizianagaram||Visakhapatnam: Expressing their frustration over alleged apathy of authorities in fixing roads, motorists in Vizianagaram staged an innovative protest on Wednesday by posing as if they were swimming in the potholes filled with water. Roads in Parvathipuram, Kuneru areas in Vizianagaram have filled with rainwater and the potholes have turned death traps, said protesting motorists. Motorists say they have had extremely bumpy rides on the 8-10km stretch on the Parvathipuram road that leads to Odisha over the past several months. This stretch covers areas such as Sivini, Vikrampuram, Gangarevuvalasa, Komarada and Gumada. K Samba Murthy, one of the protestors said that the potholes had developed nearly a year ago but officials have not paid any heed. “Now, the potholes are filled with rainwater. We staged a protest by swimming in the water-filled potholes to force open the eyes of the lethargic administration,” he said. Prasad, a youngster who was part of the protest, said the potholes don’t allow one to drive over 10kmph. Moreover, sometimes vehicles get trapped in the potholes leading to traffic jams, he said. MN Raju, who rides between Gajapathinagaram and Parvathipuram regularly, said that even though ministers and senior officials take the road, no action has been taken so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/motorists-swim-on-roads-in-protest-against-potholes-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/78046321.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Man arrested for wife’s murder||Vijayawada: Krishna district police arrested M Hari Krishna and four others for the murder of Hari Krishna’s wife P Padmaja. Speaking to the media, DSP Mahboob Basha said that a complaint was filed initially about P Padmaja going missing on August 31. Later Nalgonda police in Telangana found a body at a crematorium and identified the deceased as Padmaja. Investigation revealed that Hari Krishna had disputes with Padmaja after he married her neice Bhagyalakshmi. Later, Hari Krishna and his friends allegedly murdered Padmaja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-arrested-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/78046345.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Constable dies as gun misfires in Kurnool||VIJAYAWADA: An armed reserve head constable working at second APSP Battalion died after his gun misfired at Kurnool town on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Solomon Raju, was preparing for a guard of honour for the deputy inspector general’s visit. While he was cleaning his rifle, the trigger fired a bullet into his stomach. Police said that Raju passed away by the time he could be taken to a hospital. A case was registered at Kurnool Four Town police station. 27-year-old held for smuggling drugsVisakhapatnam: The Arilova police arrested a 27-year-old man for smuggling and selling drugs near Tenneti park in Vizag on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Saripalli Varma Raju, a resident of Lawson’s Bay Colony. Police have seized five full LSD blots and a half blot, 200 miligrams of MDMA and 200 grams of marijuana from the accused. His mobile phone and bike were also seized. Arilova police inspector T Emmanuel Raju said that the cops received a tip-off about the accused selling drugs. He added that the accused was selling LSD to students. Auto-bike collide: Two deadVijayawada: Two persons died after their speeding bike rammed into an auto-rickshaw at Shantinagar area in Narasaraopet mandal in Guntur district on Thursday. According to Nekarikallu police, the deceased have been identified as Akkena Kanaiah (45) and Srinu (35), both residents of Machavaram village. Police have registered a case. 2 brothers die in car accidentVisakhapatnam: Two people, brothers, died after their car hit a tree near AK Agharam area in Nathavaram mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday. One other person suffered injuries. The deceased have been identified as A Srinivasa Rao (31) and A Hanuman Sai (27). The incident took place when the car was heading towards a curved road and the driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a tree while negotiating a sharp turn. Police have registered a case and investigation is on. 20-year-old found dead near harbourVisakhapatnam: A youngster was found dead near the fishing harbour area under One Town police station limits in Vizag on Thursday. While the police are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased, they estimate the deceased to be around 20 years old. Police have noticed injuries on the body and suspect that the person was murdered. A case has been registered and investigation is on. The body has been sent for post mortem. 1 held for selling tobaccoVisakhapatnam: City police arrested a person and seized banned tobacco products from him at Akayyapalem on Thursday. The accused, identified as S Ramesh, is alleged to have been selling khaini and gutka. Police recovered 14 bags of the gutka from the accused’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/constable-dies-as-gun-misfires/articleshow/78046381.cms||---
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports most deaths in a day (495); caseload nears 10 lakh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported its highest Covid-19 fatalities in a day (495) on Thursday and its second-highest addition in terms of daily cases (23,446), while Mumbai recorded its highest single-day addition of cases (2,371). With this, the state's total caseload is 9,90,795 and could reach the one million mark on Friday, while the total fatalities are at 28,282. Of the total deaths reported, 448 were added on Thursday and 47, the state update said, were old deaths added due to data updation. The highest daily toll earlier in the state was 423, on September 7. The state has 2,61,432 active cases. Mumbai reported over 2,000 cases for the second day in a row and 38 deaths. Its case tally was the most for a day, the previous high being 2,227 seen on Wednesday. The total cases in the city are 1.6 lakh, and active cases are 26,629. Fatalities in the city crossed 8,000 on Thursday (8,023). However, for the first time since June, the city's case fatality rate dropped below 5% (4.92%). Mumbai's death rate had been around 3.5% till June 16, when 862 undeclared deaths were added, taking the CFR to over 5%. The death rate has consistently been high despite formation of the task force and several other interventions. At the state level, Pune region added the highest cases (7,664) and deaths (136), taking its total cases to 2.6 lakh, with 6,059 deaths. Mumbai region added 5,836 cases and 92 deaths, taking its total cases to 3.81 lakh and deaths to 13,676. While inaugurating an RT-PCR lab and Covid care facilities with 103 oxygen beds, 200 isolation beds and 80 ventilator beds, CM Uddhav Thackeray said there are 550 testing labs in the state and the focus was on increasing other health facilities. "But the administration should work towards building trust of people to use these facilities. We separated the Ganpati festival by following guidelines issued by the government, yet cases of more than one person in the family getting infected are getting detected. We have to continue to be safe and keep our families safe too," said Thackeray. The only silver lining for the state was i terms of recoveries. It recorded 14,253 recoveries on Thursday, taking the total to more than 7 lakh. The rate of recovery was however languishing at 70.7%. Meanwhile, in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane city reported 403 new cases and 6 deaths. .Kalyan-Dombivli reported 581 cases and 9 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-reports-most-deaths-in-a-day-495-caseload-nears-10-lakh/articleshow/78050103.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 11, 2020||Mumbai||Hit by oxygen paucity, Panvel hospitals forced to reduce supply to patients||MUMBAI: A text communication from medical oxygen suppliers in Panvel on Wednesday evening about a potential shortage of oxygen cylinders sent local hospitals in a panic mode, even forcing a few to marginally reduce the oxygen flow to their patients to optimise use. While the Panvel crisis was resolved by Thursday, hospitals in districts and taluka places across Maharashtra said the shortage of oxygen was acute on some days. Dr Ajinkya Bhandari, director of Polaris Hospital in Kharghar, said the three main suppliers catering to the area admitted they had run out of cylinders on Wednesday and stocks wouldn't be available till the next day. "All Covid hospitals panicked as up to 50% of the patients are on oxygen support. We finally decided to reduce the oxygen flow by 2litre/per minute for a few non-critical patients so that a cylinder could last longer," he said. The hospital with 30 Covid beds requires an average of 40-45 jumbo cylinders a day, which it received on Thursday morning. The situation was similar at Nirmaya Hospital in Kharghar, a 55-bed Covid facility, where over 60% patients were on oxygen support. Dr Amit Thadhani, who owns the hospital, said they made frantic calls to suppliers. "Hospitals are overloaded with critical patients and running out of oxygen could become a matter of life and death," he said. Hospitals across Maharashtra told TOI while there was no issue with liquid oxygen, there was definitely a scarcity of jumbo oxygen cylinders that contain about 7,000 litres of oxygen. A critical patient could need about 30-60litres of oxygen per minute and jumbo cylinders can run out in a span of 10-15 minutes. FDA data too shows the state's daily oxygen requirement has shot up to 833 metric tonnes as against its daily production capacity of 1,210. Dhule-based Dr Ravi Wankhedkar said nearly all small private hospitals that have set up Covid facilities are facing a problem. "Many fly-by-night operators too have sprung up. Importantly, the cost of oxygen cylinders has increased by nearly 60% over the last three months," he said. Dr Bhandari added a jumbo cylinder that used to cost Rs 390 now costs Rs 420 and could further go up to Rs 550. Dr Wankhedkar said the cost in the interior region is already more than Rs 600. Sanjay Joshi of Shubh Gases said that the oxygen shortage was at the level of manufacturer. "Oxygen prices have become like share market and change every day. Suppliers like us are not increasing the prices. It's more at the level of manufacturers and refillers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hit-by-oxygen-paucity-panvel-hospitals-forced-to-reduce-supply-to-patients/articleshow/78050106.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 11, 2020||Bengaluru||1,200kg ganja seized from sheep pen in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI/BENGALURU: When Bengaluru police detained autorickshaw driver Jnanasekhar 10 days ago and seized 2kg ganja from him in Seshadripuram limits, they were all set to dismiss him as small fry in the narcotics trade. But since he was supplying ganja to students, they decided to grill him more and his answers led to 1,200kg of ganja, hidden in a bunker in a sheepfold in Kalaburagi district. “It is a mammoth seizure in the ongoing crackdown on drug trade,” Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant said. A resident of Gayathrinagar near Malleswaram, Jnanasekhar told police he was sourcing drugs from Siddunatha Lavate (22) from Sindagi in Raichur district. Cops tracked down Lavate and arrested him at Madanayakanahalli in Bengaluru on September 6. Lavate, in turn, said he was procuring drugs from Chandrakant (34) in Raichur and Naganath (39) of Aurad in Bidar district. “Immediately, a police team left for Kalaburagi and after a 14-hour search, traced Chandrakant and Naganath near Madagud toll gate. The team arrested them and the duo said they purchased the drugs from a person in Odisha and brought it by stuffing the packets inside gunny bags filled with vegetables. They said the drugs were kept in a sheep pen in a village,” Pant said. Initially, police searching the sheepfold in Laccha Nayakana Tanda drew a blank. They tapped Chandrakant further and he then spilled the beans on the secret bunker. Several packets of ganja, sealed and taped, were found. The accused said they smuggled the drugs in vegetable trucks from Odisha to Karnataka, via Telangana. Based on their statements, police raided a village in Kamalapura hobli near National Highway 50 and seized another 150kg of ganja. The haul triggered allegations of political patronage to the narcotics trade, amid the ongoing statewide crackdown. Chittapur MLA Priyank M Kharge said being a transit point, Kalaburagi sees smuggling of drugs. “In the span of a year, leaders in power have granted permission for many recreational clubs. These clubs are known to nurture drug racketeers,” he said. Maruti Manpade, a farmer leader, said: “Ganja is grown in Afzalpur and Chincholi. This has been going on for several decades, but perpetrators enjoy political patronage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1200kg-ganja-seized-from-sheep-pen-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/78050112.cms||Shreyas HS
